---
title: "15.10 - Tried updating/installing dependencies and now broken"
date: 2016-04-06
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by warr87 on 2016-04-06
Hi all,

A bit over a week ago I tried to install some dependencies so I could try and install tvheadend. I was not successful (I don't have access to internet connection on the server, which is my NAS). I was downloading the packages offline and putting them on the box trying to install them. None of it was working (I was always missing some other package) and eventually gave up. After coming back in 30mins to try again, I found I couldn't even do sudo, or use su at all. I tried rebooting and logging back in again through SSH but I couldn't find the connection anymore. The NAS/server wasn't even showing up on the network anymore. I plugged in my monitor today to see what was wrong, and this is the issue I got:

```

... 

/sbin/init: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6: version 'GLIBC_2.17' not found (required by /sbin/init)
/sbin/init: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6: version 'GLIBC_2.16' not found (required by /sbin/init)
/sbin/init: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6: version 'GLIBC_2.17' not found (required by /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libkmod.so.2)
/sbin/init: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6: version 'GLIBC_2.17' not found (required by /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libapparmor.so.1)
/sbin/init: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6: version 'GLIBC_2.17' not found (required by /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libmount.so.1)
/sbin/init: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6: version 'GLIBC_2.17' not found (required by /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libblkid.so.1)
[ 2.320320] Kernel panic - not syncing: Attempted to kill init! exitcode=0x00000100
[ 2.320320]
[ 2.321779] CPU: 0 PID: 1 Comm: init Not tainted 4.2.0-16-generic #19-Ubuntu
[ 2.322518] Hardware name: To Be Filled By O.E.M. To Be Filled By O.E.M./FM2A88M Extreme4+, BIOS P2.40 07/31/2014
[ 2.323275] 0000000000000000 00000000919x54cb fff88012a337e08 ffffffff817e8c09
[ 2.324043] 0000000000000000 ffffffff81a990c8 fff88012a337e88 ffffffff817e5f9b
[ 2.324800] ffffffff00000010 ffff88012a337e98 fff88012a337e38 00000000919c54cb
[ 2.325551] Call Trace:
[ 2.326292] [<ffffffff817e8c09>] dump_stack+0x45/0x57
[ 2.327029] [<ffffffff817e5f9b>] panic+0xce/0x206
[ 2.327761] [<ffffffff8107e2d7>] do_exit+0xb07/0xb10
[ 2.329195] [<ffffffff8107e3f4>] SyS_exit_group+0x14/0x20
[ 2.329898] [<ffffffff817ef9f2>] entry_SYSCALL_64_fastpath+0x16/0x75
[ 2.330605] Kernel Offset: disabled
[ 2.331298] ---[ end Kernel panic - not syncing: Attempted to kill init! exitcode=0x00000100
[ 2.331298]


```

Please tell me there is a simple solution for this! I really don't want to have to reinstall my OS as it took me days of screwing around to get it to work in the first place. I have no idea how to fix things from here.

Thanks!

warr87

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-04-06
Does it offer an option to continue to boot despite that error? Also, I really recommend connecting it to your home LAN so that it can have internet. How will you be doing updates?

And you chose the 15.10 which is non-LTS and has only 9 months of support. The general idea is always to use only LTS versions for servers, even for home servers. You went through all the problems to set it up and configure it, and in few months it will be out of support.

For servers don't install the latest non-LTS version automatically, unless it's only for testing something. Always use the LTS versions.

---

### Post by warr87 on 2016-04-06
No, I have no option of continuing with booting. And I would love that option to connect it to my LAN, but I can't. Because of the remote area I am in, I have limited options of service providers and the quality of wifi is generally pretty bad. I have a temporary connection on my windows desktop, but I'm unsure how to bridge that into my server. That is something I will be trying to work on later on (I'd like to get this sorted).

I am aware of non-LTS vs LTS. I had a number of problems (and tried different versions to see if it would make a difference) and when things got working it was after I had already installed and configured the 15.10. At that point I wasn't about to get rid of everything. I would have preferred the LTS.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-04-06
Unfortunately those messages don't say much to me. It's probably logical to say try uninstalling the last packages you installed, if something like that works.

You should also try booting it into recovery mode. In the grub boot menu instead of the standard normal entry select the recovery mode entry. That should open a small menu. From that menu select "drop to root shell".

See if that loads OK.

If it does, note that the shell is mounted read-only, so if you want to make changes to the system you have to remount read-write:
```
mount -o remount,rw /
```

That will remount / as RW. After that you can run dpkg commands or similar to try remove packages.

But I would recommend trying to connect it to the internet before trying to fix it, not after. The internet access and being able to use apt-get and dpkg on internet-enabled system will help.

If you can access it by ssh from your desktop that means they are already in the same network. So all you need to do is share the internet connection from your desktop and use the desktop private IP as gateway for the server.

---

### Post by warr87 on 2016-04-10
I've tried following the directions to share my PC's internet connection with the rest of the network, but as soon as I do, it drops me from my LAN and I can't connect to anything on that network. (I connect to the internet through wireless on the PC and have a wired LAN setup for my PC and laptop to connect to the media server/NAS.) I also have a USB wifi dongle for the internet (sometimes I have to use this), and tried using a USB -> ethernet adaptor into my LAN's WAN port, but that didn't work either. As you can see, I'm not having much luck, most of it due to my inability to get a normal internet connection.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-04-10
The IPs that the PC has on the wi-fi and the wired are not in the same subnet, right? Two different networks need different IP ranges.

For example, if the IP your PC received on the wi-fi is in the 192.168.1.x range, set the IP on the wired interface to be for example 10.1.1.1, netmask 255.255.255.0, no gateway or dns. Then on the media server set static IP 10.1.1.2, netmask 255.255.255.0, gateway 10.1.1.1, dns 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4.

If you have windows on the PC, the only thing you need as far as I know is to open the properties of the wi-fi connection and select to share it. Depending on the windows version there should be a Share tab in the Properties of the adapter, or something like that. You will also need to select which interface is the private one, in this case your wired interface. That should be enough.

As long as the PC has stable wi-fi internet connection that should work. Also, you are connecting the PC and media server through a switch, right? Because direct network connections between two devices (without a switch) work only with specific types of network cables.

---

### Post by warr87 on 2016-04-10
they probably are on the same subnet. Both are set to default gateways. I tried going into the adapter settings to try and configure it different but I couldn't get it to work. Sharing the connection is easy in windows, its just that when I do it disjoins the networks. Most of the solutions I have found online go into the router for where the internet is coming from, and configure it accordingly. I can't do that because my adapter is connecting to a internet wifi hotspot.

I tried booting up my linux box again and I can't even use the recovery mode. It just goes into kernel panic and stops. Does this mean its impossible to even go in and uninstall the packages I tried to install, and update my kernel manually?

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-04-10
When sharing the internet connection you need to have two networks, the external (internet) and the internal. I don't understand what you couldn't get to work when you tried changing the IP, the internet sharing or the new IP config?

If both interfaces are in the same network, maybe that's why it disjoins when activating the sharing. And you don't need two gateways, there is only one gateway and that's your wi-fi (from your PC point of view). From the server point of view, the gateway is the PC internal IP because you are sharing its internet connection.

As for booting up the server, if recovery mode doesn't work too, you can use ubuntu desktop live CD/USB and boot the server with it into live mode (Try Ubuntu, without installing it). From the live mode you can chroot into the server installation on its HDD. This is some basic info how to do a chroot: [http://aaronbonner.io/post/21103731114/chroot-into-a-broken-linux-install](http://aaronbonner.io/post/21103731114/chroot-into-a-broken-linux-install)

You can find many more tutorials on the internet. After the chroot you are working as if within the server installation. You can try some things there but it' always better to get the internet working first (the sharing). That will give you more tools available while trying to fix the installation.

At the end of the day, you can consider using the live mode to copy data from the HDD and reinstall the server. You said you don't want to do that but it is always one of the options available. Also, if you get the internet sharing working then setting up the server might go much faster than the previous time when you had to chase up dependencies. You will be able to simply use apt-get and such...

As I already said, in your place I would first make the internet work, for now and the future. Only after that focus on the rest and reinstalling might not be such time consuming operation.

---

