---
title: "Internet troubles"
date: 2017-05-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by sniper8752 on 2017-05-20
I am trying to setup my network.  It has wireless and needs a port that allows a device to see all traffic.  

Here is my setup:
Router (192.168.1.1/24) => switch => Ubuntu server (wan: 192.168.1.3/24; lan: 192.168.2.1/24 - DHCP service; From here I can ping google and 1.3 and 1.1) => Desktop

DHCP is working fine.  I can ping with DNS working on my server.  The issues arises with the Desktop area.  I can't ping 8.8.8.8 nor a host name on the internet, like google.com.  Nor can I ping from the server, the Desktop's IP.  I have iptables setup on my ubuntu server.  here is what it looks like:

iptables -A FORWARD -i enp3s0 -o enp1s0 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -i enp1s0 -o enp3s0 -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT

IP forwarding has been set to "1".

when I do a tracert from the desktop to 8.8.8.8, it stops at my server (192.168.2.1) interface, and the requests time out from there.  My conclusion thus far, is that the packets are not being forwarded to 192.168.1.3.

If any more info is needed, please feel free to ask.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-05-20
*Thread moved to **Server Platforms**.*

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-05-21
OK, few things...

1. Why are you using iptables at all on the ubuntu server? In such a setup the server is on your private LAN with a private IP and is not accessible directly from the internet. Your router is protecting it with its firewall. So there is no need to run a firewall on it.

2. Do not specify inpur and output interfaces in your established and related forward rule. That way you allow related traffic in one direction only when it should be birectional. Adjust that rule to:
```
iptables -A FORWARD -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
```

3. Do you have a masquerade rule? When the server needs to route traffic between two different subnets (192.168.1.0 and 192.168.2.0) then the traffic needs a masquerade so that it knows its way back. If the enp1s0 is the interface with 192.168.1.1, the rule should be:
```
iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o enp1s0 -s 192.168.2.0/24 -j MASQUERADE
```

That should make your forwarding work... But I still don't think you need iptables firewall at all. You do need the masquerade rule to make forwarding work, in any case.

---

### Post by sniper8752 on 2017-05-21
I am not using IPTables for a firewall motive.  This is the only way I know how to transfer data between two different subnets/interfaces.  Is there another way?

I am getting an error here:

```
cat iptables.rules# Generated by iptables-save v1.6.0 on Sun May 21 16:29:20 2017
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [9:524]
:INPUT ACCEPT [3:180]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [23:1790]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [23:1790]
-A POSTROUTING -s 192.168.2.0/24 -o enp1s0 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Sun May 21 16:29:20 2017
# Generated by iptables-save v1.6.0 on Sun May 21 16:29:20 2017
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [240:24397]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [199:24218]
#-A FORWARD -i enp3s0 -o enp1s0 -j ACCEPT
#-A FORWARD -i enp1s0 -o enp3s0 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Sun May 21 16:29:20 2017
user@ubuntu-server:/etc$ iptables-restore iptables.rules
iptables-restore v1.6.0: iptables-restore: unable to initialize table 'nat'

```

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-05-21
Yes, there is another way, and much easier...

I hadn't seen your complete iptables.rules so I assumed you use FORWARD DROP. With using FORWARD ACCEPT you don't need the -A FORWARD rules because all forward traffic is allowed anyway.

In this case you only need the masquerade so your iptables.rules should be only:
```
*nat
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]

-A POSTROUTING -o enp1s0 -s 192.168.2.0/24 -j MASQUERADE

COMMIT
```

After that try applying the rules, depending what the path of the file is, for example:
```
sudo iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules
```

That should be enough. If it still doesn't work, you can also try generic masquerade rule (because I don't know how you expect traffic to flow through the ubuntu server, in which direction:
```
-A POSTROUTING -j MASQUERADE
```

With that rule you don't specify any output interface or origin subnet, so it works both directions.

You don't need any other INPUT or FORWARD rules if their policies are set to ACCEPT.

---

### Post by sniper8752 on 2017-05-21
I am confused.  You say there is a much easier way other than IPTables.  Is this the easier way?  This is still using IPTables, isn't it?
What I have posted is what I am using.  Why would I use a forward drop?
BTW, traffic should be able to flow in both directions.

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-05-21
Yes, the above is the easiest way. You are still using iptables for the masquerade which is necessary for routing traffic through the server. But you will not be using iptables for any firewall rules, you have all policies to ACCEPT anyway. That's what I wanted to say.

And the iptables error it was giving you before was probably because you did not use sudo. Loading iptables rules is a system command and you can't run it as standard user, you need sudo in front of the command.

---

### Post by sniper8752 on 2017-05-21
Great, thank you!  It seems to work now.  The only issue remains.... I have a router where the desktop is now, and I can reach out to the internet just fine.  Before that wasn't the case.  I had from the server, into the Internet port on the back of the router.  I tried moving the incoming connection onto one of the 1-4 ports, and it works just fine.  Why can't I use the internet jack on the router to connect to the internet?

---

### Post by sniper8752 on 2017-05-21
Also, I accidentally restarted everything by hitting the power on the power strip.  After connecting to the router where the desktop was, it seems that DNS is not functioning.  It seems to be working fine on the server though.  On the router, I have DNS set to 2.1 (also gateway) and 1.3.

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-05-22
You seem to have very confusing setup. Running two subnets makes little sense unless you have two physically separate networks.

But you seem to be using only one switch and plugging all machines into it. Is that right?

I went back to your first post but I can't understand how your machines are connected because you mention only one switch and one router in the post. That makes only one single network.

---

### Post by sniper8752 on 2017-05-22
I noticed that about the switch as well.  It has been removed.
And good catch on the two subnets.  I can probably consolidate those.

---

### Post by sniper8752 on 2017-05-22
I guess my reasoning for the switch (with port mirroring) was that the ubuntu server would host snort.  would it be best to have all traffic traverse through the desktop, or to go right to the router, and the traffic be mirrored to the ubuntu server?

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-05-23
Sorry, but I don't understand why/what do you plan to do with traffic mirroring so I can't comment on your LAN design. The one thing you should have on mind when you have single physical network is this though:
1. The router usually issues dhcp leases for the 192.168.1.0/24 subnet (unless you have disabled this).
2. That means for all devices in the 192.168.2.0/24 subnet you have to use static addresses, because you can't have dhcp for 192.168.2.0/24 also running in same physical network.

So, depending what you want to achieve, but think it through...

---

### Post by sniper8752 on 2017-05-23
I am going to use snort, which needs to see all of the traffic.  I am wondering if it's best to have all traffic mirrored to the snort server, or just to have all traffic go through the server so I don't need to setup a switch with a mirroring port.  Does this make any more sense?

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-05-23
I haven't used snort so your guess is probably better than mine. There should be some kind of best practices tutorial online, which should point out which is the recommended configuration.

In general, if your switch has mirroring capability, it might be better to set up mirroring from one port to another, and plug your server there. It will pick up all traffic, as you require. And there is no complex setup of passing traffic through the server, secondary subnet, etc... All LAN will have single subnet, with the difference that the ubuntu server will be picking up mirrored traffic on the switch port where it is connected.

---

