---
title: "8.04 server, automount usb hard drive"
date: 2008-10-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ozPATT on 2008-10-21
hi all, i have set up an 8.04 server, and i would like to move my backups from my portable hard drive, onto that instead to free up my hard drive. 

ftp would take forever, so i thought I would just plug it in and mv everything to a folder on it. 

however it doesn't seem to have recognised it. When i use it on either my linux desktop, or a windows desktop, it works fine and i dont have to install or set anything up. 

i have looked in /media/ and also in /dev/ but i don't see anything there for it... is it possible to mount it mannually, and even better, is it possible to have it mount automatically when i put it in? 

Thanks

Patrick

---

### Post by apedro on 2008-10-21
I believe you should configure fstab with the information to automount your hard drive, what king of filesystem is your hard drive using?

---

### Post by ozPATT on 2008-10-21
it works on linux and windows, so im guessing thats fat32? i dont know anything about configuring the fstab, so any help would be greatly appreciated :) 

thanks

---

### Post by david_lynch on 2008-10-22
> **ozPATT said:**
> hi all, i have set up an 8.04 server, and i would like to move my backups from my portable hard drive, onto that instead to free up my hard drive. 

ftp would take forever, so i thought I would just plug it in and mv everything to a folder on it. 

however it doesn't seem to have recognised it. When i use it on either my linux desktop, or a windows desktop, it works fine and i dont have to install or set anything up. 

i have looked in /media/ and also in /dev/ but i don't see anything there for it... is it possible to mount it mannually, and even better, is it possible to have it mount automatically when i put it in? 

Thanks

Patrick
Right, a server is set up differently than a desktop. The ubuntu desktop mounts the devices for you when you plug them in, but if the gui is not there, obviously that won't happen.

For a server, you can set up autofs to automatically mount such media. I do a nightly backup from my ubuntu server to an external usb drive, using autofs and rsync.

To mount it manually as a test, tail /var/log/messages after the insertion of the device to see what it is, e.g. /dev/sdb or something, then mount that device by hand: mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt or similar.

After verifying that it can be mounted manually, you can craft an autofs configuration to mount it automatically on insertion, and use that to enable backups.

---

### Post by ozPATT on 2008-10-22
thanks for the help with this, i have done the var log thing, and this is what i got... ```
patrick@af-office:~$ tail /var/log/messages
Oct 23 08:23:56 af-office kernel: [2677095.851236] usb 2-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
Oct 23 08:23:56 af-office kernel: [2677095.855465] scsi6 : SCSI emulation for USB Mass Storage devices
Oct 23 08:24:01 af-office kernel: [2677100.852821] scsi 6:0:0:0: Direct-Access     Hitachi  HTS541680J9SA00       PQ: 0 ANSI: 2
Oct 23 08:24:01 af-office kernel: [2677100.855675] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] 156301488 512-byte hardware sectors (80026 MB)
Oct 23 08:24:01 af-office kernel: [2677100.859302] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] Write Protect is off
Oct 23 08:24:01 af-office kernel: [2677100.861428] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] 156301488 512-byte hardware sectors (80026 MB)
Oct 23 08:24:01 af-office kernel: [2677100.866303] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] Write Protect is off
Oct 23 08:24:01 af-office kernel: [2677100.868635]  sdb: sdb1 < sdb5 >
Oct 23 08:24:01 af-office kernel: [2677100.919321] sd 6:0:0:0: [sdb] Attached SCSI disk
Oct 23 08:24:01 af-office kernel: [2677100.919375] sd 6:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg2 type 0

```

im assuming this is sdb1 then? so i tried as you suggested, and this is what i got... ```
patrick@af-office:~$ sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt
mount: you must specify the filesystem type

```

did i do it right? or am i missing something there? 

Thanks

Patrick

edit: actually when i change the mount to sdb5, it doesnt give any errors, but i cant tell if it has done anything... where should i be able to access my files once it is mounted?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-10-23
An easy way to check if it is mounted ist to type:

```
df -h
```

This will alos tell where the disk is mounted.

Jim

---

