---
title: "16.04 Installer fails to install on software RAID"
date: 2016-12-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by littleno255 on 2016-12-25
My System: HP ProLiant MicroServer G1610T, 2x 3TB HDD (Host-RAID-controller is disabled and the HDDs are attached as single disks)

What I want: Creating a software RAID and install Ubuntu on this RAID (the system itself should be inside the RAID to have the machine able to boot even if one HDD fails). I followed this instructions: [https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/advanced-installation.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/advanced-installation.html)

I've already used the Network-Installer booting from a USB-stick as well as the Server-CD booted from CD.

My problems starts when I do the partitioning as described in this article. In my system I do not have the option "primary partition", and the "bootable flag" option won't set to ON (it does not come with an error message, it just keeps OFF). 

When I boot from USB Stick I was able to go on in the installation procedure, however, in the end I get a error message saying "unable to install GRUB on /dev/sdb".

When I boot from Server-CD this error message does not come up, however after finishing the installation and re-booting, the system won't boot this installation (says no operating system found)

Attached is a pic how my partitions look like.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-12-25
Moved thread to sever sub-forum where those who know Servers may be able to help.

You have larger gpt partitioned drives with a bios_grub partition for BIOS/CSM/Legacy boot on gpt.
With gpt there are no primary partitions or some may see only primary partitions. There is just one type. And with gpt the boot flag is supposed to only be on the ESP - efi system partition which is for UEFI boot. If system is UEFI and you want to install in UEFI mode, you need the ESP, FAT32 300 to 500MB with boot flag.
A few systems will not boot without a partition with a boot flag. They expect BIOS with Windows which has to have a boot flag, or UEFI. Grub does not use boot flag. If you motherboard requires a partition with a boot flag, you can still create an ESP, but do not have to currently use it. If not planning on using it or system is not UEFI based, make it only 100MB.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-12-26
I have previous generation of the Microserver (with AMD Athlon) and it works in the same setup you want. I started with 2x2TB disks and then added 2x3TB more. All the disks have gpt tables, with 1MiB bios_grub partition at front and then the raid partitions. No need for boot flag in my case.
You might run into issues with UEFI if your model has it, I don't think mine had UEFI at all which helps things... Linux doesn't care much about it since it can use gpt with legacy boot process unlike windows.

So unless you really have use of some uefi feature, I would simply take a good look at the bios and the manual, and disable it. Try using legacy boot with gpt disks.

Also in your screenshot you have no partition selected as / but I guess you know how to do that, it only depends in which moment you made the screenshot.

In theory it should work...

There is another interesting thing that happened to me recently while installing ubuntu desktop on Intel NUC6. I didn't want uefi boot so I disabled it and did want gpt table on the SSD. The system was refusing to boot with a message similar to "no OS" and if there was a usb stick it would try to boot from it ignoring the SSD. Only after couple of hours of head banging I figured out it didn't like the gpt with uefi disabled. I tried the SSD with msdos table and it worked right away. Some uefi systems might have some type of similar rubbish into them. In my case it was only 250GB SSD so basically didn't make much difference if I use msdos or gpt but in your case with 3TB disks and wanting one big partition for raid, you do have to use gpt. So if these recent generations of HP Microserver have something similar to the NUC6, you might need to use uefi boot for the gpt disks because the bios wants that, not ubuntu. Of course, all of this assuming the system has uefi at all...

PS. On another subject, have you thought about using LVM or more than one raid1 array to split the storage a little? You want to have everything on one huge root partition?

---

