---
title: "v10.04.1-Package Update (apache) - Breaks System"
date: 2010-11-26
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by John Raycheba on 2010-11-26
I have just applied the most recent 8 package updates and it broke the system -- that is, it broke Apache2.
 
Fortunately, I had a backup that was done 10 minutes before the updates were applied so I was able to restore the system.
 
The update packages (released on Nov. 26, 2010) were:
apache2
apache2-mpm-prefork
apache2-utils
apache2.2-bin
apache2.2-common
libaprutil1
libaprutil1-dbd-sqlite3
libaprutil1-ldap
 
When the above updates were applied six packages were removed:
phpmyadmin
php5-mysql
php5-gd
php5-mcrypt
libapache2-mod-php5
apache2-mpm-worker
 
A similar situation happened two or three weeks ago with a different update of the apache packages.
 
My questions are:
 
1. Can we expect this bug in the apache updates to be fixed any time soon?
 
2. What is the best (and fastest) way to reinstall the packages that were mistakenly removed?
 
3. Is there any way to prevent the removal of packages when updates are applied?
 
Regards,
 
John

---

### Post by HugoSerrano on 2010-11-26
Hi.

1. Don't know.

2. apt-get install packages

3. Don't do automatic updates, read the output of the **apt-get upgrade** command and see what packages will be removed. 

And you can get some more info, for the fix, here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1601331](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1601331)

Regards!

---

### Post by John Raycheba on 2010-11-26
Thanks Hugo,
 
Using apt-get update and apt-get upgrade rather than Webmin's package update procedure did the trick.
 
Thanks again
 
Regards,
 
John

---

### Post by James78 on 2010-11-27
Package updates using Webmin are supposed to work, however due to how many reports of updating Apache through Webmin there are, I just use apt-get update and apt-get upgrade. I've never ever come across this problem once before, but you can never be too careful.

---

