---
title: "16.04 Server Can't connect remotely to mysql"
date: 2016-09-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jt32 on 2016-09-21
First post.

I have new 16.04 server guest running within Virtualbox on a windows host.
Static IP for guest is set to 192.168.100.100 and it is accessible from other devices on the network.

installed mysql from apt-get via ubuntu repos and set a password for root, and also created an account for myself

Edited /etc/mysql/mysql.conf.d/mysqld.cnf
changed:    
bind-address = 0.0.0.0
# skip-external-locking

Externally, I can run the beginning of a test connection from workbench from another pc.  It prompts for a password, then fails with access denied.  prior to mysqld.cnf changes it just failed to connect so I believe there is some sort of connection to the box at least.

Locally on the ubuntu 16.04 guest, I can connect successfully:    mysql -u root -p

If I attempt: mysql -u root -p -h 192.168.100.100   
(192.168.100.100 the local server(guest) ip address running mysql) 
I get ERROR 1045 (28000) access denied for user 'root'@'192.168.100.100'


If I attempt: mysql -u root -p -h 127.0.0.1    (or localhost)  it is successful


mysql>show grants for root;
grants for root@%
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'root'@'%'


Any idea why I can only successfully connect locally when not specifying a host other than localhost?

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-09-21
Thread moved to the "*Server Platforms*" forum, probably a better fit.

---

### Post by Vegan on 2016-09-21
[https://linux-guru.azurewebsites.net/?p=21]("https://linux-guru.azurewebsites.net/?p=21")

No need to do much to MySQL

comment out the line with bind-address

---

### Post by jt32 on 2016-09-22
I got it working now.  I had a password mismatch in my grant statement.  Thanks.

---

