---
title: "9.04 not allowing incoming connections"
date: 2010-01-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by khopper71 on 2010-01-24
I'm using Apache2, PHP5, and MySQL on my computer which I'll call "Ubuntu#1".  I've created a test database, php scripts, and web pages which work, but ONLY from Ubuntu#1 using 'localhost' or '127.0.0.1'.  I cannot reach the  web pages I created on "Ubuntu#1" from other PCs (both ubuntu and Windows) on my home network.  I loaded apache2 on another computer and I can reach that one fine (it get the reply "it works!").
From other PCs on my home network I've tried:
1) ping <the address of Ubuntu#1>  works fine - low latency no lost packets etc.
2) http://<the address of Unbutu#>/<url of web pages I created on Ubuntu#1>.  This times out - no response.
3) MySQL Admin from another computer.  Also times out - no response.

Outgoing connections seem to be no problem from Ubuntu#1. I can reach the web, other computers on my network, etc. 

What should I check?

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2010-01-24
1) Can you ping by hostname?
If no, the DNS server may not be forwarding the name of your server properly.

2) Can you connect via IP Address?
If no, then chances am it is your Server's firewall configuration. Unblock port 80, and try again.

Regards
Iain

---

### Post by khopper71 on 2010-01-24
> **tinivole said:**
> 1) Can you ping by hostname?
If no, the DNS server may not be forwarding the name of your server properly.

2) Can you connect via IP Address?
If no, then chances am it is your Server's firewall configuration. Unblock port 80, and try again.

Regards
Iain

I did not try #1 because I cannot even connect via ip address.   do you know what file to edit to unblock port(s)?

thank you for your reply,
Brad

---

