---
title: ".htaccess working, rewrite not working properly"
date: 2011-04-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mushy365 on 2011-04-25
I had a problem with apache2 and getting .htaccess working. I have done some things and i believe its working the ErrorDocument command is anyway. I believe there may be some problems with the rewrites though. 

Im trying to take a url

[http://localhost/showthread/123](http://localhost/showthread/123)

and make it display whats on [http://localhost/index.php?showthread=123](http://localhost/index.php?showthread=123)

The rewrite rule is 

> 
Options +FollowSymLinks
RewriteEngine on

RewriteRule ^showthread/([^/\.]+)/?$ index.php?showthread=$1 [L]



I works on my website that some company manages. However, on mine i get this error.

404 The requested URL /showthread/120 was not found on this server.
The error log gives this 
File does not exist: /var/www/showthread

would that suggest that the rewrites are not working?

---

### Post by Doug S on 2011-04-25
Hi,
This is the same thread as [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1737254](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1737254) , isn't it?
Just a sanity check: The rewrite module has been enabled hasn't it?
It can be checked by looking at the /etc/apache2/mods-enabled directory where you should see a link to /etc/apache2/mods-available/rewrite.load
If the link is not present, then:
```
sudo a2enmod rewrite
```Of course, followed by:```
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
```

---

### Post by mushy365 on 2011-04-25
Yea, everything you said in your reply i have done. Still same error

---

### Post by mushy365 on 2011-04-25
I actually had done all that before making this thread. I thought it was different because in the last thread i assumed i couldnt get any htaccess to work, in this one errordocument does work and i thought i had done the rewrites wrong.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-04-25
Do you have any other references to the showthread directory either in an Alias directive or a <Directory> stanza?  Are the rewrite rules outside of any <Directory> or <Location> stanza?  You may need to add the [[R] flag]("http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/rewrite/flags.html#flag_r") to the RewriteRule as well to force a redirection after the URI is rewritten.  Why are you using the [[L] flag]("http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/rewrite/flags.html#flag_l")?  Are there other rules below this one that you need to have ignored?

---

### Post by mushy365 on 2011-04-25
i dont know much about htaccess, thats why i thought it was wrong, i just edited someone elses to make mine work. 


full htaccess.

> 

Options +FollowSymLinks
RewriteEngine on

RewriteRule ^showthread/([^/\.]+)/?$ index.php?showthread=$1 [L]
RewriteRule ^bulletins/([^/\.]+)/?$ index.php?bulletins=$1 [L]
RewriteRule ^faq/([^/\.]+)/?$ index.php?faq=$1 [L]
RewriteRule ^Newthread/([^/\.]+)/?$ index.php?Newthread=$1 [L]
RewriteRule ^rules/([^/\.]+)/?$ index.php?rules=$1 [L]

RewriteRule ^reply/([^/\.]+)/?$ index.php?replytothread=$1 [L]
RewriteRule ^Add_wiki/([^/\.]+)/?$ wiki.php?add_Wiki=$1 [L]
RewriteRule ^Show_wiki/([^/\.]+)/?$ wiki.php?display_Wiki=$1 [L]
RewriteRule ^Edit_wiki/([^/\.]+)/?$ wiki.php?editwiki=$1 [L]
RewriteRule ^History/([^/\.]+)/?$ wiki.php?history=$1 [L]
RewriteRule ^page/([^/\.]+)/?$ pages.php?page=$1 [L]

ErrorDocument 404 /littleboard/oops.html



---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-04-25
Rewriting URI's correctly is one of the most complicated things to do in Apache. If you can't get this working, you'll need to do some research.  The complete documentation for rewriting is [here](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/rewrite/).

**Before trying anything else**, make sure you've edited /etc/apache2/sites-available/default to change "AllowOverride None" to "AllowOverride All" in the <Directory /var/www> stanza.  By default, Apache on Ubuntu is configured to ignore many of the directives in .htaccess files for security reasons.  You'll need to restart Apache after the change.  You can trying putting your Rewrite code into this stanza as well and getting rid of .htaccess entirely.  If that doesn't work, try putting these codes below the DocumentRoot directive in the default file and above the first <Directory> stanza.

---

### Post by mushy365 on 2011-04-25
Thanks for the help. Ive worked though all these fixes countless times already. Ive pretty positive ive enabled the mod_rewrite and have edited the file to allow override. I know from the other threads that these fixes work for everyone else, but not for me for some reason. Its bizarre and really really annoying.

---

### Post by mushy365 on 2011-04-25
nevermind got it working finally. You dont even want to know what the problem was. 

i had named it htaccess instead of .htaccess and in a sub directory i had a .htaccess that was making the 404 work. I'm an idiot.

---

