---
title: "13.10 server edition installation proplem"
date: 2013-11-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by sahabcse on 2013-11-14
Hi All

I have downloaded ubuntu 13.10 server image from ubuntu website and try to install in on my server. Server connected with restricted network, need to enter firewall authentication for getting internet access. So installation time it wont detect the internet.

On the installation time, I am struct with Download installer components step, please guide me to install ubuntu 13.10 without internet connection. Also I am not seeing partition related menus in installation process.

Is it may be issue of media? why ubuntu shared ISO like that???

Thanks and Regards
Sahab

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-11-14
Why is it like that?  I don't know, but I've found it is best on machines with limited internet connectivity to unplug the network during installation. If the machine doesn't think there is any network, it won't spend time (sometimes hours) trying to connect and timeout for each step.  Unplug, get it installed, then post-install manually setup the networking, patch and be happy.

---

### Post by sahabcse on 2013-11-14
Same status, I have unplugged the n/w cable then tried to install, but it failed to download the repository in download installer components step. There is no skip option to proceed further.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-11-14
I am confused.  Are you installing from a full Server download or the "alternate" minimal ISO?  If from the full server ISO, nothing from the network should be necessary - just do not ask to patch during installation and skip all network-related questions during the installation.

If you are asked to download a repository during setup, there is a mistake.

You haven't said what sort of firewall authentication was required - that may prevent anything except manual updates in the future .. unless it is the nominal proxy login stuff.

OTOH, I don't really know.

---

### Post by sahabcse on 2013-11-15
I have downloaded the iso from this url "http://releases.ubuntu.com/saucy/ubuntu-13.10-server-amd64.iso" size of the image is 672 MB. Please let me know if any alternate download url for downloading full server  ISO.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-11-15
> **sahabcse said:**
> I have downloaded the iso from this url "http://releases.ubuntu.com/saucy/ubuntu-13.10-server-amd64.iso" size of the image is 672 MB. Please let me know if any alternate download url for downloading full server  ISO.

That is the full one.  If the network is unplugged and you tell it to skip anything related to networking, the OS should install on common hardware and ignore any network-funniness. That is the theory.

During the install, when it gets stuck, can you switch to a different console and grab the log files? It would be interesting to see.

---

### Post by sahabcse on 2013-11-19
Finally I have fixed the issue. The issue because of YUMI usb boot software, comparing to other software it is faster one but it not copied all the OS related file, this is reason for missing account creation,partition on installation time.

I have make the USB boot using rufus usb boot software and installed the OS.

Last five year I am using YUMI, first time I have faced this type of issue...


Thanks TheFu for your prompt response....:popcorn:

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-11-19
I also use YUMI, but it just copies over the ISO and sets up access from a boot inside, so I suspect there was corruption introduced to the file somewhere.
Regardless, I am happy you have a solution.

Did you run the **md5sum** tool to validate the ISO?  Seems you did have a good copy local and something in the Yumi process was corrupt when it got to the flash drive.  I know that I'm lazy and don't always check the md5 signatures.

---

### Post by sahabcse on 2013-11-24
No I didn't check the md5sum check, here on ward I added this check to my best practice,,,

---

