---
title: "16.04 Run a Backup script on Shutdown"
date: 2016-05-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Franz_Schindler on 2016-05-13
Dear Community,

I'm trying to setup a Backup that should be done every time the Server is shutdown.
The Precondition is that the Backup requires mysql and apache to run before it shut's down.

What i've did so far was i've created a file in /etc/init.d

```
root@fortuna:/etc/init.d# ll backupos
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 1237 Mai 13 08:23 backupos*


```

Containing this header
```

#!/bin/sh
### BEGIN INIT INFO
# Provides:          backupos
# Required-Start:    $remote_fs $syslog
# Required-Stop:     $remote_fs $syslog apache2 mysql
# Default-Start:
# Default-Stop:      6
# Short-Description: Backup of OS DB
# Description:       Will backup the Database
#  Of OS.
### END INIT INFO

echo "backup" > /home/adminuser/backup.txt

```

Then i've added it using 
```

sudo update-rc.d backupos remove
sudo update-rc.d backupos defaults

```

Then i've checked the /rcX.d/ folders
```

root@fortuna:/etc/init# find /etc/ -name *backupos*
/etc/init.d/backupos
/etc/rc6.d/K01backupos

```

and did just poweroff.

But the Script is never executed.

**Why the Script is not executed?**

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-05-13
Thread moved to the "*Server Platforms*" forum.

---

### Post by Franz_Schindler on 2016-05-20
I'm not sure if "run a script on shutdown" is really a Server based issue.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-05-20
Is the script executable? Can you run it from the command prompt? If not, run "sudo chmod a+x /path/to/the/script".

---

### Post by Franz_Schindler on 2016-06-13
Yes, i guess it is executeable 

```
root@fortuna:/etc/init.d# ll backupos
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 1237 Mai 13 08:23 backupos*

```

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2016-06-15
I have to ask...what is the mechanism doing the "shutdown" of the server?  Is it someone pushing the power button?  Is it someone issuing a shutdown command?

If it were me, I'd configure a shutdown script (e.g. shutdown.sh) and just call that script whenever I want the system to be powered off and run all the commands I need in that and have the last command be the "shutdown -P now"

LHammonds

---

### Post by Franz_Schindler on 2016-06-22
Hi,
it is mainly that the VM Image is closed using ACPI Shutdown

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2016-06-22
> **Franz_Schindler said:**
> it is mainly that the VM Image is closed using ACPI ShutdownAh, I see.  Could be useful if a UPS sends a signal to ESXi to begin shutting down all servers.  This would definitely be helpful for me to handle a situation like this but utilize an emergency shutdown script to just cleanly stop services before shutdown.  My backups are done automatically at the VMInfrastructure level using Veeam Backup and Replication.

---

### Post by kiwi9 on 2016-07-06
I had trouble getting my old solutions to run on LM18 (which is based on Ubuntu 16.04) so I decided to learn enough about systemd to run my startup and shutdown scripts using systemd targets and services.  While I was searching I came across this and a couple of other discussions.  I documented the strategy at my newbie level [at blogspot]("http://userscripts4systemd.blogspot.com.au/") if anyone wants to take that approach rather than the SysVinit one.

---

