---
title: "8.10 Sever, Postfix and Dovecot"
date: 2008-12-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by eltonp on 2008-12-05
Hi

I am setting up a server using Ubuntu 8.10, Postfix and Dovecot. I have followed the 8.10 Server guide very carefully twice but in both cases although the installation appears to work there are some issues that I would like to resolve:-

1. If I run dovecot -n I get the following response:-

elton@ubuntuTS1:/$ dovecot -n
# 1.1.4: /etc/dovecot/dovecot.conf
Error: Can't use SSL key file /etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key: Permission denied
Fatal: Invalid configuration in /etc/dovecot/dovecot.conf

I have tried recreating the certificate files but that does not resolve the problem. I assume it is a permission issue but as a new user am battling to find the problem. Any suggestions appreciated.

2. Probably unrelated but in the syslog file I get the following entries:-

Dec  5 10:17:01 ubuntuS1 CRON[20891]: Sigfile not found
Dec  5 10:17:01 ubuntuS1 /USR/SBIN/CRON[20897]: (root) CMD (   cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly)
Dec  5 10:17:01 ubuntuS1 CRON[20891]: Sigfile not found

and 

Dec  5 10:20:01 ubuntuS1 CRON[20921]: Sigfile not found
Dec  5 10:20:01 ubuntuS1 /USR/SBIN/CRON[20927]: (root) CMD ([ -x /usr/sbin/update-motd ] && /usr/sbin/update-motd 2>/dev/null)
Dec  5 10:20:01 ubuntuS1 CRON[20921]: Sigfile not found

Many thanks and regards

Elton

---

### Post by eiparrag on 2009-01-04
Well ... my guess is that is not related to postfix or dovecot. Even more, I get the same messages under Ubuntu 8.10 Desktop.

Is it something with the cron then? All errors look like "CRON[...]: Sigfile not found"

Edgar.

---

