---
title: "10.04 Samba Server and OS X 10.6 client issues"
date: 2010-09-26
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Ziggy114 on 2010-09-26
I've been searching this one out for a few weeks now, and I keep coming across the same threads that don't manage to answer my questions - both within the ubuntu forums and without.

My goal is simple: to network an ubuntu 10.04 server with a windows xp laptop and an os x 10.6 laptop, maintaining appropriate access permissions. I would like guest access to be completely disabled so that only users on the ubuntu box can access the share. I thought the easiest way to do this would be samba, due to the xp computer. I've used the netatalk/avahi solution in the past, and though it works like a dream with the mac it's completely useless to the xp computer.

I was briefly able to connect to the server from my mac client after initially setting up samba, however now when I attempt to connect via command+K, I get an error message and that I should check the server name / IP address. When using the sidebar link, though I can see the share (after re-authenticating), when I double click on it it tells me the operation can't be completed because the original item can't be found.

Here are the contents of my smb.conf file (I used the testparm -s /etc/samba/smb.conf.master > /etc/samba/smb.conf convention to condense it down):

[global]
        server string = %h server (Samba, Ubuntu)
        map to guest = Bad User
        obey pam restrictions = Yes
        pam password change = Yes
        passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
        passwd chat = *Enter\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *password\supdated\ssuccessfully* .
        unix password sync = Yes
        syslog = 0
        log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
        max log size = 1000
        dns proxy = No
        panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d

[printers]
        comment = All Printers
        path = /var/spool/samba
        create mask = 0700
        printable = Yes
        browseable = No
        browsable = No

[print$]
        comment = Printer Drivers
        path = /var/lib/samba/printers

[vault]
        comment = Tuxbox File Vault
        path = /mnt/vault/
        valid users = @users
        read only = No
        create mask = 0775
        directory mask = 0771

The share I'm concerned with is [vault]. /mnt/vault/ ownership is rob:users, and the permissions are set to 0775 for everything in that directory. user 'rob' is a member of the 'users' group. If anyone can lend me any insight into what I'm doing wrong, I'd really appreciate it.

---

