---
title: "tcp 32771, 32772"
date: 2005-12-01
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ZylGadis on 2005-12-01
Hello,
I have just installed Ubuntu 5.10 on a home server machine. It is multihomed - one interface goes to the outside world, while the other one goes to the home router and thus remains behind the firewall.
This is my first graphical Linux installation (have been playing with various linux distros from the console only, though), so I have some specific Ubuntu questions. Open ports on eth1 do not really matter, as that is behind a firewall already. Open ports on eth0 do matter, however. Immediately after installing Ubuntu I noticed that tcp 32771, tcp 32772, the cups port and the dhcp port were open on both interfaces. Dhcp is not dangerous (not listening anyway) and I already disabled cups, but what are the other two and if they are necessary, how can I get them to only open on eth1?
I know iptables on eth0 is an obvious solution, I'm just curious :)
Thanks

---

### Post by lito on 2005-12-02
hi Alex

im not sure but i think they're related to the blue-tooth daemon.If you dont need that try to remove the blue-tooth support and see if they are still there.
but again im not sure...

lito

---

### Post by ZylGadis on 2005-12-03
Thanks :) It was either bluetooth or something related to cups. I removed everything bluetooth and cups-related and the two open ports are gone now.
Btw, for anybody reading this: the ports were actually open only on the localhost ip, thus they do not compromise security.

---

