---
title: "8.04.1 server install hangs at 'retrieving locales'"
date: 2008-08-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by phaedrus on 2008-08-24
Hiya, I understand there is a possible bug with locales while upgrading from an earlier version of ubuntu... but I couldn't find my exact issue mentioned so I thought I would see if others had come across it.

My issue is that installing server 8.04.1 hangs while 'retrieving locales.' I first thought it might be a bad burn, so I burnt a new disc and I have the same problem. The original install disc had also been used to successfully install server 8.04.1 in the past... I only wanted to reinstall as I've swapped out the motherboard and added a graphics card (no onboard graphics on the new motherboard), and this disc has been used to install from the same DVD drive, to the same hard drive, in the past.

My hardware, in case it is relevant:
ASUS P5LD2 motherboard
ASUS DVD/CD drive
2GB Corsair XMS2 RAM
GeForce 7300 video card (not sure of manufacturer, or exact model)
Maxtor 80GB HDD

When the machine starts up BIOS throws up a message about the DVD drive being too fast and having to reduce the speed to ATA/33 - no idea if this is important, as I can install Debian Etch from a net install disc.

Has anyone come across this before and have any ideas? Is it related to the same bug that seems to be causing problems for people upgrading to 8.04? Would downloading an earlier release likely resolve my issue?

Let me know if there is any more info I could provide that might help pinpoint where I've gone wrong.

 Simon

---

