---
title: "ubuntu won't redirect port 80 to 3128"
date: 2009-03-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by and12345 on 2009-03-18
hi guys...
after setup my iptables, i still can't redirect port 80 to 3128 (for squid)

here's my iptables configuration

# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Wed Mar 18 20:25:15 2009
*nat
:INPUT - [0:0]
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
-A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
# LAN
-A INPUT -i eth0 -j ACCEPT
# loopback
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
# existing connection
-A PREROUTING -i eth1 -j ACCEPT
# Forward HTTP connections to Squid proxy
-A PREROUTING -p tcp -m tcp -i eth1 --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed Mar 18 20:25:15 2009
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Wed Mar 18 20:25:15 2009
*mangle
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
COMMIT
"/etc/iptables.up.rules" 33L, 895C


any clues?:(

( if i set my browser to use port 3128 as proxy, it works and squid working well... )

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2009-03-18
I'm not very good with iptables, but wouldn't you also have to redirect it to the IP of the proxy server?  Otherwise you're just redirecting it to port 3128 on the server it's trying to contact.

---

### Post by and12345 on 2009-03-19
my squid proxy already set to use port 3128...
and if i set my browser to use port 3128, squid works very well..
so i believe the problem is with my iptables...
this happen after a fresh install of my ubuntu server...

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2009-03-19
You set the PORT but what about the IP?  That's what I'm saying.  Is squid installed locally?

---

### Post by and12345 on 2009-03-20
yes my squid box and gateway were on the same machine (10.0.0.2 using port 3128)

---

### Post by dessss on 2009-03-20
> **and12345 said:**
> 
-A PREROUTING -p tcp -m tcp -i eth1 --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128

Try 

iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -i eth1 -s $INT_NET -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 3128

where $INT_NET is your internal network address with its subnet mask, e.g. 10.0.0.0/24

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by and12345 on 2009-03-20
still not working...
it doesn't make anything on my /etc/iptables.up.rules
btw i'm using squid 2.6 and newest version of iptables on my Ubuntu 8.04 LTS...:(

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2009-03-20
> **and12345 said:**
> still not working...
it doesn't make anything on my /etc/iptables.up.rules
btw i'm using squid 2.6 and newest version of iptables on my Ubuntu 8.04 LTS...:(
I'm not iptables expert, but I use OUTPUT and it works for me.

---

### Post by dessss on 2009-03-23
Just a few thoughts.

Maybe the following line's missing from your /etc/network/interfaces file:

post-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.up.rules

If it's missing write this line under the settings of the internal interface and restart the network service.

What is this line for? I cannot see any purpose of this line. I would delete it. Maybe this is the problem.

-A PREROUTING -i eth1 -j ACCEPT

You should check your running rules with:

iptables -t nat -nvL
iptables -nvL

Here's a good HOWTO with a complete iptables script at the bottom of the page:

[http://www.brennan.id.au/06-Firewall_Concepts.html](http://www.brennan.id.au/06-Firewall_Concepts.html)

Check your rules step by step, maybe you will find the cause. Good luck!

---

### Post by and12345 on 2009-03-25
> Maybe the following line's missing from your /etc/network/interfaces file:

post-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.up.rules

thanks..
it works!!!!!

---

