---
title: "8.04.4LTS issues with a CRON job"
date: 2010-06-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by chrislynch8 on 2010-06-30
HI,

I have a custom application that is configured to run under CRON and if it detects a VPN has dropped or the internet has dropped it tried to repair it. This was running perfectly when I was using 8.04.3LTS but when I upgraded to 8.04.4LTS the code doesn't seem to work under CRON anymore unless I include /dev/null 2>&1 in the crontab.

I didn't have to include this in 8.04.3LTS.

Rgds
Chris

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-06-30
It sounds like you already found a workaround to your issue... so what do you want to know?

If you'd like to know why you have to include the /dev/null statement, we may need to know the entire command you have in crontab...

---

### Post by chrislynch8 on 2010-06-30
Hi,

Work arounds aren't very good unless you know what it is your working around. 

This is my crontab line

*/15 * * * * /usr/mjk/CommsRpr/CRpr-run.sh > /dev/null 2>&1

The CRpr-run.sh contains the following line which is calling the main application

/usr/mjk/CommsRpr/CommsRpr.bin /NIS /EMAIL /LOG

All output from the CommsRpr.bin goes to a log file in /var/log/.

I'm trying to find out why I have to add the /dev/null 2>&1 to the crontab now when it was working just fine without it before. 

Rgds
Chris

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-06-30
Fair enough, you just didn't provide enough info for me to even start diagnosing the issue :P

So now, what does the cron job do without the /dev/null line on the end?  You said it doesn't work, but does it spit out an error?  What happens when you run both commands by hand?

---

