---
title: "X11"
date: 2007-03-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by AAJ on 2007-03-19
Hi, 

I have scanned my machine from another machine and i found the x11 port is open not filtered.

6001/tcp open  X11:1


How i can close it from outside scanning ?

by the way I am using the xgl session

Thanks,

---

### Post by AAJ on 2007-03-19
up

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-03-19
Do you have a router/firewall appliance ?

MrC

---

### Post by AAJ on 2007-03-19
yes, at home but what about if I am outside the home :)

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-03-19
You're asking about how to ensure that your port 6001 is closed to the outside world.

How about being more clear about what you're asking, and what you want.

MrC

---

### Post by AAJ on 2007-03-19
I want to close that port to the outside world but don't tell me i have to close the XGL.

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-03-19
Your firewall at home will have the port closed by default.  If you opened it, its open.

---

### Post by Unknowndeepness on 2007-03-20
Mabie he meant via SSH? (:

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-03-20
I've wasted enough time on this post.

---

### Post by AAJ on 2007-03-21
I am using xgl and beryl. I scan my machine from another machine I found there is one open port called xgl (open)

Starting Nmap 4.10 ( [http://www.insecure.org/nmap/](http://www.insecure.org/nmap/) ) 
Interesting ports on localhost (127.0.0.1):
Not shown: 1677 closed ports
PORT     STATE SERVICE VERSION
6001/tcp open  X11     X.Org (open)

I am talking about this how i can close it.

Unknowndeepness please read what i wrote again. ssh ????? who said that

Mr.C dont say that if you dont have answer for my question please dont replay.

Regards,

---

### Post by Aberrix on 2007-03-21
you're running xgl & beryl on a server?

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-03-21
I'm always happy to help, but can't read crystal balls.

Your post was much clearer this time.

The nmap scan you ran was against "localhost", so you are reporting on what port is open only locally.  The 6001 port is open by X, and it supports your GUI.  Shutdown the GUI, and that port is closed.

Please don't get upset with others when they try to help by doing their best to guess your meaning.  Your posts have been especially unclear, and fairly lazy.  You will get better responses when you take the time to think about, and formulate your thoughts and ideas clearly in writing.

MrC

---

### Post by coca25 on 2007-03-23
hi,
to close port 6001, you just have to add "-nolisten tcp" to Xgl command line

---

