---
title: "SATA Interface Issues"
date: 2009-12-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by pentas on 2009-12-18
Having a bit of an issue with ubuntu server and not quite sure what the problem is.  I'm pretty sure it's software, but let me explain.

I have a server here with 8 SATA drives in it which have been RAIDed together (level 6) for use as a file server.  The formatting and setting up of these drives went without a hitch, but on occasion, I will receive a message within the console screen that says:

> [75719.760085] ata3.00: exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x0 action 0x2 frozen
[75719.760129] ata3.00: cmd b0/d4:00:82:4f:c2/00:00:00:00:00/00 tag 0
[75719.760176] ata3.00: status: { DRDY }Normally, I would worry about hardware, but as all eight drives produce the same error, and considering they are all brand new, I believe this problem resides in software.

I've run the smartctl tool in various modes and all drives result in "PASSED".  However, this exact same error can also be generated by running the "smartctl -H /dev/sda" command.

Does anyone know what the root of this problem is?  I've viewed numerous threads, but can't seem to find anything that matches my problem exactly.  For the record, I'm running the 8.04.3 LTS server version in 64-bit.  Thanks!

---

### Post by Vegan on 2009-12-18
What card are you using as your RAID controller?

---

### Post by pentas on 2009-12-18
> **Vegan said:**
> What card are you using as your RAID controller?

It's software RAID controlled by mdadm.  The physical connections are provided by the onboard motherboard plugs controlled by the Intel ICH10R and the Gigabyte SATA2 chipsets.

---

### Post by laluz on 2009-12-18
[QUOTE=pentas;8518764]

I've run the smartctl tool in various modes and all drives result in "PASSED".  However, this exact same error can also be generated by running the "smartctl -H /dev/sda" command.

Does anyone know what the root of this problem is? QUOTE]
Have you tried to deactivate the smart power management features of the drives?

---

### Post by pentas on 2009-12-19
> **laluz said:**
> [quote=pentas;8518764]

I've run the smartctl tool in various modes and all drives result in "PASSED".  However, this exact same error can also be generated by running the "smartctl -H /dev/sda" command.

Does anyone know what the root of this problem is? 
Have you tried to deactivate the smart power management features of the drives?[/quote]

I have not.  According to hdparm, my "SMART feature set" and "Power Management feature set" among others are enabled.  Should I disable "Power Management feature set" and if so, how might I go about doing this?

---

