---
title: "Postfix - 550 550 #5.1.0 Address rejected"
date: 2011-09-27
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-09-27
Hello!

So i've followed the steps in the community docs: 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MailServer]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MailServer")

Installed and configured everything as specified and passed all the tests suggested. When I try to send mail to my gmail it says sent in OpenWebMail
but it never gets to my gmail.

When I try to send mail from my gmail to myserver - I get the following error:

> 
Delivery to the following recipient failed permanently:

    [email]user@mydomain.com[/email]

Technical details of permanent failure:
Google tried to deliver your message, but it was rejected by the recipient domain. We recommend contacting the other email provider for further information about the cause of this error. The error that the other server returned was: 550 550 #5.1.0 Address rejected [email]user@mydomain.com[/email] (state 14).


> Here is what my /etc/host looks like:

192.168.1.8	ServerName	# Added by NetworkManager
127.0.0.1	localhost.localdomain	localhost
::1	ServerName	localhost6.localdomain6	localhost6
127.0.1.1	ServerName

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts


the main.cf file looks like this:

> # See /usr/share/postfix/main.cf.dist for a commented, more complete version


# Debian specific:  Specifying a file name will cause the first
# line of that file to be used as the name.  The Debian default
# is /etc/mailname.
#myorigin = /etc/mailname

smtpd_banner = $myhostname ESMTP $mail_name (Ubuntu)
biff = no

# appending .domain is the MUA's job.
append_dot_mydomain = no

# Uncomment the next line to generate "delayed mail" warnings
#delay_warning_time = 4h

readme_directory = no

# TLS parameters
smtpd_tls_cert_file = /etc/ssl/certs/smtpd.crt
smtpd_tls_key_file = /etc/ssl/private/smtpd.key
smtpd_use_tls=yes
smtpd_tls_session_cache_database = btree:${data_directory}/smtpd_scache
smtp_tls_session_cache_database = btree:${data_directory}/smtp_scache

# See /usr/share/doc/postfix/TLS_README.gz in the postfix-doc package for
# information on enabling SSL in the smtp client.

myhostname = [www.mydomain.com](www.mydomain.com)
alias_maps = hash:/etc/aliases
alias_database = hash:/etc/aliases
mydestination = [www.mydomain.com](www.mydomain.com), localhost, localhost.localdomain
relayhost = 
mynetworks = 127.0.0.0/8 [::ffff:127.0.0.0]/104 [::1]/128
mailbox_size_limit = 0
recipient_delimiter = +
inet_interfaces = all
myorigin = /etc/mailname
inet_protocols = all
smtp_sasl_local_domain = 
smtp_sasl_auth_enable = yes
smtp_sasl_security_options = noanonymous
broken_sasl_auth_clients = yes
smtpd_sasl_local_domain = 
smtpd_sasl_auth_enable = yes
smtpd_sasl_security_options = noanonymous
smtpd_recipient_restrictions = permit_sasl_authenticated,permit_mynetworks,reject_unauth_destination
smtp+tls_security_level = may
smtp_tls_security_level = may
smtpd_tls_security_level = may
smtpd_tls_auth_only = no
smtp_tls_note_starttls_offer = yes
smtpd_tls_CAfile = /etc/ssl/certs/cacert.pem
smtpd_tls_loglevel = 1
smtpd_tls_received_header = yes
smtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout = 3600s
tls_random_source = dev:/dev/urandom

content_filter = smtp-amavis:[127.0.0.1]:10024


Error log shows:

> Sep 27 01:53:00 BlueSteel postfix/master[12462]: warning: /usr/lib/postfix/smtp: bad command startup -- throttling
Sep 27 01:53:00 BlueSteel postfix/master[12462]: warning: process /usr/lib/postfix/smtp pid 19311 exit status 1
Sep 27 01:53:00 BlueSteel postfix/master[12462]: warning: /usr/lib/postfix/smtp: bad command startup -- throttling
Sep 27 01:54:00 BlueSteel postfix/smtp[20537]: fatal: specify a password table via the `smtp_sasl_password_maps' configuration parameter
Sep 27 01:54:00 BlueSteel postfix/smtp[20536]: fatal: specify a password table via the `smtp_sasl_password_maps' configuration parameter
Sep 27 01:54:01 BlueSteel postfix/master[12462]: warning: process /usr/lib/postfix/smtp pid 20536 exit status 1
Sep 27 01:54:01 BlueSteel postfix/master[12462]: warning: /usr/lib/postfix/smtp: bad command startup -- throttling
Sep 27 01:54:01 BlueSteel postfix/master[12462]: warning: process /usr/lib/postfix/smtp pid 20537 exit status 1
Sep 27 01:54:01 BlueSteel postfix/master[12462]: warning: /usr/lib/postfix/smtp: bad command startup -- throttling


So I went back and added the following to the main.cf file..

> sender_dependent_relayhost_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/sender_relay
smtp_sender_dependent_authentication = yes
smtp_sasl_password_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/sasl_passwd

Nothing has changed.. Any ideas would be appreciated, thanks... :guitar:

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-09-27
Thank you for taking the time to respond Zackwasa.

I have all the software installed and it seems to be working, but the error I am getting is a configuration error. If anyone knows how to resolve the fatal error in the mail  log, please let me know.

mail.log error (fatal):
> postfix/smtp[20537]: fatal: specify a password table via the `smtp_sasl_password_maps' configuration parameter

How do I specify a password table?

Thanks.

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-09-27
Create a file in your /etc/postfix directory named sasl_passwd.  Add the host and UID/password info to the file in clear text like this:
```
smtp.isp.com     smtpuser:password
```
add a line for each host that you need to authenticate to.
Run the command:
```
postmap hash:/etc/postfix/sasl_passwd
```
to creat the hash DB file.

Add the following to your /etc/postfix/main.cf file
```
smtp_sasl_password_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/sasl_passwd
```

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-09-27
Hi Hawkmage,

Thanks for your response. I followed your recommendations and have different errors now.

This is what the mail log shows:

after making your changes:

> Sep 27 21:45:24 BlueSteel postfix/trivial-rewrite[6945]: fatal: open database /etc/postfix/sender_relay.db: No such file or directory
Sep 27 21:45:25 BlueSteel postfix/master[24457]: warning: process /usr/lib/postfix/trivial-rewrite pid 6945 exit status 1
Sep 27 21:45:25 BlueSteel postfix/master[24457]: warning: /usr/lib/postfix/trivial-rewrite: bad command startup -- throttling


The following is what came through after trying to send mail from openwebmail:

> Sep 27 21:46:03 BlueSteel postfix/smtpd[7752]: cannot load Certificate Authority data: disabling TLS support
Sep 27 21:46:03 BlueSteel postfix/smtpd[7752]: warning: TLS library problem: 7752:error:02001002:system library:fopen:No such file or directory:bss_file.c:126:fopen('/etc/ssl/certs/cacert.pem','r'):
Sep 27 21:46:03 BlueSteel postfix/smtpd[7752]: warning: TLS library problem: 7752:error:2006D080:BIO routines:BIO_new_file:no such file:bss_file.c:129:
Sep 27 21:46:03 BlueSteel postfix/smtpd[7752]: warning: TLS library problem: 7752:error:0B084002:x509 certificate routines:X509_load_cert_crl_file:system lib:by_file.c:274:
Sep 27 21:46:03 BlueSteel postfix/smtpd[7752]: connect from localhost.localdomain[127.0.0.1]


This is what I got when trying to send a note to myself from gmail.
> Sep 27 21:46:25 BlueSteel postfix/trivial-rewrite[8196]: fatal: open database /etc/postfix/sender_relay.db: No such file or directory
Sep 27 21:46:26 BlueSteel postfix/master[24457]: warning: process /usr/lib/postfix/trivial-rewrite pid 8196 exit status 1
Sep 27 21:46:26 BlueSteel postfix/master[24457]: warning: /usr/lib/postfix/trivial-rewrite: bad command startup -- throttling
Sep 27 21:47:26 BlueSteel postfix/trivial-rewrite[9417]: fatal: open database /etc/postfix/sender_relay.db: No such file or directory
Sep 27 21:47:27 BlueSteel postfix/master[24457]: warning: process /usr/lib/postfix/trivial-rewrite pid 9417 exit status 1
Sep 27 21:47:27 BlueSteel postfix/master[24457]: warning: /usr/lib/postfix/trivial-rewrite: bad command startup -- throttling

Question about your instructions:

I created /etc/postfix/sasl_passwd and inserted the following...

smtp.mydomainname.com    zidaps:mypasswd

Did I do that correctly? if not, what should go where you wrote isp?


Also, here is what google sent me when the mail failed to be delivered:

> Delivery to the following recipient failed permanently:

    [email]username@mydomain.com[/email]

Technical details of permanent failure:
Google tried to deliver your message, but it was rejected by the recipient domain. We recommend contacting the other email provider for further information about the cause of this error. The error that the other server returned was: 550 550 #5.1.0 Address rejected [email]username@mydomain.com[/email] (state 14).

Thanks!

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-09-27
Do you have the file "/etc/postfix/sender_relay.db"?  If not you need hash the /etc/postfix/sender_relay file.

Also I missed the fact that you have not defined your relay host.  This should be your ISPs SMTP relay.

Many SMTP servers only receive mail from known domains.

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-09-28
Hi Hawkmage,  ):P

Thank you for your response. I will try that when I get home... Also, I forgot to mention and not sure if it matters much. I am running Apache2 and have a few virtual domains active. So I have

[www.example1.com]("http://www.example1.com")
[www.example2.com]("http://www.example2.com")
[www.example3.com]("http://www.example3.com")

etc..

running at the same time. Im not sure if it matters in the setup or if that can cause adverse effects to sending and receiving the mail.

Currently I am using [www.example2.com]("http://www.example2.com") for my postfix setup, later on I will want to add [www.example1.com]("http://www.example1.com") and [www.example3.com]("http://www.example3.com")

So here are my other questions...

1) Once I've resolved the issue with [www.example2.com]("http://www.example2.com") sending and receiving mail (I am hoping it will work for example1 and example3.) How do I create new accounts or setup configurations for [www.example1.com]("http://www.example1.com") and [www.example3.com?]("http://www.example3.com?")

2) I am using openwebmail and the "TO:" field is autofilling "username@www.example2.com" ... How do I get it to read "username@example2.com" ... Not sure why its adding in the www.

Lots of questions I know ;)
Thanks again.

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-09-29
Ok, so I do have /etc/postfix/sender_relay.db in place now. I've tried using smtp.broadband.rogers.com as my ISP smtp relay... Still getting the same error... Any other clues?


I did solve the following though:
2) I am using openwebmail and the "TO:" field is autofilling "username@www.example2.com" ... How do I get it to read "username@example2.com" ... Not sure why its adding in the www.

Fix the config file.. edit ==> /etc/openwebmail/openwebmail.conf

set the domainnames option in openwebmail.conf from 'auto' to the domainname you want. Multiple domainnames can be specified only if separated by comma.

Any other ideas as to why the mail isn't going through?? Appreciate the help. Thanks

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-09-29
I doubt that the openwebmail.conf is causing the relay failure.  

Are you trying to authenticate to your ISPs relay based on the senders account?  If not there is no reason to use  the sender_relay.db file.  

Here is the extent of my main.cf:
```
queue_directory = /var/spool/postfix
command_directory = /usr/sbin
daemon_directory = /usr/libexec/postfix
mail_owner = postfix
myhostname = mail.mydomain.com
mydomain = mydomain.com
myorigin = mydomain.com
inet_interfaces = all
mydestination = mail.mydomain.com, mail, mydomain.com, 
    localhost, localhost.localdomain, localhost.mydomain.com, 
local_recipient_maps = unix:passwd.byname $alias_maps
unknown_local_recipient_reject_code = 550
mynetworks_style = subnet
relayhost = [smtp.myrelay.com]:587
alias_maps = hash:/etc/aliases
alias_database = hash:/etc/aliases
smtpd_banner = $myhostname ESMTP $mail_name
debug_peer_level = 2
debugger_command =
     PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/X11R6/bin
     xxgdb $daemon_directory/$process_name $process_id & sleep 5
sendmail_path = /usr/sbin/sendmail.postfix
newaliases_path = /usr/bin/newaliases.postfix
mailq_path = /usr/bin/mailq.postfix
setgid_group = postdrop
html_directory = no
manpage_directory = /usr/share/man
sample_directory = /usr/share/doc/postfix-2.3.3/samples
readme_directory = /usr/share/doc/postfix-2.3.3/README_FILES
virtual_alias_domains = mydomain.com
virtual_alias_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/virtual
smtp_sasl_auth_enable = yes
smtp_sasl_password_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/sasl_passwd
smtp_sasl_security_options =
```(The domains have been renamed for my protection)

Here is my sasl_passwd:
```
smtp.myrelay.com    smtpuser:Password
```(The domain, user and password have been changed)

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-09-30
So based on your main.cf file I've altered mine to include those bits missing. To keep this as real as possible I have replaced my url with "myzidaps.com" everything else is just as you see it here...

```
# See /usr/share/postfix/main.cf.dist for a commented, more complete version

#queue_directory = /ver/spool/postfix
command_directory= /usr/sbin
#daemon_directory = /usr/libexec/postfix
mail_owner = postfix


smtpd_banner = $myhostname ESMTP $mail_name (Ubuntu)
biff = no

# appending .domain is the MUA's job.
append_dot_mydomain = no

# Uncomment the next line to generate "delayed mail" warnings
#delay_warning_time = 4h

readme_directory = no

# TLS parameters
smtpd_tls_cert_file = /etc/ssl/certs/smtpd.crt
smtpd_tls_key_file = /etc/ssl/private/smtpd.key
smtpd_use_tls=yes
smtpd_tls_session_cache_database = btree:${data_directory}/smtpd_scache
smtp_tls_session_cache_database = btree:${data_directory}/smtp_scache

# See /usr/share/doc/postfix/TLS_README.gz in the postfix-doc package for
# information on enabling SSL in the smtp client.



# Debian specific:  Specifying a file name will cause the first
# line of that file to be used as the name.  The Debian default
# is /etc/mailname.

myorigin = $mydomain
myhostname = mail.$mydomain.com
mydestination = mail.$mydomain.com, mail, $mydomain.com, localhost, localhost.localdomain, localhost.$mydomain.com,

mynetworks = 127.0.0.0/8 [::ffff:127.0.0.0]/104 [::1]/128
mydomain = myzidaps.com

alias_maps = hash:/etc/aliases
alias_database = hash:/etc/aliases

relayhost = [smtp.broadband.rogers.com]:587
relay_domains = $mydestination

mailbox_size_limit = 0
recipient_delimiter = +
inet_interfaces = all
inet_protocols = all

smtp_banner = $myhostname ESMTP $mail_name
smtp_sasl_local_domain = 
sender_dependent_relayhost_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/sender_relay
smtp_sender_dependent_authentication = yes
smtp_sasl_auth_enable = yes
smtp_sasl_password_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/sasl_passwd
smtp_sasl_security_options = noanonymous
broken_sasl_auth_clients = yes
smtpd_sasl_local_domain = 
smtpd_sasl_auth_enable = yes
smtpd_sasl_security_options = noanonymous
smtpd_recipient_restrictions = permit_sasl_authenticated,permit_mynetworks,reject_unauth_destination
smtp+tls_security_level = may
smtp_tls_security_level = may
smtpd_tls_security_level = may
smtpd_tls_auth_only = no
smtp_tls_note_starttls_offer = yes
smtpd_tls_CAfile = /etc/ssl/certs/cacert.pem
smtpd_tls_loglevel = 1
smtpd_tls_received_header = yes
smtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout = 3600s
tls_random_source = dev:/dev/urandom
proxy_interfaces = 192.168.1.1

debugger_peer_level = 2
debugger_command =
     PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/X11R6/bin
     xxgdb $daemon_directory/$process_name $process_id & sleep 5
sendmail_path = /usr/sbin/sendmail.postfix
newaliases_path = /usr/bin/newaliases.postfix
mailq_path = /usr/bin/mailq.postfix
setgid_group = postdrop
html_directory = no
manpage_directory = /usr/share/man
sample_directory = /usr/share/doc/postfix-2.3.3/samples
readme_directory = /usr/share/doc/postfix-2.3.3/README_FILES

content_filter = smtp-amavis:[127.0.0.1]:10024

#virtual_alias_domains = home.thejeep.us
virtual_alias_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/virtual
```

Commented out "virtual_alias_domains" changed it in case you missed it..

Commented out "queue_directory" because I got the following error when trying to reload it:

>  * Reloading Postfix configuration...                                           postfix: fatal: chdir(/usr/libexec/postfix): No such file or directory

Commented out "daemon_directory" because I got the following error when trying to reload it:

>  * Reloading Postfix configuration...                                           postfix: fatal: chdir(/ver/spool/postfix): No such file or directory

The error I get from openwebmail when I try to send mail is:

> Couldn't open any SMTP servers 127.0.0.1 at port 25

Thanks again for the help...

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-09-30
What do you get if you run the command:
```
sudo lsof -nP -i :25
```Is the firewall enabled and if so is port 25 allowed through?

Also the directories that don't exist are because the postfix server I have is actually on CentOS and not Ubuntu so the directories are a bit different.

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-10-01
When I enter: sudo lsof -nP -i :25
not running a firewall and the router has 25 open / forwarded to the server.

Here are my results:

> COMMAND  PID USER   FD   TYPE  DEVICE SIZE/OFF NODE NAME
master  8389 root   12u  IPv4 3149454      0t0  TCP *:25 (LISTEN)
master  8389 root   13u  IPv6 3149456      0t0  TCP *:25 (LISTEN)


---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-11-04
Bump!! ](*,)help setting up mail server.. please. 

So I am still struggling to figure this stuff out...
Seems like my configuration is good, but I can't seem to send or receive mail.

my telnet connection works: (ip address and domain name below changed)

> zidaps@localhost:~$ telnet example.com 25
Trying 209.107.204.13...
Connected to example.com.
Escape character is '^]'.
220 localhost.example.com ESMTP Postfix (Ubuntu)the ehlo bit works as well:

> ehlo example.com
250-localhost.example.com
250-PIPELINING
250-SIZE 10240000
250-VRFY
250-ETRN
250-STARTTLS
250-AUTH CRAM-MD5 DIGEST-MD5 PLAIN LOGIN NTLM
250-AUTH=CRAM-MD5 DIGEST-MD5 PLAIN LOGIN NTLM
250-ENHANCEDSTATUSCODES
250-8BITMIME
250 DSN
What am I missing here? Why isn't the mail being sent or received from my example.com ??

This is the error I am getting from gmail:

> 
[COLOR=#5b1094]Mail Delivery Subsystem[/COLOR] [EMAIL="mailer-daemon@googlemail.com"]mailer-daemon@googlemail.com[/EMAIL] to me 
Delivery to the following recipient failed permanently:

     [EMAIL="info@torontotuner.com"]info@example.com[/EMAIL]

Technical details of permanent failure:
Google tried to deliver your message, but it was rejected by the  recipient domain. We recommend contacting the other email provider for  further information about the cause of this error. The error that the  other server returned was: 550 550 #5.1.0 Address rejected [EMAIL="info@torontotuner.com"]info@example.com[/EMAIL] (state 14).
I'm not sure what other valid info I can provide?? here is my main.cf file again:

```
# See /usr/share/postfix/main.cf.dist for a commented, more complete version


# Debian specific:  Specifying a file name will cause the first
# line of that file to be used as the name.  The Debian default
# is /etc/mailname.
#myorigin = /etc/mailname


smtpd_banner = $myhostname ESMTP $mail_name (Ubuntu)
biff = no

# appending .domain is the MUA's job.
append_dot_mydomain = no

# Uncomment the next line to generate "delayed mail" warnings
#delay_warning_time = 4h

readme_directory = no

# TLS parameters
smtpd_tls_cert_file=/etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem
smtpd_tls_key_file=/etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key
smtpd_use_tls=yes
smtpd_tls_session_cache_database = btree:${data_directory}/smtpd_scache
smtp_tls_session_cache_database = btree:${data_directory}/smtp_scache

# See /usr/share/doc/postfix/TLS_README.gz in the postfix-doc package for
# information on enabling SSL in the smtp client.

mydomain = example.com
myhostname = loclahost.example.com
alias_maps = hash:/etc/aliases
alias_database = hash:/etc/aliases
myorigin = $mydomain
mydestination = $myhostname, localhost.$mydomain, localhost $mydomain
relayhost = [smtp.broadband.rogers.com]
relay_domains = $mydestination 
mynetworks = 127.0.0.0/8
mailbox_command = procmail -a "$EXTENSION"
mailbox_size_limit = 0
recipient_delimiter = +
inet_interfaces = all
proxy_interfaces = 209.107.204.13

smtpd_sasl_local_domain =
smtpd_sasl_auth_enable = yes
smtpd_sasl_security_options = noanonymous
broken_sasl_auth_clients = yes
smtpd_recipient_restrictions = permit_sasl_authenticated,permit_mynetworks,reject_unauth_destination
smtpd_tls_auth_only = no
#Use these on Postfix 2.2.x only
#smtp_use_tls = yes
#smtpd_use_tls = yes
#For Postfix 2.3 or above use:
smtp_tls_security_level = may
smtpd_tls_security_level = may
smtp_tls_note_starttls_offer = yes
smtpd_tls_key_file = /etc/ssl/private/smtpd.key
smtpd_tls_cert_file = /etc/ssl/certs/smtpd.crt
smtpd_tls_CAfile = /etc/ssl/certs/cacert.pem
smtpd_tls_loglevel = 1
smtpd_tls_received_header = yes
smtpd_tls_session_cache_timeout = 3600s
tls_random_source = dev:/dev/urandom

virtual_mailbox_domains = example.com example2.com example3.com
virtual_mailbox_maps = hash:/etc/postfix/virtual_mailboxes
```Thanks in advance for any help provided on this...  ;)

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-11-07
Ok, so a bit of progress but still a no go..
I've added the MX record information for my ISP at my godaddy account.

But now I am having another error returned:

> Delivery to the following recipient failed permanently:

    [email]username@mydomain.com[/email]

Technical details of permanent failure:
Google tried to deliver your message, but it was rejected by the recipient domain. We recommend contacting the other email provider for further information about the cause of this error. The error that the other server returned was: 530 530 authentication required - for help go to [http://help.yahoo.com/help/us/mail/pop/pop-11.html](http://help.yahoo.com/help/us/mail/pop/pop-11.html) (state 13).

---

### Post by einstein on 2011-11-07
I think Rogers is your problem.  Outgoing mail could be due to a local configuration problem but it looks like incoming mail is being rejected by your ISP.  Doesn't Rogers require you to use @rogers.com e-mail addresses?

You have two options in my estimation:
[LIST=1]
[*]Find someone successfully using Postfix and Rogers to advise you.
[*]Dump Rogers.
[/LIST]
My preference is the second one.  A few years ago I struggle to get Postfix/Rogers working.  It worked only a short time and then Rogers started requiring a list of Sender e-mail addresses.  I am down to two mobile phone accounts with Rogers.  One will probably be cancelled in the next week or so.  The other one probably soon after.

Zidaps, if you are in Ontario, Canada, I can give you the specs for my ISP... and no, I have not vested interest in my ISP.

-Dennis

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-11-08
Hi Dennis,

Thanks for the help. Yes I am in Ontario. If you can send me the ISP config information that would be awesome. If it works with that then we know for sure the problem is Rogers. (wouldn't be surprised)

but I want to believe there is something else I am doing wrong.. Reason being. I am using openwebmail to access and send my mail... I am not even able to send mail locally on my own network. I have 2 user names created on my server and using that to try to send mail from between users on the same domain.. but its not working. It says the mail is sent successfully, but the other user doesn't receive it... I will post the mail log error when I get back home tonight.

Thanks.

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-11-08
Are you actually using the domain example.com?  Your ISP may very well recognize that you are not the owner of example.com so it refuses to relay mail with that address.

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-11-08
Hi hawkmage,

no i'm actually using my domain name torontotuner.com so i'm not sure what the issue is or could be.

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-11-08
OK, for your domain I see that you have the following MX records:
```
torontotuner.com    mail exchanger = 0 torontotuner.com.
torontotuner.com    mail exchanger = 0 smtp.broadband.rogers.com.
torontotuner.com    mail exchanger = 10 mailstore1.secureserver.net.
```You have your Mail server reports its self as bluesteel.torontotuner.com and you have no DNS entry for it.

You may want to have postfix report its self as torontotuner.com or add an externally resolvable entry for the name bluesteel.torontotuner.com.

I sent an email from my system to admin AT torontotuner.com with the subject "This is a test".  Did you get it?

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-11-09
Hi Hawkmage,

So i tried changing my hostname definition in postfix to read just torontotuner.com but that didn't work. Unfortunately I did not get the email from you either. The reason I have the defined myhostname as bluesteel.torontotuner.com is because my machine's name is BlueSteel... All the tutorials show that I should make it localhost.domain.com

So far no luck.. I will keep trying new things to see what works. If you have any suggessions.. by all means... Please let me know :) Thanks.

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-11-09
I am still see this:
```
telnet torontotuner.com 25
Trying 99.250.117.208...
Connected to torontotuner.com.
Escape character is '^]'.
220 bluesteel.torontotuner.com ESMTP Postfix (Ubuntu)
QUIT
221 2.0.0 Bye
Connection closed by foreign host.
```

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-11-09
I tried it last night but it seemed to not work so I brought back the old config. I've changed it again.. Give it a try.. Still doesn't work for me even with the new change.

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-11-10
Do you have what should be a valid email address for me to test with.

I have tried connecting to your SMTP server and leaving an email and it is rejecting any email address that I try to send to.

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-11-13
[email]info@torontotuner.com[/email] is valid, but when I try it it doesn't work. :confused:

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-11-14
I sent a message directly to the address you gave and it was accepted.  Did you get it?

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-11-14
Nope, haven't gotten it. I still get the error message from my gmail.. delayed... but I still get the error...

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-11-15
This is very odd since the smtp service at torontotuner.com accepted email to the info mailbox.

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-11-15
I realized that I had a formatting issue with the SMTP message I sent and it did not have a proper Subject line so I am not sure if that is what caused you not to get my message.  I fixed it and retried.

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-11-15
Can't seem to get it...

The inbox still shows as zero messages received.

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-11-16
Here is a lookup of your MX records:
hawkmage@ubuntu:~$ host -t MX torontotuner.com 
torontotuner.com mail is handled by 0 smtp.broadband.rogers.com.
torontotuner.com mail is handled by 0 smtp.secureserver.net.
torontotuner.com mail is handled by 0 bluesteel.torontotuner.com.
torontotuner.com mail is handled by 0 torontotuner.com.
torontotuner.com mail is handled by 10 mailstore1.secureserver.net.

The host smtp.broadband.rogers.com and  smtp.secureserver.net are not you Postfix server. My SMTP server is trying to send to smtp.broadband.rogers.com.  Since smtp.broadband.rogers.com doesn't know about your email domain so I am getting a relay authentication error.  

If for some reason the MX host bluesteel.torontotuner.com is chosen it will not work since the name can't be resolved.  
hawkmage@ubuntu:~$ host bluesteel.torontotuner.com 
Host bluesteel.torontotuner.com not found: 3(NXDOMAIN)

If you really want all of those hosts as MX records I would define them as follows:
torontotuner.com mail is handled by 0 torontotuner.com.
 torontotuner.com mail is handled by 10 bluesteel.torontotuner.com.
 torontotuner.com mail is handled by 20 smtp.broadband.rogers.com.
torontotuner.com mail is handled by 30 smtp.secureserver.net.
torontotuner.com mail is handled by 40 mailstore1.secureserver.net.
 
Also make an A record in your domain DNS that you are hosting with domaincontrol.com.

---

### Post by Zidaps on 2011-11-24
Hi hawkmage,

So I am finally able to receive mail at [EMAIL="info@torontotuner.com"]info@torontotuner.com[/EMAIL]
The mistake was in my DNS settings as you pointed out. But I am not able to send
mail and I think that has something to do with rogers no longer relaying mail. Or that they now require POP login before anything can be sent out...

One person on another forum said: 
> Looks like Rogers uses "POP-before-SMTP," meaning you need to log in to  one of their legitimate POP accounts before you can send.If anyone knows a solutions or work around please do tell... thanks.

P.S. the un-delivered mail error reads:
> host smtp.broadband.rogers.com[98.139.221.125] said:
    530 authentication required

---

