---
title: "12.04 server w webmin losing OS folder data"
date: 2013-06-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by fugisteve on 2013-06-09
Hi folks, I need some help troubleshooting a server issue, a big issue. The issue is that everything works great until after I shutdown/restart the server, I randomly lose data in folders and then the server fails to boot.  This will be the third time I've had to re-install the server software because of this issue. Luckily I don't have any data on the drives as I'm still testing the stability.

System:
2.80 processor
4gb ram
1.8Tb in Raid 5
26Gb usb as boot drive (ubuntu 12.04 server updated w/ webmin 1.630)

Everything installs just fine, updates without issue, reboots fine after installs, etc. Server was up and good for 24days. I shut it down via webmin yesterday because we had 106 local temps and I didn't want the drives running hot, case is currently open to ambient room temps. Today I started it up and bingo, no boot...nothing. No grub, no screen output, nothing. I took the usb stick out and looked at the folders as empty folders were the cause before. Sure enough, some folders (just a few) were empty. Here's the kicker, this time they were different folders from the last. Previously the BOOT folder (and I think DEV and prob some others) that were empty. This time it's the RUN, PROC, SRV, SYS, SELINUX, PROC, OPT.  The BOOT, BIN, DEV, LIB and ETC are still loaded with files.

I'm at a loss for the cause. It's extremely frustrating and huge lack of confidence in the server without finding/solving the cause. A couple of questions:

1. Am I ok running server on 26Gb usb drive? Is 26Gb enough space? I don't have room in box for another HD. I currently have a freenas OS server running on an 8Gb usb drive.

2. Anyone familiar with webmin and having any issues with it? I can't say for sure but I'm thinking it might be an I/O issue between webmin GUI and ubuntu. Next install will be CLI only to test this theory.

3. What would cause random folders to lose data?  I could understand if maybe always BOOT folder after say any kernel update, but the RUN and SYS folders?

I have updated the server with all current updates via CLI this time. Previous failure was through the webmin GUI, which I thought caused *that*
issue. Guess not.

I'm at a loss for cause/solutions. If anyone has any ideas, I'm open. I just want a server that I don't have to worry about coming back online after a reboot/shutdown. Needless to say this is a crushing blow to the confidence of having my GF's business files on this system.

Thank you all for the help.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-06-10
I think your flash drive has expired.

I can run a full Ubuntu installed on an 8 GB flash drive. I think 16 GB is the sweet spot. After lots of system updates, run this command:
sudo apt-get clean

Everything you can do in Server, you can do in Desktop, and system management is a lot easier. Your computer is beefy enough to run Desktop just fine.

---

