---
title: "Version 6.06.2 and ddclient as daemon"
date: 2008-06-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by pumahalen on 2008-06-16
Hi all,

I have been googling a lot about this, but can't find my problem described, not to say suggested solved anywhere. 

I try to use ddclient against zoneedit, and everything looks great from the point of installation; I get one successful update and everything looks fine. But then noting ever happens again. The ddclient starts normally with /etc/init.d/ddclient start, but does not seem to rerun as daemon. Here's the data:

# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
# /etc/ddclient.conf

daemon=600
syslog=yes
mail=me@mydomain.no
pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=zoneedit1,
use=web,
web=http://www.zoneedit.com/checkip.html,
web-skip='Current IP Address: ',
server=dynamic.zoneedit.com,
login=mylogin,
password='mypassword'
first.domain.com,second.domain.no


/etc/default/ddclient shows:
run_ipup="false"
run_daemon="true"
daemon_interval="600"

And, as I said, eveything works perfect at installation (first run), but then nothing happens. For me this means that even if configuration is OK, the problem simply is that ddclient does not run as a daemon. How can that be? 

Update:

ps aux|grep ddclient gives:

 **Jun16   0:00 /usr/bin/perl -w /usr/sbin/ddclient -daemon 600 -syslog**

and nothing happens.

If I run this:

**perl /usr/sbin/ddclient -noquiet -debug -daemon=0 -verbose**

it is a complete success! 

To me it is hard to see what the difference is except for the differnce in "daemon"-option where thr equal sign is missing.

Any thougts will be appreciated.

Jack

---

### Post by gcbzzzz on 2009-02-05
what the hell! someone please shoot the developers of this app!

```
jumper$ sudo ps awux | grep ddclient
root      7068  0.0  2.4   7392  3876 pts/0    S    21:56   0:00 ddclient - sleeping for 280 seconds

jumper$ cat /proc/7068/cmdline 
ddclient - sleeping for 30 seconds

```

---

### Post by gcbzzzz on 2009-02-05
SOLUTION:

sudo apt-get purge ddclient
sudo apt-get install lynx

then copy this script: [http://nick.borko.org/update-dyndns](http://nick.borko.org/update-dyndns)

edit the user name, password, and hostname.

and that's it! works like a charm. simple, realiable, not moronic like ddclient.

if you want regularity, put into cron. search this forum to know more about cron jobs.

PS: the lynx package i tell to install is a text browser, that can be scripted. it's used to make the request. can easily be done with wget, curl, or anything. just change one line in the script.

---

