---
title: "10.04 kernel panic after improper shut down"
date: 2012-01-10
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by cwscribner on 2012-01-10
Hi all.

A fellow employee was installed a new UPS recently and didn't know enough to shut down our Ubuntu file server prior to unplugging it.  That's right...he just pulled the plug out of the outlet then plugged it into the UPS.  The result is a kernel panic.  I've never dealt with a kernel panic before and I've read through a few dozen different posts/articles but I'm still clueless and I need to get this fixed asap.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-01-10
do you get panics on every reboot? or did it only appear once?

---

### Post by Buntumatic on 2012-01-10
Boot from [SystemRescueCd]("http://www.sysresccd.org/Main_Page") or similar and run fsck.

---

### Post by cwscribner on 2012-01-11
Every reboot.  I wound up just backing up the files then wiping the server so I'm almost back to regular function now.  I just need to set up samba.

Are there any safeguards that can be put in place to prevent the kernel panic?

---

### Post by spacecheck on 2012-01-11
> **cwscribner said:**
> Every reboot.  I wound up just backing up the files then wiping the server so I'm almost back to regular function now.  I just need to set up samba.

Are there any safeguards that can be put in place to prevent the kernel panic?

Umm, sure! How about some additional training for the "fellow employee" who "installed a new UPS recently and didn't know enough to shut down" your "Ubuntu file server prior to unplugging it"? ;-)

Have fun!

---

### Post by cwscribner on 2012-01-11
The real "fun" part about this is that it was my boss who did it.  So I had to employ my best effort to keep under control during this whole process.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-01-11
You might mention to him/her that Windows servers don't like to be powered off abruptly either.  It's not just a Linux thing.

---

