---
title: "10.10 Server, Software Raid, Grub2"
date: 2010-11-26
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by TwiceOver on 2010-11-26
So has anyone gotten this to work with the install media?

I created 2 Raid 1 software arrays one for / and one for swap. No matter what I try, Grub2 won't install.

I have also tried a raid 5 / array and an individual raid 1 /boot array, no luck there either.

Then I tried a Raid5 / array and a single /boot partition off of sda, no go there either.

It seems Grub2 just plain can't boot the mdX array.

Anyone have a definitive guide on getting this to work?  Lots of people with similar issues, but no real solution.

Note:  I have tried 9.10, 10.04, 10.10 all use grub2 and can't install

Note 9.04 with regular Grub installs and runs fine....

EDIT:  This is software raid MDADM NOT fakeraid.

---

### Post by charkear on 2010-12-19
I too am having this problem.  

I am using the 10.10 server cd and would like to install a LVM ontop of RAID.  Can't get GRUB2 installed.

---

### Post by TwiceOver on 2010-12-19
I ended up having to do a 9.04 install and the release upgrade my way to 10.04.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-12-19
Exactly what errors are you getting?  It works fine for most people.

---

### Post by TwiceOver on 2010-12-20
Thaw the problem. All I old get is a "could not install grub" on a red screen. Grub couldn't be installed to the Mbr or a boot partition.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-12-20
You didn't use the entire disk as the component of the raid array did you?  You need to partition the disk and make a Linux Raid partition and use that to form the raid.

---

### Post by TwiceOver on 2010-12-20
Not sure exactly what you are getting at.  I made all my partitions as "use for raid" then built my arrays with those partitions.

I used the exact same scheme on 9.04, 9.10, 10.04, 10.10.  The only time it would work is on 9.04.  9.10 is when Grub2 was introduced.  Clearly there is an issue with Grub2 mounting /dev/mdx arrays.

During the grub install it would ask where to install grub.  If I tried MBR it would fail red screen "Couldn't install grub".  If I chose to install to a hard disk partition it would put in /dev/sda automatically which would fail.  If I changed to /dev/md0 or whatever my raid1 /boot array was, same red screen failure.

I even tried to create just a single partition on one of the drives to install /boot without any raid or anything funky and same error.

A google search reveals many people with this same problem.

---

### Post by psusi on 2010-12-20
Switch to another tty and try manually installing grub.  Something like:

grub-install /dev/sda --root=directory=/target

Assuming the raid array is already mounted in /target.

---

### Post by TwiceOver on 2010-12-20
> **psusi said:**
> Switch to another tty and try manually installing grub.  Something like:

grub-install /dev/sda --root=directory=/target

Assuming the raid array is already mounted in /target.

The machine is in production now so I can't work on this issue.  As noted above I just installed 9.04 and release upgraded my way to 10.04.  Next time I build up a new server I'll give it a shot.

You could continue to help charkear though...

---

### Post by zero4281 on 2010-12-25
I've also been having this problem.  I'm not completely sure what the problem is, but I've been working with it.

Grub2 failed to install so I continued the install without it.  When it was done I booted off the install disc for recovery.  I tried to install grub from the command line but it gave an error again.  When I rebooted, much to my surprise, grub2 was actually installed even though the configs, images, and kernel were not.

When I started to mess around with the grub command line I discovered that doing
```
insmod lvm
```
worked just fine, but
```
insmod raid
```
locked it up every time.

I'll have to do some more research so I can post some more commands and results.  It's been a few weeks since I did this, but I'll have some time next week to dig into this problem.  Though I do remember errors from commands other than grub-install.  This may point to a deeper problem than just grub2 giving an error.  Anyone know how the Grub2 raid module is built?

-Z

Edit:  It still fails to install if I put /boot on a USB stick and try to install grub there.

---

### Post by Qumefox on 2010-12-25
Currently dealing with the exact same issue myself. Both the 10.04 LTS server (32 and 64bit) and 10.10 server (again, both 32 and 64bit) installers behave the same for me. Things work fine until the grub install where it fails out with a red screen saying grub couldn't be installed.

Drive configuration is 3 2TB drives partitioned as the following:

sda: 125mb marked as raid, 1gb marked as swap, remainder is raid
sdb: 125mb marked as raid, 1gb marked as swap, remainder is raid 
sdc: 1.125gb marked as swap, remainder is raid.

sda1 and sdb1 are raid1 as md0 mounted as /boot
sda3, sdb3, sdc2 are raid5 as md1 mounted as /

The last time I did this, which was ubuntu 7 I believe, was a near identical drive and partition confiuration as this, except they were 3 500gb's back then, and I had zero issues.


*edit*  I think I figured out my problem. GRUB2 with GPT requires a 1mb partition with the bios_grub flag set (when done in the partitioner I think it's call 'reserved for boot bios') on the beginning of any drives you want to boot which is where it puts the grub kernel.  sda and sdb in my case since I want this machine to boot with a degraded array.

---

### Post by TheKorn2 on 2011-01-07
> **Qumefox said:**
> *edit*  I think I figured out my problem. GRUB2 with GPT requires a 1mb partition with the bios_grub flag set (when done in the partitioner I think it's call 'reserved for boot bios') on the beginning of any drives you want to boot which is where it puts the grub kernel.  sda and sdb in my case since I want this machine to boot with a degraded array.

Thanks SO much for this edit!  I, too, was having this exact problem (couldn't do a raid install onto ubuntu 10.10), and I couldn't mark any of the partitions bootable.

Manually putting in a 1MB 'reserved for bios boot' partition, then creating the raid array as usual worked like magic!  (And grub was smart enough to figure out that since all five drives had bios reservations, and the root partition was a raid-1 array, that all five drives should be made bootable and have grub installed on them.)

---

### Post by truant on 2011-01-08
I've been having this problem, with Ubuntu 10.04, 10.10; Debians Squeeze and Lenny.  RPM distros install fine, lvm, raid, whatever.

After three weeks of tearing my hair out I've just ordered a new RAID card and I'm going to do it all in hardware instead.

Dell Poweredge R310, in case anyone else has one.

---

### Post by zero4281 on 2011-01-30
> **zero4281 said:**
> I've also been having this problem.  I'm not completely sure what the problem is, but I've been working with it.

Grub2 failed to install so I continued the install without it.  When it was done I booted off the install disc for recovery.  I tried to install grub from the command line but it gave an error again.  When I rebooted, much to my surprise, grub2 was actually installed even though the configs, images, and kernel were not.

When I started to mess around with the grub command line I discovered that doing
```
insmod lvm
```
worked just fine, but
```
insmod raid
```
locked it up every time.

I'll have to do some more research so I can post some more commands and results.  It's been a few weeks since I did this, but I'll have some time next week to dig into this problem.  Though I do remember errors from commands other than grub-install.  This may point to a deeper problem than just grub2 giving an error.  Anyone know how the Grub2 raid module is built?

-Z

Edit:  It still fails to install if I put /boot on a USB stick and try to install grub there.

I ended up disconnecting my raid array and hooking up a USB drive.  I installed 10.10 on it with /boot on a USB stick.  Grub2 then installed fine.

I was able to copy my kernel and configure grub2 by hand to boot into my 10.04 system.  I ran my system that way for about 2 weeks.  During this time grub would still not install, but about a week and a half ago I ran a system update and everything seems fine again.  Grub2 installed on my raid and I don't need the USB stick anymore.

Canonical (or upstream) must have fix some things.  10.04 seems fine now, but I can't speak for 10.10.

---

