---
title: "19.10 Server ISO install fails with nvme drive"
date: 2019-10-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by 0n0w1c on 2019-10-18
I am new to Ubuntu but not new to Linux.

When attempting to install with the new 19.10 Server ISO to an Intel NUC (UEFI) with an nvme drive, the installation fails attempting to partition and format the drive.
The path to the disk device is incorrect.

The install log shows:

get_path_to_storage_volume for volume disk-nvme0n1
devsync for /dev/disk/by-id/wwn-nvme.####-blah-blah
Running command ['partprobe','/dev/disk/by-id/wwn-nvme.####-blah-blah'] with allowed return codes
Error: Could not stat device /dev/disk/by-id/wwn-nvme.####-blah-blah - No such file or device

However, I am able to successfully install with the Desktop ISO. And after the install, the disk device is: /dev/disk/by-id/nvme-nvme.####-blah-blah

It would appear an incorrect device name is used for the Server install process.

So... any way around this?
Is there a way to use the desktop ISO and then remove packages, to reduce to just what the Server ISO installs?
Or maybe another installation process can get me there?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2019-10-18
Moved to server subforum.

Do not know server, but with desktop I unmount incorrect ESP and mount correct ESP in middle of install (at screen that sets password & user).

Main difference as I understand it, is that desktop installs one of the desktop meta packages and all the related apps. You probably can just uninstall the desktop.

The key meta packages of Ubuntu are :
ubuntu-base (the whole base system which everybody should install)
ubuntu-desktop (the whole gnome environment)
kubuntu-desktop (the whole kde environment)
xubuntu-desktop (the whole xfce4 environment)
lubuntu-desktop (the whole LXDE desktop environment)
edubuntu-desktop (the whole kids/schools oriented gnome environment)
mate-desktop (MATE Desktop Environment)
Or:
sudo apt install ubuntu-desktop

With server it also has & runs this to add your choice of typical server apps.
Used by Server install to choose what you want
sudo apt install tasksel
sudo tasksel
sudo apt install ubuntu-server
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tasksel](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Tasksel)

---

### Post by jnguyen-m on 2019-10-18
Hello,

It also happened to me too. The alternative ISO worked for me.

jd

---

### Post by yoonsikp on 2019-10-20
I have the exact same issue, removing the nvme drive fixed the problem for me. This was the error message:

OSError: [Errno Failed to find device at path: %s] /dev/disk/by-id/wwn-eui.0025386b6100260e

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2019-10-20
Hello yoonsikp, please start your own thread instead of posting in someone else's most of the time even though the issues appear the same the cause is completely different and it gets confusing for the person being helped and the volunteers that are helping.

---

### Post by yoonsikp on 2019-10-20
I see. I thought it would be good to post here because we had the same error messages.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2019-10-20
Many with NVMe drives have needed UEFI updates & SSD firmware updates.

Has UEFI update & some settings in UEFI that are needed:
How to install Bionic on Hades Canyon (nuc8i7hvk/nuc8i7hnb) with Vega M GPU support  - using ppa
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2400400](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2400400)

---

