---
title: "8.04 Server install on Parallels/Mac"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by The.Professor on 2008-04-29
Greetings. Very new to linux and I am trying to install the 8.04 server onto a parallels virtualization. I can run the install complete however when it restarts I get the error:

This kernel requires the following features not present on the CPU: 0:6
Unable to boot - please use a kernel appropriate for your CPU.


Any ideas on where to start with this one?

---

### Post by Dmitry Mityugov on 2008-04-29
Hello,

Sorry for the bunch of technical details that follow, but as far as I know, Parallels does not support PAE extensions in the virtualized hardware but the Ubuntu server kernel needs to use them to be able to address more than 4 GB of RAM in 32-bit mode, hence the fault.

To install a Ubuntu command-line system in Parallels, please use either the Alternate CD instead of the Server CD (if offers to install a command-line system at the beginning of installation, among other things), or try to download and install JeOS, [http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/serveredition/jeos](http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/serveredition/jeos)

---

### Post by lex1 on 2008-04-29
alternative is vmware fusion

lex1

---

### Post by cyberbill on 2008-05-09
I had just come across this myself.
I definitely wanted to use the server version but had the same error come up.

[Parallels KB#4934 : Ubuntu Server does not boot]("http://kb.parallels.com/en/4934")

Using this I was able to get it booted using the generic kernel.
After you've gotten it to boot you may choose to recompile the kernel without PAE support. When I get around to doing this I'll post those results as well.

NOTE: After many attempts at installing the generic kernel I found there is one thing not mentioned in their instructions. They are assuming you've installed normal partitions and are not using LVM. I tried many times to fix grub, but was unsuccessful. Anyone familiar with this please chime in. When you are running the initial install of Ubuntu server, when asked about the partitioning scheme, pick "Guided", not "Guided ...LVM" or "Guided Encrypted LVM".

HOWTO:
-Create new VM in Parallels set to boot of install CD or ISO.
-Run Ubuntu Server Install
-Choose first option "Guided" when get to the partitioning screen.
-Reboot off the CD or ISO once more.
-Run Ubuntu Rescue Mode
-When asked, drop to a shell in the installed system.
-Run this command: "apt-get install linux-generic"
-Shutdown VM and reconfigure to boot off the 'HD'
-When booting, make sure you hit ESC to get to the grub menu.
-You will have the option of both the server and generic kernel, pick the generic kernel.
-Login.
-Yay! :)

At this point you will have a working install.
You may choose to either update grub so it boots the generic kernel as the default, or start building the server kernel without PAE support.

Have fun!
-cb

---

