---
title: "11.04 OpenLDAP Installation Documentation"
date: 2011-10-10
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by obatron on 2011-10-10
Apologies for the long post, I'm just trying to offer as much information as possible.

I am evaluating changing my server environment from RHEL to UBUNTU and as part of that, I want to consider OpenLDAP over NIS.   So far I have install 11.04 natty, configured ufw to block all but port 22, and appArmor.   This was straight forward and works as I would expect any Linux distro.   

This server is a test server for me to play around with OpenLDAP (which I'm admittedly new to) to learn.   To that end, I figured I'd just follow the documentation using the Ubuntu 11.04 Server Guide by Ubuntu for installing and configuring it.   This didn't work so well...there were a lot of errors following it step by step, and somethings (like SSL) I couldn't get to work at all.

I checked the online documentation and it matched word or word the printed book documentation.   I turned to Google and found that while I had similar problems, nobody had a solution.   I looked at other documentation, but natty has abandoned that configuration method.   

Is the documentation in error/out dated now, or is there something wrong with my installation? 

[I'll post a followup with what I did and the problems I had]

---

### Post by obatron on 2011-10-10
This was the documentation I used:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/11.04/serverguide/C/openldap-server.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/11.04/serverguide/C/openldap-server.html)

Okay, seeing someone else's post, the Populating LDAP section was optional, and almost certainly flawed.   I'm going to ignore it.

However, I would like TLS and SSL, that gives me a host of other errors.   I believe my issue is creating the Certificate Authority and entering the olcTLSCACertificateFile (which fails).  I'd rather not use a "real" certificate at this point as I may not want to continue this path...

I followed the instructions and figured out how to get the olcTLSCACertificateFile, olcTLSCertificateFile, and olcTLSCertificateKeyFile set without errors.   The documentation is not clear that you do each one separately.   When trying to do as displayed in one shot, it all fails...

I then removed ldap:/// and ldapi:/// from /etc/default/slapd and added ldaps:/// as I only want SSL connections.   Restarted slapd...I tried a simple ldapsearch -x and it gave a 
"Can't contact LDAP server (-1_)".   I added a "-d 1" and see it complaining about the self signed certificate, so after much searching on Google, I  see that I should modify /etc/ldap/ldap.conf

BASE dc=unit,dc=org,dc=com
URI ldaps://host.unit.org.com
TLS_REQCERT allow

Now, ldapsearch -x seems to work.   However, I'm concerned about the last line, however, I presume it's required unless I use a real cert...

So have I gone wrong so far?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-10-10
> **obatron said:**
> Apologies for the long post, I'm just trying to offer as much information as possible.

I am evaluating changing my server environment from RHEL to UBUNTU and as part of that, I want to consider OpenLDAP over NIS.   So far I have install 11.04 natty, configured ufw to block all but port 22, and appArmor.   This was straight forward and works as I would expect any Linux distro.   

This server is a test server for me to play around with OpenLDAP (which I'm admittedly new to) to learn.   To that end, I figured I'd just follow the documentation using the Ubuntu 11.04 Server Guide by Ubuntu for installing and configuring it.   This didn't work so well...there were a lot of errors following it step by step, and somethings (like SSL) I couldn't get to work at all.

I checked the online documentation and it matched word or word the printed book documentation.   I turned to Google and found that while I had similar problems, nobody had a solution.   I looked at other documentation, but natty has abandoned that configuration method.   

Is the documentation in error/out dated now, or is there something wrong with my installation? 

[I'll post a followup with what I did and the problems I had]

Use Zentyal.

Look at my signature.

---

### Post by obatron on 2011-10-10
> **collisionystm said:**
> Use Zentyal.

Look at my signature.

I work at a University, they would prefer that if I were to use a commercial solution that it be a Microsoft solution.   They are fully convinced that Linux is today's IBM mainframe and that Microsoft is the end all be all...

but thanks, your solution does look nice, just not something I'll likely get the okay to purchase.

---

### Post by jazzon on 2011-10-10
delete me
erroneous post

---

### Post by obatron on 2011-10-11
Okay, after fiddling with everything and reading various documentation and forums, I finally got OpenLDAP to work on Natty.  Figuring someone might benefit from the steps I took to get this working, I'll post here...

I installed Ubuntu 11.04 and did all the updates  I enabled ufw and opened port 22, 443, and 636 to the sever.  I installed slapd, ldap-utils, and phpldapadmin, gnutls-bin, ssl-cert, apache.  I created a cert and enabled apache SSL module and site.   Then I got to the interesting bits:

Most steps came from the official documenation for 11.04 OpenLdap Sever

1.  I added the schema

```

sudo ldapadd -Y EXTERNAL -H ldapi:/// -f /etc/ldap/schema/cosine.ldif
sudo ldapadd -Y EXTERNAL -H ldapi:/// -f /etc/ldap/schema/nis.ldif
sudo ldapadd -Y EXTERNAL -H ldapi:/// -f /etc/ldap/schema/inetorgperson.ldif

```

I ignored the duplicates warning/errors.   

2.  I created the backend file.   Now my domain is a three part one, i.e. my host would be hostname.sample.example.com.   Thus I made some slight changes in that olcSuffix was set to dc=sample,dc=example,dc=com and used where ever you saw dc=example.com.   I then added the ldif.

3.  I created the frontend file which failed on the ldif add, so I commented out the first (Create top-level object in domain) section, did the ldif add, commented out the second section (Admin user), and did the ldif add.   The search for UID=John was successful.  

4.  I jumped ahead to the TLS and SSL section and followed i tup to the ldapmodify.   The sample output/input always failed with various errors that pointed to other things.   What I realized was that you have to run the ldapmodify three times (press return after the last line and then cntrl-d.)

```

dn: cn=config
add: olcTLSCACertificateFile
olcTLSCACertificateFile: /etc/ssl/certs/cacert.pem

```
```

dn: cn=config
add: olcTLSCertificateFile
olcTLSCertificateFile: /etc/ssl/certs/ldap01_slapd_cert.pem

```
```

dn: cn=config
add: olcTLSCertificateKeyFile
olcTLSCertificateKeyFile: /etc/ssl/private/ldap01_slapd_key.pem

```

I set SLAPD_SERVICES="ldapi:/// ldaps://hostname.sample.example.com" and completed the rest of the noted steps as documented in this section.

5.  On the server, I just use ldapi:/// everywhere and it all seems to work fine.   On remote debian server, modified /etc/ldap/ldap.conf to have:

```

BASE dc=sample,dc=example,dc=com
URI ldaps://hostname.sample.example.com/
TLS_REQCERT allow

```

The last line gets past the fact the cert is self signed.    I can now do

on remote system

```

ldapsearch -H ldaps://hostname.sample.example.com -x 

```

and on the server

```

ldapsearch -H ldapi:/// -x -ZZZ

```

---

### Post by jaal on 2011-11-20
i thinkl, that is better you install ubuntu server 10.04 LTS and follow this page

[http://tuxnetworks.blogspot.com/2010/07/howto-samba-ldap-on-1004-lucid-short.html](http://tuxnetworks.blogspot.com/2010/07/howto-samba-ldap-on-1004-lucid-short.html)

---

