---
title: "PHP Mail won't send but sendmail works?"
date: 2009-02-02
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by MustangGT on 2009-02-02
Hey guys,

Strangest issue, fresh install of ubuntu.  LAMP installed properly, sites up and running php but no mail will be sent from any php script!

I have installed sendmail properly, I can send email to my gmail account from sendmail logging in via telnet localhost 25 and then manually entering info and sending.  So I know sendmail is properly working, not being clogged by any firewalls,etc.

However, no php mail goes out (scripts calling mail from php).

My php.ini located in etc/php5/apache2 is setup properly

I have all the windows 32 lines comment out in the Mail Section and have 
sendmail_path= /usr/sbin/sendmail

I restarted apache after the change.

Anyone have any ideas what else I might look for or where I might begin?

---

### Post by skunkbad on 2009-02-02
When I had problems sending email from php, the issue was DNS.

/etc/resolv.conf needs to have your ISPs DNS servers listed.

Take a look also at /etc/hosts and verify it is normal.

---

### Post by MustangGT on 2009-02-03
Not sending from my ISP, i am just using it for outgoing and no ISP host.

I am just sending it from xtorrents.me (my domain). 

But the email is originating local, no external server, i am using sendmail to just me able to send outgoing mail from PHP forms.

It sends fine via telnet, so like I said, the sever is fine. IE i can connect via telnet to localhost port 25 and send an email to and recieve it successfully on my gmail account however, no mail forms in php work.

Any ideas?! :(

---

### Post by skunkbad on 2009-02-03
Please post your /etc/resolv.conf and /etc/hosts.

php need DNS to send email, regardless of other programs, or the way the rest of your server is working. I had the same issue, and DNS was the answer.

I'm not trying to get smart with you, I'm just saying I had the exact same problem that you describe.

---

### Post by MustangGT on 2009-02-03
No i understand, sorry i came off dumb in my last post i meant i think my configs on DNS are ok?   I appreciate the help!  I really do, here please take a look... maybe I'm making a dumb mistake? Anyway thanks again and please try and help me, I really need this to work. I've been researching online to no avail...

/etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain home
search home
nameserver 192.168.1.1
xtorrents.me 127.0.0.1

and /etc/hosts

127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.1.1       desktop

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts

---

### Post by MustangGT on 2009-02-04
Tried installing Exim MTA thinking maybe it was possibly Sendmail.

Same thing. Send great through telnet to my offsite (gmail, yahoo, etc accounts) but nothing from any php scripts.

(and yes, i changed to /usr/sbin/exim4 for the exim install and restarted apache)

Still desperate, any ideas?

---

### Post by skunkbad on 2009-02-04
OK, this is what I have for /etc/resolv.conf:

```

nameserver 66.51.205.100
nameserver 66.51.206.100

```

and this is what I have for /etc/hosts:

```

127.0.0.1	localhost	webserver
127.0.1.1	webserver

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts

```

webserver is the name of my machine. You might try backing up your files, and replacing them with mine (altered of course with the name of your machine).

I'm pretty sure the problem is with your resolve.conf. There is no DNS connection to WAN in yours. The DNS servers that I have listed are either my ISPs or openDNS's.

If you make changes to these files, I think you either have to restart apache, or reboot the server to make it work.

---

### Post by MustangGT on 2009-02-04
Thanks for the quick reply! I appreciate your help thus far, however still no change! :( 

Do you think if I did a fresh ubuntu install you could assist in setting up? Maybe I could give you access to the box and you could make sure it's setup right.  I know how to setup everything but something just isn't working, I just don't understand where the error comes in. 

Outgoing Mail Works
Apache Works
PHP is configured properly (/usr/sbin/sendmail)

And yet, for some reason, PHP is not sending information to sendmail

---

### Post by skunkbad on 2009-02-04
I wouldn't reinstall the O/S. There's gotta be something with the way you are sending mail that isn't right. Maybe somebody else will chime in. I don't use Exim on my server, so I can't help there. I use Postfix, and it was moderately difficult to set up.

If you go back through my posts, from when I was setting up my server (which was about a year ago or less), there may be clues as to how to set up Postfix.

Honestly, I think you just need help from somebody that uses Exim. It's probably something super simple that is holding back those emails from working.

You should check the logs and see if there are any clues there too.

I went back through my notes, and all I did to get php mail() to work was:
 **sudo apt-get install sendmail**

---

### Post by MustangGT on 2009-02-05
I was just testing exim.  I use sendmail too, I've since reinstalled sendmail and still no progress...

its probably something easy i agree,  but i don't see it... everything appears to be right.

---

### Post by MustangGT on 2009-02-05
Problem Solved. I'd like to thank everyone.

To be honest, not sure of exactly what did it but I am going to list the following for help so anyone with a problem like this unexplained, follow these steps exactly and hopefully it'll save you too.

1. Open terminal and run sudo dpkg-reconfigure sendmail-bin
2. Open php.ini (/var/php5/apache2 for ubuntu) and edit the line to allow only GID rather than UID checks (in comment it says relax GID to UID)

3. Restart apache with the following in terminal "sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart"

And hope it works.  If not then open terminal and goto /etc/log/

Now run this command "sudo tail -f mail.log"

Leave the terminal open, run the mail script on your webpage, look at the output that prints in this window, and post it here for help.

Thank you for all the help.

---

### Post by aaron465 on 2009-02-06
Hi,

I am having a similar problem - I have been using apache2 and php5 on my web server for some time now, and was writing a script the other day which sends a mail message, only to find that it did not work.

I have tried updating sendmail with apt, using dpkg-reconfigure on it, adding internet DNS servers to resolv.conf, etc - but the mail() function in PHP still fails.

I can however send mail if I telnet to port 25 on the server - and the mail gets delivered successfully (I wrote a test email to my gmail account).


Also, I tried:

```
sudo tail -f /etc/log/mail.log
```

as suggested, but I got the error tail cannot open the file for reading, no such file/directory.


Any help would be greatly appreciated,

Aaron

---

### Post by aaron465 on 2009-02-06
lol I had a special moment there - the log file DOES exist, i was just typing it wrong.

```
Feb  6 15:46:53 server sendmail[3796]: n16Fkrvg003796: Authentication-Warning: server.localdomain: www-data set sender to -fwebmaster@trouter.homeip.net using -f
Feb  6 15:46:53 server sendmail[3796]: n16Fkrvg003796: from=-fwebmaster@trouter.homeip.net, size=108, class=0, nrcpts=0, msgid=<200902061546.n16Fkrvg003796@server.localdomain>, relay=www-data@localhost
```

This is what i get in the log file when i run the test php script

[PHP]<?php
$to = "<my gmail address>";
$subject = "Subject: Testing 123";
$message = "Test email yaay!";
	
if(mail($to, $subject, $message, "From: webmaster@trouter.homeip.net", "-fwebmaster@trouter.homeip.net"))
{
	echo "operation successful";
}
else
{
	echo "FAILZORZ!";
}
?>[/PHP]
(I have also tried calling the mail function with only the required parameters - to, subject, and message - but to no avail)


Thanks
Aaron

---

### Post by MustangGT on 2009-02-06
Ok edit your php.ini to say the following the mail section:

Notice all win32 functions are clearly commented out and then for UNIX

```
[mail function]
; For Win32 only.
;SMTP = localhost
;smtp_port = 25

; For Win32 only.
;sendmail_from = me@example.com

; For Unix only.  You may supply arguments as well (default: "sendmail -t -i").
sendmail_path =/usr/sbin/sendmail -t -i
```

Leave the sendmail path the same but just make sure that there is -t -i after it.


Also TRY THESE php sendmail script test.... 

Make a mail.htm file in your apache directory and use this code

```
<form method="post" action="sendmail.php">
  Email: <input name="email" type="text" /><br />
  Message:<br />
  <textarea name="message" rows="15" cols="40">
  </textarea><br />
  <input type="submit" />
</form>

```

and  then make a sendmail.php and use this code
```

<?php
  $email = $_REQUEST['email'] ;
  $message = $_REQUEST['message'] ;

  mail( "tomailaddress@gmail.com", "Feedback Form Results",
    $message, "From: $email" );
  header( "SUBJECTHERE" );
?>


```

and see if that works, if not post me the output to your logfile.

---

### Post by aaron465 on 2009-02-06
WooHoo! This worked!

Thanks very much for the fast response :D

---

### Post by MustangGT on 2009-02-10
No problem.  If anyone else comes up with this problem, feel free to try the above and post me if you still have no progress.

---

### Post by kr4zyc1d on 2009-03-05
Hey mustang, I am glad I found this post.  I have been having some major problems with this as well.  I was wondering if you could look over my log errors (which were located in /var/log/mail.log as opposed to the /etc/log... but no worries!)  You seem to be the only person/post who seems to know what they are talking about or are at least willing to help out and make more than one quick 10 line tutorial!  Either way, I ran through all of the steps mentioned above and ran the script that you gave (mail.htm and sendmail.php) while viewing my mail log and this is what I came up with.

> Mar  5 22:45:32 G-BoxWebserver sendmail[8321]: My unqualified host name (G-BoxWebserver) unknown; sleeping for retry
Mar  5 22:46:32 G-BoxWebserver sendmail[8321]: unable to qualify my own domain name (G-BoxWebserver) -- using short name
Mar  5 22:46:32 G-BoxWebserver sendmail[8321]: n263kWxI008321: from=www-data, size=92, class=0, nrcpts=1, msgid=<200903060346.n263kWxI008321@G-BoxWebserver>, relay=www-data@localhost
Mar  5 22:46:32 G-BoxWebserver sm-mta[8323]: n263kW8Y008323: from=<www-data@G-BoxWebserver>, size=315, class=0, nrcpts=1, msgid=<200903060346.n263kWxI008321@G-BoxWebserver>, proto=ESMTP, daemon=MSP-v4, relay=localhost [127.0.0.1]
Mar  5 22:46:32 G-BoxWebserver sendmail[8321]: n263kWxI008321: to=gboxadmin@carolina.rr.com, ctladdr=www-data (33/33), delay=00:00:00, xdelay=00:00:00, mailer=relay, pri=30092, relay=[127.0.0.1] [127.0.0.1], dsn=2.0.0, stat=Sent (n263kW8Y008323 Message accepted for delivery)
Mar  5 22:46:33 G-BoxWebserver sm-mta[8325]: n263kW8Y008323: to=<gboxadmin@carolina.rr.com>, ctladdr=<www-data@G-BoxWebserver> (33/33), delay=00:00:01, xdelay=00:00:01, mailer=esmtp, pri=120315, relay=cdptpa-smtpin02.mail.rr.com. [75.180.132.244], dsn=5.0.0, stat=Service unavailable
Mar  5 22:46:33 G-BoxWebserver sm-mta[8325]: n263kW8Y008323: n263kX8Y008325: DSN: Service unavailable
Mar  5 22:46:33 G-BoxWebserver sm-mta[8325]: n263kX8Y008325: to=<www-data@G-BoxWebserver>, delay=00:00:00, xdelay=00:00:00, mailer=local, pri=30000, dsn=2.0.0, stat=Sent


If you don't mind looking that over for me and seeing if you could possibly help out one more person, it would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by tornadof3 on 2009-03-07
Have you tried adding "apache" to the /etc/mail/trusted-users file? This made a difference for me.

---

### Post by kr4zyc1d on 2009-03-18
That was a good thought, and I tried that.  I looked over my code as well and made some minor changes that I don't think did any good.  I restarted sendmail and the server to make sure things cleared up but I'm not really sure what to do from here.  I know it has to be something simple, I'm just not sure what it is.  Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by kr4zyc1d on 2009-04-30
Turns out I solved the issue.  It was something silly.  Just had to modify a file and allow outgoing of port 25 on that file.  Sorry for leaving this one open ended.  Thanks for the help.

---

