---
title: "vsftpd, iptables and confusion between PASV and PORT"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by lafever on 2009-11-13
This is my first time screwing around with setting up my own server so bear with me a little if I don't make too much sense trying to explain my issue.

Ok I setup my iptables to allow port 20 and 21 through and setup vsftpd and attached my config files below

iptables:
> 
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Sat Nov 14 04:19:07 2009
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [1605:133668]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [1332:124892]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -d 127.0.0.0/255.0.0.0 -i ! lo -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-port-unreachable
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 20 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 21 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 3344 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type 8 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m limit --limit 5/min -j LOG --log-prefix "iptables denied: " --log-level 7
-A INPUT -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-port-unreachable
-A FORWARD -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-port-unreachable
-A OUTPUT -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Sat Nov 14 04:19:07 2009


vsftpd.conf
> 
listen=YES
anonymous_enable=NO
local_enable=YES
write_enable=YES
dirmessage_enable=YES
connect_from_port_20=YES
xferlog_enable=YES
chroot_local_user=YES
chroot_list_enable=NO
secure_chroot_dir=/var/run/vsftpd
pam_service_name=vsftpd
rsa_cert_file=/etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem
rsa_private_key_file=/etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key
userlist_deny=YES
userlist_file=/etc/vsftpd.denied_users



The problem is that when I get prompted the username and password when I try to connected on the browser ftp:ip it says it's unavailable and when I'm trying to connect with my FTP client I am getting this problem:
> 
[22:19:30] PASV
[22:19:30] 227 Entering Passive Mode (ip,ip,ip,ip,39,7)
[22:19:30] Opening data connection to ip.ad.re.ss Port: 9991
[22:19:30] LIST -aL
[22:19:51] A connection attempt failed because the connected party did not properly respond after a period of time, or established connection failed because connected host has failed to respond.
[22:20:30] 425 Failed to establish connection.
[22:20:30] Automatic failover of data connection mode from "Passive Mode (PASV)" to "Active Mode (PORT)".
[22:20:30] PORT 10,167,101,97,194,237
[22:20:31] 200 PORT command successful. Consider using PASV.
[22:20:31] LIST -aL
[22:20:31] 150 Here comes the directory listing.



I would like to eliminate this problem so that it will just immediately connect instead of sitting there for 45 seconds before it actually connects to the FTP.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by lafever on 2009-11-14
UPDATE: Turned off the iptables temporarily and didn't get the issue. So this is basically what I'm coming down to an issue with it seems.

The FTP software is using a hell of a range of ports [last night you can see on the post 9991 and this morning it attempted 65133]. Now my question now what I'm thinking is I'm going to have to enabled PASV mode on vsftpd and use them range of ports on the iptables also? Someone correct me if I'm wrong and/or tell me the reasons I should or should not do this operation. And how do I know exactly which range to use? It' seems as if that FTP software is using a hell of a range [from 9991 last night, to 65133 this mornig]. I'm not quite sure I want to open that kind of range. Any help?

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2009-11-14
You can customize the port range vsfdpd uses in passive mode with pasv_min_port and pasv_max_port.

---

### Post by driftertx on 2009-11-14
Or you can avoid all this silly business and use SSH instead that is *secure*. 

sudo apt-get install openssh-server

then all you have to do is open up port 22 (that's the default port but I recommend changing it for additional security). Then your firewall only requires one port open at your firewall.

Then friends (or you) can access the server with scp from terminal / the ubuntu 'connect to server' option under the places panel option/ or WinSCP from within Windows. Remember though if you change the default port it will require that you specify the port when creating a connection via the options I listed above.

---

### Post by lafever on 2009-11-14
> **Bachstelze said:**
> You can customize the port range vsfdpd uses in passive mode with pasv_min_port and pasv_max_port.


I understand that but what I am trying to do is get my iptables to somehow respond to a passive FTP connection returning showing the pasv_min_port and pasv_max_port so the client side FTP understands instead of sitting there and getting that error as I did.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2009-11-15
> **lafever said:**
> I understand that but what I am trying to do is get my iptables to somehow respond to a passive FTP connection returning showing the pasv_min_port and pasv_max_port so the client side FTP understands instead of sitting there and getting that error as I did.

When using passive mode FTP, your server tells the client which port it listens on, and waits for the client to connect on it. If the port is open in iptables, it should work.

---

