---
title: "M4A78T-E  8.04.3 &quot;No Network&quot; Help"
date: 2009-08-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by thedjm on 2009-08-16
I have a new ASUS M4A78T-E, stock, no overclocking and using the onboard video. I am trying to install 8.04.3 server (amd64, for LTS), but it is failing to detect the network interface. I have tried 9.04 and it works with no problems.
 
Any suggestions?
 
Thanks!

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2009-08-16
Check dmesg for the driver the kernel is looking for.  You can possibly copy the driver from 9.04 to the correct location.

```
dmesg
```

I was able to get a pcmcia card going by extracting the driver from the generic kernel.  Here is an example of the two commands I used.



```
sudo cp /lib/firmware/2.6.24-23-generic/acx/1.2.1.34/tiacx111 /lib/firmware/2.6.24-23-server/acx/1.2.1.34/tiacx111
sudo cp /lib/firmware/2.6.24-23-generic/acx/1.2.1.34/tiacx111c16 /lib/firmware/2.6.24-23-server/acx/1.2.1.34/tiacx111c16
```

---

### Post by thedjm on 2009-08-16
Thanks volkswagner!
 
I looked at the dmesg output and don't really see anything related to the network installation.  The last messages are about the CD-ROM and the ones before are about the USB setup.
 
I did look at the installation log (console 4) and found these message (shortened as I am typing them):
 
INFO: menu item 'ethdetect" selected
detected hotpluggable network interface
Loading PMCIA bridge driver module
detected hotpluggable network interface
INFO: priority changed externally ...
DEBUG: resolver (libnewt0.52): package doesn't exist (ignored)
INFO: falling back to the package description
 
I have found the missing package and downloaded it.  I am going to see if I can find an ISO editor and add this file in to the ISO that I have.
 
Any other thoughts or suggestions welcome?
 
Thanks!

---

### Post by thedjm on 2009-08-18
I have not been able to get this resolved, but I have been playing with 9.04 and have not had any issues.
 
Has anyone else been sucessfull installing 8.04 on this MB?  If so, did you do anything special?  What BIOS rev. do you have?
 
This is a very basic install for a VMware Server and I would like an LTS release on it as changes to the base OS are rare and difficult, and reboots are invasive.
 
Thanks

---

### Post by HighlyDubious on 2009-10-19
I don't know how I missed this thread before. I _thought_ I had searched these forums several times for mention of the ASUS M4A78T-E motherboard. But somehow I missed your post.

My reason for writing is that I also own an M4A78T-E (with an AMD Phenom II 965 3.4Ghz) and 8GB DDR3. But I am finding it virtually impossible to successfully install Ubuntu 9.04 (x64). So I'm wondering what is different in your situation. Maybe it will help me figure out what I need to 'fix' to get mine working.

[FONT=Tahoma][SIZE=2]My specs are:
[/SIZE][/FONT]  
[LIST]
[*][FONT=Tahoma][SIZE=2]Mobo: ASUS M4A78T-E [/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Tahoma][SIZE=2] (BIOS v2105)[/SIZE][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Tahoma][SIZE=2]CPU:    AMD Phenom II X4 965 3.4Ghz[/SIZE][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Tahoma][SIZE=2]GPU:    ATI 4650 (OEM Generic)[/SIZE][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Tahoma][SIZE=2]     RAM:  8GB (4x2GB) Corsair CMX4GX3M2A1600C9 (DDR3 1600 CAS 9)[/SIZE][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Tahoma][SIZE=2]HD:       500GB Maxtor (SATA)[/SIZE][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Tahoma][SIZE=2]CD: TSST Corp CD/DVD RW SH-S204N (SATA)
[/SIZE][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Tahoma][SIZE=2]     PSU:    750 Watts (Generic)[/SIZE][/FONT]
[/LIST]
I've tried several times to install the x64 version of 9.04 Ubuntu/Kubuntu/Xubuntu, and each time the installer crashes randomly during the installation process. There was one single time that I was able to get completely through the installation, but the machine is not stable. Programs and widows randomly crash and/or close for no obvious reason. Even the X server crashes randomly.

May I ask which processor you are using? Which version of the BIOS? I understand that you are using the native graphics, and I have a separate graphics card. But I'm not using any proprietary drivers. Just using the whatever free drivers are default on the Live-CD.

Any insight or clues you may be able to offer would be appreciated.

---

### Post by markba on 2009-11-13
I have the same problem when trying to install 8.04.3 server. While installing, it does not detect a network, hence a DHCP request is not executed. I finished the installation, in the hope that after a reboot, the network will come up. But no go.

The machine on hand is a Aleutia T1, I have two of them. Strange thing is that on only one of them I encounter this problem. The machines we're bought in one batch, so they might be considered identical: apparently not.

I ended up installing karmic server, this succeeded without a hitch. But as a experienced a possibly problem using VirtualBox, I might return to hardy (being a LTS).

For diagnosing problems, you can try the following:
dmesg | grep eth

This might be related:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/219662](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/219662)

---

