---
title: "Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid gateway setup problem"
date: 2010-08-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by aboross on 2010-08-13
I installed the Lucid on a Dell server, and intend to use it as a "general" Gateway/DNS server. Configured the two ethernet connections:

interfaces:
# The loopback network interface
auto lo eth0 eth1
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
#iface eth0 inet dhcp
iface eth0 inet static
	address 10.0.0.3
	netmask 255.255.255.0
	network 10.0.0.0
	broadcast 10.0.0.255
	post-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.up.rules
	up ip route add 10.0.0.0/24 via 10.0.0.3


# The secondary network interface
iface eth1 inet static
	address x.y.34.60
	netmask 255.255.255.192
	broadcastx.y.34.63
	network x.y.34.0
	gateway x.y.34.1

I can ssh into both interface. eth1 is facing the internet, and eth0 is the 
internal lan interface, with IP addr: 10.0.0.3

I set up the firewall:

iptables.up.rules

# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Fri Aug 13 13:33:37 2010
*mangle
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Aug 13 13:33:37 2010
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Fri Aug 13 13:33:37 2010
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Aug 13 13:33:37 2010
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Fri Aug 13 13:33:37 2010
*filter
:FORWARD DROP [0:0]
:INPUT DROP [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
-A INPUT -i eth0 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state -i eth1 --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth0 -o eth1 -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -m state -i eth1 -o eth0 --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i lo -o eth1 -j ACCEPT
# SSH
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
COMMIT


Let everything out, and accept only ssh and established connections from 
outside.

My laptop has a static IP 10.0.0.120, connects to the "router" but does 
not have internet connection at all. 
Studied many step by step instructions, but it does not work.

Any idea where the problem is? Seems to me that somehow the packets do not
get forwarded between the two eth interface.

Thanks for your help, let me know if you need additional information.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2010-08-14
Have you enabled forwarding in the kernel?
sudo echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward

---

### Post by ski-nazi on 2010-08-15
I get back an error message: 
-bash: /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward: Permission denied

I am part of the Sudo group, actually I have only one user on the server at this point.

why is the permission denied? How can I check if the ip_forwarding is already set or not.

thanks

---

### Post by Go3Team on 2010-08-16
> **ski-nazi said:**
> I get back an error message: 
-bash: /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward: Permission denied

I am part of the Sudo group, actually I have only one user on the server at this point.

why is the permission denied? How can I check if the ip_forwarding is already set or not.

thanks

You have to set it as root, not as a user with root priviledges.

if you don't have a password for root, set it up.
```

su root
*enter password*
echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward 

```

if you don't have any errors - switch back to your normal username:

```

su *normalname*

```

---

### Post by ski-nazi on 2010-08-16
I did your suggestion, and checked the status for ip_forward, it is 1.

the server still does not forward the packets from eth0 (internal) to eth1 (external).

Could be a routing table issue? I am searching the net like crazy.

---

