---
title: "Database Server questions"
date: 2009-12-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Skippy_X on 2009-12-14
I hope I'm posting in the right forum. 

I have a few questions about using a database in a network. Here's the scenario:

I work for a computer refurbishing shop. It is a charitable organization which refurbishes or recycles PCs and does repairs. We use the money generated by sales & service to perform charitable work (job training, helping economically/developmentally disadvantaged people find jobs, that sort of thing). We currently rely on paper to handle our records, mostly simple things - print a open office document w/ the system specs on it and affix it to the system before placing it on the stores shelves, filling out daily production reports (spreadsheets).

The organization I work for has a few shops just like the one in which I work. The manager over all these shops is looking for more accurate/better records in service and sales. He showed up one day w/ three binders in hand and discussed his ideas regarding the records he wants us to keep. The paperwork in the binders were put into use at another location and have been helpful. However, it's still paper and paperwork is prone to getting lost, or being incomplete.

There are two techs (PC repairmen, really) where I work, myself and another fellow. I've some very small experience in networking and he has a fair amount of experience in creating databases. He is used to working w/ MS Access. He noticed how very similar Access was to OO.o's Base and figured he could accomplish much more than the paperwork allowed for using Base. However, from what I've read in the OO.o forums, Base is a single user, single computer database - not really meant as a multi-user, networked application. 

I'll be expected to set up the network to handle the database that he establishes, and I'd like it to be as useful as possible. Here's what I'm looking at:

1. a terminal/client solution (thin clients or old compaq iPacs as clients and a P3/low end P4 server w/ as much memory as I can stuff in it).

2. I plan on four work stations (three thin clients and my Ubuntu desktop) and a workgroup printer tied to it, and I will have it tied to our network so that I can use webmin to administer it.

3. The system will have to be able to handle multiple people working on it at the same time.

Does anyone have any suggestions regarding this? Can we use OO.o's Base or should we look at LAMP? Can I use LTSP to do the server/client thing and use webmin to administer it?

Any suggestions would be welcomed. 

Thank you.

And now - I'm off to bed.

---

### Post by shairozan on 2009-12-14
Because you're looking at multiple accesses / read-writes at a time, your best bet is to go with LAMP. Setup a simple mysql database and use PHP to build a couple of forms.  Plus, it's far more scaleable. If you ever link all of the sites together, network wise, you could access the php forms over a web browser from any site. 

Then, you should write a few queries for reporting and automate them. If you have an internal email server you can automate the reports and then relay them through the email server to your email address. I do this with the database on our ticketing system at work.

---

