---
title: "Resolvconf problem on ubuntu server 14.04"
date: 2015-10-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-10-24
Hi All,
Yesterday my ISP replaced my ADSL modem with FO Modem (Huawei HG8245)  and I was happy cos' the internet speed increased tremendously.

I'm using Ubuntu SERVER 14.04.03 and runs ubuntu desktop on it, and not using NetworkManager. 

Just simply use:  /etc/network/interfaces   for networking and here is it:

Internet connection is on eth0 dan internal is on eht1

> auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

post-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.up.rules

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
        address xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
        netmask 255.255.255.0
       .
       .


problem started when I accidentally deleted resolv.conf and now I wasn't able to connect to the internet .
I've tried re-installing resolvconf to no avails

```
$sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf
```

and select dynamically update dns, and rebooted

when eth0 was brought up, it showed up error msg :

> Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client 4.2.4
Copyright 2004-2012 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/](https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/)

can't create /var/lib/dhcp/dhclient.eth0.leases: Read-only file system
Listening on LPF/eth0/xx : xx : xx : xx : xx : xx
Sending on   LPF/eth0/xx : xx : xx : xx : xx : xx
Sending on   Socket/fallback

DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3 (xid=0x4bf20252)
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 7 (xid=0x4bf20252)
DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.100.6 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 (xid=0x5202f24b)
DHCPOFFER of 192.168.100.6 from 192.168.100.1
DHCPACK of 192.168.100.6 from 192.168.100.1
bound to 192.168.100.6 -- renewal in 107052 seconds.

[COLOR=#ff0000]resolvconf: Error : /run/resolvconf/interface either dos not exist or is not a directory[/COLOR]

Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client 4.2.4
Copyright 2004-2012 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/](https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/)

Then I tried to manually create [COLOR=#ff0000]/run/resolvconf/interface [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]but [/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]was deleted[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000] on every reboot
Also the [/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]/etc/resolv.conf symlink broken[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000].

LAN Connection to the router is OK, Ping to router OK, Has got leased IP from the router, but UNABLE TO BROWSE INTERNET.

On my other machine which is also a Ubuntu Server 14.04, it connects to the same router, it gets connected to the internet well.

What's wrong????

Any Help??? TQ ;)
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-10-24
If a deleted resolv.conf is the only issue, did you try copying it from the other machine? It might work.

You said you reinstalled resolvconf package but you posted only dpkg-reconfigure output. You know that is not reinstallation, right? You can try purge and then install of resolvconf but I'm not sure if it will work if the server can't do DNS resolution right now.

PS. Something like this [http://askubuntu.com/questions/134121/how-to-restore-recreate-etc-resolv-conf-files](http://askubuntu.com/questions/134121/how-to-restore-recreate-etc-resolv-conf-files) confirms my idea to completely purge and then reinstall. It says that helps the symlink. Again, assuming apt-get works in your current situation.

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2015-10-24
resolv.conf is generated automatically on reboot.  If that's all you did, just re-create it, and restart the interface. Do you have a dns-nameserver line in your /etc/network/interfaces?

I'd start by making your /etc/network/interfaces like this for eth1.

```

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
address xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
netmask 255.255.255.0
dns-nameserver 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4

```

Create and /etc/resolv.conf file.
```

sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf

```

and paste..
```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4

```

Then, bring the interface down and back up.
```

/etc/init.d/networking restart
ifdown eth1
ifup eth1

```

---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-10-24
Thanks for the swift reply darkod & rubylaser, I've tried all your suggestions to no avail.
Darkod : Yes you are right, Sorry it was dpkg

     $sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf

As I'm not able to connect to the internet, so any re-installation using apt-get install is not possible, for the time being, what i could do is reconfigure it but to no success

rubylaser : I do have tried your suggestion to no avail also, but isn't my eth0 gets its address and network informations from my router? 

Everytime I create /run/resolvconf/interface, it was deleted after reboot and the /etc/resolv.conf symlink becomes broken 'cos it lost its link location i.e. /run/resolvconf/interface

Well, I would like to know what updates the resolvconf system and any work around to my situation would be very helpful.

Thank you

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-10-24
Hold on... You deleted by mistake only /etc/resolv.conf right? Why would /run/resolvconf/interface be missing?

Also, if you look at those DHCP messages at boot, ignoring the resolvconf errors, you still seem to be getting IP from your router, right? Ping to router 192.168.100.1 is working right? Ping to public IP like ping 8.8.8.8 should still work right? Only DNS is not working...

If all the above is correct, you have routing to outside and you only need DNS. Even if you temporarily set that manually using rubylaser's suggestion to create manual /etc/resolv.conf it should use it for DNS. No? You only need it to work for a short while until you reinstall resolvconf with apt-get.

You have IP, you have routing, setting up manual /etc/resolv.conf should give you DNS too... That's all you need.

PS. I forgot to mention this: if restarting the networking or ifdown & ifup did not recreate /etc/resolv.conf correctly, skip those steps right now. Try this:
1. Check routing
```
ping 192.168.100.1
ping 8.8.8.8
```
If that works, perfect.

2. Create basic /etc/resolv.conf (you don't even need the text, just this)
```
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4
```

3. Check if apt-get works now and reinstall resolvconf package
```
sudo apt-get purge resolvconf
sudo apt-get install resolvconf
```

See if that helps.

---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-10-25
Hold on... You deleted by mistake only /etc/resolv.conf right? Why would /run/resolvconf/interface be missing? [COLOR=#0000ff]That's why I was curious too.
[/COLOR]Ping to router 192.168.100.1 is working right? [COLOR=#0000ff]YES[/COLOR]
Ping to public IP like ping 8.8.8.8 ? [COLOR=#0000ff]NO, I'm Clueless also [/COLOR]
If all the above is correct, you have routing to outside. [COLOR=#0000ff]Cannot get outside :frown:
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-10-25
Did you try static ip for eth0? Try that and see if the pings work.

---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-10-26
Hi Darko,

I've tried ur suggestions, but it's not working....

Well, allow me to elaborate more of my situation here:
This is a pre-production Ubuntu Server 14.04.03 in which i've  installed many packages i.e. : Apache, DNS, DHCP, LDAP, nscd, Windows 7  on Virtualbox,etc
I've spent quite a few months on it and everything was OK until ISP  change ADSL to FO modem and I carelessly altered the IP address setup.
I'll start from my network topology.

Previous setup:

> -------------------ISP----(phone  Line)-----ADSL---------WIFI ROUTER #1---(LAN)---UBUNTU  SERVER------(LAN)-----WIFI ROUTER #2------CLIENTS PC's
IP ADDRESS : ------------------------192.168.1.1            ------192.168.2.1                                      ---------------eth0:dhcp from ADSL                 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------eth1:192.168.4.1                                               --------------------192.168.4.2                            ----------192.168.4.100-254

Internet facing side : ADSL runs DHCP server and leased out addresses to  WR #1 and SERVER eth0. eth0 will always gets its IP 192.168.2.10  because I reserved its IP on ADSL-DHCP settings  
Internal facing side : SERVER eth1 is set to static and this is the  interface that DHCP SERVER listen to. It will leased out address thru  WIFI ROUTER #2 to both lan & wifi connected Clients.
                             LDAP SERVER also listen on this interface  (eth1), and all seems working fine, tested for about 3 months.
/etc/reslov.conf      : nameserver 192.168.4.1  


Problematic setup:

                                            > ISP-------------FO-MODEM&WIFI  ROUTER---(LAN)---UBUNTU SERVER------(LAN)-----WIFI ROUTER  #2------CLIENTS  PC's
IP ADDRESS : ------192.168.1.1                                                    --------------------eth0:dhcp from FO                  
--------------------------------------------------------------eth1:192.168.4.1                                             -------------------192.168.4.2             --------192.168.4.100-254

The FO-MODEM comes with 4 LAN ports and WIFI ROUTER built-in, so I just  un-plugged old ADSL & WIFI ROUTER #1 and The server connects  directly to FO-MODEM using same LAN Cable.

when I rebooted the server :

1. here is the content of  /var/log/upstart/network-interface-eth0.log
    > Internet Consortium DHCP Client 4.2.4 blah..blah....
                Can't create /var/lib/dhcp/dhclient.eth0.leases : Read-Only file system
                listen on LPF/eth0/mac address
                sending on blah...blah....
                DHCPREQUEST blah...
                .
                .
                DHCPOFFER of 192.168.2.10 from 192.168.2.1
                DHCPACK of 192.168.2.10 from 192.168.2.1
                resolvconf: Error: /run/resolvconf/interface either does not exist or is not a directory
                bound to 192.168.2.10 -- renewal in 101999 seconds.
                resolvconf: Error: /run/resolvconf/interface either does not exist or is not a directory
                grep: /etc/resolv.conf : No such file of directory

2. The directory /run/resolvconf/ was deleted after every reboot.
3. /etc/resolv.conf symlink to /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf keeps broken  after each reboot because it couldn't find /run/resolvconf/ directory
4. Able to ping to FO-Router IP 192.168.2.1
5. When I PING to 8.8.8.8 it says :

    > PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
                From 10.34.125.1 icmp_sec=2 Destination Net Unreachable
                From 10.34.125.1 icmp_sec=3 Destination Net Unreachable
                .
                .
                --- 8.8.8.8 ping statistic ---
                5 packets transmitted, 0 recieved, +2 errors, 100% packet loss, time 4009ms

What I have tried :

1. configure eth0 to use static IP.  Result : Able to Ping Router, Unable to ping outsider (8.8.8.8, google, etc)
   
   > root@myserver:~# ping 8.8.8.8
               PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
               From [COLOR=#ff0000]10.34.125.1[/COLOR] icmp_seq=2 Destination Net Unreachable
               From [COLOR=#ff0000]10.34.125.1[/COLOR] icmp_seq=3 Destination Net Unreachable
               From [COLOR=#ff0000]10.34.125.1[/COLOR] icmp_seq=4 Destination Net Unreachable
               ^C
               --- 8.8.8.8 ping statistics ---
               4 packets transmitted, 0 received, +3 errors, 100% packet loss, time 3010ms

Strange thing is when I ping 8.8.8.8, I got reply from > [COLOR=#ff0000]10.34.125.1  icmp_seq=xx Destination Net Unreachable  <-- [/COLOR][COLOR=#0000ff]I dont know where does this IP come from[/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000] :confused:[/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]

 [/COLOR]

2. Manually create : ```
$sudo mkdir -p /run/resolvconf/interface
```

3.Enable resolvconf dynamic updates : ```
$sudo /etc/init.d/resolvconf enable-updates
```

4. then checked with ```
$sudo /etc/init.d/resolvconf status
```

>     * resolvconf updates are enable
      /etc/resolvconf/update.d/libc: warning: /etc/resolv.conf is not a symbolic link to /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf
    When I checked the /run directory how it has /run/resolvconf  directory and /run/resolvconf/interfacfe directory, a file :  posponed-update

5. I'm using Midnight Commander to edit the symlink:
    #MC , select /etc/resolv.conf , File|Edit Symlink, and type in : /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf

[IMG]/srv/broken resolv.conf.jpg[/IMG]


6. To rebuild resolvconf : ```
$sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf -a -u --force 
```

[IMG]/srv/rebuild resolvconf-1.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]/srv/rebuild resolvconf-2.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]/srv/rebuild resolvconf-3.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-10-26
Hmmm, I don't know why but you have a mix of issues here. This is not only resolvconf/dns problem. If it was only dns you should be able to ping public IPs, and you can't. Also that "read only filesystem" message is confusing me.

First check if root is mounted rw or ro:
```
sudo mount
```

Second, double check network parameters of all devices (especially the new FO router) and make sure you are setting up static server IP in the correct subnet/network. You noticed the reply the ping returns. That doesn't look like the correct 192.168.1.x subnet.

While you are doing all these tests leave the static IP on the server, no need to switch to dhcp. In fact, servers should have static IPs anyway. Just make sure it's configured correctly.

Leave alone resolvconf for the time being. You have issues with routing right now. Fix that first. ping 8.8.8.8 has to work. And the root filesystem should be rw, not ro.

PS. In your last post there are some inconsistencies. And also compared to earlier posts. From the log extract in your first post it looked like the dhcp network (main router LAN side) is 192.168.100.x but in your last post in the graphic you say 192.168.1.x. Meanwhile in the log extract in the same post it says 192.168.2.x. So which one is it? That's why I said make sure you have all the subnets correctly and the network configuration of eth0 of the server.

---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-10-26
Sorry about the IP that confused you, my mistake! :D

First for the previous working network topology :  ADSL(LAN) Connects to WR#1's WAN Port , ADSL LAN DHCP server is active, and it'll leased ut address 192.168.1.2 to WR#1's WAN PORT. 
In this way I will be able to connect/disconnect internet connection from WR#1 and it needs to be in different subnets i.e. ADSL : 192.168.1.1  to WR#1 : 192.168.2.1

I make my own convention that using the device's default IP ( they usually start with 192.168.xxx.1)  is a good choice. This way it is easier to remeber when I need to configure it.

So, ADSL LAN side set to: 192.168.2.1 <---lan cable---> to WR#1: 192.168.2.2 <-----lan cable-----> Server eth0: 192.168.2.20 ; eth1:192.168.4.20 <----lan cable----> WR#2 : 192.168.4.1 ---lan cable ---PC's ( 192.168.4.30-254)

The 192.168.100.1 is the FO's default IP prior to changing to 192.168.2.1 , again sorry not to mention it in my previous post.

New the topology becomes : FO (192.168.2.1) ----lan----SERVER( eth0: 192.168.2.20; eth1: 192.168.4.20 ) ----lan-----WR#2 (192.168.4.1) ----lan----PC's (192.168.4.30 - 192.168.4.200)

I'll double check my IP's settings. Thanks for correcting me!  :D

```
sudo mount
```

Result :
> nnnnnnn@server:~$ sudo mount
/dev/sda1 on / type ext4 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
sysfs on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /sys/fs/cgroup type tmpfs (rw)
none on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/debug type debugfs (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
udev on /dev type devtmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=0620)
tmpfs on /run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,size=10%,mode=0755)
none on /run/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,size=5242880)
none on /run/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
none on /run/user type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,size=104857600,mode=0755)
none on /sys/fs/pstore type pstore (rw)
/dev/md0 on /srv type ext4 (rw)
rpc_pipefs on /run/rpc_pipefs type rpc_pipefs (rw)
systemd on /sys/fs/cgroup/systemd type cgroup (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,none,name=systemd)
nfsd on /proc/fs/nfsd type nfsd (rw)
gvfsd-fuse on /run/user/1000/gvfs type fuse.gvfsd-fuse (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=nnnnnn)

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-10-26
Well, /dev/sda1 is mounted on / as rw, so that looks good. Besides all other mounted devices are rw too, no ro.

In this new setup, do you have the eth0 config good? Something like:
```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
   address 192.168.2.20
   netmask 255.255.255.0
   gateway 192.168.2.1

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
   address 192.168.4.20
   netmask 255.255.255.0
```

What about the ping to 192.168.2.1 and 8.8.8.8 now?

---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-10-26
# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.2.20
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        gateway 192.168.2.1

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
        address 192.168.4.20
        netmask 255.255.255.0

ping to 192.168.2.1 OK,
Ping 8.8.8.8 Not OK, same result as before

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-10-27
Anything in the logs when you try to bring up eth0 with static ip? In /var/log/syslog or /var/log/upstart?

Rereading the thread I realized you said you installed gui on the server. It might be related to that or another package (you say you have a number of functions on this server) but if you are sure you are not using Network Manager the gui shouldn't matter.
Also when editing the files have you tried simple editor like nano? Of course for system files you need to use sudo too. I'm not familiar with this editor you mention but it should not matter.
You say internet through the router is working fine for other machines but not for this server. Thats strange. How about pinging the server ip from the router? Usually the router gui has that option if you have access to it.

PS. I forgot one more tool. Try to check with 'traceroute 8.8.8.8' to see if it helps figure out where it breaks down.
Also, is it possible that ping is disabled in the firewall of the fo router? Does ping 8.8.8.8 work from the other machines in your network? If the firewall blocks ping for protection, it's normal that you get no reply back.

---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-10-28
Hi Darko,

> Rereading the thread I realized you said you installed gui on the  server. It might be related to that or another package (you say you have  a number of functions on this server) but if you are sure you are not  using Network Manager the gui shouldn't matter. [COLOR=#0000ff]Yes ur right![/COLOR]

> Also when editing the files have you tried simple editor like nano? Of  course for system files you need to use sudo too. I'm not familiar with  this editor you mention but it should not matter. [COLOR=#0000ff]Yes, and nano is just a simple easy to use in-build text editor like vim or Midnight Commander (MC), etc.[/COLOR] 

> You say internet through the router is working fine for other machines  but not for this server. Thats strange. How about pinging the server ip  from the router? Usually the router gui has that option if you have  access to it.

[COLOR=#0000ff]I'm able to ssh, sftp (filezilla) from my other machine to this problematic one on the same router without any problems. And the LDAP server on eth1 is working for clients to login and store files.[/COLOR]

Here is /etc/network/interfaces :

> # This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).
# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
    address 192.168.2.20
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    gateway 192.168.2.1
    
post-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.up.rules

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
    address 192.168.4.20
    netmask 255.255.255.0

Here is /var/log/upstart/networking.log and /var/log/upstart/network-interface-eth0.log

> resolvconf: Error: /run/resolvconf/interface either does not exist or is not a directory 
grep: /etc/resolv.conf: No such file or directory 



Here is /var/log/upstart/procps-static-network-up.log

> kernel.printk = 4 4 1 7 
net.ipv6.conf.all.use_tempaddr = 2 
net.ipv6.conf.default.use_tempaddr = 2 
kernel.kptr_restrict = 1 
fs.protected_hardlinks = 1 
fs.protected_symlinks = 1 
kernel.sysrq = 176 
net.ipv4.conf.default.rp_filter = 1 
net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter = 1 
net.ipv4.tcp_syncookies = 1 
kernel.yama.ptrace_scope = 1 
vm.mmap_min_addr = 65536 
fs.inotify.max_user_watches = 524288 
net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1

Here is /var/log/upstart/networking.log

> [COLOR=#ff0000]resolvconf: Error: /run/resolvconf/interface either does not exist or is not a directory 
grep: /etc/resolv.conf: No such file or directory[/COLOR]

Here is procps-static-network-up.log

```
 kernel.printk = 4 4 1 7 
net.ipv6.conf.all.use_tempaddr = 2 
net.ipv6.conf.default.use_tempaddr = 2 
kernel.kptr_restrict = 1 
fs.protected_hardlinks = 1 
fs.protected_symlinks = 1 
kernel.sysrq = 176 
net.ipv4.conf.default.rp_filter = 1 
net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter = 1 
net.ipv4.tcp_syncookies = 1 
kernel.yama.ptrace_scope = 1 
vm.mmap_min_addr = 65536 
fs.inotify.max_user_watches = 524288 
net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
```

Here is /var/log/syslog

```
Oct 27 01:59:19 myserver rsyslogd: [origin software="rsyslogd" swVersion="7.4.4" x-pid="1022" x-info="http://www.rsyslog.com"] rsyslogd was HUPed
Oct 27 02:00:30 myserver anacron[1404]: Job `cron.daily' terminated
Oct 27 02:00:30 myserver anacron[1404]: Normal exit (1 job run)
Oct 27 02:09:01 myserver CRON[10608]: (root) CMD (  [ -x /usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime ] && [ -x /usr/lib/php5/sessionclean ] && [ -d /var/lib/php5 ] && /usr/lib/php5/sessionclean /var/lib/php5 $(/usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime))
Oct 27 02:15:19 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.2.5 from 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f via eth1: wrong network.
Oct 27 02:15:19 myserver dhcpd: DHCPNAK on 192.168.2.5 to 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f via eth1
Oct 27 02:15:22 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.2.5 from 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f via eth1: wrong network.
Oct 27 02:15:22 myserver dhcpd: DHCPNAK on 192.168.2.5 to 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f via eth1
Oct 27 02:15:23 myserver dhcpd: DHCPDISCOVER from 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f via eth1
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver dhcpd: DHCPOFFER on 192.168.4.100 to 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver named[5344]: client 192.168.4.20#18193/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver named[5344]: client 192.168.4.20#18193/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': adding an RR at 'android-a6d14b4083747247.mydomain.com' A
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver named[5344]: client 192.168.4.20#18193/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': adding an RR at 'android-a6d14b4083747247.mydomain.com' TXT
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.100 (192.168.4.20) from 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.100 to 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver dhcpd: Added new forward map from android-a6d14b4083747247.mydomain.com. to 192.168.4.100
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver named[5344]: client 192.168.4.20#18193/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver named[5344]: client 192.168.4.20#18193/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': deleting rrset at '100.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver named[5344]: client 192.168.4.20#18193/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': adding an RR at '100.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 27 02:15:24 myserver dhcpd: Added reverse map from 100.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa. to android-a6d14b4083747247.mydomain.com.
Oct 27 02:15:28 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:15:28 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:15:30 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'clients3.google.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:15:30 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:15:30 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:15:31 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:15:31 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:15:31 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:15:31 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:15:33 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:15:33 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:33 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:15:33 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:33 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'clients3.google.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:15:33 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'clients3.google.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:15:33 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:15:33 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:15:34 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:15:34 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mdmnotify1.asus.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mdmnotify1.asus.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'clients3.google.com/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'clients3.google.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:35 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:36 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:15:36 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mdmnotify1.asus.com/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:15:36 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mdmnotify1.asus.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:36 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mdmnotify1.asus.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:36 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:36 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:37 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'clients3.google.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:37 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'clients3.google.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:37 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:37 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:38 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:38 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:38 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mdmnotify1.asus.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:15:38 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mdmnotify1.asus.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:40 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:15:40 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:15:40 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:15:40 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:15:41 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'clients3.google.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:15:41 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'clients3.google.com/A/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:15:41 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:15:41 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:15:46 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:15:46 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:46 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:15:46 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:47 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:15:47 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:15:48 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:48 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:51 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:15:51 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:15:52 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:52 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:52 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:15:52 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:52 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:52 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:15:52 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:15:52 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:15:57 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:15:59 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:16:01 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:16:01 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:16:01 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:16:02 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:16:02 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:16:02 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:02 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:03 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:16:03 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:16:05 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:05 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:06 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:16:07 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:07 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:07 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:16:07 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:16:08 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:16:08 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:08 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:08 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:16:08 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:08 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:08 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:16:13 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:16:13 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:16:17 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:16:17 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:16:22 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:16:22 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:16:22 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:23 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:16:23 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:16:23 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:23 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:16:24 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:24 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:24 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:16:25 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:25 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:25 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:16:27 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:16:27 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:16:27 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:16:27 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:16:27 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:27 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:16:27 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:27 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:16:28 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:28 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:28 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:28 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:28 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:16:28 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:16:34 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:16:38 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:16:54 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:16:54 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:16:54 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:16:54 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:16:54 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:54 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:56 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:16:56 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:16:58 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:58 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:7fe::53#53
Oct 27 02:16:58 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:58 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:503:c27::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:16:59 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:16:59 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:16:59 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:17:01 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:1::803f:235#53
Oct 27 02:17:01 myserver CRON[10707]: (root) CMD (   cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly)
Oct 27 02:17:04 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:17:04 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:dc3::35#53
Oct 27 02:17:05 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'easytomessage.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:17:05 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:2d::d#53
Oct 27 02:17:36 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:17:36 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:7fd::1#53
Oct 27 02:18:03 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:18:03 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:2f::f#53
Oct 27 02:18:45 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:18:45 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:18:45 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 's.jpush.cn/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:18:45 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving './NS/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:18:51 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:18:51 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:18:51 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'ga2s.line.naver.jp/A/IN': 2001:500:3::42#53
Oct 27 02:18:51 myserver named[5344]: error (network unreachable) resolving 'ga2s.line.naver.jp/A/IN': 2001:503:ba3e::2:30#53
Oct 27 02:20:13 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.100 from 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:20:13 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.100 to 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:22:30 myserver slapd[1611]: <= bdb_equality_candidates: (uid) not indexed
Oct 27 02:22:30 myserver slapd[1611]: <= bdb_equality_candidates: (memberUid) not indexed
Oct 27 02:25:01 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.100 from 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:25:01 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.100 to 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:29:50 myserver dhcpd: Can't create new lease file: Permission denied
Oct 27 02:29:50 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.100 from 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:29:50 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.100 to 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:34:39 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.100 from 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:34:39 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.100 to 10:c3:7b:12:9a:2f (android-a6d14b4083747247) via eth1
Oct 27 02:39:01 myserver CRON[10875]: (root) CMD (  [ -x /usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime ] && [ -x /usr/lib/php5/sessionclean ] && [ -d /var/lib/php5 ] && /usr/lib/php5/sessionclean /var/lib/php5 $(/usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime))
```


Here is /var/log/syslog.7 (working state syslog prior to problem)

```
Oct 19 07:46:52 myserver rsyslogd: [origin software="rsyslogd" swVersion="7.4.4" x-pid="983" x-info="http://www.rsyslog.com"] rsyslogd was HUPed
Oct 19 07:48:09 myserver anacron[12380]: Job `cron.daily' terminated
Oct 19 07:48:09 myserver anacron[12380]: Normal exit (1 job run)
Oct 19 07:50:05 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.1.11 from e8:bb:a8:89:26:fd via eth1: wrong network.
Oct 19 07:50:05 myserver dhcpd: DHCPNAK on 192.168.1.11 to e8:bb:a8:89:26:fd via eth1
Oct 19 07:50:11 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.1.11 from e8:bb:a8:89:26:fd via eth1: wrong network.
Oct 19 07:50:11 myserver dhcpd: DHCPNAK on 192.168.1.11 to e8:bb:a8:89:26:fd via eth1
Oct 19 07:50:11 myserver dhcpd: DHCPDISCOVER from e8:bb:a8:89:26:fd via eth1
Oct 19 07:50:12 myserver dhcpd: DHCPOFFER on 192.168.4.169 to e8:bb:a8:89:26:fd (android-40f0e211f9f7710d) via eth1
Oct 19 08:02:56 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 10.0.50.198 from ee:4a:5b:75:48:37 via eth1: wrong network.
Oct 19 08:02:56 myserver dhcpd: DHCPNAK on 10.0.50.198 to ee:4a:5b:75:48:37 via eth1
Oct 19 08:02:59 myserver dhcpd: DHCPDISCOVER from 30:aa:bd:cd:7f:a1 via eth1
Oct 19 08:02:59 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 10.0.50.198 from ee:4a:5b:75:48:37 via eth1: wrong network.
Oct 19 08:02:59 myserver dhcpd: DHCPNAK on 10.0.50.198 to ee:4a:5b:75:48:37 via eth1
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver dhcpd: DHCPOFFER on 192.168.4.126 to 30:aa:bd:cd:7f:a1 (android-5b0fc88484002752) via eth1
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': adding an RR at 'android-5b0fc88484002752.mydomain.com' A
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': adding an RR at 'android-5b0fc88484002752.mydomain.com' TXT
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver dhcpd: Can't create new lease file: Permission denied
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.126 (192.168.4.20) from 30:aa:bd:cd:7f:a1 (android-5b0fc88484002752) via eth1
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.126 to 30:aa:bd:cd:7f:a1 (android-5b0fc88484002752) via eth1
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver dhcpd: Added new forward map from android-5b0fc88484002752.mydomain.com. to 192.168.4.126
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': deleting rrset at '126.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': adding an RR at '126.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 19 08:03:00 myserver dhcpd: Added reverse map from 126.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa. to android-5b0fc88484002752.mydomain.com.
Oct 19 08:03:01 myserver dhcpd: DHCPDISCOVER from ee:4a:5b:75:48:37 via eth1
Oct 19 08:03:02 myserver dhcpd: DHCPOFFER on 192.168.4.184 to ee:4a:5b:75:48:37 (android-15cf0dedd078c0d2) via eth1
Oct 19 08:09:01 myserver CRON[13076]: (root) CMD (  [ -x /usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime ] && [ -x /usr/lib/php5/sessionclean ] && [ -d /var/lib/php5 ] && /usr/lib/php5/sessionclean /var/lib/php5 $(/usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime))
Oct 19 08:10:42 myserver slapd[1689]: <= bdb_equality_candidates: (uid) not indexed
Oct 19 08:10:42 myserver slapd[1689]: <= bdb_equality_candidates: (memberUid) not indexed
Oct 19 08:13:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:13:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': deleting an RR at android-5b0fc88484002752.mydomain.com A
Oct 19 08:13:00 myserver dhcpd: Removed forward map from android-5b0fc88484002752.mydomain.com. to 192.168.4.126
Oct 19 08:13:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:13:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': deleting an RR at android-5b0fc88484002752.mydomain.com TXT
Oct 19 08:13:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:13:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': deleting rrset at '126.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 19 08:13:00 myserver dhcpd: Removed reverse map on 126.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa.
Oct 19 08:14:06 myserver dhcpd: DHCPDISCOVER from 9c:04:73:c3:88:b3 via eth1
Oct 19 08:14:07 myserver dhcpd: DHCPOFFER on 192.168.4.156 to 9c:04:73:c3:88:b3 (android-6f103402e3e69318) via eth1
Oct 19 08:17:01 myserver CRON[13131]: (root) CMD (   cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly)
Oct 19 08:17:59 myserver dhcpd: DHCPDISCOVER from b4:3a:28:11:7f:25 via eth1
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver dhcpd: DHCPOFFER on 192.168.4.176 to b4:3a:28:11:7f:25 (android-f24eaf8d39bbd521) via eth1
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': adding an RR at 'android-f24eaf8d39bbd521.mydomain.com' A
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': adding an RR at 'android-f24eaf8d39bbd521.mydomain.com' TXT
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.176 (192.168.4.20) from b4:3a:28:11:7f:25 (android-f24eaf8d39bbd521) via eth1
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.176 to b4:3a:28:11:7f:25 (android-f24eaf8d39bbd521) via eth1
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver dhcpd: Added new forward map from android-f24eaf8d39bbd521.mydomain.com. to 192.168.4.176
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': deleting rrset at '176.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': adding an RR at '176.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 19 08:18:00 myserver dhcpd: Added reverse map from 176.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa. to android-f24eaf8d39bbd521.mydomain.com.
Oct 19 08:18:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.176#53211 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:18:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.176#41748 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:18:01 myserver dhcpd: DHCPDISCOVER from b4:3a:28:11:7f:25 (android-f24eaf8d39bbd521) via eth1
Oct 19 08:18:01 myserver dhcpd: DHCPOFFER on 192.168.4.176 to b4:3a:28:11:7f:25 (android-f24eaf8d39bbd521) via eth1
Oct 19 08:18:01 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.176 (192.168.4.20) from b4:3a:28:11:7f:25 (android-f24eaf8d39bbd521) via eth1
Oct 19 08:18:01 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.176 to b4:3a:28:11:7f:25 (android-f24eaf8d39bbd521) via eth1
Oct 19 08:18:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.176#34182 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:18:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.176#61032 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:18:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.176#34385 (b-api.facebook.com): query (cache) 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:18:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.176#40722 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:18:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.176#41056 (b-api.facebook.com): query (cache) 'b-api.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:18:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.176#59916 (global.uci.blackberry.com): query (cache) 'global.uci.blackberry.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:18:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.176#63707 (global.uci.blackberry.com): query (cache) 'global.uci.blackberry.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:18:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.176#1399 (applock.domobile.com): query (cache) 'applock.domobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:36 myserver dhcpd: DHCPDISCOVER from 84:8e:df:b4:36:f7 via eth1
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver dhcpd: DHCPOFFER on 192.168.4.124 to 84:8e:df:b4:36:f7 (android-62ff3fb654e10d3c) via eth1
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': adding an RR at 'android-62ff3fb654e10d3c.mydomain.com' A
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': adding an RR at 'android-62ff3fb654e10d3c.mydomain.com' TXT
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.124 (192.168.4.20) from 84:8e:df:b4:36:f7 (android-62ff3fb654e10d3c) via eth1
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.124 to 84:8e:df:b4:36:f7 (android-62ff3fb654e10d3c) via eth1
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver dhcpd: Added new forward map from android-62ff3fb654e10d3c.mydomain.com. to 192.168.4.124
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': deleting rrset at '124.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': adding an RR at '124.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver dhcpd: Added reverse map from 124.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa. to android-62ff3fb654e10d3c.mydomain.com.
Oct 19 08:22:37 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#57871 (helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:38 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#33649 (lh6.googleusercontent.com): query (cache) 'lh6.googleusercontent.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:38 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#10570 (lh3.googleusercontent.com): query (cache) 'lh3.googleusercontent.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:38 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#4961 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:38 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#5673 (android.clients.google.com): query (cache) 'android.clients.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:38 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#16698 (ads.mopub.com): query (cache) 'ads.mopub.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:38 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#59805 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:42 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#55850 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:42 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#57739 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:42 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#13407 (helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:43 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#56590 (lh6.googleusercontent.com): query (cache) 'lh6.googleusercontent.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:43 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#62946 (lh3.googleusercontent.com): query (cache) 'lh3.googleusercontent.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:43 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#28818 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:43 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#31965 (android.clients.google.com): query (cache) 'android.clients.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:43 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#26725 (ads.mopub.com): query (cache) 'ads.mopub.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:43 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#52815 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:44 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#29813 (oc.umeng.com): query (cache) 'oc.umeng.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:44 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#38705 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:47 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#18624 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:47 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#63299 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:48 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#53985 (lh6.googleusercontent.com): query (cache) 'lh6.googleusercontent.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:48 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#37253 (lh3.googleusercontent.com): query (cache) 'lh3.googleusercontent.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:49 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#36884 (ads.mopub.com): query (cache) 'ads.mopub.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:49 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#26127 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:49 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#49342 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:49 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#6203 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:49 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#49416 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:49 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#2727 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:49 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#50349 (oc.umeng.com): query (cache) 'oc.umeng.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:49 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#48641 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:50 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#39333 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:52 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#51925 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:53 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#15742 (lh6.googleusercontent.com): query (cache) 'lh6.googleusercontent.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:54 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#43029 (ads.mopub.com): query (cache) 'ads.mopub.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:54 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#9955 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:54 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#38487 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:55 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#39310 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:55 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#42026 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:55 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#60117 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:55 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#5921 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:55 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#29625 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:55 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#12697 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:57 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#38521 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:57 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#37912 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:22:58 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#5897 (helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#16947 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#1740 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#56723 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#15599 (helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#37776 (cmdts.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'cmdts.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:08 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#6099 (cmdts.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'cmdts.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:19 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#4792 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:29 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#4792 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:38 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#10906 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:43 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#20040 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:53 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#47946 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:23:56 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#34290 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:24:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#47946 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:24:06 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#34290 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:24:15 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#56579 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:24:20 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#1200 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:24:45 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#48924 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:24:50 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#58168 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:25:04 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#33318 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:25:09 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#26807 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:25:36 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#51901 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:25:41 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#41693 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:26:08 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#16344 (cmdts.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'cmdts.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:26:49 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.124 from 84:8e:df:b4:36:f7 (android-62ff3fb654e10d3c) via eth1
Oct 19 08:26:49 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.124 to 84:8e:df:b4:36:f7 (android-62ff3fb654e10d3c) via eth1
Oct 19 08:26:18 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#16344 (cmdts.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'cmdts.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:26:51 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#44905 (helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:26:51 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#8882 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:26:51 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#33644 (weather.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'weather.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:26:53 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#62161 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:26:57 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#34886 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:26:59 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#20875 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:27:00 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#44905 (helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'helpcmsecurity1.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:28:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:28:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': deleting an RR at android-f24eaf8d39bbd521.mydomain.com A
Oct 19 08:28:01 myserver dhcpd: Removed forward map from android-f24eaf8d39bbd521.mydomain.com. to 192.168.4.176
Oct 19 08:28:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:28:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': deleting an RR at android-f24eaf8d39bbd521.mydomain.com TXT
Oct 19 08:28:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:28:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': deleting rrset at '176.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 19 08:28:01 myserver dhcpd: Removed reverse map on 176.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa.
Oct 19 08:30:07 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.124 from 84:8e:df:b4:36:f7 (android-62ff3fb654e10d3c) via eth1
Oct 19 08:30:07 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.124 to 84:8e:df:b4:36:f7 (android-62ff3fb654e10d3c) via eth1
Oct 19 08:30:11 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#12304 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:17 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#35746 (ads.mopub.com): query (cache) 'ads.mopub.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:18 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#7688 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:18 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#51731 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:20 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#10843 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:22 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#32780 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:22 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#38453 (ads.mopub.com): query (cache) 'ads.mopub.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:24 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#50665 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:24 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#18171 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:25 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#12304 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:25 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#40802 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:27 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#46438 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:30:32 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#10226 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:27 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#40636 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:27 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#51076 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:27 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#26342 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:40 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#12342 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:40 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#17905 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:40 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#48379 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:40 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#46024 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:49 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#61372 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:55 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#27603 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:55 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#15619 (i.instagram.com): query (cache) 'i.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:58 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#9189 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:58 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#52768 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:58 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#32729 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:58 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#56149 (graph.facebook.com): query (cache) 'graph.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:58 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#6020 (cmdts.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'cmdts.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:31:59 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#13340 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:32:01 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#12168 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:32:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#23365 (cmdts.ksmobile.com): query (cache) 'cmdts.ksmobile.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:32:45 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#8227 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:32:45 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#29876 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:34:32 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#42821 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:34:44 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#2118 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:34:55 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#50013 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:34:55 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.124 (192.168.4.20) from 84:8e:df:b4:36:f7 (android-62ff3fb654e10d3c) via eth1
Oct 19 08:34:55 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.124 to 84:8e:df:b4:36:f7 (android-62ff3fb654e10d3c) via eth1
Oct 19 08:35:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#35345 (game.agoogleplay.com): query (cache) 'game.agoogleplay.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#54578 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#23525 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:02 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#33779 (oc.umeng.com): query (cache) 'oc.umeng.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:21 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#17333 (ads.mopub.com): query (cache) 'ads.mopub.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:22 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#1595 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:22 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#53002 (logger.instagram.com): query (cache) 'logger.instagram.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:22 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#53145 (edge-mqtt.facebook.com): query (cache) 'edge-mqtt.facebook.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:22 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#1546 (game.agoogleplay.com): query (cache) 'game.agoogleplay.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:23 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#42933 (clients3.google.com): query (cache) 'clients3.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:23 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#12318 (oc.umeng.com): query (cache) 'oc.umeng.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:27 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#16830 (ads.mopub.com): query (cache) 'ads.mopub.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:35:27 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.124#9015 (mtalk.google.com): query (cache) 'mtalk.google.com/A/IN' denied
Oct 19 08:36:01 myserver dhcpd: DHCPDISCOVER from d4:22:3f:28:91:00 via eth1
Oct 19 08:36:02 myserver dhcpd: DHCPOFFER on 192.168.4.179 to d4:22:3f:28:91:00 (android-af65d770bd06606f) via eth1
Oct 19 08:36:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:36:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': adding an RR at 'android-af65d770bd06606f.mydomain.com' A
Oct 19 08:36:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone 'mydomain.com/IN': adding an RR at 'android-af65d770bd06606f.mydomain.com' TXT
Oct 19 08:36:03 myserver dhcpd: DHCPREQUEST for 192.168.4.179 (192.168.4.20) from d4:22:3f:28:91:00 (android-af65d770bd06606f) via eth1
Oct 19 08:36:03 myserver dhcpd: DHCPACK on 192.168.4.179 to d4:22:3f:28:91:00 (android-af65d770bd06606f) via eth1
Oct 19 08:36:03 myserver dhcpd: Added new forward map from android-af65d770bd06606f.mydomain.com. to 192.168.4.179
Oct 19 08:36:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: signer "rndc-key" approved
Oct 19 08:36:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': deleting rrset at '179.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 19 08:36:03 myserver named[1561]: client 192.168.4.20#36120/key rndc-key: updating zone '4.168.192.in-addr.arpa/IN': adding an RR at '179.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa' PTR
Oct 19 08:36:03 myserver dhcpd: Added reverse map from 179.4.168.192.in-addr.arpa. to android-af65d770bd06606f.mydomain.com.
Oct 19 08:39:01 myserver CRON[13295]: (root) CMD (  [ -x /usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime ] && [ -x /usr/lib/php5/sessionclean ] && [ -d /var/lib/php5 ] && /usr/lib/php5/sessionclean /var/lib/php5 $(/usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime))
```

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-10-28
You didn't reply to some comments in my PS from the last post. Do you think a firewall can be blocking the ping reply? I see you are loading iptables rules on this machine. But it is an internal server so there is no need for firewall. What function are you doing with iptables?

Try creating the /etc/resolv.conf file we discussed manually. With the google nameservers. Then try if apt-get update is working. Also try that with iptables load disabled.

---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-10-28
You didn't reply to some comments in my PS from the last post. 
[COLOR=#0000ff]Well, I don't have traceroute, and unable to install it since no internet connection, I just use route, route -n, dig or nslookup but none shows any anomalies. [/COLOR]

Do you think a firewall can be blocking the ping reply?
I see you are loading iptables rules on this machine. But it is an  internal server so there is no need for firewall. What function are you  doing with iptables?
[COLOR=#0000ff]Yes I do have firewall configured as router to route traffic from internal to Internet, thats all.[/COLOR]

> # Generated by iptables-save v1.4.21 on Wed Jul  8 19:22:40 2015
*nat
: POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
: PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
: INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
: OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
-A POSTROUTING -m state -o eth0 --state NEW,ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed Jul  8 19:22:40 2015
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.21 on Wed Jul  8 19:22:40 2015
*mangle
: PREROUTING ACCEPT [161:21311]
: INPUT ACCEPT [161:21311]
: FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
: OUTPUT ACCEPT [151:19639]
: POSTROUTING ACCEPT [151:19639]
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed Jul  8 19:22:40 2015
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.21 on Wed Jul  8 19:22:40 2015
*filter
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
-A INPUT -i eth1 -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -o eth0 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i eth0 -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth0 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed Jul  8 19:22:40 2015


Try creating the /etc/resolv.conf file we discussed manually. With the  google nameservers. Then try if apt-get update is working. Also try that  with iptables load disabled.

[COLOR=#0000ff]Tried, but no avails. It seems like resolver is not working, and strange thing is when I ping 8.8.8.8, it replies [/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]

> 10.34.125.1  icmp_seq=1 Destination Net Unreachable
[COLOR=#ff0000]10.34.125.1  icmp_seq=2 Destination Net Unreachable
[COLOR=#ff0000]10.34.125.1  icmp_seq=3 Destination Net Unreachable
.
.
.[/COLOR][/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000][COLOR=#ff0000]
[/COLOR][/COLOR][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#0000ff]Question is why ping to 8.8.8.8 got reply from[/COLOR] [COLOR=#ff0000]10.34.125.1 
[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000ff]That confused me! I am infected with DNS hijacked, spoofing, etc?[/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]

[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000ff]Like I Said, this server is working FINE before and I didn't change anything but just the resolv.conf. And Alas, I forgot to create backup first. my mistake :)[/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000]

Thanks

[/COLOR]

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-10-28
If you have a second wireless router, why do you use this server to route traffic? Why not plugging WR2 into the ISP router directly? Anyway, thos iptables rules do not do much, since you have most set to ACCEPT, and even there is no need for most of them. For example, when you set the INPUT policy to ACCEPT there is no need to do -A INPUT -j ACCEPT. Without that rule the main policy is ACCEPT anyway. You only need accept rules when you set a policy to DROP.

I am running out of ideas, sorry... Even basic routing seems not to work for this machine... And you have loads of services on it it seems.

What I would do is disable everything possible, and get down to the basics: whether routing/internet starts working or not.

Could that 10.34.x.x subnet come from the dhcp running on the machine or something?

Disable/stop all services. Apache, dhcp, dns... Especially dhcp and dns. Leave only the basic core server and see if it helps.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-10-28
lindevox; Hello .... 

Just passing by .. but I do not see in this thread that :
```

sysop@1404mini:~$ ls -al /etc/resolv.conf
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 29 May 19  2013 /etc/resolv.conf -> ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf
sysop@1404mini:~$

```

this symbolic link has been verified as existing.

[INDENT][INDENT]hope this helps
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-10-29
Hi Darko, 

If you have a second wireless router, why do you use this server to  route traffic? 
[COLOR=#0000ff]The purpose of this machine is not only to share internet access but also configured as : router, file server, dhcp server, local dns server, and LDAP to authenticate users and store data for my company. 

Why I use two wifi router? WR1 is FO-MODEM with in-build WIFI in it, so I can still have direct internet connection if the server down. 
I have 10 pc's, [COLOR=#0000ff]fingerprint attendance machine, WR2 connect to server's eth1 trhu a 16 ports switch, and 10 Android tablets [/COLOR]connect wirelessly thru WR2.
[/COLOR]
Why not plugging WR2 into the ISP router directly? [COLOR=#0000ff]WR2 is about 30 meters away from the server and it does not merely provides internet connections, but as AP to mobile clients (android tablets, notebook, etc)[/COLOR]

Anyway, thos iptables rules do not do much, since you have most set to  ACCEPT, and even there is no need for most of them. For example, when  you set the INPUT policy to ACCEPT there is no need to do -A INPUT -j  ACCEPT. Without that rule the main policy is ACCEPT anyway. You only  need accept rules when you set a policy to DROP. 

[COLOR=#0000ff]Yes you are right, it is a pre-production server, there are many mistakes need to be corrected. 
actually I just need this to route traffic   -A POSTROUTING -m state -o eth0 --state NEW,ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j MASQUERADE

[/COLOR]I am running out of ideas, sorry... Even basic routing seems not to work  for this machine... And you have loads of services on it it seems. [COLOR=#0000ff]Yes, me too ![/COLOR]
What I would do is disable everything possible, and get down to the basics: whether routing/internet starts working or not. [COLOR=#0000ff]You're right, but still not working.
[/COLOR]Could that 10.34.x.x subnet come from the dhcp running on the machine or something? [COLOR=#0000ff]DHCP disabled, no luck.[/COLOR] 
Disable/stop all services. Apache, dhcp, dns... Especially dhcp and dns. Leave only the basic core server and see if it helps. 				[COLOR=#0000ff]Did that.[/COLOR]

Big question for me is: 
1. why /run/resolvconf/ and its sub-dir(../interface) and files keeps deleted after every startup?
2. Altough I manually create /etc/resolv.conf, still unable to connect to internet.

Could this be the DNS hijacking ? how to check which program did that?

Well, I'ts my pleasure to have friend like you who are willing to help.Thank you so much and please leave me a line when something comes up in your mind.
Thnaks my Friend.

Hi Bashing-Om, Glad you passed by \\:D/

Yes, that is what happend to my machine. it just keep deleted by something and not able to internet. 

Thanks

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-10-29
lindevox; Hey ;

Mind you I am not the sharpest tack in this box of tools here ;
Do you mean to say that when you set this symbolic link it does not persist in a reboot ?

IF your connection is good and then link does not exist on a reboot ->
I too will be in a learning mode.

[INDENT][INDENT]perhaps we can learn together
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-10-29
I really don't have more ideas too... On one test VM I have in VBox I just deleted /etc/resolv.conf on purpose and the ping 8.8.8.8 still worked. The point is to ping an IP it doesn't need dns resolving at all. Only routing to work.

And routing doesn't break by deleting resolv.conf. You can even completely deinstall resolvconf package and routing shouldn't be affected.

You are stuck with some networking issue and that has nothing to do with mistakenly deleting the resolv.conf. Try posting the output of:
```
ifconfig
route
```

If that gives someone any clue.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-10-29
Also just  driving past... DNS settings have been pushed into /etc/network/interfaces since 12.04.

For example.
```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
  address 192.168.2.20
  netmask 255.255.255.0
  gateway 192.168.2.1
  dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8
```

All the resolvconf stuff isn't needed outside the interfaces file. The old /etc/resolv.conf gets re-written whenever networking is restarted. Making changes there is fruitless.

For strange resolving issues, check the /etc/nsswitch.conf, verify the /etc/hosts doesn't override.  Use dig to validate the DNS server you expect is being used. 

However, some ISPs capture all  DNS and redirect  it to  their less-good  DNS servers. Comcast did this (and may still do it). I had to call them to remove that redirection crap.

Or am I missing something subtle about  this problem. Lots of words above that I didn't review too carefully.

---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-10-30
Hi Darko, 

Here is ifconfig:

> eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 64:66:b3:02:37:fd  
          inet addr:192.168.2.20  Bcast:192.168.2.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::6666:b3ff:fe02:37fd/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:3305 errors:0 dropped:8 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1193 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:280389 (280.3 KB)  TX bytes:160093 (160.0 KB)

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 1c:6f:65:c3:52:36  
          inet addr:192.168.4.20  Bcast:192.168.4.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::1e6f:65ff:fec3:5236/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:6100 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:4648 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:426359 (426.3 KB)  TX bytes:330491 (330.4 KB)

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:65536  Metric:1
          RX packets:1107 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1107 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:100225 (100.2 KB)  TX bytes:100225 (100.2 KB)

route:
> Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
default         192.168.2.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
192.168.2.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
192.168.4.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth1

PING 8.8.8.8
> PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
From 10.34.125.1 icmp_seq=1 Destination Net Unreachable
From 10.34.125.1 icmp_seq=2 Destination Net Unreachable
From 10.34.125.1 icmp_seq=3 Destination Net Unreachable
From 10.34.125.1 icmp_seq=4 Destination Net Unreachable
^C
--- 8.8.8.8 ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 0 received, +4 errors, 100% packet loss, time 3004ms

Ping to router:
> PING 192.168.2.1 (192.168.2.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 192.168.2.1: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.777 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.2.1: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.646 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.2.1: icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.623 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.2.1: icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=0.625 ms
^C
--- 192.168.2.1 ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3000ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.623/0.667/0.777/0.071 ms

ssh from working server to un-working server:
> lindevox@workingserver:~$ [COLOR=#ff0000]sudo ssh lindevox@192.168.2.20[/COLOR]
[sudo] password for lindevox: 
lindevox@192.168.2.20's password: 
Welcome to Ubuntu 14.04.3 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.16.0-50-generic x86_64)

 * Documentation:  [https://help.ubuntu.com/](https://help.ubuntu.com/)

  System information as of Sat Oct 31 00:58:20 WIB 2015

  System load:  1.0                Processes:           236
  Usage of /:   6.6% of 908.97GB   Users logged in:     1
  Memory usage: 7%                 IP address for eth0: 192.168.2.20
  Swap usage:   0%                 IP address for eth1: 192.168.4.20

  Graph this data and manage this system at:
    [https://landscape.canonical.com/](https://landscape.canonical.com/)

24 packages can be updated.
0 updates are security updates.

Last login: Tue Oct 27 22:29:12 2015 from 192.168.2.3

Hi TheFu, Thanks for dropping by, It's a pleasure to have you here! 
 
Also just  driving past... DNS settings have been pushed into /etc/network/interfaces since 12.04. 
All the resolvconf stuff isn't needed outside the interfaces file. The  old /etc/resolv.conf gets re-written whenever networking is restarted.  Making changes there is fruitless. 

Here is $cat /etc/network/interfaces. correct configuration? advice pls?
> # The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
    address 192.168.2.20
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    gateway 192.168.2.1
    dns-nameservers 192.168.2.1 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4
    post-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.up.rules

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
    address 192.168.4.20
    netmask 255.255.255.0/[QUOTE]

For strange resolving issues, check the /etc/nsswitch.conf, verify the  /etc/hosts doesn't override.  Use dig to validate the DNS server you  expect is being used. 

[QUOTE]# /etc/nsswitch.conf
#
# Example configuration of GNU Name Service Switch functionality.
# If you have the `glibc-doc-reference' and `info' packages installed, try:
# `info libc "Name Service Switch"' for information about this file.

passwd:         compat ldap
group:          compat ldap
shadow:         compat ldap

hosts:    files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns
networks:       files

protocols:      db files
services:       db files
ethers:         db files
rpc:            db files

netgroup: nis ldap

$cat /etc/hosts
> 127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.1.1       problemserver.myserver.com problemserver
192.168.4.20    problemserver.myserver.com problemserver.myserver.com
# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

$dig 192.168.2.1
> lindevox@problemserver:~$ dig @192.168.2.1

; <<>> DiG 9.9.5-3ubuntu0.5-Ubuntu <<>> @192.168.2.1
; (1 server found)
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: REFUSED, id: 62353
;; flags: qr rd ra ad; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;.                IN    NS

;; Query time: 9 msec
;; SERVER: 192.168.2.1#53(192.168.2.1)
;; WHEN: Sat Oct 31 02:32:22 WIB 2015
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 17

however, $dig 8.8.8.8 :

> lindevox@probemserver:~$ dig @8.8.8.8

; <<>> DiG 9.9.5-3ubuntu0.5-Ubuntu <<>> @8.8.8.8
; (1 server found)
;; global options: +cmd
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached


However, some ISPs capture all  DNS and redirect  it to  their less-good   DNS servers. Comcast did this (and may still do it). I had to call  them to remove that redirection crap.
Yes I believe they did and that's why I usually set google dns (8.8.8.8  8.8.4.4) inside the FO-router, but Hopefully not happening to my current situation here, because my other server and a few android phones connect internet without any problem.

Or am I missing something subtle about  this problem. Lots of words above that I didn't review too carefully. 				Yeah, it's a long post, sorry :) . Thank you for your time to willingly help my situantion, me appriciate so much my friend! :D

Hi Bashing-om, 

Mind you I am not the sharpest tack in this box of tools here ;
[COLOR=#0000ff]Your presence here has already bring me hope and not to mention your kind intention to help out my situation, Thanks[/COLOR]

Do you mean to say that when you set this symbolic link it does not persist in a reboot ? [COLOR=#0000ff]Yes
Here is the screen shoot: (see attachment)
[/COLOR]
IF your connection is good and then link does not exist on a reboot ->
I too will be in a learning mode. perhaps we can learn together
[COLOR=#0000ff]You are absolutely welcome and I am learning too, so if any my mistake, please forgive me and please bare with me. Thanks[/COLOR]

[ATTACH=CONFIG]265279[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]265280[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]265281[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]265282[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-10-30
lindevox; Hey;

Just an observation, mind you, you can ping your router ... that in and of it's self is a good indication .. but fail to get past the router ( ping 8.8.8.8).
Can you take the router out if the equation, hook the box direct to the modem ? Now can you ping google ?
If so we know the problem is indeed routing and most likely in the router .

[INDENT][INDENT]fault isolation
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-10-30
If I'm not mistaken it's a single modem/router device so you can't take it out of the network that easily.

Second, another server and few more devices are getting internet just fine through the same router. Which is the thing puzzling me.

1. Other devices get out using the same router.
2. He can ping the router from the server that has the issues.
3. That server can't get past the router it can ping.

Doesn't make any sense...

Even by taking dns and resolv.conf completely out of the picture, if routing works you should be able to ping public IP like 8.8.8.8. That is unless that main router firewall is killing the ping reply to the public IPs.

---

### Post by lindevox on 2015-11-05
Hi All,
I managed to solve it, here is what I did:

Darco Wrote: 3. That server can't get past the router it can ping.

This reminded me to double check my FO-wifi/router modem -> WAN interface, 
There are check box to enable which interface go internet. so I just checked LAN 1
and the server was able to connects to internet again. 


[ATTACH=CONFIG]265371[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-11-05
It had to be something like that. It was clear it is a routing issue.

Now that internet and apt-get are working, I guess it will be easy to reinstall resolvconf and sort out everything missing...

---

