---
title: "12.04.1 server amd64 with mdadm RAID1 won't boot"
date: 2013-01-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kodb on 2013-01-29
Good evening all:
I've just spent the better part of the last 6 hours trying to troubleshoot this issue.  I have a pair of identical servers running in the office.  They are pretty generic Gigabyte MB and AMD AthlonIIx2 type hardware.  Each has the main installation on a pair of 1Tb HDD that were set up in RAID 1 during installation without difficulty.  I added a second pair of 1 TB devices as network accessible storage via nfs4 and the "new" PB version of likewiseopen for my windows machines.  Yesterday I updated and rebooted the machines via ssh and now neither will boot up the os.  They go through POST and if I hold down the shift key I get to a GRUB LOADING display and then nothing but black screen.
I booted to a live CD and was able to use the mdadm --assemble --scan to mount the RAID without difficulty.  I then changed the /etc/defaults/grub to reflect nomodeset as I thought that might be the issue.  This did nothing.   I am currently sifting through the mdadm config files and trying to narrow this down.  Prior to the aforementioned updates (ie. via apt-get upgrade and ssh) they rebooted just fine from this array.  All the hardware is new as in this past week assembly here.
Any and all help gratefully accepted
Thanks 
Bob

---

### Post by kodb on 2013-01-29
Well, I think I figured it out.  The /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf had errors related to (I think) the webmin generated entries.  Here is how I fixed it:

Boot into liveCD (I used 12.04.1 amd64 desktop)
Go to terminal
First install mdadm (remember you are booting from live cd)
```
sudo apt-get install mdadm
```
When the postfix config screen comes up select no configuration.  Allow the installation to continue (takes a bit).  When complete assemble the raid with
```
sudo mdadm --assemble --scan
```
This will get the raid setup and files in dev/mdxxx  (mine were /dev/md0, /dev/md1, /dev/md2).
If you know which of the mds is your root file system then go ahead and mount it.  Mine was md1.  If you don't know then go ahead and figure it out by mounting it to some temp drive (I make a directory /tempdrive for this).  Once you know then mount:
```
sudo mount /dev/md1 /mnt
```
You then have to add a couple other mounts to make it all work once you chroot:
```
sudo mount --bind /dev /mnt/dev
sudo mount --bind /sys /mnt/sys
sudo mount --bind /proc /mnt/proc
```
This sets you up to work on your root (and malfunctioning system).  Then:
```
sudo chroot /mnt
```
This takes you to a root prompt as (imagine that) root.    It was here I stumbled on the solution by:
```
update-initramfs -u
```  This returned an error code and told me one of my arrays was not setup correctly and to check some other files.  Unfortunately that was all gobblegook to me but on actually comparing the syntax in mdadm.conf I could see how the last array that I setup through webmin was fubar'd.
I then went ahead and opened a second terminal and issued
```
sudo blkid
```
This returned the UUID for the devices in the RAID.  Because I am using RAID 1 and they are mirrored the UUID are identical on the mirrored drives.  I then added the correct syntax as a new line to describe the array.  
I am posting the corrected mdadm.conf below.  Obviously your UUIDs and names will be different.  Please direct atention to the last paragraph that states autogenerated and now has the lines beginnning with "DEVICE" and " ARRAY" commented out.  These are the lines that were incorrect and I commented them out and replaced them with the "ARRAY /dev/md2" line above that.  I also had to reformat the UUID as blkid returns them with hyphens and a slightly different breakpoints, I just switched to colons and made sure they were blocked out the same way.  Again, please see the code below:
<snip>
```
# definitions of existing MD arrays
ARRAY /dev/md/0 metadata=1.2 UUID=9af958b5:6491f7bb:c9ce3823:7459c56a name=whiteserver:0
ARRAY /dev/md/1 metadata=1.2 UUID=fe43bc2e:4fbb6bde:7e96ebef:0c0cdea7 name=whiteserver:1
ARRAY /dev/md/2 metadata=1.2 UUID=187703d7:c64bc2fa:044c3126:894ac27e name=whiteserver:2
# This file was auto-generated on Wed, 23 Jan 2013 18:30:45 -0500
# by mkconf $Id$
#DEVICE /dev/sdc1 /dev/sdd1
#ARRAY /dev/md2 level=raid1 devices=/dev/sdc1,/dev/sdd1

```
Once you've edited save the file and then rerun:
```
update-initramfs -u
```   
This time it should return a linux image and complete without errors.  If there are still errors your syntax is screwed up: go back and fix.   Once you have it run with no errors then:
```
update-grub
```
When this completes then 
```
exit
```
to get back to your original live cd root system.  Then you will need to unmount stuff:
```
 sudo umount /mnt/dev
sudo umount /mnt/sys
sudo umount /mnt/proc
sudo umount /mnt
sudo reboot now
```
My server booted right up with only a minimal delay as it sorted everything back out and is now running again.

Sorry for the length but I hope this detailed explaination saves somebody else the hours of agony I spent tonite.

Regards,
Bob

---

