---
title: "8.04 kernel support for USB-RS232?"
date: 2009-09-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by three_jeeps on 2009-09-30
I am running a fairly generic version of 8.04  LTS, 2.6.24-19-server edition of Ubuntu.  I have a need to communicate to a RS-232 device.  The only RS-232 line on my system is in use, so I need to see if my kernel 1) has support for USB-RS232, and 2) that a generic driver is installed or could be installed to adequately communicate to the device.  
How do I find out if my kernel has this support?

If it does, how do I find out what the driver is and how to use it?

If my kernel does not have support for USB-rs232, how can I change it so that it does?

Thanks
-J

---

### Post by cdenley on 2009-09-30
I've used such adapters with ubuntu successfully before. I believe it was version 6.10. This kernel module looks promising.
```

ls -1 /lib/modules/*/kernel/drivers/usb/serial/usbserial.ko

```

---

### Post by three_jeeps on 2009-09-30
> **cdenley said:**
> I've used such adapters with ubuntu successfully before. I believe it was version 6.10. This kernel module looks promising.
```

ls -1 /lib/modules/*/kernel/drivers/usb/serial/usbserial.ko

```

Are you saying that if this kernel module is in my system that it has all the support I need? 

From what I know, my application basically has a driver module in it.
Thanks
J

---

### Post by cdenley on 2009-09-30
> **three_jeeps said:**
> Are you saying that if this kernel module is in my system that it has all the support I need? 


I think so. I don't have an adapter handy to verify and know for sure. I know it worked in 6.10, so it probably still does.

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2009-09-30
> **three_jeeps said:**
>  I have a need to communicate to a RS-232 device. Been there, done that.

> **three_jeeps said:**
>  if my kernel has support for USB-RS232  Yes, it should. See above. 

> **three_jeeps said:**
>  How do I find out if my kernel has this support? Open a terminal. Plug in that adapter and then type this:
```
dmesg
```

This will spit out various **d**aemon **mes**sa**g**es ... the most relevant ones should be towards the end. If I plugin my USB-RS232 adapter and type ***dmesg*** into the terminal I get this info (irrelevant parts cut away):
```

[173763.648125] usb 3-2: new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 13
[173763.805070] usb 3-2: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[173763.990865] USB Serial support registered for pl2303
[173763.990925] pl2303 3-2:1.0: pl2303 converter detected
[173764.002382] usb 3-2: pl2303 converter now attached to **[COLOR="Red"]ttyUSB0[/COLOR]**
[173764.002423] usbcore: registered new interface driver pl2303
[173764.002430] pl2303: Prolific PL2303 USB to serial adaptor driver

```

As you can see, any modern Linux distro should instantly recognize such a device and assign a COM: port to it ... here it's **ttyUSB0**

So I'd setup my serial communications program (e.g. ***minicom***) to communicate via that port:  **/dev/ttyUSB0**

A standard serial port should be ttyS0, BTW. So as that one is used already as you say, you have to make sure you're talking to ttyUSB0 or else you might be interfering with that other port.

---

### Post by wirelessmonkey on 2009-09-30
It does, I use mine daily for network config.

---

