---
title: "9.10 (any kernel 3.5+): LIO (linux-iscsi.org) iSCSI Target Out Of Memory (OOM) issue."
date: 2013-02-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mpstorben on 2013-02-21
Hi!

I'm having a real worrying problem with Ubuntu 9.10 and any kernel 3.5 (the base kernel) or even 3.6.6.

Whenever I run "read" IOs with large queue depth (10 simultaneous IOs) on a LIO iSCSI Target built over an IBLOCK backstore (Linux soft RAID 0 with two tested SATA drives), the free memory goes down nearly at the speed of my IOs (if running 100MB/sec IOs, mem goes down 50+MB/sec).

The page cache (Unavailable memory) does *not* increase nor does the "Unevictable" or any other counters present in "/proc/meminfo" for that matter. It seems that the memory is just used by the driver, which should not happen.

Once the LowFree has reached 0, the OS start invoking OOM killer, the iSCSI IOs grind to a halt, the system is unresponsive for a while or plain and simple crashes.

When OOM killer is invoked, no swap is being used at all and the high mem has not moved from before the test at 90% free (on one system 1120132Kb free out of 1183496Kb).

The issue does not happen with versions of Ubuntu that use a < 3.5 kernel. When using a 3.4 kernel and running the same IOs on the same platform, the memory usage moves 10-20MB maximum but does not go down that much.

Running slower IOs (10MB/sec) on 9.10 does use a lot more memory than on 3.5 but it seems to recover (fluctuates down but comes back up). Running less concurrent IOs have the same effect (1 IO/target).

It seems that on newer kernels (3.5+), hammering the system with read IOs will cause all the memory to be used and to reach 0.

Running the same IOs on the RAID directly does not trigger the issue, only when running over iSCSI on LIO.

Anybody has seen or heard about the issue before?

Thanks a lot in advance for all your help!

Ben - MPSTOR.

---

### Post by mpstorben on 2013-02-21
More info about the hardware platforms used:

Tried on several platforms, with different RAM profile and could always reproduce the issue. Two of them were:

Dual Core Intel Xeon 2.66Ghz
4GB RAM
Intel PRO network adapter

AMD Opteron single core 2.6Ghz
2GB RAM
Broadcom Tigon3 network adapter.

OS used was always 32 bits.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2013-02-21
Welcome to the forums!

A couple of thoughts, for what they're worth:

1. Ubuntu 9.10 reached its [end of life]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases") in April 2011 and is no longer supported in any way. If what you're experiencing is a bug, it will never be fixed or patched.

2. The supported kernel for 9.10 was 2.6.31.

Therefore I recommend a fresh reinstall of 12.04, the current Long Term Support release, which will be supported through April 2017.

---

