---
title: "16.04  The order in which the system starts processes via systemctl?"
date: 2019-03-02
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by adrian-h on 2019-03-02
I have a simple server that after an update of MySQL has a problem booting one of the applications it runs.

before the update all was fine when I had to shutdown -r now.

The PC runs apache2 and MySql and a vehicle tracking application that relies on the previous two.

I have searched a few threads but seem to not find any file that shows an order for them to start up.

I wish to initially check the start order and if I find it wrong change it.  
Can someone point me to the locations i need to check, If I manually start the application after a few seconds it starts, so think it is a timing issue.

Cheers

Adriani

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-03-02
For system boot stuff, there is **systemd-analyze critical-chain**.  I don't think apache/DBMS are included, since those have different dependencies.

**systemctl -a** will show all the parts in a list.   Then look at the setup of  /lib/systemd/system/mysql.service . Inside, it has the dependencies.
```
After=network.target
WantedBy=multi-user.target

```
So, if the "target" (previously known as runlevel) is multi-user.target, then mysql is part of that startup process.  The only dependency in mysql.service is "network.target".

Inside /lib/systemd/system/apache2.service, it has these dependencies:
```
After=network.target remote-fs.target nss-lookup.target
```
It is also wantedBy multi-user.

To have mysql start before apache2, I'd put the mysql dependency into the "After=" line of the apache2.service file.

Since every update to apache will possibly overwrite this startup systemd file, I'd have an automatic method to ensure it was maintained with the same dependencies.  Ansible is my poison for this task, but you can do it anyway you like.  BTW, I haven't done anything special on my webapp systems which run apache and mariedb to handle this specific dependency. It has never been an issue. Nightly, I take the mariaDB down long enough to take an LVM snapshot, which is used for backups. Creating a snapshot is almost instantaneous, so the downtime is just a second or 2. Nobody has complained.  I suppose I could just dump the DB to a file to get a consistent backup, but restoring from a file is 1 extra step that I'd rather not deal with at 3am after a disk failure.  But it is an option.

---

### Post by adrian-h on 2019-03-02
Looking at it apache2 starts first, then fail2ban, then MySQL and finally the tracking service so they are in the correct order, thanks for the systemctl -a command I was not aware of that.

When I check another PC that boots up OK they seem in the same order, so it may be the cpu is struggling at boot up as it is just an old thin client pc and for the initial 45 seconds is working very hard. sSo the App may just time out waiting for something like disk access.

What I may try is adding a bit more to the tracker.service start up as you suggest it may help or not.

It presently is just
[Unit]
Description=traccar
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple

etc
etc

What line would I need to add is it as simple as 

After=network.target mysql.target apache2.target

?

Thanks for your help

Adrian

---

