---
title: "[6.06.1 Server] IPtables blocking unintentional ICMP"
date: 2007-01-03
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by lynyrd on 2007-01-03
Preinfo: 
My testing environment running Ubuntu Dapper Drake Server (Linux test 2.6.15-27-server #1 SMP Fri Dec 8 18:43:54 UTC 2006 i686 GNU/Linux).
The testing environment has multiple ip adresses (192.168.1.15-18) I dont know, if this is relevant for solving my problem.

My root server running Ubuntu Dapper Drake Server (Linux server 2.6.15.7-ubuntu1 #4 Thu Dec 21 21:19:22 CET 2006 i686 GNU/Linux selfmade, iptables support completely included).
The root server als has multiple ip adresses (I will NOT post them here).

My Laptop running Ubuntu Egdy (Linux laptop 2.6.17-10-386 #2 Tue Dec 5 22:26:18 UTC 2006 i686 GNU/Linux).

all packages are up-to-date.

---------------------------------

I added the following rule to iptables (testing environment): 
```
iptables -A INPUT -d 192.168.1.16 -m state --state NEW -p tcp --dport 80 -j DROP
```
It should block all packages from everywhere to 192.168.1.16:80.
well it does, but if I run nmap (without any parameters) from laptop to 192.168.1.16, nmap says 'host seems down'. (nmap with -P0 tells me, port 80 is successfully filtered.)
After "iptables -F" everythings running well again (nmap says host is online and port 80 is open)

I added the same rule to the iptables of my root server an got the same result by scanning from laptop or testing environment to the root server.

Then I added the same rule to my laptop's tables and it worked. nmap told the host is online and port 80 is filtered.

I tried to allow all ICMP packages manually by adding
```
iptables -A INPUT -d 192.168.1.16 -p ICMP -j ACCEPT
```
but nothing happened.



iptables on all hosts got flushed before each test.

just a test:
```
cat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/icmp_echo_ignore_all
0
```


maybe a bug in 2.6.15 kernel series or in iptables 1.3.3?

update. look below

---

### Post by chrisfay on 2007-01-03
Is this a typo?

```
iptables -A INPUT -d 192.168.1.16-p ICMP -j ACCEPT
```

There's no space between your IP and the '-p'. Should be:

```
iptables -A INPUT -d 192.168.1.16 -p ICMP -j ACCEPT
```

just a thought....

---

### Post by lynyrd on 2007-01-03
yes just a typo.

i built on my testing environment a new kernel from the 2.6.17 kernel sources with ubuntu patches, with full iptables support included, but the problem's still there.

all right, i locate the error. i replaced the iptables package with edgy's one (added edgy to sources.list and did apt-get install iptables, to update iptables and lib6c and some other packages, with have dependencies to iptables 1.3.5)
affected: iptables 1.3.3-2ubuntu4, maybe <iptables 1.3.3-2ubuntu4 (latest dapper release)
unaffected: >iptables 1.3.5.0debian1-1ubuntu2  (latest edgy release)

---

### Post by lynyrd on 2007-01-04
update

---

