---
title: ".smbcredtionals and .authorized_keys files disappear after reboot of Ubuntu Server"
date: 2017-04-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by michael262 on 2017-04-13
These two files keep disappearing after I reboot my Ubuntu server:

/home/mike/.ssh/authorized_keys (This file is used for ssh)

/home/mike/.smbcredentials (This file is used for my network share drive)

I was wondering if anybody has an idea why these files keep disappearing after a system reload.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-13
*Thread moved to **Server Platforms**.*

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-14
Welcome to the forums.

Delayed responding, hoped someone else would.

This is not normal behavior.  There are 3 reasons it would happen.
* your server has been hacked.
* some setup process for a 3rd party tool is removing/resetting those files and you aren't aware of it.  I have a single-purpose server (email gateway) with setup scripts. When those scripts get re-run (via a webapp interface), many files are overwritten. I find it terribly frustrating, but like the easy initial setup.
* poorly written devop tool rules. This would normally be something like puppet or chef.

So, you could try to catch the process touching those files using lsof, but the timing would need to be perfect.  Only you know the likelihood of each possibility.

I really don't understand the .smbcredentials file - never used it in my HOME. Have one setup elsewhere for autofs to use when needed.

---

### Post by michael262 on 2017-04-14
Thanks for the three pointers. I am still new too Linux and I am still trying to learn the ins and outs of the platform. After combing through the logs I did find some suspicions activity and so I reconfigured those files and renamed and gave them different file permissions and adjusted my firewall so this will not happen again. Again thanks for your help.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-14
Can you please explain EXACTLY what you did so others can learn too?

---

