---
title: "9.04 Samba as PDC. Join Error: Trust Relationship Failed"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by gaxicus on 2009-05-08
Ubuntu Server 9.04 Samba configured as PDC according to Ubuntu Server Guide
 
After following the procedure in the guide I couldnt join a machine to the domain. 
 
It would return a "User name not found" error. After checking that the user was indeed a member of admin and the sysadmin group that had been mapped to the smb group Administrators, I started looking at the machine accounts as the problem. 
 
I tried parsing the add machine script against it and it turned out that the -n switch was unrecognized. Thinking it was a typo I changed it to -N and gave it a try. 
 
The machine joined to the domain but encounterd a problem at the end of the process where you add the user account and assign to local group (usually administrators). 
 
Error:
________
**The user could not be added to the domain because the following error has occured:**
 
**The trust relationship between the workstation and the primary domain failed.**
________
 
From smb.conf-
 
add machine script = sudo /usr/sbin/useradd **-[FONT=Courier New][SIZE=1][FONT=Courier New][SIZE=1]n[/SIZE][/FONT][/SIZE][/FONT]**[SIZE=1] -g machines -c Machine -d /var/lib/samba -s /bin/false %u[/SIZE]
 
 
[SIZE=1]I changed the -n to -N and the join worked but the above error happens. [/SIZE]
 
[SIZE=1]Help on this would be greatly appreciated.[/SIZE]

---

### Post by trinikrono on 2009-10-11
Hey
Did you figure this out 
Heres my solution to it.
The capital N works fine but i was still not getting trough so i did a 
smbpasswd -a username
And suddenly i could join the domain 
Let me know if this works for you.

---

