---
title: "8.10 boot hangs at Configuring Network Interfaces"
date: 2009-02-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by clindner on 2009-02-14
I have a new installation that is hanging at this point in the boot process.

If I do a Control-Alt-Delete, it reports:

init:  rcS main process killed by TERM signal
init:  rc6 main process killed by TERM signal


I have manually, and with Webmin, changed the IP assignment back and forth from static to DHCP.  I haven't installed much of anything, but something I installed (OpenSSH?) must be screwing up my machine, because it was booting just fine before.

I have to get this resolved, as I will have this box running unattended, and it will not finish booting without issuing the term signal....   Argh!

Thanks for any help.  I have searched and searched, and haven't seen a similar issue.

---

### Post by clindner on 2009-02-14
I hate to be impatient, but I am wondering if maybe I asked my question in the wrong place?

I would love to figure out what is causing my system to hang during bootup until I hit the Ctrl-Alt-Del. 

Any suggestions on logs or something where I can look?  I have looked through everyting in /var/log.

Help please!

Thanks!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-14
Please provide more information, do you have a gui installed? Is the driver for your network card loaded? Please paste the output of:

```
lshw -C network
```

Jim

---

### Post by clindner on 2009-02-14
Here's the output.

```
*-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: [removed MAC]
       size: 1GB/s
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=full ip=192.168.1.99 latency=0 link=yes module=r8169 multicast=yes port=twisted pair speed=1GB/s

```

No GUI installed, and I didn't install a video card driver, only what would have been installed in the standard installation.

Thanks!

---

### Post by clindner on 2009-02-15
Well, apparently it was trying to remount some network drives that I had used previously, and was not aware that they were trying to be remounted because they did not get mounted when I terminated the mounting process with the Ctrl-Alt-Del.

I hit Enter one time when it was hung, and realized that it was being prompted to enter a password or something, strange because no password is needed.

Anyway, this is resolved.

---

