---
title: "14.04LTS LTSP Server and Raspi-LTSP, over internet"
date: 2014-11-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by troy18 on 2014-11-25
I have LTSP setup on Ubuntu 14.04LTS server.  On the lan the server is on, I can boot and login using a Pi running Raspi-LTSP image. When I take this to a remote location it does not connect. 

- Firewall is forwarding traffic for the public IP to the LTSP server. I can verify this by ssh to the public IP, from the same remote location and I get in. 

- The Raspi-LTSP script has a diaglog box to change the NBD IP.  However in my cmdline.txt it is still set to the internal IP of the server even though I rebuilt the client from scratch and used the SD update option, each time typing in the public IP of the server. I manually changed the CMDLINE.TXT file for the nbdroot=public IP. 

When Raspi-LTSP boots up I see it has an error that rootserver: 192.168.1.48 and rootpath: blank... I have a feeling this is where I should see the public IP of the LTSP server and the path supplied in the cmdline.txt, however it's not there. 

Did I miss something about LTSP? Do i need to use VPN?

Would BerryTerminal be a better option?

---

### Post by troy18 on 2014-11-25
I figured out my problem. Now my second problem, which may be a mis understanding of LTSP... 

My remote units, which are at a seperate location connecting via the internet, are not going through the LTSP server for internet. They are using the internet gateway at the local location? Did I miss something?

---

