---
title: "(.*) mod_rewrite rule not working for all files"
date: 2006-08-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by roadkillbunny on 2006-08-20
Hello,

Today I've started playing around with mod_rewrite. What I am trying to do is if user types in mypage.com/page,php, the url will be rewrited to mypage.com/index.php?show=page.php. So I have included the following .htaccess in the directory. The RewriteBase is there becauese I am working on the page on my computer before uploading it to the webhost.
```

RewriteEngine on
RewriteBase /~kkrizka/crongrab/
RewriteRule ^(.*) index.php?show=$1

```
Everything works fine if I try to go to some random nonexistant page, like test or hi. The index page is displayed with a php error that it tried to include a nonexistant file. But if I try a file that is the beginning of an existent file, like "about" (I have an about.admin.php file), apache returns the 404 Page Not Found error.

Does anyone know what the problem could be?

---

### Post by Glut on 2006-08-21
First, you don't need the rewrite definition in the .htaccess file, put it in the directory entry of the site. It will make it easier to maintain in the future.
It sounds like rewrite is working, but there's a problem in the php code. Test it with some debugging output in your php.

---

### Post by Ahriman on 2006-08-21
I agree with Glut, try debugging your PHP.
I had the same sort of troubles with mod_rewrite on my server, and I had to add into my files a check, to see if the page being accessed was, in fact, via the URL I wanted, or if it was the script getting called directly. What's the code of index.php?

---

### Post by roadkillbunny on 2006-08-21
> **Ahriman said:**
> I agree with Glut, try debugging your PHP.
I had the same sort of troubles with mod_rewrite on my server, and I had to add into my files a check, to see if the page being accessed was, in fact, via the URL I wanted, or if it was the script getting called directly. What's the code of index.php?

I don't think it is the problem with my PHP. I tried a simple test, I changed the rule to the following:
```

RewriteRule ^.*$ test.html

```
Where test.html is a file with just "test" inside it. Still the same problem. It seems like the url is not being picked up by the rule and rewritten.

---

### Post by Ahriman on 2006-08-21
I tried your code in one of my test sites and it worked OK. Have you set a <Directory> definition for your test site in /etc/apache2/sites-available/default ? I had to do that before I could get rewrite working on my test site, but once I had done that (I just copied the definition form the /var/www/ in the default file) it worked fine.
```
	<Directory /var/www/clearview/>
		Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
		AllowOverride All
		Order allow,deny
		allow from all
	</Directory>
```

---

