---
title: "14.04 endless init of subinterfaces"
date: 2014-10-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by n-mh on 2014-10-16
Hi all,

I have a server with 126 subinterfaces for websites, which are all configured in /etc/network/interfaces

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address XXX
        netmask 255.255.255.224
        network XXX
        broadcast XXX
        gateway XXX
        # dns-* options are implemented by the resolvconf package, if installed
        dns-nameservers XXX
        dns-search XXX

iface eth0:1 inet static
address XXX
netmask 255.255.255.0
auto eth0:1
iface eth0:1 inet6 static
address XXX
netmask 64

[...]

iface eth0:126 inet static
address XXX
netmask 255.255.255.0
auto eth0:126
iface eth0:126 inet6 static
address XXX
netmask 64

Problem now is, that the boot is taking endless long when I override failsafe / boots without full interface init because failsafe drops it and boots.
The result is, that the server boots, but not all interfaces are up. E.g. directly after the boot, the interfaces eth0:1 - eth0:21 are initialised. Every 10 seconds a new interface is coming up. So, after ca. 15 minutes all 126 interfaces are up. It seems that there are scripts or workflows running for every subinterface, which take so long. 
In Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, the boot was very fast and all interfaces were up directly.
The interfaces all have to be initialised, when the server is up, otherwise apache start fails, because he wants to use IPs, which are not available.

It is very important for me to fix this, can anybody help me???? 

Greetings,

Marc

---

