---
title: "14.04 - Run script on boot with non-root acct."
date: 2016-01-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by shadragon on 2016-01-13
Hi guys and gals, 

I'm running MATLAB and the license manager does not start automatically after a reboot. To get it to work, I need to log onto an account _with no root powers_ to start it. I'd like to go on vacation more than ten feet from my desk at some point :p so can you point me in the direction of a way to do this?

Command is on the path:  /usr/local/MATLAB/R2015b/etc/lmstart

How can I run this automatically after reboot as a non-root account? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-01-13
Does it specifically need to be non-root account? Or it simply works when using root (sudo) and non-root?

Usually things you would like to execute in the last stages of the boot (after everything else has finished) are put into /etc/rc.local. You will need sudo rights to edit it.

Just put the command before the 'exit 0' line, save and close the file, reboot and see if it worked.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-01-13
I'd do this from cron.  As the ordinary user "username," use "crontab -e" to create a crontab entry with the line
```
* * * * * /home/username/start_matlab
```
which will run once per minute.  Then write a little script like this:

```

#!/bin/bash

CHECK="$(ps ax | grep -i matlab)"

[ "$CHECK" = "" ] && /usr/local/MATLAB/R2015b/etc/lmstart


```

Save the script as /home/username/start_matlab and make it owned by username and executable with "chmod a+x /home/username/start_matlab".

Now if Matlab is not running, the CHECK variable will be empty, and it will start the program. Otherwise it will do nothing.

If Matlab runs under some other name that does not include the (case-insensitive) string "matlab" you'll need to use that in the CHECK line instead.  Run "ps ax" yourself to see how it appears in the listing of active jobs.

You will have to wait up to a minute for Matlab to start after boot via this method.

---

### Post by shadragon on 2016-01-14
@SeijiSensei

Absolutely spot-on, thanks. The only modification I made was I found the license manager process was called lmgrd

So for anyone who wants to use the same script on Ubuntu 14, it should be:

```
#!/bin/bash

CHECK="$(ps ax | grep -i lmgrd)"

[ "$CHECK" = "" ] && /usr/local/MATLAB/R2015b/etc/lmstart
```

NOTE: You do have to create the script and crontab as a normal user. Use "crontab -e" not "sudo crontab -e" or it will not work.

---

### Post by shadragon on 2016-01-14
Added later. The script ran (I see entries in syslog), but it did not turn the license manager back on after a reboot. 

Am investigating.

---

