---
title: "Local IP works external IP doesn't"
date: 2010-02-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-02-09
](*,)

I am having an issue with my server I have setup. I have apache running and can access the files via all other computers on my network via the ip address i have it set to default to the /var/www folder with index.html as the main file. I am however having issues trying to access it from my other IP the one i found at what is my ip.  I have even setup a no-ip address to it. Any help would be greatly appriciated I've forwarded port 20 and port 80 i've even given it the default dmz. I disabled the firewall on my router and I checked and my Ubuntu machine doesn't have a firewall whatsoever  i can access my outside ip on the local machine and have access the problem i'm having is trying to access it from anywhere but home. [http://wigglestheholy.myvnc.com/2-7-10.mp3](http://wigglestheholy.myvnc.com/2-7-10.mp3)

HELP

---

### Post by mushwars on 2010-02-09
does your /etc/resolv.conf have a line in it that says nameserver 192.168.x.x ?

if not you need to enter your default gateway

```
route add -net default gw 192.168.x.x
```

---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-02-09
yep 

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

---

### Post by adam814 on 2010-02-09
Just a thought here, but some routers won't allow you to access their WAN IP from a LAN address.  I suppose it's to enhance security.  Have you tried accessing it outside your LAN?

---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-02-10
I used log me in to try it on 3 different computers work parents and inlaws didn't get anything but a 404 type screen. Locally it works great its everywhere else in the world it doesn't. This machine is behind a netgear gigabit router and a gigabit switch.

---

### Post by Satoru-san on 2010-02-10
> **Wigglestheholy said:**
> parents and inlaws didn't get anything but a 404 type screen. 
A 404 error would be a good sign, that would mean that apache is running, you just dont have any content for apache to display.

Unless you meant that the page either times out or you get some other non-apache error.

---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-02-10
sorry to mislead it is as you say i get a time out error an actual 404

---

### Post by confusedstingray on 2010-02-10
when i type dig wigglestheholy.myvnc.com.
this is what comes up 
wigglestheholy.myvnc.com. 60    IN    A    68.103.7.214
is this the right ip

---

### Post by confusedstingray on 2010-02-10
it looks like the dns hosting is messed up, check with your provider they maybe blocking port 80

---

### Post by pricetech on 2010-02-10
grc.com (others too) can scan your IP for open / closed / stealth ports.  I'd start there.  Your ISP may indeed be blocking ports, which would make your router configuration irrelevant.

Also, check your router again.  Netgear can be kind of funny sometimes.  Just ran into one of its idiosyncrasies this morning forwarding ports on mine.  (custom service had to be added a second time in a different area to make it work)  Your logs should tell you what's going on.

---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-02-15
Sorry I haven't Updated you guys on my situation been pretty busy lately, and thank you all for the help. I'm going to try some of these items tonight. Oh adn I don't have wigglestheholy.com tied to this server yet I'm just trying to connect to it through the IP at the moment.

---

### Post by Satoru-san on 2010-02-15
.

---

### Post by mr clark25 on 2010-02-15
I am having the exact same problem. I just don't get what's wrong. At the site that was mentioned, it shows that port 80 is open, but I still can't get to my site from outside my local network.

---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-02-15
I was just thinking.. Does it mater that I have other computers on the same network. When i go to whatsmyip.com all the computers have the same IP how am I supposed to differentiate (sp) the computers and the server?

---

### Post by Satoru-san on 2010-02-16
I found this site

[http://downforeveryoneorjustme.com/](http://downforeveryoneorjustme.com/)

This will help you trouble shoot, you can try your IP address or your TLD

---

### Post by Satoru-san on 2010-02-16
> **Wigglestheholy said:**
> I was just thinking.. Does it mater that I have other computers on the same network. When i go to whatsmyip.com all the computers have the same IP how am I supposed to differentiate (sp) the computers and the server?
That is the purpose of [PORTFORWARDING](http://portforward.com/)

When I first set up my first server that was not around, no one was able to tell me either, this was back in the late 90s

---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-02-16
until I can narrow down why I can't put in my IP and have it show the site on outside computers I'm hosting my site via Opera.

---

### Post by smc18 on 2010-02-16
> **Wigglestheholy said:**
> I was just thinking.. Does it mater that I have other computers on the same network. When i go to whatsmyip.com all the computers have the same IP how am I supposed to differentiate (sp) the computers and the server?

Network Address Translation - NAT

Your LAN/Private IP's are only used behind your router, when any request to the outside are made, it goes from

192.168.1.10 (PC Website Client/Private IP) -->  192.168.1.1 (Inside Router/Private IP) --> 68.29.10.4 (Outside Router/Public IP) --> Internet Cloud --> One of Google's Routers/Public IP --> One of many Apache machines hosting [www.google.com](www.google.com)  (Web Server)

Google.com --> Internet Cloud --> Outside Your Router --> Inside Your Router -- > Back to the original Webserver Client

So when you connect to Whatsmyip.com, every computer you use it on your LAN, but it's using your single Public IP given to you by your ISP.


In your case, you have a Public Webserver so you would act as [www.Google.com](www.Google.com) in the example.  Port Forwarding makes this happen.

If your webserver is locally on 192.168.1.15, Port Forwarding on your router tells External Website Clients connecting on Port 80(using your External/Public IP) to point to your local server at 192.168.1.15, instead of every other LAN Computer.

So you have an Unknown Client connecting to your Webserver.

Unknown Client connecting your Webserver using your External IP

Unknown Client  --> His Router --> Internet Routers --> Your Public IP on External Router Interface (Port Forwarding Points to your Webserver) --> Your Web Server

---

### Post by gagegannon on 2010-02-16
I had a similar problem just last week.
 
First off, I would disconnect my machine from the router, and plug your modem directly into your machine. This will eliminate any unknown router issues you may be having. Then reboot your modem and machine so a proper ip address is assigned to your machine, then test to make sure your internet is working.
 
Next, in the terminal, type ```
ifconfig
``` this will tell you what your machine ip address is. Configure your web-page, (or whatever else your using, ssh and the like), to point to that ip address. If you can access your machine from the outside world, then you now know it's a router issue. keep this configuration until you solve your problem. Only then should you put your router in between your machine and your connection.
 
If you still can't access your machine, then try something rather unusual. In your default config file, (the one where you define /var/www, and virtual servers, etc.), try putting /var/www in quotes so it looks like "/var/www". I know this sounds weird and most other people won't have this sort of setup. But that's what actually solved my problem when I had it. I'm running ubuntu 8.04
 
Good luck!

---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-02-16
[IMG]http://members.cox.net/wigglestheholy/servertime%20out.gif[/IMG]

I recieved the above when i tried to connect to the IP address via an outside machine.

---

### Post by pirateghost on 2010-02-16
i must reiterate this every chance i get:

a lot of ISPs do not ALLOW hosting a webserver from your home network (this is in the TOS that you signed) and most of them will BLOCK serving on port 80.

try a different port instead to make sure that is not the case

---

### Post by Satoru-san on 2010-02-16
> **Wigglestheholy said:**
> {Snip}

I recieved the above when i tried to connect to the IP address via an outside machine.
Did you set up port forwarding on your router?

---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-03-09
Sorry its been so long got busy with other work. I have forwarded port 80 sounds like i need to try another port possibly but how do i assign the server a new port
I can access everything locally if I could just get it to broadcast outside my network i would be set.

---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-03-09
just edited my ports.conf and reset the router still having issues when i use the outside IP and tell it to use port 8000 i couldn't restart the apache server so i just put Listen *:8000 
I get this when i try to access externally

The connection was reset

      

      
      
      

      
        
        

          

The connection to the server was reset while the page was loading.

        


        
        


    *   The site could be temporarily unavailable or too busy. Try again in a few
          moments.

    *   If you are unable to load any pages, check your computer's network
          connection.

    *   If your computer or network is protected by a firewall or proxy, make sure
          that Firefox is permitted to access the Web.

---

### Post by Wigglestheholy on 2010-03-09
changed it so the the virtual host is now at 8000 but i still can't get anything
Using a net gear router I have ports 443 8000 80 and 20 forwarded to the local ip 192.168.1.3

I dunno what is going on.

---

