---
title: "What is my website root?"
date: 2012-06-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kramer65 on 2012-06-04
Hello,

With the help of [this guide]("http://www.howtoforge.com/perfect-server-ubuntu-12.04-lts-apache2-bind-dovecot-ispconfig-3") I built an Ubuntu server. With the help of the [ISPConfig control panel]("http://www.ispconfig.org/") I then created a website ([www.test.nl](www.test.nl)) to which I uploaded some files.

Since I want to log all changes to the website files, I want to create a Mercurial repository in the website root. So with ssh I logged into the server and looked around. I can't find out however, what the correct web-root of my website is.

I see two folders which contain the files of my website:
[LIST]
[*]/var/www/test.nl/web/
[*]/var/www/clients/client0/test.nl/web/
[/LIST]
When I upload or change anything using ftp, the file appears in both these folders, so I am kind of puzzled as to which of these two is the right one.

Could anyone shed some light on this issue? All tips are welcome!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-06-04
Moved to Server Platforms.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2012-06-04
I would imagine that one of those two directories is a symbolic link to the other.

Do this:

```

ls -l /var/www/test.nl
ls -l /var/www/clients/client0/test.nl

```
That should let you see the web folder and you should be able to tell which one is linked to the other and which one is the actual root.

If you had no clue as to where the site's files were, the 1st place to look is the location where sites are enabled...which then shows which sites are available...which then shows you the config file that has the "DocumentRoot" path noted inside.

```

ls -l /etc/apache2/sites-enabled

```
Example output of the above command:
```

total 0
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 26 May 21 18:57 000-default -> ../sites-available/default

```
Now you can look at the contents of the location revealed above.
```

vi /etc/apache2/sites-available/default

```
Example:
```

<VirtualHost *:80>
        ServerAdmin webmaster@localhost
        DocumentRoot [COLOR=Red]**/var/www**[/COLOR]
...etc...

```

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2012-06-05
Hi LHammonds. Thanks for you elaborate answer!

I had a search through the sites-enabled/available folders and also looked at all the symlinks. It turned out that both */var/www/test.nl* and */var/www/clients/client0/test.nl* were symlinks to the folder */var/www/clients/client0/web1/*, which turned out to be the valid web root.

Just a question. Is this normal behaviour of a server, or is this only the way the ISPConfig panel sets things up?

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2012-06-05
This is an ISPconfig thing.  
```
/var/www/clients/client0/web1/
```

This generated by ispconfig when a new vhost is built.

I have never really used ISPconfig. I've only tried it for a short moment and did not like the lack of control.

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2012-06-06
> **volkswagner said:**
> This is an ISPconfig thing.  
```
/var/www/clients/client0/web1/
```

This generated by ispconfig when a new vhost is built.

I have never really used ISPconfig. I've only tried it for a short moment and did not like the lack of control.

Alright, thanks for that.

The only thing I actually need from a control panel is creating email addresses and FTP-accounts, and for that I think ISPConfig perfectly suits my needs. I do wonder though, what you didn't like about ISPConfig? What control would you like which you didn't find in ISPConfig?

Thanks!

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2012-06-06
The things I didn't like are similar to the example you mention.  The symlinks to directories and such.  I did not really need the "multi-tenant" aspect.  I did not run a hosting environment for multiple users/customers so it was way more than I needed.

I just found it difficult as you did to quickly determine where stuff went once I added a site or such.  Again it was a long time ago, and only played with ispConfig2 for less than one day.

I have been forcing myself to just use the CLI.  Although some thing may take me longer, I save time in the long run by knowing where stuff is and easily navigating the system.

I run citadel for mail, and rarely use ftp.  I usually use rsync and scp for file management (ssh with key auth).

---

### Post by kramer65 on 2012-06-07
@Volkswagner

Alright, thanks for the answer. I think you are way beyond my level of server-knowledge. Since I am just learning how to administer a server I do still like the functionality of a control panel for the simple things of creating websites, emailadresses, and ftp-accounts (how on earth would you create an email address from the command line?). I am more and more logging in and moving around using ssh, so I might possibly go your way in the future as well. For now however, I am pretty happy with ISPConfig as a simple help.

Thanks a lot for the answers!

---

