---
title: "11.04 firewall problem with DCC in IRC"
date: 2011-08-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by martinhorton on 2011-08-29
Back in 2005 I used an old computer to build a Linux based firewall to  protect my ADSL internet connection. I remember it being a bit of a  learning curve, but I eventually got it all working excellently. It was  an IPTABLES based firewall built using FWBuilder. This system has worked  very well. Recently I needed to make some major configuration changes  so I decided to build a new Firewall using Ubuntu Server 11.04.

I  modified the FWBuilder files to reflect changes in the network IP  addresses and then installed it on the new server. It all works fine  with one exception. The use of DCC from IRC is not working now.

So I looked further into the original configuration and found this information.

The Linux kernel is 2.4.29
I found the following code in /etc/rc.d/rc.local
```

IRC_PORTS="ports=6665,6666,6667,6668,6669,7000,7001"


/sbin/modprobe ip_conntrack_irc $IRC_PORTS
/sbin/modprobe ip_nat_irc $IRC_PORTS
. /etc/guardian.fw

```/etc/guardian.fw is the file containing the IPTABLES commands to set up the rules.

I  have searched in vain on the internet for instructions on loading  ip_conntrack_irc and ip_nat_irc modules. As far as I can tell Netfilter  is included with Ubuntu 11.04. But clearly something is missing. An  "lsmod" on the new system shows lots of nf_ modules loaded. I made the  inference that most ip_ modules had been renamed to nf_ 

So my question is two fold?


[LIST=1]
[*]Are there any extra modules I should be loading?
[*]Where is the correct place to place the code to load those modules and to execute the firewall script?
[/LIST]
Any help would be much appreciated.

---

