---
title: "Mail spool, exim4, postfix, mutt (n00b behind the wheel ;) )"
date: 2012-10-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by yc2 on 2012-10-28
Hello,

My question relates both to Ubuntu and Debian. I have got many good replies here in the past so I hope I can ask here again. (I use both Ubuntu and Debian)

I am interested in setting up postfix. I have tried before, but it just worked so so since I did not understand fully.

Right now I use mutt in a Debian system (exim4 MTA).

I do not really understand how the MTA and the mail spool interacts.

Here are some questions:

1. Right now I use mutt to read (and send) the mail spool (/var/mail/myUserName) in a Debian system (and store in maildir). The mail spool only contains local mail between users in the system. How is this mail spool generated? Is it generated by the system MTA (exim4)?

I have tried postfix before (in Ubuntu). I am interested in installing it again. 

2. If I install postfix. Should I then uninstall exim4 (on the Debian system I use now) and let postfix handle all messages (between local users and also to remote domains?)

3. When I ran postfix a little (in Ubuntu) I do not remember handling a mail spool queue. As I remember it, postfix delivered the mail to maildir?

Can someone please help and clarify a little how postfix will handle the messages (between local users and also to remote domains).

Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by yc2 on 2012-10-28
I read a little on myself. Here is a good page. (I searched for "postfix for dummies")

I am still interested in hearing what pointers the members here can give when installing postfix, of course.

> Postfix supports different ways to deliver emails:

Sendmail-style (one file per user, located in /var/spool/mail/)
$HOME/mailbox (better perfomances since keeping many files in /var/spool/mail/ leads to lower performances; Watch out for NFS-mounter home directories, and MUAs that don't look for mailboxes in user home directories)
qmail-style Maildir directory tree ($HOME/Maildir/)
through an MDA like Procmail (main.cf: mailbox_command = /usr/sbin/procmail/ -a "$EXTENSION").
[http://www.fredshack.com/docs/postfix.html](http://www.fredshack.com/docs/postfix.html)

---

### Post by duesentriebchen on 2012-10-30
Hy there.
 
Reffering to your first post.
 
Question 1.) Obviously it is created by the MTA, or through the installation of the MTA the system creates this folderstructure. I did check my desktop running with kubuntu, and there is no /var/mail folder structure.
 
Question 2.) I run exim4 and courier on my server. As i did install exim4, postfix was automatically deinstalled (not purged) by the configuration. Are you not pleased with exim4 or what is your motivation to change your MTA?
 
Question 3.) You did awnser at your own initiative :)
 
Kind regards.

---

### Post by yc2 on 2012-10-30
Thanks for your reply.

The reason I want to use postfix is that I got some experience with it before and I wanted to continue using the same server.

I know too little about the differences between postifix or exim.

I am sure they are both good.

---

### Post by smtp on 2012-11-01
> **yc2 said:**
> 

Can someone please help and clarify a little how postfix will handle the messages (between local users and also to remote domains).



Poststfix will use local_transport to deliver local messages and default_transport to delivier external messages. More on postfix transport table could be found here: [http://www.postfix.org/transport.5.html](http://www.postfix.org/transport.5.html)

Cheers

---

