---
title: "Cloud9 beside VirtualHosts or with a VirtualHost"
date: 2012-03-02
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Joern57 on 2012-03-02
Hi,

I'm running Ubuntu-Server Oneiric 64 Bit on my Virtual Server.

Lately I installed the OpenSource Version of Cloud9.

By default Cloud9 runs with IP 127.0.0.1 and port 3000.

I have several Ruby On Rails Apps running on an Apache2 Web Server. These are separated by VirtualHosts.

Now I need to get Cloud9 into a VirtualHost. This makes me a headache.

By just catching all IPs on Port 3000 it falls back to the first working VirtualHost running on my Apache. Sure, I'm making a request by a browser so a VirtualHost on port 80 is expected but not found because it is listening for port 3000.

Finally I concluded it'd be the best to change the port of the Cloud9 Server to port 80. By changing to port 80, I get into the habit that the localhost IP on port 80 is already used by another application (must be Apache2 then).

Sadly, almost any other localhost IP is already used (I get an IP in use error while running Cloud9).

Is there a way to determite all free localhost IPs? I tried 127.0.0.1-5 and 127.255.255.254 by hand, but this kind of guessing is too uncomfortable.

Or am I completely on the wrong way?

What do you suggest?

With what IP and port do I have to start the Cloud9 server and how do I get it available/aliased? I want to call cloud9.jakk.de in my browser to get the Cloud9 Website. My first clue was using just another VirtualHost with Apache, but while Cloud9 is running on port 3000 and because I'm calling through port 80 while accessing the site from a browser I only get a directory listing generated by Apache2.

So what to do?

Yours,
Joern.

---

### Post by Joern57 on 2012-03-02
also tried standard ip and port with a virtualhost listening on port 3000
then calling cloud9.jakk.de didn't work (as usual) but cloud9.jakk.de:3000 didn't work as well :/

---

### Post by Joern57 on 2012-03-02
in the end it was totally easy... 

I just didn't had to catch any ip or port with a virtualhost, I just had to start cloud9 with the servers main ip adress on port 3000 and call one of the domains registered in my DNS under this ip with port 3000

I already tried this before but a virtualhost was listening on port 3000 and this caused routing problems

finally it works

---

