---
title: "How do I add new nameservers in 12.04?"
date: 2012-05-03
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by VMOS on 2012-05-03
for our servers we use 3 nameservers, 1 gets added when the server is built and we put the other 2 into /etc/resolv.conf

I've just built a 12.04 server and when I open resolv.conf, it tells me

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

Hmmmmm

So I added the new ones into /etc/network/interfaces but I can't get them into resolv.conf.

If I run resolvconf -u, I get this error

resolvconf: Error: /etc/resolv.conf isn't a symlink, not doing anything.


I've tried a few other things but nothing that's even produced an error. any suggestions?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-05-03
I haven't had anything overwrite the resolv.conf on Ubuntu server 12.04. Desktop, yes, but not server.

Just add them to /etc/resolv.conf and go from there.

---

### Post by bubylou on 2012-05-03
You can just add them to resolv.conf but i believe it resets on reboot.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2012-05-03
> **bubylou said:**
> You can just add them to resolv.conf but i believe it resets on reboot.
You would be right.

You can uninstall resolvconf and reboot then edit your name servers, or you can just use resolvconf to add them:
[http://wiki.debian.org/NetworkConfiguration#The_resolvconf_program](http://wiki.debian.org/NetworkConfiguration#The_resolvconf_program)

---

### Post by Doug S on 2012-05-03
Please refer to the Ubuntu server guide: [https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/serverguide/network-configuration.html#name-resolution](https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/serverguide/network-configuration.html#name-resolution)
 
It should work adding the information to your interfaces file, but you would need to re-start the interface or re-boot he computer to have it take effect (I think).

---

### Post by scmeis1 on 2012-05-04
Resolvconf is actually set through /etc/network/interfaces.  You set up your interface then specify your dns-nameservers, dns-search and a domain if you like. On reboot, resolvconf will pick up these details and populate /etc/resolv.conf


You can force the reset by restarting your network.

---

### Post by tlan on 2012-07-06
Found this, which resolved most of the issues i was having

[http://hardc0l2e.wordpress.com/2012/05/09/ubuntu-12-04-etcresolv-conf-127-0-0-1-implementation-with-dnsmasq/](http://hardc0l2e.wordpress.com/2012/05/09/ubuntu-12-04-etcresolv-conf-127-0-0-1-implementation-with-dnsmasq/)

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2012-07-06
In my case the service resolvconf was installed with 12.04 and I ended up having to add the lines to the file /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base for them to stay.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-07-07
> **VMOS said:**
> I've just built a 12.04 server and when I open resolv.conf, it tells me

Did you install the server version of 12.04 or one of the desktop versions?  As Charles says, I'm pretty sure the server version doesn't use the resolvconf/dnsmasq setup found on the desktop versions.

However the "[official]("http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/")" method to add nameserver entries if your machine is using the resolvconf method is to add them into /etc/network/interfaces like this:

```

auto eth0 
iface eth0 inet static  
address 192.168.1.2  
gateway 192.168.1.1
network 192.168.1.0  
broadcast 192.168.1.255
dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4  

```

Note the "s" at the end of "nameservers".  You need to use "nameservers" even if you have only one.

---

### Post by eduardoeltortuga on 2013-03-28
Thanks for this information! I am running ubuntu 12.10 behind a old zonet router. I could ping IP but not domain names. This did the trick.

---

### Post by watchpocket on 2014-01-21
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> the "[official]("http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/")" method to add nameserver entries if your machine is using the resolvconf method is to add them into /etc/network/interfaces

Thanks for this, because I followed OpenNIC's instructions for putting  its nameservers in my router's dd-wrt interface, but I found I also  needed them in /etc/network/interfaces to get them to work.

I do have another (pre-existing) problem in that when I go to a site that doesn't resolve, I see only a spinning favicon, a white screen, and my router's dialog box, which pops up prompting me to enter router name & password.  I've clearly configured something wrong in the router, but I don't know what.  I'm on Ubuntu 12.04 using Gnome-classic & FF 26.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-01-21
The Ubuntu box should pull DNS info from the router, which would set dns to be 192.168.1.1, and the router would forward external requests to the static DNS you configured.

There shouldn't be a reason to add the DNS server's IP addresses manually.

---

