---
title: "using Openssh options on a per-user basis"
date: 2011-08-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by floobit on 2011-08-24
I've been trying to explore the ssh options detailed in chapter 8 of Barrett and Silverman's *Definitive Guide to ssh* and was having some issues.  [Here is an online copy]("http://oreilly.com/catalog/sshtdg/chapter/ch08.html") for reference.  For now, I am trying to change the idle-timeout on a per-user basis.  They recommend adding the line [FONT="Courier New"]idle-timeout=20m[/FONT] to the beginning of the line containing the relevant key in your [FONT="Courier New"]authorized_keys[/FONT] file.  This does not work, in fact breaking the PGP functionality entirely.  I have included a sample line from [FONT="Courier New"]authorized_keys[/FONT].  How does one configure the ssh server to use the options mentioned in this book on a per-user basis?  This key was generated by the ssh-keygen on an ubuntu machine and is currently in my [FONT="Courier New"]~/.ssh/[/FONT] directory on a server.   
Original, working key entry:
[FONT="Courier New"]ssh-rsa AbCdEfmanylettersandsymbolsnotincludingspacesasperaPGPkey username@ubuntu[/FONT]
Barrett and Silverman recommend adding the option before the key.  The following attempts at such break PGP and do not affect the timeout:
[FONT="Courier New"]idle-timeout=20m ssh-rsa AbCdEfmanylettersandsymbolsnotincludingspacesasperaPGPkey username@ubuntu[/FONT]
[FONT="Courier New"]idle-timeout=20m AbCdEfmanylettersandsymbolsnotincludingspacesasperaPGPkey username@ubuntu[/FONT]
This does not break PGP, but also does not affect the timeout:
[FONT="Courier New"]AbCdEfmanylettersandsymbolsnotincludingspacesasperaPGPkey username@ubuntu idle-timeout=20m[/FONT]
Many thanks

---

