---
title: "6.06 LTS Server versus 7.04 Server?"
date: 2007-05-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by rgiskard01 on 2007-05-30
What is the prevailing thought as far as using the new 7.04 Server versus the 6.06 LTS Server for mission critical implementations?

Assuming a business implementation at enterprise level, are most people still using 6.06?

Since it is supported to 2011 vs 2009 for 7.04, it would seem most would choose 6.06.

Or is Debian 3 or 4 the most appropriate choice?

Thoughts?

---

### Post by turinglabs on 2007-05-30
I would use 6.06 LTS or Debian Etch for anything mission-critical.

I think the key difference between the two in the server environment is the set date for end-of-life. The availability of security updates in 6.06 LTS for that long a period is quite nice, so use that if it matters. Use Etch if you are comfortable with "you'll get security updates for 3 years or so".  Debian gives you updates for stable and old-stable (so Woody is now no longer being updated), but with no set timeframe on releases, something many managers want for budgeting or planning purposes.

---

### Post by craigp84 on 2007-05-30
Hi rgiskard01,

It doesn't matter a jot which one you go for. Go for the one that solves your problems best. Updates are only a tiny part of any new deployment.

If you're sensible, you wont go live with anything important without a (paid for?) support contract. To do so would be absolutely crazy.

> Assuming a business implementation at enterprise level, are most people still using 6.06?

They're probably using redhat or solaris, but that's by the by :)

Ubuntu server edition is slightly misleading name at this point. It's no more a server distro than the desktop edition - well ok, it lets you choose lamp or DNS server at install time these days but where's the critical core stuff like LDAP server, NFS server, yada yada?

It's getting there, but just now, should probably be called "Ubuntu Basic Edition" rather than "Ubuntu Server Edition". This is especially true of the dapper release.

> Since it is supported to 2011 vs 2009 for 7.04, it would seem most would choose 6.06.

If you're a big shop, and you want 7.04 supported till 2011, speak to canonical. Don't vent on a forum, just pick up the phone, and speak to them. Odds on they'll support it till the heat death of the sun if your willing to pay. And i shouldn't imagine they'd charge too much extra either.

Ubuntu makes a most excellent platform if you're willing to do all the donkey work yourself. It's insanely flexible, unbelievable flexible, and has a fantasic and large community of users.

There are other distros which at this point make running a server significantly easier and cheaper.

-c

---

