---
title: "Question about Installing a Firewall!!!"
date: 2005-05-11
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by FreeEagle on 2005-05-11
Hi all,

I finished today installing Successfully Ubuntu the last Edition, everything look well, no Problem till now, I just noticed that Ubunto does not Install by Defult the Shorewall ( Linux Defult Firewall ), is there any other Firewall already installed, or should i install a Firewall myself, Can anyone help me with this Matter please!!!

If i should install one then which one, and how should i configure it??

I am still new in Linux World....


Best Regards,
 FreeEagle

---

### Post by the_clown on 2005-05-11
[QUOTE=FreeEagle]Hi all,

I finished today installing Successfully Ubuntu the last Edition, everything look well, no Problem till now, I just noticed that Ubunto does not Install by Defult the Shorewall ( Linux Defult Firewall ), is there any other Firewall already installed, or should i install a Firewall myself, Can anyone help me with this Matter please!!!

If i should install one then which one, and how should i configure it??

I am still new in Linux World....


Best Regards,
 FreeEagle[/QUOTE]
 I would recommend firestarter
[http://ubuntuguide.org/#firestarter](http://ubuntuguide.org/#firestarter)

---

### Post by FreeEagle on 2005-05-11
[QUOTE=the_clown]I would recommend firestarter
[http://ubuntuguide.org/#firestarter](http://ubuntuguide.org/#firestarter)[/QUOTE]


thanks, but why not Shorwall ...... ?


Any other Suggestion??


FreeEagle

---

### Post by the_clown on 2005-05-11
[QUOTE=FreeEagle]thanks, but why not Shorwall ...... ?


Any other Suggestion??


FreeEagle[/QUOTE]
 You could always install shorewall, search for it in synaptic

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2005-05-11
All of those firewall rule creations tools are crap.

My personal recommendation is to read teh stuff at netfilter.org and write your own ruleset.  Post it here and I'll be happy to look over it for you.

---

### Post by fishfork on 2005-05-12
[QUOTE=LordHunter317]All of those firewall rule creations tools are crap.

My personal recommendation is to read teh stuff at netfilter.org and write your own ruleset.  Post it here and I'll be happy to look over it for you.[/QUOTE]

Looks like an interesting page (I'll check it out when I get some time) but it's probably overkill for someone new to linux. To the best of my knowledge, the default installation of ubuntu is pretty secure. There aren't many services running (unless you enable samba, install an ftp server or something), so I would say a firewall isn't really needed. Correct me if I'm wrong though!

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2005-05-13
No, you're completely correct.  Ubuntu does the right thing and doesn't need a firewall OOB.

And yes, for someone new to Linux and networking, rolling your own firewall rules can be a daunting task.  However, I'm never been pleased with the rules generated by all of those programs.  They all either do too much, which kills performance, or do things in weird ways that makes it difficult to debug and add new rules safely.

Later, when I have some more free time, I'll post my annotated basic template for anyone who's interested, plus my personal guidelines for writing firewall rules.

---

### Post by az on 2005-05-13
Firestarter is excellent.

Shorewall is excellent.  Install shorewall-doc.  You will need some example files.  Setting up shorewall is as easy as copying a directory into /etc and making a few changes.

The documentation is also really educational.

But, you probably do not really need a firewall.

---

### Post by s0c0 on 2005-05-15
I've always used shorewall even though I consider it's rules a bit backwards.   Nevertheless shorewall is a decent firewall IMO.

---

### Post by YourSurrogateGod on 2005-05-16
My problem is with packets from ARP coming into my machine for some odd reason. I installed shorewall. Whenever I boot or shut down my machine I get a warning saying that shorewall is not enabled at start up (I would love to get rid of the flood of those packets with a firewall.) The warning said that I need to change a start-up value inside of a file (the path to the file is /etc/default/shorewall, sorry that I can't provide anymore details, the warning flashed before me very quickly and I tried to gather as much info as possible) to 1 in order to have the firewall start up when I boot to Ubuntu. The problem is that I couldn't find neither a directory nor a file called shorewall in /etc/default, so now I don't even know how to make firewall start-up automatically whenever I boot my machine, how would you do that?

---

### Post by az on 2005-05-16
How did you install shorewall?  The file in /etc/default should be there.  That is how the package can be installed, but not cut you off if you are woking remotely.  If it were to take immediate effect, you could lose remote access.  

If Shorewall is installed, it _has_ to be there.

Did you also install shorewall-doc?
 
Perhaps you would be happier with firestarter.  It is a lot easier to use.  It has a graphical interface.

---

### Post by YourSurrogateGod on 2005-05-20
[QUOTE=azz]How did you install shorewall?  The file in /etc/default should be there.  That is how the package can be installed, but not cut you off if you are woking remotely.  If it were to take immediate effect, you could lose remote access.  

If Shorewall is installed, it _has_ to be there.

Did you also install shorewall-doc?
 
Perhaps you would be happier with firestarter.  It is a lot easier to use.  It has a graphical interface.[/QUOTE]
I installed it through Synap, as well as the docs. And you're right the directory /etc/default is there and the file shorewall is inside of default. Sorry about that...

I'll try to find a tutorial online about shorewall, maybe that'll help...

---

### Post by YourSurrogateGod on 2005-05-20
One more question...

Do ARP packets eat-up bandwith? The reason why I'm asking is because in my university each student is alloted 5gigs of bandwith per week. When I surf online, I don't notice a performance hit so I figured I could ignore this problem...

---

### Post by YourSurrogateGod on 2005-05-20
What are zones? Whenever I start shorewall, it says that no zones are found and the app terminates...

---

### Post by YourSurrogateGod on 2005-05-21
This is what I get...
```
sudo shorewall start
Password:
Loading /usr/share/shorewall/functions...
Processing /etc/shorewall/shorewall.conf...
Loading Modules...
Starting Shorewall...
Initializing...
Shorewall has detected the following iptables/netfilter capabilities:
   NAT: Available
   Packet Mangling: Available
   Multi-port Match: Available
   Connection Tracking Match: Available
Determining Zones...
   Error: No Zones Defined
Terminated

```

---

### Post by Mcgarnicle on 2005-06-06
Hi  , you don't need to worry about ARP packets. It,s actually normal to see a lot of them.
Forgot to add , if you have an allocated amount of bandwidth ARP packets would not count against it.

---

### Post by asimon on 2005-06-10
[QUOTE=LordHunter317]Later, when I have some more free time, I'll post my annotated basic template for anyone who's interested, plus my personal guidelines for writing firewall rules.[/QUOTE]
Yes, please do so. That would be very helpful and interesting.

---

### Post by YourSurrogateGod on 2005-06-10
[QUOTE=Mcgarnicle]Hi  , you don't need to worry about ARP packets. It,s actually normal to see a lot of them.
Forgot to add , if you have an allocated amount of bandwidth ARP packets would not count against it.[/QUOTE]
Ohh... ok. Something tells me I should get acquainted more with networking :) .

---

### Post by jhezza on 2005-06-12
[QUOTE=LordHunter317]
Later, when I have some more free time, I'll post my annotated basic template for anyone who's interested, plus my personal guidelines for writing firewall rules.[/QUOTE]

Thanks LordHunter that would be Great!

---

### Post by polo_step on 2005-06-17
Yes, please.

---

### Post by desdinova on 2005-06-17
[QUOTE=YourSurrogateGod]What are zones? Whenever I start shorewall, it says that no zones are found and the app terminates...[/QUOTE]

The clue is in the file /etc/shorewall/zones - heres mine

cat /etc/shorewall/zones
#
#       Shorewall 2.2 -- Sample Zone File For Two Interfaces
#       /etc/shorewall/zones
#
# This file determines your network zones. Columns are:
#
#       ZONE            Short name of the zone (5 Characters or less in length).
#                       The names "all" and "none" are reserved and may not be
#                       used as zone names.
#       DISPLAY         Display name of the zone
#       COMMENTS        Comments about the zone
#
# THE ORDER OF THE ENTRIES IN THIS FILE IS IMPORTANT IF YOU HAVE NESTED OR
# OVERLAPPING ZONES DEFINED THROUGH /etc/shorewall/hosts.
#
# See [http://www.shorewall.net/Documentation.html#Nested](http://www.shorewall.net/Documentation.html#Nested)
#
#ZONE   DISPLAY         COMMENTS
net     Net             Internet
loc     Local           Local Networks
#LAST LINE -- ADD YOUR ENTRIES ABOVE THIS LINE -- DO NOT REMOVE

---

### Post by polo_step on 2005-06-17
[QUOTE=azz] you probably do not really need a firewall.[/QUOTE]
This is hard for someone used to an XP platform to accept.

When I'm online, I'm absolutely *hammered* with NetBios probes and various other scriptkiddy trash and malware shenannigans.

This goes away as a concern in Ubuntu?

---

### Post by DJ_Max on 2005-06-19
[QUOTE=polo_step]This is hard for someone used to an XP platform to accept.

When I'm online, I'm absolutely *hammered* with NetBios probes and various other scriptkiddy trash and malware shenannigans.

This goes away as a concern in Ubuntu?[/QUOTE]
 You don't need a firewall because there's one built-in, it's called iptables. And in most cases, you won't need to touch it. Most viruses, malware, etc.. will only work on Windows. 

If you want an interface to use iptables, there's Firestarter.

---

### Post by polo_step on 2005-06-20
[QUOTE=DJ_Max]You don't need a firewall because there's one built-in, it's called iptables. And in most cases, you won't need to touch it. Most viruses, malware, etc.. will only work on Windows. 

If you want an interface to use iptables, there's Firestarter.[/QUOTE]
The stock iptables seem OK?

Seems like every distro has different ones.

Any suggestions for modifications to this set?

Thanks!

---

### Post by DJ_Max on 2005-06-20
[QUOTE=polo_step]The stock iptables seem OK?

Seems like every distro has different ones.

Any suggestions for modifications to this set?

Thanks![/QUOTE]
 It depends on a number of things. Get something like Firestarter. It's a graphical interface to configure iptables.

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2005-06-20
[QUOTE=DJ_Max]You don't need a firewall because there's one built-in, it's called iptables.[/quote]To be clear, iptables is the interface to program firewall rules.

As shipped, Ubuntu doesn't provide any rules, but it doesn't need any either in a default setup.

---

### Post by Ann667 on 2006-07-19
First, I want to say hello, this is my first post in these forums.  

Just coming off of Windows, I’m still trying to get my head around a few things.  I’ve searched through these threads, and I feel my question has been answered, but I want to verify that I understand this correctly.  

I have installed Dapper Drake on my personal computer.  I used the default installation.  How I understand it there is a firewall built in.  This firewall, by default, is enabled and set to deny any access to my system.  Is that correct?  I had the firewall in windows enabled, of course, and set to not allow any exceptions.  The impression I get is that Dapper, by default, is set the same way.  Is this correct?

---

### Post by az on 2006-07-19
> **Ann667 said:**
>  How I understand it there is a firewall built in.  This firewall, by default, is enabled and set to deny any access to my system.  Is that correct?

Nope.  It is not configured to do anything.

The linux kernel handles packets.  Through iptables, you tell the kernel what do with packets.

By default, nothing (services, daemons, programs) is listening to the outside world.  That's why you don't need a firewall.  

> **Ann667 said:**
>  I had the firewall in windows enabled, of course, and set to not allow any exceptions.  The impression I get is that Dapper, by default, is set the same way.  Is this correct?


On an OS that hides things from you, you probably need to have a firewall to control what can and what cannot phone home or otherwise do things to your computer behind your back.

Ubuntu is free-libre open source.  It is very unlikely that any application that you install from the repositories does not do exactly what it is supposed to do.  Malware is not an issue so you don't need a firewall to secure your system.  You don't need a virus scanner program either.

---

### Post by Ann667 on 2006-07-19
azz, thanks for the quick and informative response!  

I have to admit, this is taking a little getting used to, but it's a welcomed change.

---

