---
title: "22.04LTS Pacemaker/Samba cluster w/ AD"
date: 2024-10-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by xjcrazed on 2024-10-16
I'm working on setting up a new two node pacemaker/samba cluster with Active Directory integration using Ubuntu 22.04 LTS. The pacemaker/corosync/pcsd cluster has been created with a shared IP address and is functional. The shared storage has been configured, is being controlled by pacemaker, and both nodes have R/W access to it.

I am in the process of configuring samba. Ctdb is configured/controlled by pacemaker and 'ctdb status' returns OK for both nodes. I have joined the first node to the domain using the cluster name as the machine name (instead of the node name). Unfortunately, winbind will not start, and I find the following errors in log.winbindd:
```
[2024/10/16 14:41:21.359167, 0] ../../source3/winbindd/winbindd_util.c:1376(init_domain_list)
Could not fetch our SID - did we join?
[2024/10/16 14:41:21.359182, 0] ../../source3/winbindd/winbindd.c:1460(winbindd_register_handlers)
unable to initialize domain list
```
However, if I remove the 'clustering = yes' configuration directive from smb.conf, then winbind will start, the node can enumerate AD users/groups, and I can log in via SSH using AD credentials. But this obviously does not fix the second node, nor does it allow for a clustered samba setup. I've spent a while searching, but have not come across any similar issues. As I have successfully done this previously using CentOS, I'm wondering if there is anything peculiar to Ubuntu. With CentOS no longer having a future, I figured Ubuntu LTS was a good replacement, but I'm at a loss as to why this will not work. Any help?


Rob

---

