---
title: "17.04 - vpnc forces all traffic through VPN"
date: 2017-05-06
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kingv2 on 2017-05-06
All, ok I've seen some similar threads, but nothing that seems to quite match what I'm doing, in what I believe to be a relatively simple setup.

Disclaimer - the last time I installed Linux for myself was in the late 90s, I think RedHat 5, and I was just barely getting into dabbling with it.  I've used Linux/Unix as a software developer in work environments, but never dealt with administration/setup.

So, when we use Windows, and the VPN software work provides us, and use RDP, then all traffic through RDP goes through the VPN, but anything from our local home desktops goes through our normal network route.

I've VERY recently installed Lubuntu on an older machine I was given, and am sort of finding my way around.  I installed vpnc, and it works, except that all traffic goes through the VPN.  I definitely do not want this to happen, and neither does my employer!  I use Remmina to do the RDP work.

I have Verizon FiOS, with the ActionTec router they provide, and by default, it sets me up on the 192.168.1.x subnet.  Switching to 192.168.0.x as someone suggested made no difference, so I went back to 192.168.1.x.  Further, it doesn't matter if I start it up with just vpnc, or with vpnc-connect, the results are the same.

I've simply tweaked the /etc/vpnc/default.conf file, and it currently looks like this (sensitive info made generic-looking):
```
IPSec gateway vpn.mycompany.com
IPSec ID the-id-we-use
IPSec secret i-will-not-tell-you
Xauth username my-username
Xauth password my-password
```

Pretty basic.


Here is what my route -n looks like when I boot up:
```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 enp0s15
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     100    0        0 enp0s15
```

When I connect to the VPN, it looks like this:
```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         0.0.0.0         0.0.0.0         U     0      0        0 tun0
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 enp0s15
192.X.Y.Z       192.168.1.1     255.255.255.255 UGH   0      0        0 enp0s15
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     100    0        0 enp0s15
192.168.66.218  0.0.0.0         255.255.255.255 UH    0      0        0 tun0
```

I obfuscated that one line, just in case.  X is not 168.  I'm guessing that 192.X.Y.Z is the IP address of vpn.mycompany.com, though I wouldn't wager on that.

And, finally, when I disconnect, it doesn't seem to 100% clean up after itself correctly, because then it looks like so:
```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 enp0s15
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 enp0s15
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     100    0        0 enp0s15
```


Now, all I really need to be able to VPN to is my work PC, with the hostname of, say,  my-work-pc. That, honestly, is the ONLY destination I need to go through the VPN, and I have to stick with hostname because the work machines are on DHCP.

What am I missing here?  Is there something extra I need to have configured for this to work correctly?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-05-06
*Thread moved to **Server Platforms**.*

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-05-07
I have done a number of vpn setups, but all of them with openvpn and usually just for few clients.

How I understand that most vpn setups work, is that the vpn server is the one "pushing" options onto the vpn clients, and most of these options (if not all, they can't avoid applying). I see it like the server saying "you play by my rules or don't play at all". That makes sense to me because the IT department setting up the vpn server should be the one controlling which traffic gets routed where...

Think about what you said about accessing your work PC by name. That means that the vpn server is pushing onto you at least the DNS servers to use, instead of your own. Because your ISP router and its dns would have no idea how to translate the wotk PC hostname to its private IP. So even though you don't do that config in your vpn client config file, that option is forced onto you.

Now, the difference how windows and linux clients work might come from couple of options, and this is all hypothetical because I don't know your setup. You need to discuss this with your company IT dept and I suppose you already did.

Option 1: They actually have a config option to force the vpn tunnel to be default gw for all client traffic that they are not aware of. But on windows clients it might not show because User Access Control in windows can prevent the client sw to add new route unless it is started as administrator. Try starting it as normal, and as administrator, and check the routes in windows by using also "route print". Is there any different route?
On linux without using sudo it should also not allow you to add/change routes, but maybe you gave this permission to the vpn client when setting it up and it can add the route which directs all your traffic through the vpn tunnel.

Option 2: Again, without your IT dept being aware of it, some options from the vpn server are applied differently on windows and linux clients. They need to look into this possibility too.

That's what I can think of without having details of the setup (and you should be careful which details you share here of course). I would look more on the server config side, not on your client side.

---

### Post by kingv2 on 2017-05-08
Ah, Ok, I think I understand.  Oddly, of the few here who connect via a Linux home machine, I'm the only one with this issue.  BUT... while it puzzles most of them, one has said he had to manually add another entry to the routing table.  He also implied that our IT department has a "messed up" setup for the VPN server, stating "they see Windows as the only existence."

However, your explanation definitely clarifies my misconceptions about this.  My assumption (based on simply guessing) was that this whole thing worked by simply having a backup gateway, backup DNS, etc.  Basically "try going the normal route, but if the host can't be found, use our VPN as the backup."

I guess I had it completely wrong.   Hopefully I can find out more details at work about this.  The only other information I have currently is that the Windows VPN software we use is Global Protect from Palo Alto.  Whatever goes on under the hood with that, I have no idea.

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-05-08
If you have few colleagues connecting from linux, I would get their 'route -n' results both before and after they connect the vpn tunnel.

Then compare with yours, and if need be, set up a static route. That is easy... The difficult part is knowing what the route should be like, and your friend's output can help you with that.

You can post all the routing output here once you have it, if you need advice how to configure the routes. it doesn't even have to be permanent route, you simply add it manually each time after connecting the tunnel at home, if you don't mind doing that each time...

PS. Speaking about routes, it now occurred to me that even if the vpn is forcing a new default route onto you, you can delete it manually after establishing the tunnel. That should work. You will keep the route leading to your office LAN over the tunnel, but just delete the part saying that the tunnel should be default gw for all traffic. But I would definitely check the route results with your colleagues first, then decide what to do exactly...

---

### Post by kingv2 on 2017-05-08
I think I might've tried what you suggested in the PS, but I was sort of going through a chaotic rather than methodical approach, and I believe that it killed my connection to my work PC - likely because the work PC is on the 192.168.31 subnet.

Trying to get some info from a colleague who's remote right now, to see what his before/after routing table looks like.

I'm at the office now today, so I can't try this until this evening at the earliest, but, would, hypothetically, after connecting to VPN, first deleting that default gateway, then, adding another route similar to what's going on with that 192.168.66.218 address, except to the entire 31 subnet.


So, in effect if I can get my routing table to look something like so, should it (theoretically) work?
```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 enp0s15
192.X.Y.Z       192.168.1.1     255.255.255.255 UGH   0      0        0 enp0s15
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     100    0        0 enp0s15
192.168.66.218  0.0.0.0         255.255.255.255 UH    0      0        0 tun0
192.168.31.0    0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 tun0
```

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-05-08
Yes, something like that is what you need, assuming you need both 192.168.66.218 and 192.168.31.0/24 subnets.

I assume all needed routes will be created when connecting to the vpn (but we might be wrong assuming that), so the only thing you would need is to delete the default route leading through tun0.

But you might need adding some route manually too, like the 192.168.31.0/24 you mentioned. It depends how much of it is done by the automatic process, and how much is left missing...

PS. Going back to post #1 where you have the list of routes after you connect the vpn, deleting the default route going through tun0 should be something like this (you have to match the parameters of the route):
```
sudo route del -net 0.0.0.0 netmask 0.0.0.0 dev tun0
```

That should be enough for the command to locate the specific route and delete it. For example, you have two routes for 0.0.0.0/0.0.0.0 so you need to use the 'dev' parameter too, to tell it to delete the route going over tun0.

That command should remove tun0 as default route for all traffic and your internet should work through your ISP even while the tunnel is up. Then you only have to make sure you have all needed routes to communicate with the office devices you need.

---

### Post by kingv2 on 2017-05-08
Well, it looks like the solution I have so far, albeit a clunky one, is based on your suggestion, and, it has to go in this order.


[LIST=1]
[*]vpnc-connect 
[*]sudo route add my-work-pc-hostname tun0 (route -n will show the correct IP address, rather than the host name)  
[*]sudo route del -net 0.0.0.0 netmask 0.0.0.0 dev tun0
[*]connect to my work PC via Remmina - **(EDIT part 2: not necessary to do this before step 3, once step 2 is done, even though route -n shows the IP address of my work PC, I think step 2 somehow gets it to remember the association of the hostname to the IP, and it routes correctly)** 
[/LIST]

When I do that, I get the behavior I expect.

After vpnc-disconnect, I still get that stray extra default route, but with a metric of 0, as I showed in my previous post with all the states of my routing table before.  However, a simple **route del default** gets rid of it, and leaves the other default intact.  I assume it simply deletes the first default type entry that it finds.

I suppose I'll put together a couple of scripts do automate this all. It's slightly odd, but, at least it's a working solution.

Thanks again for your help!

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-05-09
No problem. I noticed what you said earlier about those two default routes after you disconnect the vpn, but also note that in that case both of them have your NIC as device, which means both routes send the traffic through your LAN and even if you don't delete any it should work as expected.

If you have reached your solution please mark the thread as solved, it helps others. You can do that in Thread Tools above the first post.

---

### Post by kingv2 on 2017-05-09
Will do.  It's not an ideal solution, and if I find out what the one guy I work with does (he says he didn't need to take these additional steps I did), I might add it to the thread at a later date for reference.  I suspect there's some oddball quirk to my system that I haven't figured out yet.

---

