---
title: "15.04 Server will not boot after install"
date: 2015-04-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by cryptz on 2015-04-24
I have installed 15.04 server on a dell r720. I am unable to boot the system normally. It worked fine on 14.10.

It hangs at 1 of 2 places:

1. Begin: Running /scripts/init-premount ... done.
or sometimes
2. Begin: Running /scripts/local-top ... done.

no error displayed

The console is unresponsive at this point and i have to power the server off.

If i choose the recovery boot option i can initialize the network and then tell the system to boot normally and it will (some times). once i am in this environment what can i do to obtain better information as to why the system failed to boot last time?

Other times a recovery boot results in a kernel panic, i am not able to scroll up to see the entire message but i attached what i can see.
[IMG]http://www.schultztechnology.com/images/panic.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-04-24
It sounds like this kernel and your hardware are not getting along.

Is it using the onboard RAID controller?  If you can boot into recovery mode, run the command lsmod.  Do you see any of these?
```

mptspi                 14535  2 
mptscsih               31362  1 mptspi
mptbase                86744  2 mptspi,mptscsih
scsi_transport_spi     20014  1 mptspi

```
Those are the kernel modules running on an R410 with a SAS1068E PCI-Express Fusion-MPT SAS RAID card.

What is the line before the kernel panic?  Can you determine if it crashes in response to a particular action on your part?

If it were me, I'd be running 14.04LTS on production servers.

---

### Post by cryptz on 2015-04-24
It has a dell perc h710p controller, which appears to be handled by megaraid_sas. none of the modules you mentioned were listed in lsmod. the picture i have attached is all that i can see as well, the console flashes by too quickly to see anything. This is not a prod server, its actually at my house that i use for testing. any idea what should occur immediately after [COLOR=#000000]Begin: Running /scripts/local-top ... done?

I do believe their are some acpi related issues going on, i may try turning acpi off in grub to see if that resolves anything. The dell server recently had a bios update applied 2.5.2 i cannot say for sure that it isnt a combination of the 2. I updated the firmware on the server right before i redid the OS...

too many new things going on at once =)[/COLOR]

---

### Post by cryptz on 2015-04-24
It may be too early to say for sure, but i have had 2 sucessfull normal boots by setting acpi=off in grub. the keyboard does not work at the login screen on the kernel but i am getting by with ssh for now.

---

