---
title: "11.10 Boot Failure device revalidation failed"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Nekkrist on 2011-10-19
Hi,

I just upgraded to 11.10 and can no longer boot my machine.  I searched and found mixed information on the web and in these forums but nothing I have tried works yet.

Immediately after running /scripts/init-bottom there are tons of errors with all drives on my two AOC-SASLP-MV8 controllers.  On boot, these claim to be Marvell 88SE63xx/64xx chipset.  The errors look like this:

```
ata13.00: exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x0 action 0x6
ata13.00: failed command IDENTIFY PACKET DEVICE
ata13.00: cmd a1/00:01:00:00:00/00:00:00:00:00/40 tag 0 pio 512 in
         res 01/04:00:00:00:00/00:00:00:00:00/a0 Emask 0x3 (HSM violation)
ata13.00: status: { ERR }
ata13.00: error: { ABRT }
ata13.00: revalidation failed (errno=-2)
```

Sometimes it says SET FEATURES instead of IDENTIFY PACKET DEVICE.  There are also a ton of errors like this which I assume are related. (sdp is the boot/root device and is on the controller).

```
end_request: I/O error, dev sdp, sector 810368
```

If I boot in rescue mode I can use any of these drives 100% OK.  They mount, read & write data, everything works.  As soon as booting proceeds past this point the errors are printed and the boot hangs indefinitely.  I think the fact that it all works prior to this stage in the boot points to a software problem.

Let me know if I can provide any other information.  I've uploaded a video log of the boot sequence to [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pFM6DEL26EY](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pFM6DEL26EY)

---

### Post by Nekkrist on 2011-10-19
I installed Gentoo and confirmed that it can boot and access the drives, so it does seem like a software issue.  I would like to get this working on Ubuntu though.

---

### Post by BiohazrD on 2011-11-09
Same issue here, but I'm sure nobody will actually fix bugs since everyone will be in a rush to add new features that don't work in Shuttleworth's next Unity-like abortion.

---

