---
title: "12.04 Server - can't get GRUB to boot from second MD RAID disk"
date: 2014-06-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by philpem on 2014-06-14
Hi all,

I've just had to replace a dead drive in a RAID-1 array on and Ubuntu Server 12.04 system. This is an MD array with LVM on top, partitioned with GPT (the drives are 2TB).
There's a 1MB BIOS_GRUB partition, then a 1GB ext2 /boot, then the rest of the disk is handed over to LVM.
LVM has a 1.7TB logical volume called "root" (mounted as /) and a 4GB swap partition. There's about 100GB of the VG left unallocated.

I set up the new RAID disk in what I thought was a fairly normal manner:
```

mdadm --manage /dev/md0 --fail /dev/sdBAD2
mdadm --manage /dev/md0 --remove /dev/sdBAD2
mdadm --manage /dev/md1 --fail /dev/sdBAD3
mdadm --manage /dev/md1 --remove /dev/sdBAD3
sgdisk --backup=/tmp/table /dev/sdOK
sgdisk --load-backup=/tmp/table /dev/sdNEW
sgdisk -G /dev/sdNEW
mdadm --manage /dev/md0 --add /dev/sdNEW2
mdadm --manage /dev/md1 --add /dev/sdNEW3

```
(sdBAD is the bad disk, sdOK is the one remaining good disk, sdNEW is the new replacement disk)

I then reinstalled GRUB by running "sudo dpkg-reconfigure grub-pc", then selected both sda and sdb.

If both drives (or just sda) are fitted to the machine, then it'll boot fine. If I unplug sda to simulate a drive failure, then GRUB will start up, display the boot menu, start booting Linux and then promptly reboot. This cycle repeats for as long as I leave the machine powered on with sda unplugged. There are no error messages, just a reboot cycle.

How can I get the machine to boot with either one of the two drives (i.e. a single-disk failure)?

Thanks,
Phil.

---

### Post by elico on 2014-06-14
Why would you need to reinstall grub on the OS??
Just run grub-install .. or use the grub cli to setup the device properly.
Take a look at:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Reinstalling_GRUB_2_from_a_Working_System](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Reinstalling_GRUB_2_from_a_Working_System)

---

### Post by philpem on 2014-06-14
'grub-install /dev/sda' followed by 'grub-install /dev/sdb' was the first thing I tried (before dpkg-reconfigure'ing GRUB). That left me with the same problem - sda could boot the PC successfully, but sdb could not.

---

### Post by elico on 2014-06-15
You probably need to replicate\copy\rsync the /boot partition from one drive to the other since it contains the kernel and other stuff.
The /boot partition should not be mdam raid partition.

---

### Post by philpem on 2014-06-19
I've fixed this -- it seems to be an issue with GRUB 1.99-21 (included in Ubuntu 12.04LTS).

Upgrading to Ubuntu 14.04LTS (GRUB 2.0~beta2-9) has fixed the issue and my machine can now boot from any reasonable combination of RAID-1 drives (A only, B only or both).

---

