---
title: "14.04.2 X64 - VPS server remote desktop not working."
date: 2015-06-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Dennis_Beekman on 2015-06-09
Recently i decided to buy a subscription to a VPS server+domain for my personal blog and to play around with ubuntu 14.04.2 LTS Server a bit aswell.

I really only need a plain old xwindow with some menu support and overlapping windows anyway... so i tried and failed to get openbox working.
What do i add to ~/.xsession and /etc/xrdp/startwm.sh to get openbox to boot on xrdp ?

--- Update ---
I got openbox working by adding openbox-session to /etc/xrdp/startwm.sh and leaving ~/.xsession emtpy.
I am left with 2 questions though.

1.
Is there a way to set the desktop size/resolution of the openbox session

2.
i wish to run a few programs when openbox starts, how do i make those execute at session start in xrdp ?

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-06-09
Remember that a GUI interface is a service (or several) and every service you have running is an attack surface.

That said, are you planning to use this over a VPN, NX, or something insecure?

I highly recommend using no GUI and learning to administer your server via the command line.  I even avoid using a CP as much as possible.

---

### Post by Dennis_Beekman on 2015-06-09
I can manage it remotely via SSH just fine :-) 

i was just curious to see if the VPS server could take it or not, seems it can't as it the desktop is very very slow...even with openbox.
Had it been able to take it would have been nice to use remote desktop instead of putty to connect from my MS W****** Surface tablet.... ohh well.

---

