---
title: "10.04 can't access tty, unexpectedly disconnected from boot status daemon"
date: 2011-06-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by elusive_elf on 2011-06-04
I apologise is the title is a bit cryptic, but I'm completely stuck.

I have an older box running 10.04 with two sata hard drives.
I halted it the other night normally, but when I brought it up the next morning it went to busybox and produced the following error:
"/bin/sh: can't access tty; job control turned off"

I've looked up some of the old posts around this issue, but I haven't been able to find anything newer than 2007. Most importantly, I haven't been able to find anything based in GRUB 2.

I've tried a couple of things, but this only seems to make things worse. I used the linux recovery tool and ran fsck but that came back with a clean bill of health. I then ran grub update and that found all the partitions ok, but I'm still getting this problem.

Now when I boot, the only shell that's active is single user mode screen 1, and before busy box comes up, I now have:
"error: unexpectedly disconnected from boot status daemon"

I'm seriously lost, and I'm out of ideas. Any help?

---

### Post by joppuh123 on 2011-06-04
When my server booted into busybox i found out my HDD was broken.
 So if you could check smart status trough a other computer!

---

### Post by satworld on 2011-06-04
it has nothing to do with the hardware its a driver and software problem .
there is a lot of bugs in 10.04 server edition lts
sometimes after instaaling a 2 terabyte seagate drive it wont recognise it .
it wont detect it .
we will wait another 5years until we get support here.
the minium is sata recognition of hard disk drive
it should be recognised immediatly.
but its not the case

---

### Post by elusive_elf on 2011-06-05
so... is there a fix for this or not?

---

