---
title: "7.04 Server hangs every 1-2 days"
date: 2007-09-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by papayiya on 2007-09-21
Hi,

I recently purchased a 'certified used pc' from my work to use as a development server.  I installed Ubuntu 7.04 Server on it with 2.6.20-15-server running.  The computer is slow, but should serve it's purpose:

Intel Celeron 2.93 GHz
256 ram/40 gb hd

The following is installed:

1.  Apache with conf file settings:

```

<IfModule mpm_prefork_module>
    StartServers          1
    MinSpareServers       1
    MaxSpareServers       4
    MaxClients            4
    MaxRequestsPerChild   0
</IfModule>

<IfModule mpm_worker_module>
    StartServers          1
    MaxClients            4
    MinSpareThreads       4
    MaxSpareThreads       4
    ThreadsPerChild       4
    MaxRequestsPerChild   0
</IfModule>

```

2. MySQL tuned for low memory:

```

mysqld_safe --key_buffer_size=512K --sort_buffer_size=100K --read_buffer_size=100K

```

3. Memcached executed as a daeomon to use only 1mb of memory
4. SVN
5. PHP 5

I do development on my laptop and use the server for mysql, svn, memcached, profiling, etc.  I'll know the server is dieing because responses from the database will become very slow.  No matter how slow the server becomes, I can still SSH in, but when I execute any command (like top) nothing happens.  I tried killing memcached, mysqld, mysql_safe, apache2, etc.. but I still can't execute any command.  Furthermore, I can't reboot the computer and am forced to use a force reboot command:

```

echo 1 > /proc/sys/kernel/sysrq
echo b > /proc/sysrq-trigger

```

I can't figure out why this is happening.  Granted I have a low amount of ram, but I'm running the above applications to use a very low amount of memory.  I have looked through the logs (syslog, kern, etc..) but there is nothing of value there.

If anyone has any idea what's going on, I would greatly appreciate it.

Thanks

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2007-09-21
Some tips:
1. Run top from a script with output redirected to a file every hour from cron.hourly.  See if the memory consumption increases without bounds.  The culprit will be at the top.
2. Get a test CD such as Knoppix and do a memory and cpu burn test.

Cheers,

H.

---

### Post by netlogic on 2007-09-22
It sounds like a hardware issue to me. Have you ran memtest for few hours? Are you sure you are using the right IDE and SCSI drivers? If your logs didn't tell you anything, It has to be the hardware.

---

### Post by primski on 2007-09-22
Is your swap partition active? I had simmilar symptoms when swap didnt mount on boot.

---

### Post by g14 on 2007-09-22
Is this a desktop? Meaning are you booting up into X and gnome? If so, it could be tracker indexing files. You shouldn't run X on a server *ever* if you don't have to.

Install sysstat which includes the really cool sar utility. Then edit /etc/default/sysstat and change ENABLED="false" to ENABLED="true".

Then you can see (using the sar command) when you were having problems.

You might also look and see if it is due to massive swapping or whatnot with vmstat. The 'so' portion means swapped out. Large amounts of swapped out memory generally slow down a box.

Check these files:
/var/log/messages
/var/log/auth.log
/var/log/syslog

There will very likely be something in there around the time that the system slowed down. A cronjob running something like updatedb is a likely culprit.

free -m is also a quick way to see how much memory is free vs used. Does any of this help, or do you need something more indepth?

---

### Post by papayiya on 2007-09-23
Hi everyone,

Thank you for your replies.  First off, there is no gnome, this is a server install 7.04.  I ran the memtest from startup for 4 hours with no problems.  When I check 'top' I see a swap space present, but does that mean that it was mounted correctly?

```

top - 03:16:15 up  9:01,  2 users,  load average: 0.00, 0.00, 0.00
Tasks:  52 total,   2 running,  50 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
Cpu(s):  0.0%us,  0.0%sy,  0.0%ni,100.0%id,  0.0%wa,  0.0%hi,  0.0%si,  0.0%st
Mem:    247416k total,   166072k used,    81344k free,    13872k buffers
Swap:   722884k total,        0k used,   722884k free,    87664k cached

```

My fstab is:

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda1
UUID=f1c6ce0f-63be-4a6f-9f0a-9dd1d6f3a761 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
UUID=379c7c2a-6c75-4b57-8b22-af0b0a21a7d6 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0

```

My /procs/swaps is:

```

Filename                                Type            Size    Used    Priority
/dev/sda5                               partition       722884  0       -1

```

I have also commented out all lines in my crontab file.

g14, I installed sysstat and will follow your advice in the coming day to see if I see anything.

Thanks,
George

---

### Post by papayiya on 2007-09-24
I think I figured out what the problem was.  A piece of advice for anyone who has similar problem:  Google for help using your computers model.. I found other people who had similar problems as myself and they fixed it by adding acpi=off and noapic to the boot parameters.

Thanks for everyones help nonetheless

---

### Post by netlogic on 2007-09-24
interesting... that wouldn't make the pc crash unless you put acpi=on with the board that isn't supported by the kernel and turned on the automatic suspend. i think your pc was crashing, because it was trying to go on to the suspend mode and the kernel didn't support your motherboard. that will make your pc hang.

---

