---
title: "6.06 Drake NFS Write Access"
date: 2006-12-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by msimon1960 on 2006-12-16
After 60-70 hours of flipping through documentation I finally cross-referenced enough material on NFS to finally figure out the syntax of setting up file sharing between two identical Ubuntu 6.06 Drake computers.

I now have read only access to the shared folder on the server.  I wanted read/write access and configured the system as follows:

The server is 192.168.0.2
The client is 192.168.0.3

On the server I added the following line to the /etc/exports file:
/home/server/shared 192.168.0.3(rw,sync)

On the client I executed the line:
sudo mount 192.168.0.2:/home/server/shared /home/client/shared

I can see but I can't modify -- when I try to delete a file it says I don't have permissions for the parent folder?

Can someone save me days of random experimentation and random wanderings through masses, volumes, libraries of arcance and incomplete linux documentation and suggest what the problem is?

Matt.

---

### Post by mips on 2006-12-16
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249889](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249889)

---

### Post by msimon1960 on 2006-12-16
This was one of the first sets of documentation I wended through.

I believe I've figured out the syntax and the general procedure successfully by cross-referencing the examples to separate syntax from the variables used in various situations.

According to the documentation all I needed to do was specify the 'rw' switch in the exports file and I'd be good to go.  Apparently Not!

I have full read access to the shared folder on the server.  Partial success indicating the pathing is correct and the networking modules are loaded and functioning.

Therefore, one of the two scenarios would seem to be the case:

1.  Write access is dependent on something else.  The term 'password sync' is used to describe as the first method of authentication but it is completely undocumented.

2. There is a bug in one of the modules.

Option 1 looks more likely but darned it I can find the elusive setting or process.

Matt.  ](*,)

---

### Post by msimon1960 on 2006-12-16
Eureka!

After a gazillion hours of reading, posting, and experimentation I finally found the missing pieces to the official documentation and the rest of the unofficial guides for simple file sharing with NFS.

The RW flag in the /etc/exports file is pretty much useless -- it only grants RW to the owner of the file.  Big flipping deal!

To share a common folder with complete read/write/delete/folder management priveledges you need to use 'File Browser' on the server and change the properties on the folder and click on the permissions tab.  Activate the rest of the permissions that the /etc/exports file doesn't.  You should be able to do this in /etc/exports but I can't find the correct syntax anywhere -- I don't think it exists.

I'm also wondering if all the documented stuff is really necessary -- maybe all the basic NFS configuration can be done from the file browser GUI and the 'Networking' panel under system->administration.  

On the server -- you should restart portmap, AND nfs-common, and nfs-kernel-server in that order on the server before going to the client.

On the client restart portmap and nfs-common -- you should now be able to open the file browser and create folders and files in the shared folder.

Now that I've got a basic share working I'll put it together with the official documentation and try to post a complete guide for NFS file sharing under Drake 6.06.

It shouldn't be this hard.  ](*,)   I expected Linux networking to be far more polished than this.

Matt.

---

### Post by mips on 2006-12-16
I dunno if this would help but I've always find Debians documentation very complete. An area where Ubuntu severely lacks imho.

You could always go over to Debians site and read there docs, might help in future.

---

### Post by msimon1960 on 2006-12-20
> **mips said:**
> I dunno if this would help but I've always find Debians documentation very complete. An area where Ubuntu severely lacks imho.

You could always go over to Debians site and read there docs, might help in future.

Thanks for the suggestion -- for Linxu newbie's like me documentation is key to easing the inevitable learning curve.

Matt.

---

### Post by msimon1960 on 2006-12-20
I spoke too soon -- I'm still having a problem with NFS file sharing.

Although I can create and share folders I have to specifically enable read/write access for every file and every subfolder I create under the shared folder.  In other words, subfolders and file do not seem to inherit permissions from the parent folder.

Does anyone knows how to enable inheritable permissions under NFS?

Matt.  ](*,)

New info -- a CHMOD command is reported to do the trick -- now to find out more about it.

---

### Post by yuanfangcan on 2006-12-20
> **msimon1960 said:**
>  

On the server I added the following line to the /etc/exports file:
/home/server/shared 192.168.0.3(rw,sync)



You may want to try System->Administration->Shared Folders to add the share folder on the server. This will modify the /etc/exports automatically by the system.

---

### Post by msimon1960 on 2007-01-14
It January 14, I'm on my XP box again.

NFS file sharing never worked.

SAMBA file sharing never worked.

I tried Kubuntu 6.10 -- looked really promising but again no networking.  The KDE network interface looked great -- very logical, complete, and intuitive.  Except that it doesn't work.

5 weeks of wasted effort -- I'm totally discouraged.

Has anyone ever successfully managed to connect two Ubuntu workstations?

---

### Post by msimon1960 on 2007-01-16
Two days and no one can report a successful implementation of SAMBA?

I posted the question somewhat tongue-in-cheek -- is there really no one out there that gotten SAMBA to work in the Ubuntu context?

Matt.

---

### Post by MountainX on 2008-04-01
I can empathize with the OP. I've been working on connecting a few Ubuntu machines for weeks.

I had smbfs and/or cifs networking worknig to a point, but the gedit/cifs bug stopped me in my tracks on that. 

So now I'm trying to get nfs networking set up...

My problem isn't really Ubuntu or network file sharing. It is related to little issues that make everything more complicated. One of those "little issues" is that my file server runs Windows Server 2003.

---

