---
title: "6.06 server running lamp and MYTHTV is it possible?"
date: 2007-09-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by volkswagner on 2007-09-19
Am wondering if it is even possible to run a myth backend on a machine running 6.06 server.

If possible should I set it up on desktop version for convenience?

Reason to combine:   I would like to kill two birds with one stone.  I know this is usually not how software and hardware play together.

First priority is to get multiple pvrs working in the house.

Second is to learn lamp as a newbie.  

The reason may be obvious to some.  If I were to have a server running for tv I would like the same 24/7 machine to do the LAMP.

From what I learned, if I want to have the ability to boot clients from the network, dhcp will need to be done by the server not a cheap router.

Any suggestions to fill my needs are greatly appreciated

eric

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2007-09-19
Go ahead, the Linux scheduler and memory manager are incredibly good.  You have to do really weird schtuff to cause a Linux machine to be overtaxed.

Today, I ran a machine at 50% CPU and 100% memory load doing something special and it was still smooth as silk - I could still open a browser surf the web and send email!

Don't try that with Windoze though...

Cheers,

H.

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2007-09-20
Thanks for the reply.

Any advice for pre-install would be greatly appreciated. 

Since both LAMP and MYTH are new to me should i try install 6.06 server and get all things configured before even attempting MYTH on the same box?

Would there be any advantages to install myth right away?  Ex: maybe verify my hardware will work. 

Should I try a myth front/backend setup on another machine then convert it to client when server is up?

Thanks

---

