---
title: "8.10 ubuntu server, can't ping hostname"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mrfr0g on 2008-12-22
I know this topic has been talked to death, because I have done numerous searches on how to fix this problem, but can't seem to. I just setup an ubuntu 8.10 server in a blade. I cannot ping it's hostname from a different subnet.

Here is my setup,

Windows DNS server
Windows DHCP server

myserver - Ubuntu 8.10 Server, with samba file server.

The ubuntu server lives on the 10.0.20 subnet, with a static ip address of 10.0.20.82. It takes the static IP fine, didn't have any problems. I try to ping, "myserver" from my computer, which is also on the 10.0.20 subnet, and it resolves fine.

```

Pinging myserver [10.0.20.82] with 32 bytes of data:

Reply from 10.0.20.82: bytes=32 time=2ms TTL=64
Reply from 10.0.20.82: bytes=32 time=1ms TTL=64
Reply from 10.0.20.82: bytes=32 time=1ms TTL=64
Reply from 10.0.20.82: bytes=32 time=1ms TTL=64

```

When I try to ping "myserver" from a computer on the 10.0.10 subnet, it fails. I have tried to ping the fully qualify domain name, "myserver.mydomain" which fails. Pinging, "myserver.local" also fails.

Also on the 10.0.10 subnet nslookup on the ip address, 10.0.20.82, does not return anything for the host.

I have tried to manually add a PTR(Pointer) entry in the DNS for the server. When I do that, I get a response from nslookup on the 10.0.10 subnet, but I still cannot ping.

The server does not have avahi-daemon installed, or I can't find it. So I don't think that's the bug. I have configured samba correctly from what I can tell, and it is actually only installed  because that worked for someone previously.

My /etc/hosts file is configured correctly, with 127.0.0.1 pointing to localhost, 127.0.1.1 pointing to myserver and the actual ip address, 10.0.20.82 pointing to myserver.

I'm left confused. Adding an entry to every windows host file on the network is not really an option, we have several hundred computers that are served by the DNS. Has anyone experienced this, or does anyone have an option on how to fix this?

---

### Post by bluefrog on 2008-12-22
insert necessary info in the windows dns server

---

### Post by mrfr0g on 2008-12-22
As stated above, I have entered the information in the windows dns. This did not solve the problem.

---

### Post by bluefrog on 2008-12-22
PTR ok but what about the A name?

myserver IN A xx.xx.xx.xx

---

### Post by mrfr0g on 2008-12-22
I totally skipped the Aname. Thank you very much, that solved the problem.

---

