---
title: "22.04 server running out of space on 8GB disk"
date: 2023-01-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jbruyet on 2023-01-25
I built an Ubuntu 20.04 immutable server for Veeam backup storage (no Veeam software was installed).  Before I built the server I checked the hardware requirements and read that it needs 2.5GB ([https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/installation](https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/installation)). I installed the software on an 8GB SD card in a ProLiant server and now that it's been in production for about six months I'm running out of space. I removed the swap space and now I have 892MB free. Is there a way to find out why I'm so far over the expected disk consumption? Any ideas on what else I can delete? 

Thanks, 

Joe B

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-01-25
```

du -h / 2> /dev/null | sort -r | grep -v '/proc\|/run\|/dev\|/snap\|/sys'  | head -n50

```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-01-25
I'd check for snap packages and run-away logs.
I'm going to assume you are storing backups somewhere else, not on the 8GB storage.
For a server physically installed on hardware, 8G is pretty tight.  You can get it down to under 1GB if you use an Ubuntu LXD container for the server.  My smallest 20.04 server that is actually useful is 1.1G of storage.

I'm confused. You mention 22.04 in the subject but 20.04 in the body.  22.04 pre-installs more snap packages and there can be 2-3 version of each snap by default.  To clean up old snaps, I use this:
```
$ more ~/bin/snap-remove-disabled 
#!/bin/sh
set -eu

snap list --all | awk '/disabled/{print $1, $3}' |
    while read snapname revision; do
    echo   sudo snap remove "$snapname" --revision="$revision"
    done

```
I don't remember who I stole this from. Could be from these forums or one of the stackoverflow websites.  It just prints the commands to remove disabled snaps, which happen to be the old ones that have been replaced by a newer snap.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-01-26
I was thinking about other things that might grow and take up space, such as journalctl and apt packages collected through normal updates, that would be removed via apt autoremove.

For journald, by default, there is no SystemMaxUse and SystemKeepFree limits set in /etc/systemd/journald.conf, so it could grow in size... I had limits set on mine on my Rasp Pi install on MicroSD, before I moved it to SSD... This laptop has 3.8G journald size in a year of normal use...

You can check it via
```

journalctl --disk-usage

```

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2023-01-27
What is the output of:
```

sudo du -sh /*; mount; sudo parted -l

```

---

### Post by jbruyet on 2023-01-27
Gentlemen, thank you for your replies. Here are the results: 

**@MAFoElffen**:
> du -h / 2> /dev/null | sort -r | grep -v '/proc\|/run\|/dev\|/snap\|/sys'  | head -n50
I see about 100MB total in these locations
> journalctl --disk-usage
This takes up 653.8 M 


**@TheFu**
Yeah, apologies on the typo for the server version. It is indeed a 22.04 server: PRETTY_NAME="Ubuntu 22.04.1 LTS"

> sudo more ~/bin/snap-remove-disabled
more: cannot open /home/jobee/bin/snap-remove-disabled: No such file or directory

>  ./snaplook
sudo snap remove core20 --revision=1738
sudo snap remove lxd --revision=23541
sudo snap remove snapd --revision=17883
jobee@veeamimmut:~$
[I]This is new stuff to me so I'm not sure if you're advising me to delete these three folders...
[/I]
**@ActionParsnip**
I don't know how to read these results: 
> sudo du -sh /*; mount; sudo parted -l
0       /bin
253M    /boot
0       /dev
5.8M    /etc
140K    /home
0       /lib
0       /lib32
0       /lib64
0       /libx32
16K     /lost+found
4.0K    /media
4.0K    /mnt
284M    /opt
du: cannot access '/proc/110523/task/110523/fd/4': No such file or directory
du: cannot access '/proc/110523/task/110523/fdinfo/4': No such file or directory
du: cannot access '/proc/110523/fd/3': No such file or directory
du: cannot access '/proc/110523/fdinfo/3': No such file or directory
0       /proc
72K     /root
2.1M    /run
0       /sbin
1.5G    /snap
4.0K    /srv
0       /sys
76K     /tmp
2.9G    /usr
2.2G    /var
13T     /Veeam
sysfs on /sys type sysfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
udev on /dev type devtmpfs (rw,nosuid,relatime,size=65882208k,nr_inodes=16470552,mode=755,inode64)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,nosuid,noexec,relatime,gid=5,mode=620,ptmxmode=000)
tmpfs on /run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,size=13187816k,mode=755,inode64)
/dev/sde2 on / type ext4 (rw,relatime)
securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
tmpfs on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,inode64)
tmpfs on /run/lock type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,size=5120k,inode64)
cgroup2 on /sys/fs/cgroup type cgroup2 (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,nsdelegate,memory_recursiveprot)
pstore on /sys/fs/pstore type pstore (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
efivarfs on /sys/firmware/efi/efivars type efivarfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
bpf on /sys/fs/bpf type bpf (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,mode=700)
systemd-1 on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type autofs (rw,relatime,fd=29,pgrp=1,timeout=0,minproto=5,maxproto=5,direct,pipe_ino=31786)
hugetlbfs on /dev/hugepages type hugetlbfs (rw,relatime,pagesize=2M)
mqueue on /dev/mqueue type mqueue (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
debugfs on /sys/kernel/debug type debugfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
tracefs on /sys/kernel/tracing type tracefs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
fusectl on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
configfs on /sys/kernel/config type configfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
none on /run/credentials/systemd-sysusers.service type ramfs (ro,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,mode=700)
/var/lib/snapd/snaps/core20_1738.snap on /snap/core20/1738 type squashfs (ro,nodev,relatime,errors=continue,x-gdu.hide)
/var/lib/snapd/snaps/core20_1778.snap on /snap/core20/1778 type squashfs (ro,nodev,relatime,errors=continue,x-gdu.hide)
/var/lib/snapd/snaps/lxd_23541.snap on /snap/lxd/23541 type squashfs (ro,nodev,relatime,errors=continue,x-gdu.hide)
/var/lib/snapd/snaps/snapd_17883.snap on /snap/snapd/17883 type squashfs (ro,nodev,relatime,errors=continue,x-gdu.hide)
/var/lib/snapd/snaps/snapd_17950.snap on /snap/snapd/17950 type squashfs (ro,nodev,relatime,errors=continue,x-gdu.hide)
/dev/sde1 on /boot/efi type vfat (rw,relatime,fmask=0022,dmask=0022,codepage=437,iocharset=iso8859-1,shortname=mixed,errors=remount-ro)
/dev/md1 on /Veeam type xfs (rw,relatime,attr2,inode64,logbufs=8,logbsize=32k,sunit=1024,swidth=2048,noquota)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
tmpfs on /run/snapd/ns type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,size=13187816k,mode=755,inode64)
nsfs on /run/snapd/ns/lxd.mnt type nsfs (rw)
/var/lib/snapd/snaps/lxd_24322.snap on /snap/lxd/24322 type squashfs (ro,nodev,relatime,errors=continue,x-gdu.hide)
tmpfs on /run/user/1000 type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev,relatime,size=13187812k,nr_inodes=3296953,mode=700,uid=1000,gid=1000,inode64)
tracefs on /sys/kernel/debug/tracing type tracefs (rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime)
Error: /dev/sda: unrecognised disk label
Model: ATA ST6000VN001-2BB1 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 6001GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: unknown
Disk Flags:


Error: /dev/sdb: unrecognised disk label
Model: ATA ST6000VN001-2BB1 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdb: 6001GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: unknown
Disk Flags:


Error: /dev/sdc: unrecognised disk label
Model: ATA ST6000VN001-2BB1 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdc: 6001GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: unknown
Disk Flags:


Error: /dev/sdd: unrecognised disk label
Model: ATA ST6000VN001-2BB1 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sdd: 6001GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: unknown
Disk Flags:


Model: HP iLO Internal SD-CARD (scsi)
Disk /dev/sde: 7969MB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt
Disk Flags:


Number  Start   End     Size    File system  Name  Flags
 1      1049kB  565MB   564MB   fat32              boot, esp
 2      565MB   7968MB  7403MB  ext4




Model: Linux Software RAID Array (md)
Disk /dev/md1: 12.0TB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/4096B
Partition Table: loop
Disk Flags:


Number  Start  End     Size    File system  Flags
 1      0.00B  12.0TB  12.0TB  xfs




jobee@veeamimmut:~$

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2023-01-28
I'd start with /var/log. /var overall consumes 2.2G. /var/lib/ contains stuff you shouldn't mess with, but I check /var/log.

You have a lot in /snap as well. What does "sudo du -s /snap/*" return?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-01-28
> **jbruyet said:**
> 


**@TheFu**
Yeah, apologies on the typo for the server version. It is indeed a 22.04 server: PRETTY_NAME="Ubuntu 22.04.1 LTS"


more: cannot open /home/jobee/bin/snap-remove-disabled: No such file or directory


sudo snap remove core20 --revision=1738
sudo snap remove lxd --revision=23541
sudo snap remove snapd --revision=17883
jobee@veeamimmut:~$
[I]This is new stuff to me so I'm not sure if you're advising me to delete these three folders...
[/I]

The first command is just me listing out the contents of a little script. It is unlikely you've have that named script, but you have my name for the remaining lines.

The script creates commands to be run to cleanup old, unused, snap packages.  If you want to remove those, saving space, then you should run those commands.  Further, you'll need to periodically run the script that generated those commands every few weeks, since snap packages will update and leave more unused packages behind.

You said this was a "server".  Anyone running a server and trying to be this tight on storage really needs intermediate or stronger Linux skills.  Start here: [http://linuxcommand.org/tlcl.php](http://linuxcommand.org/tlcl.php) .

I'm loath to have a script automatically do things, especially with sudo inside it.  That's why at script only prints the commands to be run and doesn't actually just remove the snap packages.  Feel free to edit the script to remove the packages, if you understand it and feel it is safe under all conditions.  I'm not certain myself. It is a bit of a hack and will probably break, doing bad things in the future.  I don't trust snap packages.  If you don't use any snap packaged programs, then just remove the snap subsystem. From what I see in the output, only lxd is a real program. If you don't use it - and you would definitely KNOW if you did you it - then it can be removed, all the other snaps can be removed and snapd can be purged from apt.

BTW, you are right to be worried about deleting directories.  Programs on any Linux system need to be removed using the same tool that installed them. If you use apt (dpkg/aptitude/synaptic/whatever) to install, then you need to use those tools to remove them.  Same for snap packages.  Don't just delete files. That will be bad, eventually, and you'll end up with a system that cannot be maintained anymore. No patching will work, because dependencies that should have been updated/replaced will fail in the next 1 to 26 weeks.

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2023-01-29
The only 8Gb file system I can see is the SDCard for the iLO which you don't care about.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-01-29
Sorry. I thought that others that jumped in would see it and answer you. They didn't.

I see a lot in /var... Next would be to investigate the branch to see what is /var is taking up space...

---

### Post by jbruyet on 2023-02-01
@seijiSensei
Here's the result from your snap command: 
> jobee@veeamimmut:~$ sudo du -s /snap/*[sudo] password for jobee:
4       /snap/bin
414277  /snap/core20
741369  /snap/lxd
4       /snap/README
365408  /snap/snapd
jobee@veeamimmut:~$ ^C
jobee@veeamimmut:~$ 
TheFu also recommended doing something about the snap folder. 
As to /var/log, I've heard that deleting log files is fairly safe because Linux will just create new ones. Can you confirm that? 

@TheFu
Understood about your script and the snap folder. I will run those three commands, see what space I've regained, and then move on from there. As to running a server on this tight of storage, after reading the minimum hard drive requirements I thought I'd be safe with three times that amount. "We retain longer the painful lessons we learn." Sigh, I sure hope so because I've had a few painful lessons along the way and I don't what to relearn them. As to not manually removing Linux files/folders, thanks for the explanation. I had heard that manually removing things was a bad idea, but now I know why. 

@ActionParsnip
Sigh, that 8GB SD card is where my Linux is installed. This is an HP ProLiant DL360 with a 12TB MDADM array for immutable storage for Veeam. It started life as a VMware host server, and that card had plenty of space for ESXi. Like I mentioned above in my response to TheFu, I thought I had plenty of space. I sure I hope I remember the lessons I'm learning with this project. 

@MAFoElffen 
I will take a look at /var to see what folders are bloated. Again, I will most definitely research what can be deleted. AND, if it can be deleted what is the safest way to delete it. 

Thanks all for the feedback and recommendations regarding my situation. I really appreciate it. 

Thanks, 

Joe B

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2023-02-04
When 22.04 first released, I did some testing to see what was the minimum sizes I needed to use for my desired partition setup.  This may or may not interest you since you likely chose the atomic option of everything inside one partition to keep it as small as possible but here is my research results:

[Minimal Size Requirements for Custom Partitions]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2473780&page=2&p=14092594#post14092594")

If your server does not boot in less than 9 seconds, you might want to read through [this post]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2475667") for the "**optional: true**" trick in Netplan.

For log files, you might want to look at [logrotate](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/man8/logrotate.8.html) so you can keep logs for how far back you want to read and compress the rest.  Then configure a script to run that purges the compressed logs if you really need to kill them.

LHammonds

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2023-02-04
> **jbruyet said:**
> As to /var/log, I've heard that deleting log files is fairly safe because Linux will just create new ones. Can you confirm that?

Yes. As LHammonds says, logrotate is your friend. 

Run "ls -lSr /var/log" which will list all the logs in order of ascending size. What one(s) are eating up the most space? Look into them and try to figure out why. Maybe there's a recurring error that needs fixing.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-02-04
logrotate configs are generally handled by package installs.  If you are creating a special server, then you need to setup the logrotate conf for your server logs.

Since 2016, Ubuntu has used systemd which has a binary log file format.  These logs are sent to text-based logs for backwards compatibility. The tool for systemd logs is journald and it has a config file to set limits for how large those logs can grow.  'journalctl' is the command to see and filter logs.  'journald.conf' is the config file to limit the allowed size for the binary logs it holds. The manpage for that file is fairly complete.  MAFoElffen posted a command to see how large those logs have gotten, but there are commands to remove old entries by date or size.  journalctl is a very powerful tool for filtering logs.  Well worth learning.

---

