---
title: "10.04 Unable to start/restart or stop mysql server"
date: 2011-04-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by robhood_x on 2011-04-18
Hi

I am running a Ubuntu server 10.04 and tried to restart the mysql server but got the following error message.

From the command line I ran: 
sudo service mysql restart

And I got this message: 
stop: Unable to connect to Upstart: Failed to connect to socket /com/ubuntu/upstart: Connection refused

Although the mysql server is running fine, I need to restart it as I have reconfigured the settings.

I see from the Ubuntu Release Notes the following message

Upstart jobs cannot be run in a chroot
Upstart jobs cannot be started in a chroot because upstart acts as a service supervisor, and processes within the chroot are unable to communicate with the upstart running outside of the chroot (430224). This will cause some packages that have been converted to use upstart jobs instead of init scripts to fail to upgrade within a chroot. Users are advised to configure their chroots with /sbin/initctl pointing to /bin/true, with the following commands run within the chroot:


dpkg-divert --local --rename --add /sbin/initctl
ln -s /bin/true /sbin/initctl

But I tried this and although it got rid of the error message nothing happened when I ran the command to stop the server again.

Does anyone have a similar experience or can tell me what I am doing wrong??

Many Thanks
Robin

---

### Post by falko on 2011-04-19
Does
```
sudo /etc/init.d/mysql start|stop|restart
```
work?

---

### Post by robinhood_x on 2011-04-19
Hi

Thanks for your reply

sadly no, that is the way I always used to do it, if you use /etc/init.d/mysql restart or stop it comes back saying I need to use Upstart instead. Not sure when this happened, but its just not working now

Thanks
Robin

---

### Post by kingair_six on 2011-04-25
hello,

having the same problem here on a 10.04 Server version. Dunno why this stopped working either, but it's quite annoying since without MySQL, Plesk stopped working as well...

any hint is greatly appreciated

---

### Post by robhood_x on 2011-04-25
Hi

Still have the same issue, does anyone know what I need to do to restart mysql?

Help would be appreciated!

Thanks
Robin:confused::confused:

---

### Post by grimreality on 2011-04-26
I don't know what will happen on your system but I had the same issue and setup open ports everything to try to get it to work.

Was getting ready to get rid of the system and go back to Fedora or Debian when I decided to try one last step which is a last resort and a **** poor answer.

Ran DPKG -l | grep mysql >mysql.txt
Opened the txt file created and then using apt-get remove deleted mysql options and apt-get autoremove.  Once completed rebooted and then used apt-get install to reinstall mysql which gave me the proper setup options such as setting the admin pwd.  This was on a system that did not work from the get go.

---

