---
title: "10.04 UEC installation fails at postfix"
date: 2010-09-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by vlsm5150 on 2010-09-28
Trying to install server 10.04 UEC on VMware 7.1. Installation proceeds without error until postfix. The installer asks for the FQDN and I just leave the default. Installer seems to continue and then I receive Installation step failed. Select continue where I'm brought back to the install menu with Select and Install software option highlighted. If I select the option, it seems to continue the install asking for mail name. The install continues briefly when installation step failed dialog box reappears.

I can continue and select and install software option. Eventual the installer stops asking for information and just fails. I tried moving on to the grub installer, but that fails as well.

I've tried multiple .iso images to no avail. Google hasn't turned up anything.

Asus notebook Intel 64-bit processor Vista

Thanks in advance for any suggestions...

---

### Post by leezx10 on 2011-01-21
Did you ever get this resolved. I'm having the same issue.

---

### Post by geb1 on 2011-11-14
**UEC Installation Issues** 			 			iive tried many times to get uec 10 4 installed on diff tyes of computers 
 I got cloud installed -the first time but  not sure if it included  cluster to walrus etc but I could not connect to it on port vi chrome  firefox etc 
i then installed node but despite best efforts could still not connect to cluster 
I then reinstalled cluster + all except node only to have software install step and grub install fail again and again 
Not sure if it was because I had node installed 
I tried on a laptop and was told that it could not take Uec hardware  error Sorry cant remember error but it had something to do with  virtualisation hardware -it is an older laptop.

I then installed it on pc that had node runningf  quad pc ( on another  hardrive ie i disconnect node hardrive  ) which  runs esxi 64bit no  problems but once again Cloud/*Cluster*/Storage/*Walrus* fails on software install and grub steps . It cant be hardware causing this 
I have now tried three computer and all fail on software install and grub step 

Therefore I am now convinced its a software problem. Possible reasons being 

1. Use of Lvm option 
2. cant be cos node installed cos I disconnect that and tried again and it still   failed 
3. perhaps its something to do with choosing all three options Cloud/*Cluster*/Storage/*Walrus*  i tried only cloud option but this also  failed so it cant be this 
4. perhaps its something to do with IP range I tried other closer ranges that I scanned as being available - no go 
5. perhaps the cloud ip must be outside range I tride this - still no go still software and grub step fail 
6. I checked bios but on the working  Esxi pc running 64 bit -nothing in  bios evens mentions  a virtualisation switch still no go 

I just cant recall if I had selected all three options on the original pc Cloud/*Cluster*/Storage/[I]Walrus on whcih i managed to get uec installed 
I do see that the three options are selected by default so I can safely  assunme that they where selected in the original install - the one that  gave me Http error on port connect 

[/I]*Hope this helps those also stuggling with same problem *
[I]Basicacly Im stuck 

any ideas ?[/I]

---

