---
title: "7.10 server won't power off after shutdown"
date: 2008-01-26
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jamoo1980 on 2008-01-26
Dear all

I know this problem has been reported many times elsewhere, but mostly on laptops or desktops... I have a problem with my Ubuntu 7.10 server (kernel 2.6.22-14-server) : the system will not power off after shutdown, and I have to manually hold down the power button.

It's a very minimal server : it has a graphics card and a network card, and that's it. (In any case, I've tried removing both of these and it didn't solve the problem.) It's not really running anything apart from samba at the moment...

I've been trawling the forums for days trying out every suggestion I can find, but as yet I have still had no success. I won't bore you with all the details just yet, but here are some of my observations.

- If i try to force ACPI the kernel reports : "ACPI: Unable to enable ACPI" at startup
- Probing the apm module hangs the system
- I've tried all the permutations of kernel start-up commands I can think of : acpi=force, lapic, noapic, apm=power_off, etc. etc. etc.

The strange and frustrating thing is -- if I boot the same machine from the 7.10 Desktop CD, I can shutdown and power off from the desktop or the command line!!! So, the hardware is capable.

Any suggestions? I'm really tearing my hair out with this one... I've got plenty more info about stuff I've tried if you want to know more ;)

Thanks :)
James

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-01-27
What specific shutoff commands have you tried?

---

### Post by jamoo1980 on 2008-01-27
Hi there,

I've tried all of the following:

shutdown -h now
shutdown -P now
shutdown -hP now
poweroff
halt

All have the same effect; the system halts, but does not power off.

Any ideas? Cheers :)
James

---

### Post by ssam on 2008-01-27
i have a xeon woodcrest that would reboot instead of halting. a firmware upgrade solved the issue. have you tried that?

---

### Post by jamoo1980 on 2008-01-27
I may try a BIOS upgrade as an absolute last resort but it's a bit risky, and also the motherboard I have doesn't seem to be that well documented or supported.

The thing is, the machine shuts down and powers off perfectly when booted from an Ubuntu live CD, without any need for a BIOS upgrade! So, the current BIOS must be capable of powering off.

What I'm really looking to find out is : what is different between the Ubuntu 7.10 live CD, which can power off the motherboard no problem, and the Ubuntu 7.10 server install, which seemingly can't. As the hardware can do it, I'm assuming it must be something software / configuration related...

Any ideas :confused:

James

---

### Post by jamoo1980 on 2008-01-27
The plot thickens... My machine will shutdown and power off if booted from an Ubuntu 7.10 Live CD. It will shutdown and power off if booted under Debian server 4.0. It won't shutdown and power off under Ubuntu server 7.10.

Given the above I'm convinced this is not a hardware or firmware problem, but a configuration problem of some sort.

At the moment my alternatives are switching to Debian, or to an earlier version of Ubuntu (poss. 6.06) but I'm reluctant to do this as it leaves the problem unresolved... Any ideas? 

Cheers :)
James

---

### Post by ssam on 2008-01-27
my halt reboot problem varied between distros and distro versions.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-01-27
> **ssam said:**
> my halt reboot problem varied between distros and distro versions.
I've seen problem very similar to this, and had to track down the thread in which it was resolved: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=504215](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=504215)

Anyway, the resolution in that thread was a misplaced symlink in /etc/rc0.d. Could you post the contents of that directory?

---

### Post by ljrossi on 2008-02-06
Same trouble, Ubuntu 7.1 also did happend on 6.x , this is content on etc/rc0.d

K01gdm
K01usplash
K09apache2
K16avahi-daemon
K16dhcdbd
K18consolekit
K20apport
K20no-ip
K21mysql
K22mysql-ndb
K23mysql-ndb-mgm
K25hwclock.sh
K50alsa-utils
K50proftpd
K59mountoverflowtmp
K99laptop-mode
README
S01linux-restricted-modules-common
S15wpa-ifupdown
S20sendsigs
S30urandom
S31umountnfs.sh
S40umountfs
S60umountroot
S90halt

Live CD shutdows correctly and power off , but the installed version on hard disk doesnt.

---

