---
title: "10.04 Server Power Management issues"
date: 2010-12-27
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by johmut on 2010-12-27
Hi, 
 
I have installed Ubuntu Server 10.04 on a decent laptop (**Dell Latitude D620**) for an Ubuntu Home Server project. I need the system to **wake-on-lan** when I need it.
 
Detailed Config: Core2Duo T7200 2GHz, 2GB RAM, 100GB HDD, DVD/CD-RW and
1440x900 WXGA LCD panel using **NVIDIA Quadro NVS 110M**
 
I have given up on an earlier attempt based on a Dell C840 because I could not get the 3C905 to Wake-on-Lan. Great was my joy to see the D620 Wake-On-Lan after very little effort (sudo apt-get install ethtool; sudo ethtool -s eth0 wol g; poweroff)
 
Poweroff is not what I want to do all the time, I need the system to pm-suspend or preferably **pm-hibernate** in order to get **PowerNap** to work later on. 
 
 
 
 

sudo apt-get install pm-utils left me with:[LIST=1]
[*]System will pm-suspend but video does not come up when I wake-on-lan
[*]System will not pm-hibernate, drives spin down but power LED indicator stays ON. No response when I wake-on-lan. Hard reboot is the only way out
[/LIST]sudo apt-get install uswsusp did not solve anything
sudo apt-get install vbetool did not solve anything
sudo apt-get install acpi-support gave me /etc/default/acpi-config
I changed 
SAVE_VBE_STATE=false
POST_VIDEO=false
SAVE_VIDEO_PCI_STATE=true
with no better result
 
I am out of options now. I fear it has something to do with the NVidia card ? but as I run Ubuntu Server I have no Nvidia drivers loaded. Maybe I should ? How to do that ? 
 
I am thinking of dropping the idea to run a native Ubuntu Server edition and to reinstall Ubuntu Desktop. See if it hibernates/sleeps/resumes from there ? On the other hand, it's a shame, I would have loved to complete a real server-only project. 
 
I appreciate any help or experience shared. 
Best Regards,
johmut

---

### Post by johmut on 2010-12-28
Gentle bump, anyone ?

---

### Post by egpetrich on 2010-12-28
Your post doesn't say if you can wake from pm-suspend or pm-hibernate from the machine itself. (On my machine, hitting a key or moving the mouse is sufficient to wake the machine from suspend.) If you can't wake the machine locally, then you should focus on that task before getting bound up in wake-on-lan.

There are several threads that discuss sleep states. Here's one that focuses on wake-on-lan, but it's also generally useful:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=814939](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=814939)

There's a giant thread discussing how to get wake-on-lan working:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=234588](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=234588)

---

