---
title: "10.04 server static IP"
date: 2010-11-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by prodyn on 2010-11-18
I've been attempting to figure this out for about 4 days straight, so far it has not been fruitful. I've installed Ubuntu 10.04 server onto my former gaming system, Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU E8400 @ 3.00GHz, 2 cores with 2 GB ram. Overkill I'm sure, especially for a simple personal voip, htpc, storage server.

The problem is only noticeable when I have the vent server running, on the 10.04 server, and I attempt to connect to it through the LAN via the client on my windows computer. Everything works fine and connects, LAN and from the outside, as long as the server is set to DHCP. However when attempting to switch to a static IP address, the vent client will not detect the vent server at all.

Aside from an annoyance at having to stick with DHCP, I am still curious as to why the static settings will not function. Something so simple has turned into something quite difficult.

I can still connect to the Webmin interface and Putty into server with either DHCP or static IP enabled.

I've performed the following troubleshooting steps so far:
1) Followed the directions at [https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/network-configuration.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/network-configuration.html)
2) Edited the /etc/network/interfaces file through the CLI with nano and through notepad on the windows computer
3) Through Webmin I've assigned the static IP, although for some reason it does not include a gateway field.
4) I've rebooted the server
5) I've issued the CLI
```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```Here is the file /etc/network/interfaces:

```
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo eth0
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
iface eth0 inet static
    address 192.168.1.10
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    network 192.168.1.0
    broadcast 192.168.1.255
    gateway 192.168.1.1

```Any help would be appreciated to this Linux apprentice as he ascends the learning cliff. ](*,)

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-11-18
> I can still connect to the Webmin interface and Putty into server with either DHCP or static IP enabled.

If that's true, then there's something up with whatever the heck a 'vent server' is...  Can you elaborate on it?

---

### Post by prodyn on 2010-11-18
> **arrrghhh said:**
> If that's true, then there's something up with whatever the heck a 'vent server' is...  Can you elaborate on it?

Sure, Vent is short for Ventrilo which is a voip program. Here's the link: [http://www.ventrilo.com/](http://www.ventrilo.com/)

Actually, I think I just fixed the problem, though I'm not sure how this occurred.

By following the thread:
[http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1391829&page=2](http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1391829&page=2)

the file, located:  */var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.leases*

```
lease {
  interface "eth0";
  fixed-address 192.168.1.151;
  option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
  option time-offset 0;
  option routers 192.168.1.1;
  option dhcp-lease-time 86400;
  option dhcp-message-type 5;
  option domain-name-servers 192.168.1.1,68.237.161.12;
  option dhcp-server-identifier 192.168.1.1;
  option broadcast-address 192.168.1.255;
  option host-name "serverstuff";
  option domain-name "home";
  renew 3 2010/11/17 23:56:47;
  rebind 3 2010/11/17 23:56:47;
  expire 3 2010/11/17 23:56:47;
}
lease {
  interface "eth0";
  fixed-address 192.168.1.153;
  option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
  option time-offset 0;
  option routers 192.168.1.1;
  option dhcp-lease-time 86400;
  option dhcp-message-type 5;
  option domain-name-servers 192.168.1.1,68.237.161.12;
  option dhcp-server-identifier 192.168.1.1;
  option broadcast-address 192.168.1.255;
  option host-name "serverstuff";
  option domain-name "home";
  renew 4 2010/11/18 11:11:42;
  rebind 4 2010/11/18 20:57:18;
  expire 4 2010/11/18 23:57:18;
}

```I also had the same thing occur as described in the thread, I deleted the file, rebooted the server and now everything is working with the static IP address. I'm not sure how that file was created or why it does not like to cooperate with static IP's.

At any rate, I would like to keep the thread open until tomorrow, just to ensure it does not somehow re-create itself as I'm not certain what process created it. I'm thinking the DHclient is somehow involved, but the basic Ubuntu network configuration thread I linked above makes no mention of this.

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-11-18
Hrm.  Yea dhclient should only come into play if you're configuring the interface via DHCP.  Perhaps vent was getting confused... not sure TBH.  Hopefully it's fixed :D

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-18
That's unusual. Hopefully that's what fixed it. If it's fixed, don't forget to mark the thread as solved. :)

---

### Post by prodyn on 2010-11-18
> **CharlesA said:**
> That's unusual. Hopefully that's what fixed it.  If it's fixed, don't forget to mark the thread as solved. :smile:

Well I will close the thread after all. If it does occur again I will just reference the thread and start another one.

Hopefully this will help someone else as the basic Ubuntu network configuration webpage made no mention of this at all.
 
Cheers!

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-18
Out of curiosity, did you ever have dhcp3-server installed on that machine?

I guess dhclient didn't clean up after itself or something. *shrug*

---

