---
title: "10.04.3 server install"
date: 2011-08-22
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by minerbog on 2011-08-22
Hi All,

I downloaded and burnt to disk Ubuntu 10.04.3 server this very morning. The disk burnt OK with apparently no errors.

When I came install, just after the drive partitioning I got an error saying that libdrm2_2.4.18-1ubuntu3_i386.deb was corrupt.

This was a fresh download this morning and as I said the cd burnt apparently OK.

Any ideas??

Gavin.

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-08-22
Check the md5sum of the download after the download. Not sure if the server version has the option in a bootmenu to check the disks for defects; if it has, use that as well.

---

### Post by minerbog on 2011-08-22
> **Wim Sturkenboom said:**
> Check the md5sum of the download after the download. Not sure if the server version has the option in a bootmenu to check the disks for defects; if it has, use that as well.

Thanks Wim,

The boot menu does have the option to check the disc and I'm getting the same error.

In your opinion though, is it a download error or burning error?

Gav.

---

### Post by minerbog on 2011-08-22
Also, done an MD5 check on the ISO and the CD and the MD5 hash is correct on both.

Just finished a MD5 check on all the CD files from the md5sum.txt file and none returned an incorrect hash.

Any ideas????

---

### Post by smurphy_it on 2011-08-22
If the MD5 is passing the hash check, the file is good.  I'd burn it again, but ensure you burn it at a low speed.

---

### Post by minerbog on 2011-08-23
Just another weird thing going on here before I try the new burn.

The "check cd" option from the menu passes with flying colours on the machine I burnt the disk on, yet on the machine I'm trying to install it to it fails!

Could I have a hardware fault? I have tried 3 different CD-Drives. Before it is suggested, the machine is too old to boot from USB stickM :)

Gav.

---

### Post by smurphy_it on 2011-08-23
Possibly.  I'd start with doing a memory check, to ensure the RAM isn't bad or failing.

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-08-23
> **minerbog said:**
> 
The "check cd" option from the menu passes with flying colours on the machine I burnt the disk on, yet on the machine I'm trying to install it to it fails!

Could I have a hardware fault? I have tried 3 different CD-Drives.
Check the CD in one more machine if possible. With 3 different 'old' drives it's pointing at the one that you used for burning (misaligned laser?).

And if you use that same drive for backups, I would verify them on another machine ;)

I have had similar issues with a floppy drive.

---

### Post by minerbog on 2011-08-27
> **smurphy_it said:**
> Possibly.  I'd start with doing a memory check, to ensure the RAM isn't bad or failing.

Nail on the head. One of the ram modules was faulty. Removed and installed like a treat.

Thanks

Guys.

---

