---
title: ".htaccess is not working"
date: 2011-06-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jackr1909 on 2011-06-28
Hi,

I want to make a .htaccess file and after i make it and insert


[LIST]
[*]RewriteEngine On
[*]RewriteRule   ^([1-9a-z]*)$ index.php\?s=$1 [L]
[/LIST]
It gives me an error 500

Could i please have som help

Thanks,

Jackr1909

---

### Post by regala on 2011-06-28
> **jackr1909 said:**
> Hi,

I want to make a .htaccess file and after i make it and insert


[LIST]
[*]RewriteEngine On
[*]RewriteRule   ^([1-9a-z]*)$ index.php\?s=$1 [L]
[/LIST]
It gives me an error 500

Could i please have som help

Thanks,

Jackr1909

1) What are you trying to do ?
2) What is the config of apache besides the .htaccess ?
3) What are the log error messages from apache ?

br,

-- 
Mathieu

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-06-28
.htaccess is disabled by default.  Look at the contents of /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.  The "AllowOverride" directive which controls whether .htaccess files are permitted is set to "None" by default.  You can either change that to "All" or you can put the Rewrite directives into the <VirtualHost> container that contains the rest of your site's information.  I generally take the latter approach.

---

### Post by jackr1909 on 2011-06-28
I am running this specific site in virtualhost.

The virtualhost entry in httpd.conf is:

<VirtualHost *:80>
ServerName auz.me
ServerAlias auz.me 
DocumentRoot /var/www/auz.me
</VirtualHost>

I Still got the server error

Thanks,

jackr1909

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-06-29
> **jackr1909 said:**
> I am running this specific site in virtualhost.

Yes, of course.  What I said was to put the rewrite directives into the VirtualHost container like this:

```

<VirtualHost *:80>
ServerName auz.me
ServerAlias auz.me
DocumentRoot /var/www/auz.me

RewriteEngine On
RewriteRule ^([1-9a-z]*)$ index.php\?s=$1 [L]

</VirtualHost>

```

and not use an .htaccess file.

By the way, what error do you see in /var/log/apache2/error.log?

---

### Post by jackr1909 on 2011-06-29
hi,

I did that and when i tried to restart apache using /etc/init.d/apache2 restart i got this error in terminal

Syntax error on line 31 of /etc/apache2/httpd.conf:
Invalid command 'RewriteEngine', perhaps misspelled or defined by a module not included in the server configuration
Action 'configtest' failed.
The Apache error log may have more information.
   ...fail!
  the error log shows (for htaccess)
[Wed Jun 29 16:16:17 2011] [alert] [client 127.0.0.1] /var/www/auz.me/.htaccess: Invalid command 'RewriteEngine', perhaps misspelled or defined by a module not included in the server configuration

thanks,

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-06-29
Sounds like you don't have mod_rewrite installed or activated.  Try "sudo a2enmod rewrite" then restart Apache.

Also you need to delete or disable the .htaccess file.

---

