---
title: "[4294672.157000] ..MP-BIOS bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC"
date: 2006-06-07
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Kor on 2006-06-07
I am trying to install Ubuntu 6.06 Server on a Sun LX50 with dual Pentium 3 CPus. When I booted off of the CD I selected the LAMP server option and it said it loaded the kernel and then it said "[4294672.157000] ..MP-BIOS bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC" and i've been waiting for half an hour for it to boot which it sometimes does or not.

---

### Post by Protege on 2006-06-08
I have this problem too with an Intel SDS2 Server Board and dual PIII's but I was unable to get an answer in my post there are other threads with more suggestions but they haven't worked for me. Anyone know what is causing this?

---

### Post by Roobert on 2006-06-16
I have no idea why it's happening, but I had the exact same error, and here's how I fixed it:

At the grub boot screen, use your arrow keys to highlight "kernel /boot/linuz-2.6.15-25-386 root=/dev/sda3 ro quiet splash" (your exact paths and numbers might be a little dfferent). Then type 'e' to edit the boot options; you will be taken to another screen. Append 'noapic' to the end of the boot options, and hit enter. Then just type 'b' to boot. Dapper should then boot normally. 

To make these changes permanent, do the following:

```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

and append 'noapic' to the line the says "#defoptions=", then

```
update grub
```

and reboot. I took this help info from another post, none of it is original, but if I find the original post where I dea this, I will link to it from here.

EDIT: Here's the original link: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=166212&highlight=MP-BIOS+bug]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=166212&highlight=MP-BIOS+bug")

~ Eric.

---

### Post by Undertwotimes on 2006-07-20
I just encountered this problem, and solved it by going into BIOS and disabling IOAPIC.  This does turn off apic which may be a problem for some people.

---

### Post by grizz_granlien on 2006-08-15
I have set up a computer custom built 
with a ASUS M2N32WF Pro. WS (Work Staion) motherboard
and 2 WD 320 SATA II SE Hard drives stiped 
a SATA Plexter DVD DL RW 
2 Gig of OCZ Ram platnum whatever
any ways I get MP-BIOS:8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC timer don't work
and I looked in the BIOS and I can't disable APIC it says Enable but it is grayed out...

any sugestions please E-Mail me [email]wgranlien@shaw.ca[/email] or call me 403-388-4348 I can call back free of charge in Canada or USA or Portarico.. please respond and if I get it going I will post my answers as well and if you want walk you threw it on the phone...

P.S. Have fun and thanks from the Grizz from the Grizz's Den Computers...

(Walter L. Granlien)

---

### Post by grizz_granlien on 2006-08-15
I forgot to mention ion that computer it is a AMD2 Dual core 4200+

---

### Post by CzarAlex on 2006-09-18
It appears as if a lot of people are having this error and that numerous fixes are available but may not work for everyone (like me). Any word on if this`ll be fixed in Edgy Eft? Or am I destined to stay with Breezy Badger?

---

### Post by Erian on 2006-09-18
I've had this problem as well on my A64x2 4600. It is possible to fix it during the install by pressing f6 and adding the "noapic" option before the final -- in the text line with boot options.

So your line should something look like:

```
xxxxxxxx xxxxx xxx xx xxx xxxx noapic--
```

Then press enter and the live boot *should* hopefully start normally. At least it did for me.

---

### Post by davenet on 2006-10-12
Glad I found this thread. I am installing on a IBM xServer 342. My first thought was to update all bios/firmware, which I did. But the error did not go away. I followed the suggestion to add the 'noapic' directive before the '--' at the end. Bam, it worked!!

David

---

### Post by bmwboy on 2006-10-20
Good job on finding that EZ fix!
Saved me a night filled with headaches!

---

### Post by Delphinus on 2007-01-21
I've encounted the same issue on an Asus M2N32-SLI Deluxe.

After updating BIOS to current - 0903 - the issue has been resolved.

---

### Post by Gizmokid2005 on 2007-01-29
Just thought that I'd add, I was having this issue, but adding noapic at the end took care of it!

Thanks!

---

### Post by nevaziah on 2007-03-21
sadly enough, my mobo doesnt have the option to disable apic. its an ASUS P5NE-SLI.
also, i cant edit files because my system boots in the shell!! 

plz help?

---

### Post by AlHunt on 2007-04-23
I struggled with random lockups under Edgy and then Feisty until "noapic" cured it for me.  I had the 8254 timer message with Feisty but don't recall it with Edgy.

Machine is a Toshiba A75-S231 Laptop.

---

### Post by se2131 on 2007-04-24
I had the same problem too, and I also have a Toshiba A75 series computer.  Going through this fixed it nicely.  Thanks

---

### Post by diskotek on 2007-05-01
i faced with that error; i made a clean instal of feisty fawn; but this error occured after i select OS in grub. the system start well then but it just delay the start-up.

my spec: 
board: MSI RS482M4-IL 
with AMD64 athlon +3000
512 RAM
etc..

---

### Post by diskotek on 2007-05-01
i do not understand what to do with grub.lst: can someone explain me bit more?

---

### Post by diskotek on 2007-05-01
i applied the solution by editing grub.lst...but the computer hangs after booting..
(it hanged at splah-screen of ubuntu)... any idea?

---

### Post by Klargodut on 2007-05-04
I also get this message on boot, both with the live cd and when booting from harddrive when having installed version 7.04.

With the live-cd, everything runs smoothly but when I am running from the HDD, it appears as if the processor is underclocked to 1 MHz! Everything I do takes about one second to respond. If i move the mouse, after one second it jumps to a new point on the screen and if I, for instance, press the caps lock key, I have to wait one second for the LED to light up. Adding 'noapic' to the end of the bootstring doesn't help, but makes the system freeze after writing 'Starting up...' to the screen. This renders the system practically unusable.

The hardware I am trying to run Ubuntu on is a Packard Bell MV35-003: [http://support.packardbell.com/se/item/index.php?m=home&sn=745400010234](http://support.packardbell.com/se/item/index.php?m=home&sn=745400010234)

Does anyone have a way of solving this?

---

### Post by Jorge32 on 2007-05-06
> **diskotek said:**
> i applied the solution by editing grub.lst...but the computer hangs after booting..
(it hanged at splah-screen of ubuntu)... any idea?
Does anybody found the solution to this problem?

---

### Post by Wyldeman on 2007-05-07
This is from FOOTER and it worked for me. ADM dual core 5200 myself
> You can add it at boot time by hitting "e" on the kernel you want to boot and I believe it's the 2nd line down (the long one) that starts with kernel. At the end, you just add "noapic" without the quotes, leave a space between it and the last parameter that's already there (probably "splash"?).
 boot to the cd
go down at least on with the arrow
select F6
arrow down to the second line as the top will light up as you go down
at the end of the command do as Footer said add " noapic " without the quotes
Worked for me and i tried all other things
Thanks Footer!!
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=334083&highlight=MP+bug%3A+8254+timer+to+IO-APIC](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=334083&highlight=MP+bug%3A+8254+timer+to+IO-APIC)
:guitar: :guitar: 

Thier is NEVER a dumb question!

---

### Post by mvalderrama on 2007-05-12
Solucione el problema del error de sicronizacion del timer en una MOBO ASUS P5NSLI con mensaje de error "Timer not connected to IO-APIC" deshabilitando desde el BIOS la entrada "HPET Support" ubicada en "Power-->APM Configuration-->HPET Support".

Tengo la ultima actualizacion de mi BIOS y supongo que esa es la razon por la que me aparece el error, pues el error es debido a un incremento en el rendimiento del timer para ser compatible con Windows Vista.

Espero que esta solucion les sirva a otro tipo de MOBO's, especialmente las ASUS

Mi configuracion es:

MOBO: P5NSLI
Procesador: Intel Core 2 Duo E6300
Memoria: 2 modulos Kingston DDR2 de 512MB a 800MHz
Disco Duro: 160GB SATA Seagate
Sistema de Enfriamiento: Cooler MARS [RR-CCX-W9U1-GP]

---

### Post by mvalderrama on 2007-05-12
> **mvalderrama said:**
> Solucione el problema del error de sicronizacion del timer en una MOBO ASUS P5NSLI con mensaje de error "Timer not connected to IO-APIC" deshabilitando desde el BIOS la entrada "HPET Support" ubicada en "Power-->APM Configuration-->HPET Support".


Solution from [http://docs.sun.com/source/819-5032-13/chapter2.html](http://docs.sun.com/source/819-5032-13/chapter2.html)
Random Panics Might Occur When HPET Timer is Enabled (6478355) 
The interaction of some operating systems with the high-performance event timer (HPET) on this server might result in system panics (reboots). When this happens, the following message appears after the last POST window during a boot process, and in the /var/log/messages file: 

MT-BIOS bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC

 Workaround 

If this problem occurs, you can disable the HPET timer. This setting is in the BIOS Configuration Utility’s Advanced menu, on the ACPI Configuration Screen. 

Enter the BIOS Setup utility by pressing the F2 key while the system is booting up and performing POST. 

On the BIOS Main Menu screen, select the Advanced tab to open the Advanced menu screen. 

On the Advanced menu screen, select ACPI Configuration. 

On the ACPI configuration screen, select Advanced ACPI Configuration. 

Change the field to Disabled for ACPI HPET Support. 

Press and release the right arrow key until the Exit menu screen is displayed. 

Follow the instructions on the Exit menu screen to save your changes and exit the Setup utility.

---

### Post by mousejunkie on 2007-05-21
I added the option noapic, and now instead of "timer not not connected to IO-APIC" I get:

ACPI: SCI (IRQ21) allocation failed
ACPI: Unable to start the ACPI Interpreter

Will I ever be able to install Ubuntu Studio? I have an Acer Ferrari 4005 by the way - Truion ML-37, 1 GB RAM, ATI X700 with 128 dedicated

---

### Post by perrybergmann on 2007-06-04
I have no idea why it's happening, but I had the exact same error, and here's how I fixed it:

At the grub boot screen, use your arrow keys to highlight "kernel /boot/linuz-2.6.15-25-386 root=/dev/sda3 ro quiet splash" (your exact paths and numbers might be a little dfferent). Then type 'e' to edit the boot options; you will be taken to another screen. Append 'noapic' to the end of the boot options, and hit enter. Then just type 'b' to boot. Dapper should then boot normally. 

To make these changes permanent, do the following:

I did this, but the options are as follows:

Ubuntu, Kernel 2.6.20-16-generic
Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-16-generic(recovery mode)
ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic
ubuntu, kernel 2.6.20-15-generic(recovery mode)

Which of these do I need to edit to change this around?

---

### Post by clarknova on 2007-06-15
I'm also getting this message during boot. From dmesg:

>  ACPI: Looking for DSDT ... not found!
[   20.669490] ..MP-BIOS bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC
[   20.669524]  failed.
[   20.669525] timer doesn't work through the IO-APIC - disabling NMI Watchdog!
[   20.673040] Uhhuh. NMI received for unknown reason 2c.
[   20.673042] Dazed and confused, but trying to continue
[   20.673043] Do you have a strange power saving mode enabled?
[   20.849637] Using local APIC timer interrupts.
[   20.902081] Detected 12.527 MHz APIC timer.

My system appears to boot and run normally, however there's something disconcerting about running with a system that's dazed and confused, especially in a production environment.

And it seems to me a person would want APIC enabled if possible, no? What exactly does a person lose by using the "noapic" boot option? What about the alternative, assuming it works, of disabling the HPET in the bios?

The system in question:
A64x2 4200 EE (Windsor)
Asus M2NBP-VM CSM (nvidia quadro/430b)
Kingston ddr2-667 ecc dual channel
Ubuntu 6.06.1 amd64 server

db

---

### Post by pickarooney on 2007-06-20
I get this message on bootup but it doesn't seem to hinder Kubuntu starting up. Is there any point in me messing with GRUB or the BIOS?

---

### Post by TechZilla on 2007-07-15
MP-BIOS bug: 8254 timer not connected to
...
I answered all the questions well, like what is it, why ....

[http://techzilla.info/viewtopic.php?t=275]("http://techzilla.info/viewtopic.php?t=275")

---

### Post by RobMBaker on 2007-07-20
I'm using a Toshiba Satellite Pro L20 - and I have a choice between NOT using APIC (so using the noapic boot option) and having my ethernet stop working entirely; or I CAN use APIC and have that error message and a system that randomly drops the whole USB - all ports suddenly die at the laptop's apparent whim.

Anyone have another solution that doesn't use noapic?

---

### Post by com64 on 2007-10-15
Hey all

This is driving me crazy - i'm having heaps of problems with both feisty and gutsy... they fall over all the time.  I'm wondering if it has anything to do with this issue.  

What exactly IS apic? Something to do with a timer?  Something to do with power/suspend?  It's very confusing - are APIC and ACPI the same thing?  I've found ACPI in my BIOS, but cant do much with it - just switch it from POS to STR...

```

Gigabyte GA-M59SLI-S5
Athlon 64 X2 3800+
2GB Corsair Dominator DDR2-800
256MB DDR3 Geforce 7600GT
2x250GB Seagate SATAII's

```

Error:

```

Starting up...
[0.500000] ..MP-BIOS bug: 8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC
[0.563000] Kernal panic - not syncing: IO-APIC + timer doesn't work! Boot with apic=debug and send a report. Then try booting with the 'noapic' option

```

Now, if I try:

<7-71e9-4cba-a663-793192093220 ro apic=debug quiet splash

it gives me the exact same message as above.  Does anybody know what apic=debug does? And whether or not it outputs anything anywhere?

There are plenty of posts from people saying they have a problem, and plenty of people saying "just use noapic" but is anybody interested in helping to find a fix that doesnt just ignore it?

---

### Post by ReccaSquirrel on 2007-10-15
I just switched to ubuntu recently.  My first couple of runnings were without an issue.  I ran into the IO-APIC just today for the first time.

The noapic trick fixes my problem 30% of the time.  The rest of the time it seems to just hang on Starting Up.  I'm reluctant to make the change permanent when the fix doesn't seem to get it every time.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by carstanje on 2007-11-16
APIC is loaded as soon as you see the GRUB menulist during boot. Just wait a couple seconds for APIC to load and then select your boot option and hit enter.

Sounds stupid but it works ;)

---

### Post by duruttye on 2007-11-17
hey!

Another user with the same issue, but I'm having it at the first time when I put in the ubuntu cd. I can't find anything related to the APIC stuff in the bios, and the noapic on the boot doesn't help.

I have a dell inspiron 1501
The stupid vista works...

---

### Post by x0as on 2007-11-17
I had a couple of servers with this problem that wouldn't boot with noapic, re-installed them with 64bit installs and they boot fine.

---

### Post by x0as on 2007-11-25
Just upgraded to 2.6.24-rc3 and it boots fine without adding noapic.

---

### Post by ashmew2 on 2007-12-10
Well i have Edgy 32 Bit installed on an A M D X2 3800+ and i was having the same bug after installing Edgy....Whenever i selected the Edgy Kernel at the boot screen , it gave me this error...
What i did was , i entered the recovery mode and then i was 

root@hostmachine#:

All i did was i typed in "gdm" and pressed Enter...
And Boom! The graphical interface loaded up and its running as great as ever.....If this worked for me , I'm pretty sure it will work for everyone else...Please verify this..

---

### Post by arvinoids on 2007-12-10
> **ashmew2 said:**
> Well i have Edgy 32 Bit installed on an A M D X2 3800+ and i was having the same bug after installing Edgy....Whenever i selected the Edgy Kernel at the boot screen , it gave me this error...
What i did was , i entered the recovery mode and then i was 

root@hostmachine#:

All i did was i typed in "gdm" and pressed Enter...
And Boom! The graphical interface loaded up and its running as great as ever.....If this worked for me , I'm pretty sure it will work for everyone else...Please verify this..

Doesn't this hurt the system? I mean, you are logged in as root when using recovery mode. You can potentially break the system if something goes wrong. By the way, I have the same APIC problem that was solved by simply adding the *'noapic'* thing on the kernel bootup.

---

### Post by ashmew2 on 2007-12-11
Well it doesnt usually go all wrong with me but still if u want to be in ur limits :P 
Here ya go , 

When your root in the command line u type in the following : 

sudo -i -u <username>

Example : My username is ashish so i put

```
sudo -i -u ashish
```

to become a normal user and then

```
sudo gdm
```

Any problems wid that ?


And also , I cant add 'noapic' option because if i do , No sound is detected , no hard drive ..lol...

---

### Post by metzjtm on 2007-12-28
What it is:
[http://www.lesswatts.org/projects/acpi/](http://www.lesswatts.org/projects/acpi/)

How to fix it.
[http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Fix_Common_ACPI_Problems](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Fix_Common_ACPI_Problems)

More info:
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/mp-bios-bug-8254-timer-not-connected-use-noapic-option-to-boot-591891/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-hardware-18/mp-bios-bug-8254-timer-not-connected-use-noapic-option-to-boot-591891/)






Freedom an't Free

---

### Post by AshG on 2008-01-22
I am trying to install Ubuntu and I keep getting the following message:


[I]
(0.476000)..MP-BIOS bug:8254 timer not connected to IO-APIC
(0.476000) Kernel panic- not syncing: IO-APIC timer doesn't work! Boot with apic+debug and send a report. Then try booting with the 'noapic' option.[/I]

I am new to this and can anyone help without the jargon?

AshG

---

### Post by JayBeeMedz on 2008-02-14
I'm happy to report that updating my BIOS from Version 0405 to Version 0901 has kept the "not connected to IO-APIC" messages at bay.  

The APIC based errors caused serious issues after installation of Ubuntu 7.10.  The system would usually boot OK, but attempts to shut down or restart the machine failed horribly.

Now my system is complaining about "kernel direct mapping tables up to..." but that seems to be a less serious issue.

This all relates to a systems based on the ASUS M2NPV-VM Motherboard.

---

### Post by patryk77 on 2008-03-31
had the same problem on an asus m2n board.... disapling ACPI APIC support in the bios fixed it

---

### Post by diskotek on 2008-06-14
> **patryk77 said:**
> had the same problem on an asus m2n board.... disapling ACPI APIC support in the bios fixed it

is it ok to disable it?

---

### Post by diskotek on 2008-06-24
when i add --nosplash my computer hangs at splash screen :(

---

