---
title: "GRUB not loading."
date: 2011-05-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
I'm having this issue installing Ubuntu 11.04 (Server, x86). I put the CD in, and the install completes successfully, but when the disk is not in the drive, the computer finds nothing to boot from (I have 1 HDD installed, it is the only thing in the list to boot, and the machine is an IBM InteleStation M Pro). The curious thing is, when I put the Ubuntu CD back in, and choose "boot from first hard drive", GRUB comes up, and it boots right into Ubuntu like nothing ever was wrong. This is the only way I can see to boot the system, but this won't work in case the system ever goes down, when the power is restored I can't go back to the machine and boot from CD, since this machine will be largely headless. Anyone have any ideas on how to resolve this problem?

---

### Post by An Sanct on 2011-05-30
Boot into the Live CD and reinstall GRUB.

I'm only guessing here, but it seems, that your install somehow *forgot* to write GRUB or deleted it.

I found [this]("http://scottiestech.info/2011/05/04/grub-problem-in-ubuntu-server-11-04-natty-narwhal/"), it might be of relevance. :)

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
> **An Sanct said:**
> Boot into the Live CD and reinstall GRUB.

I'm only guessing here, but it seems, that your install somehow *forgot* to write GRUB or deleted it.

I found [this]("http://scottiestech.info/2011/05/04/grub-problem-in-ubuntu-server-11-04-natty-narwhal/"), it might be of relevance. :)
I've already done that, GRUB appears ot be there, because when I choose the option to boot to first disk, GRUB shows up. It seems there is a problem getting BIOS to kick over to GRUB, and I have no clue how to fix that.

In that link, the problem he describes seems to be my issue, however, I don't have a RAID-Anything setup, it's just a plain install on a single 80GB PATA disk.

---

### Post by ruffEdgz on 2011-05-30
Just curious but can you run this command on the system having the GRUB problem and post it on the forum:
```

grep -E "^GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=" /etc/default/grub

```
When looking at a server like yours, I noticed that the default settings for grub are set to 0 which means it will boot up into the default grub option which usually is set to the installed OS.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
> **ruffEdgz said:**
> Just curious but can you run this command on the system having the GRUB problem and post it on the forum:
```

grep -E "^GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=" /etc/default/grub

```When looking at a server like yours, I noticed that the default settings for grub are set to 0 which means it will boot up into the default grub option which usually is set to the installed OS.
I suppose it runs, it doesn't produce an error, but it ha sno other output either. when I press Enter, it just gives me my name@host:~$ prompt.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-30
What exactly do you see when it doesn't boot? Blank screen/flashing cursor/Grub rescue prompt?

The symptom that it boots when the CD is there but not otherwise, and that you are using PATA suggests a drive lettering issue. When the CD is removed the letters get changed by the bios and so Grub can't find the root partition. What you actually see on the screen will support this theory or not.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
GRUB Hard Disk Error

Then a blinking cursor. I cannot do anything past this point. I have to CTRL+ALT+DEL to reboot.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-30
The fact that there is a Grub error message shows that grub has been partly booted. This is consistent with the theory that it can't find the root partition, because it is has the wrong disk number. May be something else, but this is my best guess so far.

This is a weirdness older motherboards and bioses sometimes exhibit, especially with PATA. Has your mobo got SATA too and what is the CD plugged in to?

We need to know what disk number Grub has when it boots ok (when the CD is present), and then figure out how to change this number.

If you boot into Ubuntu (with CD present) would you post the output of 'sudo fdisk -l'? (post it in code tags (use the # above)

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
I took a photo: [http://img189.imageshack.us/img189/5639/dscn0513c.jpg]("http://img189.imageshack.us/img189/5639/dscn0513c.jpg")

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-30
That photo shows linux on disk sda partition 1, which is what it ought to look like.

While you are in Ubuntu, would you do
'grub-install /dev/sda'
'sudo update-grub'

And then try and reboot without the CD?

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
Doing that produces the same error.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-30
It might be helpful at this point to see the contents of RESULTS.txt. This file is generated by downloading and running the 'boot info script'. It will provide a lot of useful information about the status of your boot files.

Boot an Ubuntu LiveCD, then click on the 'BIS' link in my signature line to take you to the download site and for instructions on how to run it.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-05-30
Your screen shot shows hd0,0 which is old grub. Are you booting with grub legacy. With 11.04 I would expect grub2.

The server/alternate install is not a liveCD. Do you also have a liveCD? If so run this:

Boot Info Script courtesy of forum members meierfra & Gert Hulselmans
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Paste results.txt in a New Reply, then highlight entire file and click on # in edit panel(code tags) to make it easier to read.
Or You can generate the tags first by pressing the # icon in the New Reply Edit toolbar and then paste the contents between the generated [ code] paste here [ /code] tags.
V60 has improved formating and requires code tags to make it legible. New Version is a zip file that you have to extract to get .sh to run.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
> **oldfred said:**
> Your screen shot shows hd0,0 which is old grub. Are you booting with grub legacy. With 11.04 I would expect grub2.


I've been dicking around with this for a while now, so it's entirely possible for an old package to have been installed. I'll have to find a live CD somewhere. I'll get back to you once I find one.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
```
                  Boot Info Script 0.60    from 17 May 2011


============================= Boot Info Summary: ===============================

 => Grub Legacy (v0.97) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the 
    same drive in partition #1 for /boot/grub/stage2 and /boot/grub/menu.lst.

sda1: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 11.04
    Boot files:        /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab 
                       /boot/grub/core.img

sda2: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  Unknown
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

============================ Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda _____________________________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders, total 156301488 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System

/dev/sda1    *          2,048   154,204,159   154,202,112  83 Linux
/dev/sda2         154,206,206   156,301,311     2,095,106   5 Extended
/dev/sda5         154,206,208   156,301,311     2,095,104  82 Linux swap / Solaris


"blkid" output: ________________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs   
/dev/sda1        2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809   ext4       
/dev/sda5        d3266a59-5f78-4d59-a04e-09e4004138c3   swap       

================================ Mount points: =================================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (ro,noatime)
/dev/sr0         /cdrom                   iso9660    (ro,noatime)


=========================== sda1/boot/grub/menu.lst: ===========================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-legacy-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not use 'savedefault' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default        0

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout        3

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title        Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root        (hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader    +1
#
# title        Linux
# root        (hd0,1)
# kernel    /vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809 ro

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## specify if running in Xen domU or have grub detect automatically
## update-grub will ignore non-xen kernels when running in domU and vice versa
## e.g. indomU=detect
##      indomU=true
##      indomU=false
# indomU=detect

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options
## can be true or false
# savedefault=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title        Ubuntu 11.04, kernel 2.6.38-8-generic-pae
uuid        2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic-pae root=UUID=2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809 ro quiet splash 
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic-pae
quiet

title        Ubuntu 11.04, kernel 2.6.38-8-generic-pae (recovery mode)
uuid        2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic-pae root=UUID=2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809 ro  single
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic-pae

title        Chainload into GRUB 2
root        2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
kernel        /boot/grub/core.img

title        Ubuntu 11.04, memtest86+
uuid        2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
kernel        /boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=========================== sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}

function load_video {
  insmod vbe
  insmod vga
  insmod video_bochs
  insmod video_cirrus
}

insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=auto
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en_US
insmod gettext
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=2
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
if [ ${recordfail} != 1 ]; then
  if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then
    if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then
      if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then
        set linux_gfx_mode=keep
      else
        set linux_gfx_mode=text
      fi
    else
      set linux_gfx_mode=text
    fi
  else
    set linux_gfx_mode=keep
  fi
else
  set linux_gfx_mode=text
fi
export linux_gfx_mode
if [ "$linux_gfx_mode" != "text" ]; then load_video; fi
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.38-8-generic-pae' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic-pae root=UUID=2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809 ro   quiet
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic-pae
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.38-8-generic-pae (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.38-8-generic-pae ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic-pae root=UUID=2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809 ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic-pae
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###
### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
if [ -f  $prefix/custom.cfg ]; then
  source $prefix/custom.cfg;
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ================================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
/dev/sda1       /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
/dev/sda5       none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ====================

           GiB - GB             File                                 Fragment(s)

  30.127708435 = 32.349380608   boot/grub/core.img                             1
  30.127937317 = 32.349626368   boot/grub/grub.cfg                             1
  20.137775421 = 21.622771712   boot/grub/menu.lst                             1
  30.129978180 = 32.351817728   boot/grub/stage2                               1
   0.505084991 = 0.542330880    boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic-pae           1
  62.216247559 = 66.804187136   boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic-pae              2
   0.505084991 = 0.542330880    initrd.img                                     1
  62.216247559 = 66.804187136   vmlinuz                                        2

======================== Unknown MBRs/Boot Sectors/etc: ========================

Unknown BootLoader on sda2

00000000  e2 23 d5 fa 7f ea 7f 4e  4b bd 51 60 90 00 8c 21  |.#.....NK.Q`...!|
00000010  6c 16 fd be 31 47 3c 80  03 74 69 b5 26 db fe 7b  |l...1G<..ti.&..{|
00000020  74 4c 0a 20 80 db 2a 61  a5 08 ca 2c 14 d5 9b 23  |tL. ..*a...,...#|
00000030  e3 79 65 eb 5a 13 94 6e  46 13 64 2a 8d de 32 d6  |.ye.Z..nF.d*..2.|
00000040  a2 b4 cc 31 dc c5 3b 0f  12 21 9b 5a 97 ff 74 4b  |...1..;..!.Z..tK|
00000050  95 22 56 7f 54 55 98 8c  3c 8b 6a 96 af 75 3b 1c  |."V.TU..<.j..u;.|
00000060  ac 52 0e 18 a2 42 2e 49  85 4e 05 29 6b 77 41 ac  |.R...B.I.N.)kwA.|
00000070  5b 34 78 56 ff ff c3 ca  1b d3 22 77 fc d0 b5 41  |[4xV......"w...A|
00000080  02 44 ce ec 0a af a0 77  dd eb 5c 54 b0 b6 a8 50  |.D.....w..\T...P|
00000090  46 c2 22 cf 36 81 21 07  04 1f cc 8c 18 00 8c 25  |F.".6.!........%|
000000a0  3c 12 f9 be 41 90 dc a0  68 b4 8e 5b 66 db f8 a3  |<...A...h..[f...|
000000b0  08 4b d1 46 34 9d 08 09  5e 96 5a 02 a1 78 c7 1d  |.K.F4...^.Z..x..|
000000c0  9e 76 59 90 c2 57 91 9b  84 cc 24 59 f9 f7 69 7f  |.vY..W....$Y..i.|
000000d0  ae be 9d ef b3 be 3a c9  12 2d 27 8b 7a 7f a6 a1  |......:..-'.z...|
000000e0  df 6e f2 79 a8 e1 a2 c9  e7 0a dd 94 d6 39 d7 39  |.n.y.........9.9|
000000f0  ca a4 a5 c9 55 32 1f 5e  69 a7 99 15 49 52 87 0e  |....U2.^i...IR..|
00000100  05 23 b2 aa a5 a6 4e 83  ea 5d 7a a6 74 2e f8 b6  |.#....N..]z.t...|
00000110  5b fb 8f 8f 88 64 a2 61  21 ee 16 35 82 be 49 aa  |[....d.a!..5..I.|
00000120  1a 6d 92 3a 29 a6 25 ea  9a 12 6a 66 d2 14 60 8e  |.m.:).%...jf..`.|
00000130  7a c4 72 91 72 d5 0b b4  fb eb d9 16 00 8c 24 e3  |z.r.r.........$.|
00000140  fe e5 16 60 cd 11 08 98  58 de dc be 70 9e 7e 7a  |...`....X...p.~z|
00000150  3a 0c 8d f5 21 2b da 4d  6b c3 05 3d c7 17 e4 3e  |:...!+.Mk..=...>|
00000160  d1 f5 ab 7f 77 e1 c7 06  28 06 0a 73 20 ad c8 2e  |....w...(..s ...|
00000170  b1 6c eb 26 59 90 f4 83  52 70 14 32 1f 3e 30 4b  |.l.&Y...Rp.2.>0K|
00000180  0a da cc fa f3 35 4f 75  da 8d 8d ff 1f b2 4f dd  |.....5Ou......O.|
00000190  39 a9 f1 c7 46 e1 fb b2  6c e4 4f a8 cf 5b 4d ed  |9...F...l.O..[M.|
000001a0  d9 b7 34 85 d9 d1 6f 9e  75 bb ee 2a 9a 65 bb f7  |..4...o.u..*.e..|
000001b0  b7 c6 d6 ce 56 7a 7f fd  3d 37 fd ba 8d 42 00 fe  |....Vz..=7...B..|
000001c0  ff ff 82 fe ff ff 02 00  00 00 00 f8 1f 00 00 00  |................|
000001d0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
*
000001f0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 55 aa  |..............U.|
00000200



```

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-30
Master_Taco,

You have vestiges of both Grub legacy and Grub 2. I'd recommend using a *Natty* LiveCD to chroot into sda1 and purge grub, grub-common, and grub-pc and then reinstall grub-pc. This will remove Grub legacy and leave Grub 2 as your bootloader. The instructions on how to do this are located at:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099")

Mount sda1 and when it comes time to select the installation location, select sda only (not the partition).

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
> **drs305 said:**
> Master_Taco,

You have vestiges of both Grub legacy and Grub 2. I'd recommend using a *Natty* LiveCD to chroot into sda1 and purge grub, grub-common, and grub-pc and then reinstall grub-pc. This will remove Grub legacy and leave Grub 2 as your bootloader. The instructions on how to do this are located at:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099)

Mount sda1 and when it comes time to select the installation location, select sda only (not the partition).
  I'll give it a shot, but I'm afraid that might not fix the problem, as this started off as a clean installation on a blank disk... Meaning it had Grub2 and only grub2 originally and I still had this problem.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-30
As a minimum, it should remove Grub legacy. Additionally, by purging the packages it will remove any corrupted files and replace them with healthy ones. Merely reinstalling without purging doesn't do that. Make sure you use a Natty CD. Perhaps you didn't format the partition when you did the installation.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
> **drs305 said:**
> As a minimum, it should remove Grub legacy. Additionally, by purging the packages it will remove any corrupted files and replace them with healthy ones. Merely reinstalling without purging doesn't do that. Make sure you use a Natty CD. Perhaps you didn't format the partition when you did the installation.
The HDD was zeroed out, no partition information from any OS on it when i installed Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
That may very well have broken it more...
```
Hard Disk Error
Hard Disk Error
DISK BOOT FAILURE, INSERT SYSTEM DISK AND PRESS ENTER
_
```

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-30
There is more going on here than purging and reinstalling Grub 2.

Was the drive ever used in a RAID setup, or have an unusual format at one time?  We are seeing "Hard Disk Errors" on the forums but so far I don't know that the problem has been isolated.

If you boot the Natty LiveCD and run the boot info script again you can check the partition table for any discrepancies. 

With sda1 unmounted, you could also run an fsck check on the partition (although it appears there is a problem before the partition even gets involved):
```
sudo e2fsck -f -y -v /dev/sda1
```

You can also mount sda1 to see if the files are accessible and intact.

A failure of Grub2 is normally accompanied by either a 'grub' or 'grub rescue' prompt, or a message explaining why it is failing. I can't say that Grub isn't responsible for the state of your system but if it is it's a new bug. I've asked on the Grub dev IRC channel but so far have received no responses.

Test Disk is an app that might shed some light on the disk partitions. Here is one link on how to use it:
[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk_Step_By_Step]("http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk_Step_By_Step")
You may have to enable the 'universe' repository to install it if running the LiveCD.

**Added: **There is a new app called Boot Repair that offers to restore the boot records and MBR. Here is a link:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10864068#post10864068]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10864068#post10864068")

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-30
Ah Grub legacy. I thought the error message looked old-fashioned.

I wonder how MT managed to install 11.04 and end up with old Grub left over? I had incorrectly assumed it was a "use whole disk" install. Interesting.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
> **drs305 said:**
> There is more going on here than purging and reinstalling Grub 2.

Was the drive ever used in a RAID setup, or have an unusual format at one time?  We are seeing "Hard Disk Errors" on the forums but so far I don't know that the problem has been isolated.

If you boot the Natty LiveCD and run the boot info script again you can check the partition table for any discrepancies. 

With sda1 unmounted, you could also run an fsck check on the partition (although it appears there is a problem before the partition even gets involved):
```
sudo e2fsck -f -y -v /dev/sda1
```You can also mount sda1 to see if the files are accessible and intact.

A failure of Grub2 is normally accompanied by either a 'grub' or 'grub rescue' prompt, or a message explaining why it is failing. I can't say that Grub isn't responsible for the state of your system but if it is it's a new bug. I've asked on the Grub dev IRC channel but so far have received no responses.

Test Disk is an app that might shed some light on the disk partitions. Here is one link on how to use it:
[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk_Step_By_Step](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk_Step_By_Step)
You may have to enable the 'universe' repository to install it if running the LiveCD.

**Added: **There is a new app called Boot Repair that offers to restore the boot records and MBR. Here is a link:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10864068#post10864068](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10864068#post10864068)
I'll give those links a shot after dinner, but the disk was completely zeroed out, there were no partitions, and no MBR at all. The disk was never used in a RAID, it once had Windows 2000 on it, that's it.

> **YesWeCan said:**
> Ah Grub legacy. I thought the error message looked old-fashioned.

I wonder how MT managed to install 11.04 and end up with old Grub left over? I had incorrectly assumed it was a "use whole disk" install. Interesting.
I did use a "whole disk" install, however while troubleshooting it I've run god knows how many commands, and some of them were from Apptitude, so an old version of Grub may have been installed, or partially installed, or updated or something. A lot of the "fixes" I found were from 2005-2008, before Grub2 was around.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-30
I spent about half an hour on the Grub dev IRC channel. They couldn't pinpoint anything in Grub that would *cause* the error message, but one did indicate that early in the boot process Grub tells the system what it thinks the drive is. If BIOS says "no it's not" it can generate that type of failure. Of course, they explained it in a much more technical manner.

It might help if you posted a new RESULTS.txt but really if the problem is with Grub and BIOS talking I'm not sure we would find out the problem. The partition table information is about the only thing that might trigger the error message you are getting. Of course, it would also show if G2 is now at least correctly installed in sda1.

As far as you could tell, did the purging and reinstalling of Grub 2 via 'chroot' go off without issue? 

If you don't have any data in sda1 the quickest thing to do would probably be to reinstall. I don't recommend reinstalling very often because I know the effort it takes many users to get their systems the way they want them. But if this is a fresh installation anyway that would be my recommendation.

Barring that, I'd try using Test Disk to see if it can make any sense of things, and of course if you want to post another RESULTS.txt we will certainly take a look at it.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-30
> **Master_Taco said:**
> I did use a "whole disk" install, however while troubleshooting it I've run god knows how many commands, and some of them were from Apptitude, so an old version of Grub may have been installed, or partially installed, or updated or something. A lot of the "fixes" I found were from 2005-2008, before Grub2 was around.
I think it will be easier to diagnose this now that you have installed Grub2. A new RESULTS.TXT will be helpful.
The odd symptom is the need to have a CD inserted in order to boot off the hard drive. This likely a partition addressing type of issue between the bios and Grub. With Grub2 what may happen is the appearance of a "rescue" prompt. This can be used to find out what is going wrong. For example, the 'ls' command will list the partitions that Grub2 can detect.
What is your system - is the CD drive also a PATA device and on the same cable as the HD? Does your mobo have SATA ports too?

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
> **drs305 said:**
> 
As far as you could tell, did the purging and reinstalling of Grub 2 via 'chroot' go off without issue? 
Yes, all directions were folowed correctly, and everything was removed and Grub2 was re-installed.
> **drs305 said:**
> If you don't have any data in sda1 the quickest thing to do would probably be to reinstall. I don't recommend reinstalling very often because I know the effort it takes many users to get their systems the way they want them. But if this is a fresh installation anyway that would be my recommendation.
I am now pro at installing Ubuntu server, I've done about 8 re-installs, each with slightly different settings in an attempt to get this system up correctly.
> **drs305 said:**
> Barring that, I'd try using Test Disk to see if it can make any sense of things, and of course if you want to post another RESULTS.txt we will certainly take a look at it.
RESULTS.txt is below all the quotes.
> **YesWeCan said:**
> I think it will be easier to diagnose this now that you have installed Grub2. A new RESULTS.TXT will be helpful.
See below.
> **YesWeCan said:**
> The odd symptom is the need to have a CD inserted in order to boot off the hard drive.
I agree. I can't say I'm a Linux pro, but I've installed several different flavors of Linux (both Desktop and Server versions) and I have never encountered this issue. A friend of mine had this issue with the desktop version of Ubuntu 10.10 x64, and I thought he was just crazy or doing something wrong.

> **YesWeCan said:**
>  This likely a partition addressing type of issue between the bios and Grub. With Grub2 what may happen is the appearance of a "rescue" prompt. This can be used to find out what is going wrong. For example, the 'ls' command will list the partitions that Grub2 can detect. 
I have not seen a rescue prompt yet (I've seen one before, I know what you're talking about, but there isn't one, it always throws up an error without a prompt of any sort.)

> **YesWeCan said:**
> What is your system - is the CD drive also a PATA device and on the same cable as the HD? Does your mobo have SATA ports too?
The system is an IBM Intelistation Pro M, dual Xeon CPUs, 1GB of RDRAM. The HDD is jumpered correctly (as Master, no slave present) on the appropriate HDD IDE cable (the one with more wires). The optical drive is a DVD multi-reader/writer, and is on the second PATA channel. It is Master on an optical drive cable (the IDE cable with fewer wires) and a REV drive with the REV disk ejected occupies the slave slot  on that cable. The system has no SATA capability, and the SCSI controller is shut off (as are the two SCSI drives installed - power removed). Aside from a failing SCSI drive, the machine is in perfectly working condition, and a SMART check on the 80GB PATA drive I have installed shows the disk as healthy.

Hopefully this was enough information for you.

```
                  Boot Info Script 0.60    from 17 May 2011


============================= Boot Info Summary: ===============================

 => Grub2 (v1.99) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks at sector 1 of 
    the same hard drive for core.img. core.img is at this location and looks 
    for (,msdos1)/boot/grub on this drive.

sda1: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 11.04
    Boot files:        /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda2: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  Unknown
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: __________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

============================ Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda _____________________________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders, total 156301488 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot  Start Sector    End Sector  # of Sectors  Id System

/dev/sda1    *          2,048   154,204,159   154,202,112  83 Linux
/dev/sda2         154,206,206   156,301,311     2,095,106   5 Extended
/dev/sda5         154,206,208   156,301,311     2,095,104  82 Linux swap / Solaris


"blkid" output: ________________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs   
/dev/sda1        2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809   ext4       
/dev/sda5        d3266a59-5f78-4d59-a04e-09e4004138c3   swap       

================================ Mount points: =================================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (ro,noatime)
/dev/sr0         /cdrom                   iso9660    (ro,noatime)


=========================== sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}

function load_video {
  insmod vbe
  insmod vga
  insmod video_bochs
  insmod video_cirrus
}

insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=auto
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en_US
insmod gettext
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
if [ ${recordfail} != 1 ]; then
  if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then
    if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then
      if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then
        set linux_gfx_mode=keep
      else
        set linux_gfx_mode=text
      fi
    else
      set linux_gfx_mode=text
    fi
  else
    set linux_gfx_mode=keep
  fi
else
  set linux_gfx_mode=text
fi
export linux_gfx_mode
if [ "$linux_gfx_mode" != "text" ]; then load_video; fi
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.38-8-generic-pae' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic-pae root=UUID=2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809 ro   quiet splash vt.handoff=7
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic-pae
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.38-8-generic-pae (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    set gfxpayload=$linux_gfx_mode
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.38-8-generic-pae ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic-pae root=UUID=2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809 ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic-pae
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###
### END /etc/grub.d/20_linux_xen ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(/dev/sda,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 2169f3cb-1ab4-4bf3-94c9-7ff6c17fe809
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ "x${timeout}" != "x-1" ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
if [ -f  $prefix/custom.cfg ]; then
  source $prefix/custom.cfg;
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/41_custom ###
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ================================

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
/dev/sda1       /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
/dev/sda5       none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ====================

           GiB - GB             File                                 Fragment(s)

  30.131622314 = 32.353583104   boot/grub/core.img                             1
  52.132995605 = 55.977377792   boot/grub/grub.cfg                             1
  30.129978180 = 32.351817728   boot/grub/stage2                               1
   0.505084991 = 0.542330880    boot/initrd.img-2.6.38-8-generic-pae           1
  62.216247559 = 66.804187136   boot/vmlinuz-2.6.38-8-generic-pae              2
   0.505084991 = 0.542330880    initrd.img                                     1
  62.216247559 = 66.804187136   vmlinuz                                        2

======================== Unknown MBRs/Boot Sectors/etc: ========================

Unknown BootLoader on sda2

00000000  e2 23 d5 fa 7f ea 7f 4e  4b bd 51 60 90 00 8c 21  |.#.....NK.Q`...!|
00000010  6c 16 fd be 31 47 3c 80  03 74 69 b5 26 db fe 7b  |l...1G<..ti.&..{|
00000020  74 4c 0a 20 80 db 2a 61  a5 08 ca 2c 14 d5 9b 23  |tL. ..*a...,...#|
00000030  e3 79 65 eb 5a 13 94 6e  46 13 64 2a 8d de 32 d6  |.ye.Z..nF.d*..2.|
00000040  a2 b4 cc 31 dc c5 3b 0f  12 21 9b 5a 97 ff 74 4b  |...1..;..!.Z..tK|
00000050  95 22 56 7f 54 55 98 8c  3c 8b 6a 96 af 75 3b 1c  |."V.TU..<.j..u;.|
00000060  ac 52 0e 18 a2 42 2e 49  85 4e 05 29 6b 77 41 ac  |.R...B.I.N.)kwA.|
00000070  5b 34 78 56 ff ff c3 ca  1b d3 22 77 fc d0 b5 41  |[4xV......"w...A|
00000080  02 44 ce ec 0a af a0 77  dd eb 5c 54 b0 b6 a8 50  |.D.....w..\T...P|
00000090  46 c2 22 cf 36 81 21 07  04 1f cc 8c 18 00 8c 25  |F.".6.!........%|
000000a0  3c 12 f9 be 41 90 dc a0  68 b4 8e 5b 66 db f8 a3  |<...A...h..[f...|
000000b0  08 4b d1 46 34 9d 08 09  5e 96 5a 02 a1 78 c7 1d  |.K.F4...^.Z..x..|
000000c0  9e 76 59 90 c2 57 91 9b  84 cc 24 59 f9 f7 69 7f  |.vY..W....$Y..i.|
000000d0  ae be 9d ef b3 be 3a c9  12 2d 27 8b 7a 7f a6 a1  |......:..-'.z...|
000000e0  df 6e f2 79 a8 e1 a2 c9  e7 0a dd 94 d6 39 d7 39  |.n.y.........9.9|
000000f0  ca a4 a5 c9 55 32 1f 5e  69 a7 99 15 49 52 87 0e  |....U2.^i...IR..|
00000100  05 23 b2 aa a5 a6 4e 83  ea 5d 7a a6 74 2e f8 b6  |.#....N..]z.t...|
00000110  5b fb 8f 8f 88 64 a2 61  21 ee 16 35 82 be 49 aa  |[....d.a!..5..I.|
00000120  1a 6d 92 3a 29 a6 25 ea  9a 12 6a 66 d2 14 60 8e  |.m.:).%...jf..`.|
00000130  7a c4 72 91 72 d5 0b b4  fb eb d9 16 00 8c 24 e3  |z.r.r.........$.|
00000140  fe e5 16 60 cd 11 08 98  58 de dc be 70 9e 7e 7a  |...`....X...p.~z|
00000150  3a 0c 8d f5 21 2b da 4d  6b c3 05 3d c7 17 e4 3e  |:...!+.Mk..=...>|
00000160  d1 f5 ab 7f 77 e1 c7 06  28 06 0a 73 20 ad c8 2e  |....w...(..s ...|
00000170  b1 6c eb 26 59 90 f4 83  52 70 14 32 1f 3e 30 4b  |.l.&Y...Rp.2.>0K|
00000180  0a da cc fa f3 35 4f 75  da 8d 8d ff 1f b2 4f dd  |.....5Ou......O.|
00000190  39 a9 f1 c7 46 e1 fb b2  6c e4 4f a8 cf 5b 4d ed  |9...F...l.O..[M.|
000001a0  d9 b7 34 85 d9 d1 6f 9e  75 bb ee 2a 9a 65 bb f7  |..4...o.u..*.e..|
000001b0  b7 c6 d6 ce 56 7a 7f fd  3d 37 fd ba 8d 42 00 fe  |....Vz..=7...B..|
000001c0  ff ff 82 fe ff ff 02 00  00 00 00 f8 1f 00 00 00  |................|
000001d0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
*
000001f0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 55 aa  |..............U.|
00000200


=============================== StdErr Messages: ===============================

unlzma: Decoder error

```
EDIT: Here are the fsck results:
```

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo e2fsck -f -y -v /dev/sda1
e2fsck 1.41.14 (22-Dec-2010)
Pass 1: Checking inodes, blocks, and sizes
Pass 2: Checking directory structure
Pass 3: Checking directory connectivity
Pass 4: Checking reference counts
Pass 5: Checking group summary information

   59089 inodes used (1.22%)
      45 non-contiguous files (0.1%)
      46 non-contiguous directories (0.1%)
         # of inodes with ind/dind/tind blocks: 0/0/0
         Extent depth histogram: 54935/11
  615512 blocks used (3.19%)
       0 bad blocks
       1 large file

   46496 regular files
    7465 directories
      57 character device files
      26 block device files
       2 fifos
     425 links
    5006 symbolic links (4020 fast symbolic links)
      28 sockets
--------
   59505 files
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 

```

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-30
Everything looks good other than there is still one Grub legacy file in /boot/grub (/boot/grub/stage2). If you mount the partition from the LiveCD take a look and make sure there is a /boot/grub/boot.img file; I believe that file replaced the Stage2 file in Grub 2.

Assuming you are still getting the Hard Disk Error message, about the only other thing I can think of at the moment is to change the BIOS boot order to boot directly to the hard drive, bypassing the CD entirely (and anything else that might be listed prior to the hard drive).

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-30
> **drs305 said:**
> Everything looks good other than there is still one Grub legacy file in /boot/grub (/boot/grub/stage2). If you mount the partition from the LiveCD take a look and make sure there is a /boot/grub/boot.img file; I believe that file replaced the Stage2 file in Grub 2.

Assuming you are still getting the Hard Disk Error message, about the only other thing I can think of at the moment is to change the BIOS boot order to boot directly to the hard drive, bypassing the CD entirely (and anything else that might be listed prior to the hard drive).
The boot.img file exists, and the only drive that is allowed to boot automatically is the HDD. To boot from CD I have to manually tell it to do so.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-31
Not a fix, but a workaround that works for me is to make a GRUB recovery CD, leave it in the optical drive, and set the BIOS to boot from CD first. Instructions can be found here: [http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/grub.html#Making-a-GRUB-bootable-CD_002dROM](http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/grub.html#Making-a-GRUB-bootable-CD_002dROM)

For this, I took my entire "Boot" folder and copied it into the "iso" folder I created (as per the instructions). Go ahead and skip any files that don't copy, they won't be needed anyway. Then I ran the ```
grub-mkrescue -o grub.iso iso
```command. (you may need to install xorriso from the repositories, if you get error "317".) Once the iso is created, it puts it in your home directory. I moved it to my main PC, and burned it and it works like a charm! (To move it, you might need to sudo chmod 777 grub.iso - also, everything is easier if you create all files and folders in the home directory)

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
> **drs305 said:**
> I spent about half an hour on the Grub dev IRC channel. They couldn't pinpoint anything in Grub that would *cause* the error message, but one did indicate that early in the boot process Grub tells the system what it thinks the drive is. If BIOS says "no it's not" it can generate that type of failure. Of course, they explained it in a much more technical manner.
Any chance of getting a disassembled Grub2 MBR code from these folks? This really ought to be documented.

The GRUB Geom/Hard Disk/Read Error messages are embedded in the MBR code, so I'm guessing that Grub fails before it starts executing the core.img, which would be why a rescue prompt never appears.

I would like to know whether Grub does this checking of the disk number in the MBR code. We can always fix this by modifying the MBR code to ignore the error.

@MT: You could post your MBR code in case there is anything obviously odd about it, using
sudo dd if=/dev/sda bs=512 count=1 | hexdump -C

It should look like:
```
00000000  eb 63 90 10 8e d0 bc 00  b0 b8 00 00 8e d8 8e c0  |.c..............|
00000010  fb be 00 7c bf 00 06 b9  00 02 f3 a4 ea 21 06 00  |...|.........!..|
00000020  00 be be 07 38 04 75 0b  83 c6 10 81 fe fe 07 75  |....8.u........u|
00000030  f3 eb 16 b4 02 b0 01 bb  00 7c b2 80 8a 74 01 8b  |.........|...t..|
00000040  4c 02 cd 13 ea 00 7c 00  00 eb fe 00 00 00 00 00  |L.....|.........|
00000050  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 80 01 00 00 00  |................|
00000060  00 00 00 00 ff fa 90 90  f6 c2 80 75 02 b2 80 ea  |...........u....|
00000070  74 7c 00 00 31 c0 8e d8  8e d0 bc 00 20 fb a0 64  |t|..1....... ..d|
00000080  7c 3c ff 74 02 88 c2 52  bb 17 04 80 27 03 74 06  ||<.t...R....'.t.|
00000090  be 88 7d e8 1c 01 be 05  7c f6 c2 80 74 48 b4 41  |..}.....|...tH.A|
000000a0  bb aa 55 cd 13 5a 52 72  3d 81 fb 55 aa 75 37 83  |..U..ZRr=..U.u7.|
000000b0  e1 01 74 32 31 c0 89 44  04 40 88 44 ff 89 44 02  |..t21..D.@.D..D.|
000000c0  c7 04 10 00 66 8b 1e 5c  7c 66 89 5c 08 66 8b 1e  |....f..\|f.\.f..|
000000d0  60 7c 66 89 5c 0c c7 44  06 00 70 b4 42 cd 13 72  |`|f.\..D..p.B..r|
000000e0  05 bb 00 70 eb 76 b4 08  cd 13 73 0d f6 c2 80 0f  |...p.v....s.....|
000000f0  84 d0 00 be 93 7d e9 82  00 66 0f b6 c6 88 64 ff  |.....}...f....d.|
00000100  40 66 89 44 04 0f b6 d1  c1 e2 02 88 e8 88 f4 40  |@f.D...........@|
00000110  89 44 08 0f b6 c2 c0 e8  02 66 89 04 66 a1 60 7c  |.D.......f..f.`||
00000120  66 09 c0 75 4e 66 a1 5c  7c 66 31 d2 66 f7 34 88  |f..uNf.\|f1.f.4.|
00000130  d1 31 d2 66 f7 74 04 3b  44 08 7d 37 fe c1 88 c5  |.1.f.t.;D.}7....|
00000140  30 c0 c1 e8 02 08 c1 88  d0 5a 88 c6 bb 00 70 8e  |0........Z....p.|
00000150  c3 31 db b8 01 02 cd 13  72 1e 8c c3 60 1e b9 00  |.1......r...`...|
00000160  01 8e db 31 f6 bf 00 80  8e c6 fc f3 a5 1f 61 ff  |...1..........a.|
00000170  26 5a 7c be 8e 7d eb 03  be 9d 7d e8 34 00 be a2  |&Z|..}....}.4...|
00000180  7d e8 2e 00 cd 18 eb fe  47 52 55 42 20 00 47 65  |}.......GRUB .Ge|
00000190  6f 6d 00 48 61 72 64 20  44 69 73 6b 00 52 65 61  |om.Hard Disk.Rea|
000001a0  64 00 20 45 72 72 6f 72  0d 0a 00 bb 01 00 b4 0e  |d. Error........|
000001b0  cd 10 ac 3c 00 75 f4 c3  03 0c 04 00 00 00 80 20  |...<.u......... |
000001c0  21 00 83 00 33 0d 00 08  00 00 00 28 03 00 00 00  |!...3......(....|
000001d0  34 0d 83 fe ff ff 00 30  03 00 00 38 6d 74 00 00  |4......0...8mt..|
000001e0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
000001f0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 55 aa  |..............U.|

```
But we are getting into murky waters here. Have you looked for a bios update for your mobo?

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-31
There has not been a BIOS update for this machine in 8 years. The machine is busy installing packages in aptitude, so I'll post a dump later.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
If it is the case that Grub checks the drive ID and gets an error then we can just modify the MBR code so that it ignores the error and carries on. It should be very simple to do once the MBR code is deciphered. And you can use dd to make a copy of the MBR for future restoration if needed.
That's the best I think you'll get without having any chance of fixing the bios code.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-31
> **YesWeCan said:**
> Any chance of getting a disassembled Grub2 MBR code from these folks? This really ought to be documented.

The GRUB Geom/Hard Disk/Read Error messages are embedded in the MBR code, so I'm guessing that Grub fails before it starts executing the core.img, which would be why a rescue prompt never appears.

That was what I took away from the chat. You can reach them at the #grub channel of Ubuntu Server or Freenode. The two individuals with whom I conversed were *cjwatson* and *Jordan_U*.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
> **drs305 said:**
> That was what I took away from the chat. You can reach them at the #grub channel of Ubuntu Server or Freenode. The two individuals with whom I conversed were *cjwatson* and *Jordan_U*.
I'm afraid this means nothing at all to me. Would you elaborate?

Meanwhile I have done some disassembling and found this: [http://mirror.href.com/thestarman/asm/mbr/GRUB.htm](http://mirror.href.com/thestarman/asm/mbr/GRUB.htm) (which is not quite current but close enough) so I think I know which two bytes to change to avoid the error. I'll wait for MT to post the MBR.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-31
> **YesWeCan said:**
> I'm afraid this means nothing at all to me. Would you elaborate?

Ubuntu has an IRC network, as does Freenode. If you are familiar with IRC, you can connect to those servers and reach them on the #grub channel. If you aren't familiar with IRC, in simple terms it's the forerunner of 'texting' and IM ;-)

Here are a couple of community docs on the IRC channels:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/InternetRelayChat")
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XChatHowto")

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
Thanks drs305, Xchat worked. cjwatson helped me out.
And here is the MBR source code for Grub v1.99...
```
/* -*-Asm-*- */
/*
 *  GRUB  --  GRand Unified Bootloader
 *  Copyright (C) 1999,2000,2001,2002,2005,2006,2007,2008,2009  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 *
 *  GRUB is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
 *  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 *  the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
 *  (at your option) any later version.
 *
 *  GRUB is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 *  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 *  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 *  GNU General Public License for more details.
 *
 *  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 *  along with GRUB.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
 */

#include <grub/symbol.h>
#include <grub/boot.h>
#include <grub/machine/boot.h>

/*
 *  defines for the code go here
 */

	/* Print message string */
#define MSG(x)	movw $x, %si; call LOCAL(message)
#define ERR(x)	movw $x, %si; jmp LOCAL(error_message)

	.file	"boot.S"

	.text

	/* Tell GAS to generate 16-bit instructions so that this code works
	   in real mode. */
	.code16

.globl _start, start;
_start:
start:
	/*
	 * _start is loaded at 0x7c00 and is jumped to with CS:IP 0:0x7c00
	 */

	/*
	 * Beginning of the sector is compatible with the FAT/HPFS BIOS
	 * parameter block.
	 */

	jmp	LOCAL(after_BPB)
	nop	/* do I care about this ??? */

	/*
	 * This space is for the BIOS parameter block!!!!  Don't change
	 * the first jump, nor start the code anywhere but right after
	 * this area.
	 */

	. = _start + GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_BPB_START
	. = _start + 4

	/* scratch space */
mode:
	.byte	0
disk_address_packet:
sectors:
	.long	0
heads:
	.long	0
cylinders:
	.word	0
sector_start:
	.byte	0
head_start:
	.byte	0
cylinder_start:
	.word	0
	/* more space... */

	. = _start + GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_BPB_END

	/*
	 * End of BIOS parameter block.
	 */

kernel_address:
	.word	GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_KERNEL_ADDR

	. = _start + GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_KERNEL_SECTOR
kernel_sector:
	.long	1, 0

	. = _start + GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_BOOT_DRIVE
boot_drive:
	.byte 0xff	/* the disk to load kernel from */
			/* 0xff means use the boot drive */

LOCAL(after_BPB):

/* general setup */
	cli		/* we're not safe here! */

        /*
         * This is a workaround for buggy BIOSes which don't pass boot
         * drive correctly. If GRUB is installed into a HDD, check if
         * DL is masked correctly. If not, assume that the BIOS passed
         * a bogus value and set DL to 0x80, since this is the only
         * possible boot drive. If GRUB is installed into a floppy,
         * this does nothing (only jump).
         */
	. = _start + GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_DRIVE_CHECK
boot_drive_check:
        jmp     3f	/* grub-setup may overwrite this jump */
        testb   $0x80, %dl
        jz      2f
3:
	/* Ignore %dl different from 0-0x0f and 0x80-0x8f.  */
	testb   $0x70, %dl
	jz      1f
2:	
        movb    $0x80, %dl
1:
	/*
	 * ljmp to the next instruction because some bogus BIOSes
	 * jump to 07C0:0000 instead of 0000:7C00.
	 */
	ljmp	$0, $real_start

real_start:

	/* set up %ds and %ss as offset from 0 */
	xorw	%ax, %ax
	movw	%ax, %ds
	movw	%ax, %ss

	/* set up the REAL stack */
	movw	$GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_STACK_SEG, %sp

	sti		/* we're safe again */

	/*
	 *  Check if we have a forced disk reference here
	 */
	movb   boot_drive, %al
	cmpb	$0xff, %al
	je	1f
	movb	%al, %dl
1:
	/* save drive reference first thing! */
	pushw	%dx

	/* print a notification message on the screen */
	MSG(notification_string)

	/* set %si to the disk address packet */
	movw	$disk_address_packet, %si

	/* check if LBA is supported */
	movb	$0x41, %ah
	movw	$0x55aa, %bx
	int	$0x13

	/*
	 *  %dl may have been clobbered by INT 13, AH=41H.
	 *  This happens, for example, with AST BIOS 1.04.
	 */
	popw	%dx
	pushw	%dx

	/* use CHS if fails */
	jc	LOCAL(chs_mode)
	cmpw	$0xaa55, %bx
	jne	LOCAL(chs_mode)

	andw	$1, %cx
	jz	LOCAL(chs_mode)

lba_mode:
	xorw	%ax, %ax
	movw	%ax, 4(%si)

	incw	%ax
	/* set the mode to non-zero */
	movb	%al, -1(%si)

	/* the blocks */
	movw	%ax, 2(%si)

	/* the size and the reserved byte */
	movw	$0x0010, (%si)

	/* the absolute address */
	movl	kernel_sector, %ebx
	movl	%ebx, 8(%si)
	movl	kernel_sector + 4, %ebx
	movl	%ebx, 12(%si)

	/* the segment of buffer address */
	movw	$GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_BUFFER_SEG, 6(%si)

/*
 * BIOS call "INT 0x13 Function 0x42" to read sectors from disk into memory
 *	Call with	%ah = 0x42
 *			%dl = drive number
 *			%ds:%si = segment:offset of disk address packet
 *	Return:
 *			%al = 0x0 on success; err code on failure
 */

	movb	$0x42, %ah
	int	$0x13

	/* LBA read is not supported, so fallback to CHS.  */
	jc	LOCAL(chs_mode)

	movw	$GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_BUFFER_SEG, %bx
	jmp	LOCAL(copy_buffer)

LOCAL(chs_mode):
	/*
	 *  Determine the hard disk geometry from the BIOS!
	 *  We do this first, so that LS-120 IDE floppies work correctly.
	 */
	movb	$8, %ah
	int	$0x13
	jnc	LOCAL(final_init)

	/*
	 *  The call failed, so maybe use the floppy probe instead.
	 */
	testb	$GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_BIOS_HD_FLAG, %dl
	jz	LOCAL(floppy_probe)

	/* Nope, we definitely have a hard disk, and we're screwed. */
	ERR(hd_probe_error_string)

LOCAL(final_init):
	/* set the mode to zero */
	movzbl	%dh, %eax
	movb	%ah, -1(%si)

	/* save number of heads */
	incw	%ax
	movl	%eax, 4(%si)

	movzbw	%cl, %dx
	shlw	$2, %dx
	movb	%ch, %al
	movb	%dh, %ah

	/* save number of cylinders */
	incw	%ax
	movw	%ax, 8(%si)

	movzbw	%dl, %ax
	shrb	$2, %al

	/* save number of sectors */
	movl	%eax, (%si)

setup_sectors:
	/* load logical sector start (top half) */
	movl	kernel_sector + 4, %eax

	orl	%eax, %eax
	jnz	LOCAL(geometry_error)

	/* load logical sector start (bottom half) */
	movl	kernel_sector, %eax

	/* zero %edx */
	xorl	%edx, %edx

	/* divide by number of sectors */
	divl	(%si)

	/* save sector start */
	movb	%dl, %cl

	xorw	%dx, %dx	/* zero %edx */
	divl	4(%si)		/* divide by number of heads */

	/* do we need too many cylinders? */
	cmpw	8(%si), %ax
	jge	LOCAL(geometry_error)

	/* normalize sector start (1-based) */
	incb	%cl

	/* low bits of cylinder start */
	movb	%al, %ch

	/* high bits of cylinder start */
	xorb	%al, %al
	shrw	$2, %ax
	orb	%al, %cl

	/* save head start */
	movb	%dl, %al

	/* restore %dl */
	popw	%dx

	/* head start */
	movb	%al, %dh

/*
 * BIOS call "INT 0x13 Function 0x2" to read sectors from disk into memory
 *	Call with	%ah = 0x2
 *			%al = number of sectors
 *			%ch = cylinder
 *			%cl = sector (bits 6-7 are high bits of "cylinder")
 *			%dh = head
 *			%dl = drive (0x80 for hard disk, 0x0 for floppy disk)
 *			%es:%bx = segment:offset of buffer
 *	Return:
 *			%al = 0x0 on success; err code on failure
 */

	movw	$GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_BUFFER_SEG, %bx
	movw	%bx, %es	/* load %es segment with disk buffer */

	xorw	%bx, %bx	/* %bx = 0, put it at 0 in the segment */
	movw	$0x0201, %ax	/* function 2 */
	int	$0x13

	jc	LOCAL(read_error)

	movw	%es, %bx

LOCAL(copy_buffer):
	/*
	 * We need to save %cx and %si because the startup code in
	 * kernel uses them without initializing them.
	 */
	pusha
	pushw	%ds

	movw	$0x100, %cx
	movw	%bx, %ds
	xorw	%si, %si
	movw	$GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_KERNEL_ADDR, %di
	movw	%si, %es

	cld

	rep
	movsw

	popw	%ds
	popa

	/* boot kernel */
	jmp	*(kernel_address)

/* END OF MAIN LOOP */

/*
 * BIOS Geometry translation error (past the end of the disk geometry!).
 */
LOCAL(geometry_error):
	ERR(geometry_error_string)

/*
 * Read error on the disk.
 */
LOCAL(read_error):
	movw	$read_error_string, %si
LOCAL(error_message):
	call	LOCAL(message)
LOCAL(general_error):
	MSG(general_error_string)

/* go here when you need to stop the machine hard after an error condition */
        /* tell the BIOS a boot failure, which may result in no effect */
        int	$0x18
LOCAL(stop):
	jmp	LOCAL(stop)

notification_string:	.asciz "GRUB "
geometry_error_string:	.asciz "Geom"
hd_probe_error_string:	.asciz "Hard Disk"
read_error_string:	.asciz "Read"
general_error_string:	.asciz " Error\r\n"

/*
 * message: write the string pointed to by %si
 *
 *   WARNING: trashes %si, %ax, and %bx
 */

	/*
	 * Use BIOS "int 10H Function 0Eh" to write character in teletype mode
	 *	%ah = 0xe	%al = character
	 *	%bh = page	%bl = foreground color (graphics modes)
	 */
1:
	movw	$0x0001, %bx
	movb	$0xe, %ah
	int	$0x10		/* display a byte */
LOCAL(message):
	lodsb
	cmpb	$0, %al
	jne	1b	/* if not end of string, jmp to display */
	ret

	/*
	 *  Windows NT breaks compatibility by embedding a magic
	 *  number here.
	 */

	. = _start + GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_WINDOWS_NT_MAGIC
nt_magic:
	.long 0
	.word 0

	/*
	 *  This is where an MBR would go if on a hard disk.  The code
	 *  here isn't even referenced unless we're on a floppy.  Kinda
	 *  sneaky, huh?
	 */

	. = _start + GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_PART_START
part_start:

probe_values:
	.byte	36, 18, 15, 9, 0

LOCAL(floppy_probe):
/*
 *  Perform floppy probe.
 */

	movw	$probe_values - 1, %si

LOCAL(probe_loop):
	/* reset floppy controller INT 13h AH=0 */
	xorw	%ax, %ax
	int	$0x13

	incw	%si
	movb	(%si), %cl

	/* if number of sectors is 0, display error and die */
	cmpb	$0, %cl
	jne	1f

/*
 * Floppy disk probe failure.
 */
	MSG(fd_probe_error_string)
	jmp	LOCAL(general_error)

/* "Floppy" */
fd_probe_error_string:	.asciz "Floppy"

1:
	/* perform read */
	movw	$GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_BUFFER_SEG, %bx
	movw	%bx, %es
	xorw	%bx, %bx
	movw	$0x201, %ax
	movb	$0, %ch
	movb	$0, %dh
	int	$0x13

	/* if error, jump to "LOCAL(probe_loop)" */
	jc	LOCAL(probe_loop)

	/* %cl is already the correct value! */
	movb	$1, %dh
	movb	$79, %ch

	jmp	LOCAL(final_init)

	. = _start + GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_PART_END

/* the last 2 bytes in the sector 0 contain the signature */
	.word	GRUB_BOOT_MACHINE_SIGNATURE
```

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-31
> **YesWeCan said:**
> Thanks drs305, Xchat worked. cjwatson helped me out.

Yes, I watched your conversation. He does excellent work on Grub for Ubuntu and is very helpful on IRC. Results on #grub vary; sometimes you can post and nobody will respond. I'm glad you were able to get the info you requested.

I've never looked at the actual code, so thanks for posting.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
I'm not sure I follow it completely...the comments assume prior knowledge about bios eccentricities.
You (or others reading this) may find the i86 instruction set reference helpful:
[http://www.intel.com/Assets/PDF/manual/325383.pdf](http://www.intel.com/Assets/PDF/manual/325383.pdf)

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
The basic function of the Grub2 MBR code is to load the stage 2 code (core.img) off the drive and into RAM and execute it. The MBR code relies on subroutines in the bios to do this, and the bios subroutines need to be told which drive to use. If they are given an invalid drive number they fail and this results in a "Hard Disk" error message.

When the bios initially passes control to the MBR code it also passes a drive number corresponding to that drive.

The Grub2 MBR code inspects the drive number it is given and can choose to use something else. It checks to make sure the drive number falls within a defined range for hard disks, 0x80 to 0x8f, and if it doesn't it uses 0x80. It also checks whether the grub installer has already put a "forced" drive number at a special location in the MBR; if so Grub uses it instead.

So there are at least 2 ways this could be going wrong. One is if the bios is passing a number that is outside the valid range for a hard drive and then Grub is substituting 0x80 and the bios doesn't recognize 0x80. Another is if the installer put in a forced drive number in the MBR that the bios doesn't recognize when a CD is not present. The latter will be obvious from the MBR contents.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-31
This is what it produced: 

```
justin@ubuntu-web-server:~$ sudo dd if=/dev/sda bs=512 count=1 | hexdump -C
00000000  fa b8 00 10 8e d0 bc 00  b0 b8 00 00 8e d8 8e c0  |................|
00000010  fb be 00 7c bf 00 06 b9  00 02 f3 a4 ea 21 06 00  |...|.........!..|
00000020  00 be be 07 38 04 75 0b  83 c6 10 81 fe fe 07 75  |....8.u........u|
00000030  f3 eb 16 b4 02 b0 01 bb  00 7c b2 80 8a 74 01 8b  |.........|...t..|
00000040  4c 02 cd 13 ea 00 7c 00  00 eb fe 00 00 00 00 00  |L.....|.........|
00000050  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
*
000001b0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  f5 26 03 00 00 00 00 20  |.........&..... |
000001c0  21 00 83 fe ff ff 00 08  00 00 00 f0 30 09 00 fe  |!...........0...|
000001d0  ff ff 05 fe ff ff fe ff  30 09 02 f8 1f 00 00 00  |........0.......|
000001e0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
000001f0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 55 aa  |..............U.|
1+0 records in
1+0 records out
512 bytes (512 B) copied, 0.000611458 s, 837 kB/s
00000200
justin@ubuntu-web-server:~$

```

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
That is not a Grub2 MBR. As if /dev/sda is not the correct device.
What does 'sudo fdisk -l' output?
It may be the CD is now sda and the HD is sdb, or something.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-31
justin@ubuntu-web-server:~$ sudo fdisk -l
[sudo] password for justin:

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000326f5

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1        9599    77101056   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            9599        9730     1047553    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            9599        9730     1047552   82  Linux swap / Solaris
justin@ubuntu-web-server:~$

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
It looks like your MBR is not correct. But your bootinfoscript output said sda has a Grub MBR. This does not compute.

Well, try installing Grub again.
sudo grub-install /dev/sda

Report any errors.
If no errors, do the dd again.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-31
When I boot without the GRUB CD, it fails as usual.

```
justin@ubuntu-web-server:~$ sudo grub-install /dev/sda
[sudo] password for justin:
Installation finished. No error reported.
justin@ubuntu-web-server:~$ sudo reboot

Broadcast message from justin@ubuntu-web-server
        (/dev/pts/0) at 14:24 ...

The system is going down for reboot NOW!
justin@ubuntu-web-server:~$

```
after I boot up with the CD again, 
```
login as: justin
justin@192.168.1.116's password:
Welcome to Ubuntu 11.04 (GNU/Linux 2.6.38-8-generic-pae i686)

 * Documentation:  https://help.ubuntu.com/

  System information as of Tue May 31 14:26:44 CDT 2011

  System load:  0.14              Processes:             101
  Usage of /:   1.8% of 72.37GB   Users logged in:       0
  Memory usage: 5%                IP address for eth1:   192.168.1.116
  Swap usage:   0%                IP address for virbr0: 192.168.122.1

  Graph this data and manage this system at https://landscape.canonical.com/
Last login: Tue May 31 13:26:20 2011 from justin-pc.local
justin@ubuntu-web-server:~$ sudo dd if=/dev/sda bs=512 count=1 | hexdump -C
[sudo] password for justin:
00000000  eb 63 90 10 8e d0 bc 00  b0 b8 00 00 8e d8 8e c0  |.c..............|
00000010  fb be 00 7c bf 00 06 b9  00 02 f3 a4 ea 21 06 00  |...|.........!..|
00000020  00 be be 07 38 04 75 0b  83 c6 10 81 fe fe 07 75  |....8.u........u|
00000030  f3 eb 16 b4 02 b0 01 bb  00 7c b2 80 8a 74 01 8b  |.........|...t..|
00000040  4c 02 cd 13 ea 00 7c 00  00 eb fe 00 00 00 00 00  |L.....|.........|
00000050  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 80 01 00 00 00  |................|
00000060  00 00 00 00 ff fa 90 90  f6 c2 80 74 05 f6 c2 70  |...........t...p|
00000070  74 02 b2 80 ea 79 7c 00  00 31 c0 8e d8 8e d0 bc  |t....y|..1......|
00000080  00 20 fb a0 64 7c 3c ff  74 02 88 c2 52 bb 17 04  |. ..d|<.t...R...|
00000090  80 27 03 74 06 be 88 7d  e8 17 01 be 05 7c b4 41  |.'.t...}.....|.A|
000000a0  bb aa 55 cd 13 5a 52 72  3d 81 fb 55 aa 75 37 83  |..U..ZRr=..U.u7.|
000000b0  e1 01 74 32 31 c0 89 44  04 40 88 44 ff 89 44 02  |..t21..D.@.D..D.|
000000c0  c7 04 10 00 66 8b 1e 5c  7c 66 89 5c 08 66 8b 1e  |....f..\|f.\.f..|
000000d0  60 7c 66 89 5c 0c c7 44  06 00 70 b4 42 cd 13 72  |`|f.\..D..p.B..r|
000000e0  05 bb 00 70 eb 76 b4 08  cd 13 73 0d f6 c2 80 0f  |...p.v....s.....|
000000f0  84 d0 00 be 93 7d e9 82  00 66 0f b6 c6 88 64 ff  |.....}...f....d.|
00000100  40 66 89 44 04 0f b6 d1  c1 e2 02 88 e8 88 f4 40  |@f.D...........@|
00000110  89 44 08 0f b6 c2 c0 e8  02 66 89 04 66 a1 60 7c  |.D.......f..f.`||
00000120  66 09 c0 75 4e 66 a1 5c  7c 66 31 d2 66 f7 34 88  |f..uNf.\|f1.f.4.|
00000130  d1 31 d2 66 f7 74 04 3b  44 08 7d 37 fe c1 88 c5  |.1.f.t.;D.}7....|
00000140  30 c0 c1 e8 02 08 c1 88  d0 5a 88 c6 bb 00 70 8e  |0........Z....p.|
00000150  c3 31 db b8 01 02 cd 13  72 1e 8c c3 60 1e b9 00  |.1......r...`...|
00000160  01 8e db 31 f6 bf 00 80  8e c6 fc f3 a5 1f 61 ff  |...1..........a.|
00000170  26 5a 7c be 8e 7d eb 03  be 9d 7d e8 34 00 be a2  |&Z|..}....}.4...|
00000180  7d e8 2e 00 cd 18 eb fe  47 52 55 42 20 00 47 65  |}.......GRUB .Ge|
00000190  6f 6d 00 48 61 72 64 20  44 69 73 6b 00 52 65 61  |om.Hard Disk.Rea|
000001a0  64 00 20 45 72 72 6f 72  0d 0a 00 bb 01 00 b4 0e  |d. Error........|
000001b0  cd 10 ac 3c 00 75 f4 c3  f5 26 03 00 00 00 00 20  |...<.u...&..... |
000001c0  21 00 83 fe ff ff 00 08  00 00 00 f0 30 09 00 fe  |!...........0...|
000001d0  ff ff 05 fe ff ff fe ff  30 09 02 f8 1f 00 00 00  |........0.......|
000001e0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
000001f0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 55 aa  |..............U.|
1+0 records in
1+0 records out
512 bytes (512 B) copied, 0.00165015 s, 310 kB/s
00000200
justin@ubuntu-web-server:~$

```

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
At least you now have a correct Grub2 MBR on sda.

I am perplexed by your earlier bootinfoscript output. Would I be correct in assuming you ran the script when booted in the CD?

Anyhow, would you confirm that without the CD in, that you see "GRUB" appear on the screen followed by "Hard Disk Error"?

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-31
No. The CD only has GRUB on it. That's it. The BIOS passes control to GRUB on the CD, then GRUB proceeds to boot Linux from the hard drive. If I don't have the disk in the drive, I get the ```
Hard Disk Error
Hard Disk Error
DISK BOOT FAILURE, INSERT SYSTEM DISK AND PRESS ENTER
```errors I got before.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
> **Master_Taco said:**
> When I boot without the GRUB CD
What do you mean by "the GRUB CD"?
I thought you were using a Ubuntu CD.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-05-31
Post # 29. It's easy to lose track.  ;-)

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
> **Master_Taco said:**
> No. The CD only has GRUB on it. That's it. The BIOS passes control to GRUB on the CD, then GRUB proceeds to boot Linux from the hard drive. If I don't have the disk in the drive, I get the ```
Hard Disk Error
Hard Disk Error
DISK BOOT FAILURE, INSERT SYSTEM DISK AND PRESS ENTER
```errors I got before.

Well, that makes all the difference.
The problem is that the bios is not attempting to boot the hard disk, not that Grub is failing to work. If Grub is failing you would get a GRUB error message.

You need to figure out why the bios is not trying to boot the hard drive. That's something to do with the bios setting, disk boot priority, PATA set up or something like that.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-31
I made this post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10884296&postcount=29](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10884296&postcount=29) last night. I half-assed solved the problem.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-31
> **YesWeCan said:**
> Well, that makes all the difference.
The problem is that the bios is not attempting to boot the hard disk, not that Grub is failing to work. If Grub is failing you would get a GRUB error message.

You need to figure out why the bios is not trying to boot the hard drive. That's something to do with the bios setting, disk boot priority, PATA set up or something like that.
The "Hard Disk Error" is part of GRUB. It loads GRUB but GRUB fails somewhere. It looks like it tries twice, then gives up and reports that there is no boot device. The third line is produced by the motherboard.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
No problem, I wanted to know more about Grub anyhow. I have some ideas in mind for it. :)

I notice that there is no boot flag set on sda1. This might be a problem for an old bios.

Use gparted or Disk Utility to set it and then try booting again.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
> **Master_Taco said:**
> The "Hard Disk Error" is part of GRUB. It loads GRUB but GRUB fails somewhere. It looks like it tries twice, then gives up and reports that there is no boot device. The third line is produced by the motherboard.
According to the Grub code, if Grub runs at all it will output the word GRUB.
If you don't see this then it isn't Grub producing the "Hard Disk Error". A confusing coincidence, perhaps.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-05-31
Some BIOS particularly Intel motherboards have to have a boot flag on a primary partition or they do not boot. It could be that.

Those BIOS have to assume you only boot with Windows as Lilo uses boot flag but it can be on a logical and grub does not use boot flag at all.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
> **drs305 said:**
> Post # 29. It's easy to lose track.  ;-)
Indeed. :P
I'm still puzzled by how bootinfoscript reported Grub in sda when it wasn't there. Any ideas?

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-31
> **YesWeCan said:**
> No problem, I wanted to know more about Grub anyhow. I have some ideas in mind for it. :)

I notice that there is no boot flag set on sda1. This might be a problem for an old bios.

Use gparted or Disk Utility to set it and then try booting again.
I purposely de-flagged it since I'm using the GRUB rescue CD to boot.
> **YesWeCan said:**
> According to the Grub code, if Grub runs at all it will output the word GRUB.
If you don't see this then it isn't Grub producing the "Hard Disk Error". A confusing coincidence, perhaps.
This is the only hard disk that produces that specific error. If I plug a blank disk in, alls I get is the "DISK BOOT FAILURE, INSERT SYSTEM DISK AND PRESS ENTER" message. No other drive produces Hard Disk Error. That also includes this drive when it's blank, or when GRUB is opted-out during setup. Only when GRUB is installed do those two Hard Disk Error messages appear.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-05-31
Did you try putting boot flag back to see if it makes a difference. It does not change grub but may change BIOS errors.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-05-31
How's it going? Did adding the boot flag work?> **Master_Taco said:**
> I purposely de-flagged it since I'm using the GRUB rescue CD to boot.
AFAIK you can have as many drives with bootable partitions as you like as long as no one drive has more than one. Obviously, you can take care of the boot attempt order in the bios settings.

> This is the only hard disk that produces that specific error. If I plug a blank disk in, alls I get is the "DISK BOOT FAILURE, INSERT SYSTEM DISK AND PRESS ENTER" message. No other drive produces Hard Disk Error. That also includes this drive when it's blank, or when GRUB is opted-out during setup. Only when GRUB is installed do those two Hard Disk Error messages appear.
I can understand your point. The thing is you got that error message even when your MBR had no Grub code in it. I can only guess that the bios gives different error messages depending upon whether the drive is blank or has valid MBR code or a bootable partition or not.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-05-31
> **oldfred said:**
> Did you try putting boot flag back to see if it makes a difference. It does not change grub but may change BIOS errors.

> **YesWeCan said:**
> How's it going? Did adding the boot flag work?
AFAIK you can have as many drives with bootable partitions as you like as long as no one drive has more than one. Obviously, you can take care of the boot attempt order in the bios settings.


I can understand your point. The thing is you got that error message even when your MBR had no Grub code in it. I can only guess that the bios gives different error messages depending upon whether the drive is blank or has valid MBR code or a bootable partition or not.
Adding the boot flag does nothing. It keeps doing the exact same thing it has been doing since I installed it the first time.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-06-01
What other BIOS settings are there. I have saved comments for all sorts of issues, see if any of these may apply.

Some issues on booting install:
BIOS settings need USB mouse & keyboard
BIOS in not updated to latest revision
BIOS not set to boot CD or USB first
BIOS shows floppy or firewire and you do not have those
changing newer BIOS SATA from 6 Gbs to a 3Gbs 
BIOS & disable "Boot Sector Virus Protection"
Other BIOS settings - Security or locked down Boot sector, Bitlocker
Disable Quickboot in BIOS 
core unlocker feature on asus m4a87td usb3 was causing the problem
Old BIOS, new drive 137GB max boot size
NTFS partition needs chkdsk, gparted will not see drive if chkdsk flag set, flag is set on resize
Raid meta data on drive - even if one drive (Vendor happend to set it on)
BIOS setting, Keyboard response in grub really slow

It was in the BIOS. Under Onboard Devices Settings, the SATA Mode was set to SATA. I changed it to AHCI. Then another line showed up in the BIOS that stated "Change the AHCI DID for Linux to Enabled. I booted to win7 and it loaded some new drivers. I booted to Gpart and glory be there were my hard drives.

The mode for the disc was set to AUTO. Changed it to LBA. Then it worked.
Change SATA controller mode from AHCI to Compatibility (AHCI should be ok for Vista/7 & Linux), XP may not have AHCI driver.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1694750&page=8](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1694750&page=8) post #79
Standard BIOS Settings -> [drive you want to change] -> IDE Access -> “Large”, did the trick. 

SATA mode should stay in AHCI unless you are getting nasty issues (which shouldn't happen with linux or vista/win7). The main reason why people change SATA mode to 'compatibility' is because winXP wont work with AHCI without loading the drivers..and you need a floppy drive to load the drivers, which most newer computers don't have (and lots of people are lazy anyway).

Oldfred was right on, it was the SATA Native IDE setting that hosed Grub. I had to set the OnChip SATA Type to AHCI in order to boot using Grub. As for the OnChip SATA Port 4/5 Type setting it doesn't have any affect on Grub, it can be set to IDE or as SATA Type. My MB BIOS doesn't have a Compatibility or LBA setting so I have to find the AHCI XP drivers if I want to Multi-Boot XP and Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-06-01
> **oldfred said:**
> What other BIOS settings are there. I have saved comments for all sorts of issues, see if any of these may apply.

Some issues on booting install:
BIOS settings need USB mouse & keyboard
BIOS in not updated to latest revision
BIOS not set to boot CD or USB first
BIOS shows floppy or firewire and you do not have those
changing newer BIOS SATA from 6 Gbs to a 3Gbs 
BIOS & disable "Boot Sector Virus Protection"
Other BIOS settings - Security or locked down Boot sector, Bitlocker
Disable Quickboot in BIOS 
core unlocker feature on asus m4a87td usb3 was causing the problem
Old BIOS, new drive 137GB max boot size
NTFS partition needs chkdsk, gparted will not see drive if chkdsk flag set, flag is set on resize
Raid meta data on drive - even if one drive (Vendor happend to set it on)
BIOS setting, Keyboard response in grub really slow

It was in the BIOS. Under Onboard Devices Settings, the SATA Mode was set to SATA. I changed it to AHCI. Then another line showed up in the BIOS that stated "Change the AHCI DID for Linux to Enabled. I booted to win7 and it loaded some new drivers. I booted to Gpart and glory be there were my hard drives.

The mode for the disc was set to AUTO. Changed it to LBA. Then it worked.
Change SATA controller mode from AHCI to Compatibility (AHCI should be ok for Vista/7 & Linux), XP may not have AHCI driver.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1694750&page=8](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1694750&page=8) post #79
Standard BIOS Settings -> [drive you want to change] -> IDE Access -> “Large”, did the trick. 

SATA mode should stay in AHCI unless you are getting nasty issues (which shouldn't happen with linux or vista/win7). The main reason why people change SATA mode to 'compatibility' is because winXP wont work with AHCI without loading the drivers..and you need a floppy drive to load the drivers, which most newer computers don't have (and lots of people are lazy anyway).

Oldfred was right on, it was the SATA Native IDE setting that hosed Grub. I had to set the OnChip SATA Type to AHCI in order to boot using Grub. As for the OnChip SATA Port 4/5 Type setting it doesn't have any affect on Grub, it can be set to IDE or as SATA Type. My MB BIOS doesn't have a Compatibility or LBA setting so I have to find the AHCI XP drivers if I want to Multi-Boot XP and Ubuntu.
I'm not sure you've been reading the thread. This is a PATA drive, on an 8 year old IBM server with one OS on the 80GB drive. None of what you brought up is relevant in the least. :(

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-06-01
BTW, if you want to be sure that Grub is not producing that error message, you can modify Grub's error message, for example by making the d in Disk lower case:

```
sudo dd if=/dev/sda of=/dev/sda bs=1 count=1 skip=408 seek=408 conv=notrunc,lcase
```

Grub should now produce the message "Hard disk Error"

**[COLOR="Red"]Warning for onlookers[/COLOR]**: Be very careful using dd to write to a disk, there is a high chance of rendering it unreadable and losing all of your data if you get the command wrong. Always check the man page to make sure the dd command options you are using will do only what you want done.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-06-01
Brainstorming now...

Play with changing the master/slave configs of the HD and CD drive.

Disconnect all drives except for the 80GB HD.

Can the 80GB HD be connected to the other PATA interface?

Simplify the system as much as possible, give the bios as few choices as possible.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-06-01
More scraping the bottom of the barrel...

Have you ever been able to boot a drive plugged into that PATA port?

I don't know whether oldfred can comment on the wild possibility that the bios is refusing to boot a non-standard MBR. Since the Grub MBR is not a standard DOS MBR. This would be rather petty of it but we are talking about an old IBM machine. ;)

If this were the case, and I have no idea whether it is or not, then it is possible to install Grub to the root partition of Ubuntu and restore the standard MBR code and set the boot flag for the root partition. I have not done this before.

You may need lilo to restore the MBR:
sudo apt-get install lilo
sudo lilo -M /dev/sda mbr

Then reinstall grub to the root partition:
sudo grub-install /dev/sda1

and set the boot flag.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-06-01
As I was reading the previous post I started thinking about lilo as well - and then it was mentioned. 

I might even suggest going a step farther and actually installing and configuring lilo. If you've backed up the MBR it would be very easy to restore the current configuration.

If this is something you are interested in trying, you would install lilo as mentioned, then run liloconfig. One thing I found when I experimented with lilo, it complains unless the fstab setting is UUID rather than '/dev/sdXY', so you'd have to change that setting first.

Here are my 'raw' notes:
> 
sudo purge grub-common
sudo apt-get install lilo
sudo liloconfig
[LIST]
[*]Complains if / fstab not identified as /dev/sdXY
[*]Writes to PBR
[*]Writes to MBR
[*]Boot flag on /dev/sdX
[*]Asks to choose one of 4 boot background images.
[*]Stores configuration file in /etc/lilo.conf
[/LIST]

Sample entry:
image=/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-21-generic
	label="Lin 2.6.31img1"
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-21-generic
	read-only

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-06-01
When I read the manual for the IBM. It came with windows 2000 or Redhat linux, but it says you have to call to register, so is there a lockdown on the BIOS & boot sector that prevents booting?

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-06-01
> **YesWeCan said:**
> BTW, if you want to be sure that Grub is not producing that error message, you can modify Grub's error message, for example by making the d in Disk lower case:

```
sudo dd if=/dev/sda of=/dev/sda bs=1 count=1 skip=408 seek=408 conv=notrunc,lcase
```Grub should now produce the message "Hard disk Error"

**[COLOR=Red]Warning for onlookers[/COLOR]**: Be very careful using dd to write to a disk, there is a high chance of rendering it unreadable and losing all of your data if you get the command wrong. Always check the man page to make sure the dd command options you are using will do only what you want done.
The "D" in "disk" is now lower case. [http://img220.imageshack.us/img220/999/dscn0514kg.jpg](http://img220.imageshack.us/img220/999/dscn0514kg.jpg)

> **YesWeCan said:**
> Brainstorming now...

Play with changing the master/slave configs of the HD and CD drive.

Disconnect all drives except for the 80GB HD.

Can the 80GB HD be connected to the other PATA interface?

Simplify the system as much as possible, give the bios as few choices as possible.
I'll have to pull the system back out of it's hole, so that'll be a few minutes. The machine weights about a billion pounds.
> **YesWeCan said:**
> More scraping the bottom of the barrel...

Have you ever been able to boot a drive plugged into that PATA port?

I don't know whether oldfred can comment on the wild possibility that the bios is refusing to boot a non-standard MBR. Since the Grub MBR is not a standard DOS MBR. This would be rather petty of it but we are talking about an old IBM machine. ;)

If this were the case, and I have no idea whether it is or not, then it is possible to install Grub to the root partition of Ubuntu and restore the standard MBR code and set the boot flag for the root partition. I have not done this before.

You may need lilo to restore the MBR:
sudo apt-get install lilo
sudo lilo -M /dev/sda mbr

Then reinstall grub to the root partition:
sudo grub-install /dev/sda1

and set the boot flag.
The machine shipped with Windows 2000, it has a 2000 license key attached to it, and there is a Windows 2000 Server install disk inside. The mahcine booted both Windows 2000 and XP before, when it was beign used as a simple file server.
> **drs305 said:**
> As I was reading the previous post I started thinking about lilo as well - and then it was mentioned. 

I might even suggest going a step farther and actually installing and configuring lilo. If you've backed up the MBR it would be very easy to restore the current configuration.

If this is something you are interested in trying, you would install lilo as mentioned, then run liloconfig. One thing I found when I experimented with lilo, it complains unless the fstab setting is UUID rather than '/dev/sdXY', so you'd have to change that setting first.

Here are my 'raw' notes:
I've tried installing lilo, and it just screwed the OS up. it didn't ever boot correctly again, and I needed to wipe it. However, it was able to show up on its own, unlike GRUB.
> **oldfred said:**
> When I read the manual for the IBM. It came with windows 2000 or Redhat linux, but it says you have to call to register, so is there a lockdown on the BIOS & boot sector that prevents booting?
The HDD is not original on this machine. I believe it shipped with the 2 SCSI drives installed, but I disabled them since the larger one is failing. I don't think there is a BIOS lock, only because Windows 2000 and XP both booted without a problem, and lilo was able to... sorta boot the machine.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-06-01
> **Master_Taco said:**
> The "D" in "disk" is now lower case.
So it is. You were right. :)
Why "GRUB" is not displayed is perplexing me, but never mind.
Grub MBR executes and fails.

> I've tried installing lilo, and it just screwed the OS up. it didn't ever boot correctly again, and I needed to wipe it. However, it was able to show up on its own, unlike GRUB.
lilo executes and fails.

I notice that the bios tried to boot from CD first. What happens when you set it to boot from HD first?

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-06-01
> **YesWeCan said:**
> So it is. You were right. :)
Why "GRUB" is not displayed is perplexing me, but never mind.
Grub MBR executes and fails.


lilo executes and fails.

I notice that the bios tried to boot from CD first. What happens when you set it to boot from HD first?
Yes, GRUB MBR executes and fails. Lilo technically executes and succeeds, but it mounts the partitions incorrectly. and it tried booting from CD first, because I am using a CD to boot the machine, as we've been over this. If the CD is disallowed to boot, it does the exact same thing.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-06-01
According to the Grub2 MBR code a Hard disk Error is the result of 2 calls to the bios that both return in error. The first is to check for logical block addressing (LBA) support and the second is to ask about the drive geometry for cylinder-head-sector (CHS) addressing. In both cases Grub2 has to specify the drive number to the bios. Whether the error is caused by the drive number being unrecognized by the bios is not clear. The drive number can be forced to a specific value at 0x0064. It is normally set to 0xff to mean "use what the bios has given you" but could be set to 0x80 or 0x81 or whatever you want to try.

Changing tack a little. We know the Grub loader on your CD works. It has a very similar loading scheme except that I imagine it lives in the partition boot sector. So another approach would be to install the CD rescue Grub loader into a new partition on the HD and use a normal DOS MBR to boot that partition. I haven't thought through how to do this but it might be an option.

It is good that lilo got somewhere. Would you elaborate on how it went wrong? Did it actually boot Ubuntu? What were the partition mounting issues? lilo may be having a related problem. It may be easier to get lilo working at this stage. I no nothing about lilo. If you choose to fix lilo and can't get enough support in this thread you might want to start another with lilo in the title.

---

### Post by Master_Taco on 2011-06-01
> **YesWeCan said:**
> According to the Grub2 MBR code a Hard disk Error is the result of 2 calls to the bios that both return in error. The first is to check for logical block addressing (LBA) support and the second is to ask about the drive geometry for cylinder-head-sector (CHS) addressing. In both cases Grub2 has to specify the drive number to the bios. Whether the error is caused by the drive number being unrecognized by the bios is not clear. The drive number can be forced to a specific value at 0x0064. It is normally set to 0xff to mean "use what the bios has given you" but could be set to 0x80 or 0x81 or whatever you want to try.

Changing tack a little. We know the Grub loader on your CD works. It has a very similar loading scheme except that I imagine it lives in the partition boot sector. So another approach would be to install the CD rescue Grub loader into a new partition on the HD and use a normal DOS MBR to boot that partition. I haven't thought through how to do this but it might be an option.

It is good that lilo got somewhere. Would you elaborate on how it went wrong? Did it actually boot Ubuntu? What were the partition mounting issues? lilo may be having a related problem. It may be easier to get lilo working at this stage. I no nothing about lilo. If you choose to fix lilo and can't get enough support in this thread you might want to start another with lilo in the title.
About the only way I can describe it is it wouldn't mount the disks properly. I got a login prompt, but that was after pressing "s" a few times, and watching a lot of things die. The server didn't work correctly after that, so I reinstalled. I didn't pay much attention to it.

Really, to be honest, I'm okay with leaving the CD in the drive. The machine won't be rebooted that much, the disk is really there in case of a power failure and the machine loses power. The server lives in my house, it's not at some remote location or anything, so if something happens to the disk, I'll just make a new one. I have the image stored on my computer, which is backed up weekly. The only reason I kept responding is because you seemed genuinely interested in learning about GRUB, so I figured I'd help you out, but now we're playing with a live web server, and I don't want to start dicking around with the drive's MBR anymore, I don't want this thing to go down for reboot and never come back up again...

---

### Post by satworld on 2011-06-04
i had the same problem with 10.04 lts sever
i installed it at leat 5 times until it was fixed
it worked with seageate 2tb sata hdd on a  intel i7+sata  gigabyte motherboard  socket 1155 p65
its a compability problem .
it worked well for a month then it stoped recognied the hdd suddenly like you
i installed it many times but nothing
so i formated the hdd then iinstalled it from the start and bingo its working again.
i never reboot the server again because of that until i find a solution
sometimes it wont find a hdd sata .
its not normal.
i bet a lot of people got the same problem .
waiting for a solution.
thanks

---

### Post by linux.girl on 2011-10-28
> **ruffEdgz said:**
> Just curious but can you run this command on the system having the GRUB problem and post it on the forum:
```

grep -E "^GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=" /etc/default/grub

```When looking at a server like yours, I noticed that the default settings for grub are set to 0 which means it will boot up into the default grub option which usually is set to the installed OS.

Hi ruffEdgz, I am having the same problem where grub doesnt load before the os. I ran the command that you suggested, 
grep -E "^GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=" /etc/default/grub and my result is really set to 0. Is there a way I can change that? If yes, how? I would like to make sure grub loads every time before the OS.

Thanks in advance,

linux.girl

---

### Post by linux.girl on 2011-10-28
ok, found my answer here!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1302743](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1302743)

Thanks for giving the hint though, re 
/etc/default/grub

---

