---
title: "16.04.4 with 4.4.0-121-generic kernel"
date: 2018-04-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by adwang-bing on 2018-04-28
Hello,
I am trying to narrow down some issues I have been having on an ubuntu 16.04.4 lts server instance that is running in a vmware environment.  Recently, I started to get multiple messages on the console of "NMI watchdog: BUG: soft lockup - CPU#0 stuck for 45s! [mysqld: 15425]" all CPU threads hit this at some point with different pid's and times.  When this happens, I lose active SSH session(s) to the box and the web interface for an application that is running on the box stops responding and hangs. I noticed this did not start happening until after the most recent kernel upgrade.  Prior to this, the box was running fine on several versions of the 4.4 kernel (4.4.0-87-generic and 4.4.0-97-generic).  One problem that did crop up which actually led to upgrading to 4.4.0-121-generic is that the box hung up and would boot to a kernel panic due to /boot being full.  This was resolved by a manual clean up of /boot followed by pushing the system to 4.4.0-121-generic.  Since then, every few hours I have gotten the soft lockups. Any insights that can be given or places I should be looking in the os to look for hints to a solution will be much appreciated.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2018-04-30
Hmmm....when your /boot partition filled up, did you manually delete files or could you do the autoremove/autoclean/clean?

I have a MariaDB server running on Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS in VMware but have not seen any issues with that kernel.

I'm  currently on 4.4.0-122 since April 27th.  (4.4.0-121 was installed on  April 24th so it didn't have a long shelf-life on my server)

LHammonds

---

### Post by adwang-bing on 2018-04-30
I had to manually do some cleanup before being able to run an autoclean/autoremove.  Prior to the manual cleanup, I could not autoremove the old kernels.  I was literally completely out of space in /boot.  Would you recommend updating the kernel to 4.4.0-122-generic and seeing if it could possibly solve the problems? The box is currently running a production environment for librenms and I personally would prefer to find a solution to the problem instead of rebuilding the box or reverting to a snapshot only to find the problem resurface in a couple weeks/months.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2018-05-01
You ran out of space the last time you upgraded your kernel...which means it could not possibly have finished correctly.

I would definitely go to the 122 kernel once you have cleaned up space in /boot just to know that the current kernel installed without a problem.

I would then look at adding some monitoring to your servers to watch out for low space issues and even include some automation to keep things tidy.  I use Nagios to keep an eye on my 100+ servers that I manage and I use Bash scripts to automate things such as "apt-get autoremove" which are all documented on my forum (see my sig for details if interested).

LHammonds

---

