---
title: "6.5 Tb filesystem"
date: 2007-11-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by dbeaart on 2007-11-28
Hi,

I recently got a SAN, with 6.5 Tb of data. The SAN is a dedicated server, which is connected to my ubuntu 7.10 server.

I have installed and configured the open-iscsi package, and now I can mount the disk. 
First I formated the disk as ext3, but `df -h` returned that there was only 360Gb available.
I knew there was something like a blocksize which I could change, but a quick google search said that the max partition size still is 4 Gig ([http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/what-is-maximum-partition-size-supported-by-linux.html](http://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/what-is-maximum-partition-size-supported-by-linux.html))

After that, I wanted to use XFS. I have formated the disk as xfs, and now when I mount it, `df -h` shows me that the disk is 2.0Tb.

With dmesg, I see the following messages : 
```
[141742.081928] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdc] Very big device. Trying to use READ CAPACITY(16).
[141742.082420] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdc] 13663729664 512-byte hardware sectors (6995830 MB)
[141742.082927] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdc] Write Protect is off
[141742.082933] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdc] Mode Sense: 77 00 00 08
[141742.083677] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdc] Write cache: disabled, read cache: enabled, doesn't support DPO or FUA
[141742.083686]  sdc: sdc1
[141894.111339] SGI XFS with ACLs, security attributes, realtime, large block numbers, no debug enabled
[141894.112392] SGI XFS Quota Management subsystem
[141894.125705] XFS mounting filesystem sdc1
```

So the system knows the disk has 6995830 MB of storage, but when I do df -h, I get the following : 
```
# df -h
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sdc1             2.0T   35G  2.0T   2% /mnt/SAN
```



I would really like to get this working, what are my options ? 
I have no problem with changing the filesystem.

---

### Post by smileypaul on 2007-11-28
I believe 2TB is that larges tpartition size available unless you are using LBA .. look up LBA64

---

### Post by dbeaart on 2007-11-28
> **smileypaul said:**
> I believe 2TB is that larges tpartition size available unless you are using LBA .. look up LBA64

Can you tell me something more about LBA64? 
When I search for it, I indeed find some sources where the 2.0Tb limit is discussed, but I can't find where the LBA64 setting is.
I thought I have seen LBA64 somewhere before, so I opened up the BIOS of the server, but I couldn't find it (I did found a setting for large disks, which was set on DOS, I changed it to "others").

I also found somewhere that you had to create the partition using parted ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=331683&highlight=lba64](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=331683&highlight=lba64)), but when I do that, nothing changes. By the way, in that thread the kernel is recompiled, but I thought that these settings were default for 7.10, right ?

I found this page : [http://www.webconnexxion.com/raid/info_pages.php?pages_id=43](http://www.webconnexxion.com/raid/info_pages.php?pages_id=43) , and I have followed its 'Using greater than 2TB volume in Linux by "LBA 64" option' guide

So now I tried it with parted but now again, my disk size is 246Gb.

My questions are : 
* do I need to compile a custom kernel to be able to have LBA64 support
* If not: what should I do ?

---

### Post by GigaVolt on 2007-11-28
Helllo dbeaart,

I use reiserfs and my backup partition is:
/dev/sda3             4.4T  4.2T  161G  97% /backups

---

### Post by dbeaart on 2007-11-29
> **GigaVolt said:**
> Helllo dbeaart,

I use reiserfs and my backup partition is:
/dev/sda3             4.4T  4.2T  161G  97% /backups

Thanks GigaVolt for your reply.

I've used fdisk to create a 6.5Tb reiserFS partition on my disk.
When I mount it I still get this : 
```
/dev/sdc1             2.0T   33M  2.0T   1% /mnt/SAN
```

So for some reason, it wont work. Are you also working on ubuntu 7.10 ? 

-Dyon

---

### Post by gmc on 2007-11-29
Geez! 

4.4T, 6.5T and I thought I was doing well with 2.2T on my home brewed PVR system. Though I'm cheating. I use LVM over 4 external USB harddrives and 4 internal harddrives to create one huge 2.0T JFS partition and several smaller partitions.

Gord

---

### Post by dbeaart on 2007-11-29
Ow yeah I got it working.

After I created the reiserFS with fdisk, I tried it with parted.
It took my some time to play with the End variable, but in the end, I got it almost fully workable (now, my df -h returns this, and I'm happy with it)
```
/dev/sdc1             6.4T   33M  6.4T   1% /mnt/SAN
```

@Gord: this system will be used for business video storage machine, so this isn´t your home movie sharing server ;)
I was always very proud on my 10 disk multi mounted 2.4Tb server :D

---

### Post by gmc on 2007-11-29
I read somewhere that if (as in my case) you're writing live video data to a drive, that jfs was the best option as it can commit data to the drive faster than any of the other available file systems. 

I have to say I'm pretty happy with my choice of JFS as I've had a number of power failures and the system just reboots and keeps on chugging along. Though truth be told, I did have a few problems with getting the external USB drives to mount in the proper order.

As it stands, I can be recording one live show, watch a previously recorded show and have the system encoding two more previously recorded shows and could probably handle one or two more encoding sessions. (Like to see windows handle that type of processing).

Anyhow, have fun with your 6.5T (and yes, I'm jealous ;-)

Gord

---

### Post by dbeaart on 2007-11-29
Gord,

Thanks for your reply.
I'm currently trieing to get JFS to work with it, and will have a couple of tests/tweaks. 
I'll get back to that soon (i hope ;))

---

### Post by dbeaart on 2007-11-29
Okay that was very simple ;) 

After installing the jfsutils package, I reformated the drive, and now everything works correct.

I think that in the beginning, I just put the wrong End var in the parted tool, and that that caused all my problems, not sure though.


At this moment I'm copying about 1Tb of data from an backup USB disk taken from the old server (which will be replaced by this new one), it's quite slow for now, but I think that's because of the slow disk, and the el cheapo hub which powers the ISCSI connection.

Thanks everyone, I enjoyed this topic at ubuntuforums ;)

---

### Post by crouton on 2007-11-29
I'd love to see how you configured the open-iscsi package, and some hardware info.

---

### Post by dbeaart on 2007-11-29
> **crouton said:**
> I'd love to see how you configured the open-iscsi package, and some hardware info.

Thanks for your interest. I have saved as much configuration info in our business wiki, so I think I can help you out a bit.

We have bought a [Open-E DSS]("http://www.open-e.com/dss/data_storage_server/?lang=en&product_code=DSS&show=description") server, with 16 500Gb harddisks. They are configured in a raid 5 envirement, with 1 spare disk. The system itselves uses some of the available size for backup etc. So we have 6.5 Tb (actually 6.9Tb)
Open-E DSS is my first touch with SAN's ever, but it was really a joy, and I can recommand it to anyone.

The SAN server has 6 Gigabit ports, one connected to the gutsy server. 

Our SAN has ip 192.168.2.120, and the gutsy server has ip 192.168.2.122. They are currently connected through some cheapo 100Mbit switch, but in the datacenter, they will be connected by a 1Gb switch from blackbox.

Configuring the gutsy server (the SAN client) was actually really easy. Here are the steps I did (I followed parts of [this]("http://www.howtoforge.com/iscsi_on_linux") tutorial): 

```

sudo apt-get install open-iscsi

```

Now discover the LUN's on the SAN : 
```
iscsiadm -m discovery -t st -p 192.168.2.120
```
The server returns something like *192.168.2.120:3260,1 iqn.2007-08:dss.target0*

Now connect to the LUN, which makes the SAN available as a 'local disk'
```
iscsiadm -m node -T iqn.2007-08:dss.target0 -p 192.168.2.120:3260 --login
```

Now, in dmesg, you see a lot of new lines, mine were something like this : 
```
[ 9552.426276] scsi4 : iSCSI Initiator over TCP/IP
[ 9552.756948] scsi 4:0:0:0: Direct-Access     iSCSI    DISK             0    PQ: 0 ANSI: 4
[ 9552.757683] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Very big device. Trying to use READ CAPACITY(16).
[ 9552.758174] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] 13663729664 512-byte hardware sectors (6995830 MB)
[ 9552.758688] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Write Protect is off
[ 9552.758694] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Mode Sense: 77 00 00 08
[ 9552.759417] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Write cache: disabled, read cache: enabled, doesn't support DPO or FUA
[ 9552.760168] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Very big device. Trying to use READ CAPACITY(16).
[ 9552.760670] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] 13663729664 512-byte hardware sectors (6995830 MB)
[ 9552.761158] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Write Protect is off
[ 9552.761162] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Mode Sense: 77 00 00 08
[ 9552.761669] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Write cache: disabled, read cache: enabled, doesn't support DPO or FUA
[ 9552.761676]  sdc: unknown partition table
[ 9552.807903] sd 4:0:0:0: [sdc] Attached SCSI disk
[ 9552.807951] sd 4:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg4 type 0
```

So at that point, the SAN was available for me at /dev/sdc

I also edited the /etc/iscsi/nodes/<iscsi target name>/<ip address> file to set node.conn[0].startup = manual to automatic (from the howtoforge.com link)

To create the JFS disk, I used parted (for some kind of reason, fdisk can't create disk > 2.0Tb)
In interactive parted shell, I used this command to create the disk : 
```
mkpart storage ext2 0 6995800
```
Where the 6995800 equals the size of the SAN. I had to play a little with this var, cause (as you can see in the dmesg output) the disk itselves is a bit larger, but parted won't take that.

To create the JFS disk, I had to install the JFS utils package : 
```
apt-get install jfsutils
```
After that, only thing I had to do was this : 
```
mkfs.jfs /dev/sdc1
```
And then I could mount the disk as a 6.5 Tb disk : 

```
root@JingJang:/mnt/SAN# df -h
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1             285G  1.7G  269G   1% /
varrun                2.0G   52K  2.0G   1% /var/run
varlock               2.0G     0  2.0G   0% /var/lock
udev                  2.0G  104K  2.0G   1% /dev
devshm                2.0G     0  2.0G   0% /dev/shm
/dev/sdc1             6.4T  284G  6.1T   5% /mnt/SAN

```

Hope I helped you out a bit, loved to share it anyways ;)

---

### Post by crouton on 2007-11-29
Fantastic walkthrough, thank you.  I've used Open-E before (their IDE adapters) to create a NAS but never had an opportunity to use an Linux iscsi client to connect to it.

Thanks again. :)

---

### Post by dbeaart on 2007-12-03
Today I wanted to work some more on the system.
Since the SAN was connected through a 192.168.2.x link, and a temp 192.168.1.x link, I removed the 192.168.1.x link. 
the SAN connection was still active when I removed the cable, and suddenly, I started receiving errors, such as "can't write", and some I/O stuff.
After a reboot, I can't seem to mount the disk anymore. When I launch my previous mount command, I get this error : 

```
sudo mount /dev/sdc1 /mnt/SAN/
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sdc1,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so
```
I've also tried it with -t jfs, but nothing seems to work.

When I do a fsck.jfs, get this error : 
```
fsck.jfs version 1.1.11, 05-Jun-2006
processing started: 12/3/2007 7.39.55
Using default parameter: -p
The current device is:  /dev/sdc1
Superblock is corrupt and cannot be repaired 
since both primary and secondary copies are corrupt.  

 CANNOT CONTINUE.

```

I have no idea why the system give me such a big error. Is this a JFS thing ? If so, I should really switch to another filesystem, cause when the system goes live, I can't have such big errors.

Anybody experience with this ?

---

### Post by crouton on 2007-12-03
Maybe your .1.x link wasn't as temporary as you thought?  I don't know why it would refuse to find the filesystem though... a journaled filesystem should be able to pick back up from a previous state.

---

### Post by dbeaart on 2007-12-04
> **crouton said:**
> Maybe your .1.x link wasn't as temporary as you thought?  I don't know why it would refuse to find the filesystem though... a journaled filesystem should be able to pick back up from a previous state.

Yes, I figured the .1.x link was the fysical link (although I don't really understand that, but whatever).
I still think that the filesystem should survive a broken cable or something like that, so I will conduct some tests with it.

 I have now formated the drive as reiserFS, and I'm now copying loads of data to it. When it's finished I'll remove the cable and see what happens...

---

### Post by crouton on 2007-12-05
I know that in Windows there is the 'bind order' for NICs that determines a primary interface.  Between that and/or setting up firewall rules to prevent SAN traffic over the .1.x link you could probably prevent that link from being so important to the filesystem's sanity. ;)

---

