---
title: "grub install failed"
date: 2015-04-11
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ben_des on 2015-04-11
So I'm a complete newb at trying to set up a sever and pretty new to ubuntu having used it for a year a few years ago. I have been spinning my wheels hard on this.

I get a failed to install grub error when installing the software. I was following the directions of the Official Ubuntu Server Guide PDF and it went to **** on me.
I just completed the install without a bootloader and tried running a boot repair afterwards but it's still not working. Here is report generated by it.
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/10802972/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/10802972/)

I have 2 3TB hard drives. I'm trying to setup a RAID system.  ~2.8 TB for a media server and I partitioned 2 ~75GB for use as back up storage for my wife's & my computer & phone.

I'm in over my head and could use a hand.

---

### Post by darkod on 2015-04-12
The first possible issue that comes to my mind is the partition table type. You have the disks with GPT table, which is correct for big disks. But on GPT disks you need a small unformatted partition for grub2 because grub2 is too big for the MBR and it needs some extra space. In MBR (msdos) partition tables it works differently, on gpt you have to make that partition manually as far as I know.

I have attached the partition layout of my disks for example.

You can even create the partition from ubuntu desktop live mode, and then do the server install using the same partitions that already exist. The main thing to remember about this small 1MiB partition is that it should NOT have any filesystem (do NOT format it at all, in any way, just create it). And it needs to have the bios_grub flag set on it. That tells grub2 installer to use it.

---

### Post by ben_des on 2015-04-12
Okay that helps a good bit. My other thing when doingvthis the flag as primary option never appears when partitioning. I'll go thru and redo it leaving a a small unformatted freespace.

---

