---
title: "8.10 and samba password create error (NT_STATUS_UNSUCCESSFUL)"
date: 2009-03-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by tbag on 2009-03-16
Hi All,

I think I have found a problem with deleting users in samba. It seems it 'corrupts' the password file. I am not 100% sure if this is a config error or a real bug, so I am posting it here to confirm first, or to find it if anyone has had this before and knows how to fix it or if i am being and idiot and doing something wrong.

Here is a summary :

* I create a unix user called test1
* I create a samba user called test1
(both these commands work fine and i can create as many as i want)
* I delete the samba user
* I delete the unix user
(both these commands work fine)
* I create a unix user called test2
(this command works fine)
* I create a samba user called test2
(This command fails with this error:
Unable to modify TDB passwd: NT_STATUS_UNSUCCESSFUL!
Failed to add entry for user test2.
Failed to modify password entry for user test2 )

It seems that as soon as I delete the unix user, I can't write the tdb passwords anymore.

Another note, is if I remove samba and reinstall it. I still can't create any samba users. BUT, if i uninstall samba, remove all the files in /var/lib/samba/ and reinstall, I can start the above process again.

I have attached a text file will all the commands that I run and their results.

System : 
Ubuntu 8.10
Linux series 2.6.27-7-server
smbd --version = Version 3.2.3

So, has anyone had this before? am I doing anything wrong or is this a bug?

Thanks
Theunis

---

