---
title: "16.04.4 LTS VSFTP local_root doesn't work."
date: 2018-04-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Dennis_Beekman on 2018-04-28
I have a VPS server and would like to host a website on it... to upload this website I wish to use VSFTP with a global root set to "/var/www".

I can get the VSFTP server to work with no problem, but no matter what I try it keeps referring me to my users home folder instead of "/var/www".
I tried setting "chroot_local_user" to both yes and no and also tried removing the userlist.
Setting the folder owner to either my user or the vsftp user and changing permission to 777 did not help, setting another random folder then "/var/www" also did not work.

This is my config file:
```

listen=YES
listen_ipv6=NO
connect_from_port_20=YES
idle_session_timeout=120
max_per_ip=5
local_root=/var/www
use_localtime=YES
write_enable=YES
dirlist_enable=YES
download_enable=YES
anonymous_enable=NO
local_enable=YES
chroot_local_user=NO
userlist_enable=YES
userlist_file=/etc/user_list
pam_service_name=vsftpd
ssl_enable=YES
rsa_cert_file=/etc/ssl/certs/ssl-cert-snakeoil.pem
rsa_private_key_file=/etc/ssl/private/ssl-cert-snakeoil.key

```

Any suggestions as to why i cannot use "local_root" ??

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2018-04-29
If your chroot successfully goes to your home folder, can you simply move your website to that location or do you need multiple users to access it?

Here are [my notes on setting up VSFTPD]("http://hammondslegacy.com/forum/viewtopic.php?f=40&t=228"). on Ubuntu 16.04.

**EDIT:** Oh! Ubuntu Server 18.04 LTS is out.  Guess its time to start working on re-creating all my servers on the new versions and migrate the data (and document the process)

LHammonds

---

### Post by Dennis_Beekman on 2018-05-03
@LHammonds, TY for the suggestion but I really would like to have the FTP server pointed to /var/www for security and easy of use.
Several people are going to be accessing it and to be honest if the system offers the option to change the location i am not going to accept defeat so easily.

As for 18.04, my VPS host doesn't offer it yet.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2018-05-03
Is this your issue (based on the 1st post):

```
chroot_local_user=NO
```
vs
```
chroot_local_user=YES
```

When I documented this install for my users, chroot worked properly...but each user had their own custom folders...but none of them had their own "home" directories because they had no profile and could not SSH login...just login via FTP.

You might want to modify the user's "home" setting to be that of the www folder.

Example:
```
usermod --home /var/www username
```

Or when adding users:
```
useradd --gid ftpusers --home /var/www --shell /usr/sbin/nologin username
```

LHammonds

---

### Post by Dennis_Beekman on 2018-05-05
To be honest I do not know why, but suddenly after rebuilding the config file and playing around with the rights on the /var/www folder I got it to work.

On the man page for vsftpd.conf it says that failure of this config option will be sillently ignored.
I gues it did that and then reverted to the home folder instead as the rights where not set correctly.

Anyways, it has been resolved this point :D

---

