---
title: "6.10 Edgy Network services stop"
date: 2006-11-17
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by reverbtank on 2006-11-17
I installed Ubuntu 6.10 Edgy on an old Gateway computer that I plan on using as a headless file server/experiment in server administration.  The specs are:
Pentium II 300mhz
128 ram
8 gig HD for Ubuntu
80 gig HD for file storage
10/100 ethernet card based on Realtek chipset

I have assigned the server a static IP address.
I installed sshd and samba and configured and ran both successfully.  However, after approximately 30 minutes of the server being idle(nobody is accessing it) all network services stop.  I hooked the box up to a monitor and the OS is running fine still, but if I attempt to ping, ssh, or use samba on the box, all of them fail or report that a host is not available.  
It's driving me nuts, I'd love to have an experts opinion on this.

Thanks in advance..

---

### Post by lloyd_b on 2006-11-17
Two possibilities come to mind:

1.  Hardware problem with the card.  After 30 minutes, a component on the card reaches a "critical temperature", and quits working.

2.  Driver problem - after a certain number of packets, the driver crashes.

After it has stopped working, run "ifconfig" and see if "eth0" still appears there.  

If it's still there (just not working), try "ifdown eth0" and then "ifup eth0".  

If that fails, you can try to "rmmod" and "insmod" the module for that driver (sorry, I have no clue as to which module is used for the Realtek).  That will fully reinitialize the driver, clearing any driver-related bugs in the process.  Then do an "ifup eth0".

If that fails, then it's fairly certain that it's a hardware problem, most likely with the card.

Lloyd B.

---

### Post by reverbtank on 2006-11-17
Thanks a lot.  When the system went down I did run ifconfig and device eth0 was still up with the same static IP.  I will give those other suggestions a shot though.  I also have access to another ethernet card that I can try.

---

