---
title: "7.10 -&gt; 8.04 Sparc server cdromupgrade fails"
date: 2009-06-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Triden on 2009-06-05
Hello all,

Trying to upgrade from 7.10 to 8.04 for sparc.  I run /mnt/cdrom/cdromupgrade from the 8.04.1-alternate-sparc.iso and get a failure:

Can't guess meta-package 

Your system does not contain a ubuntu-desktop, kubuntu-desktop, 
xubuntu-desktop or edubuntu-desktop package and it was not possible 
to detect which version of Ubuntu you are running. 
Please install one of the packages above first using synaptic or 
apt-get before proceeding. 

I do not have any of the GUIs installed because the Ultra60 only has a serial console connection.  

I must be doing something really wrong cause I wouldn't think the server version would require a GUI to be installed.

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by smileypaul on 2009-06-05
I could be way off here, but tried changing your repositories to hardy and doing an apt-get dist-uprade ?

---

### Post by cdenley on 2009-06-05
> **smileypaul said:**
> I could be way off here, but tried changing your repositories to hardy and doing an apt-get dist-uprade ?

Either that, or run "sudo do-release-upgrade", but I don't think that will install from a CD. Maybe the server can't be online. You could try adding the CD to your sources.list. Did you realize you're using an alternate install CD image, and not the server install?

---

### Post by Triden on 2009-06-05
> **cdenley said:**
> Either that, or run "sudo do-release-upgrade", but I don't think that will install from a CD. Maybe the server can't be online. You could try adding the CD to your sources.list. Did you realize you're using an alternate install CD image, and not the server install?

The server does have internet access.  The do-release-upgrade appears to work; it got all the way to the point where it told me how many packages were going to be deleted, installed and upgraded.   Once I backup the important stuff; I'm going to see if it completes the upgrade successfully.

Is there a reason why this would work and the cdromupgrade would fail?  Does the cdromupgrade only work for certain types of installs?

BTW, I tried cdromupgrade with the normal server ISO and got the same failure.

Thanks for the help.

---

