---
title: "Problem Creating Drupal"
date: 2010-07-02
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Lenny212 on 2010-07-02
I have installed Drupal and am working through the configuration steps at [http://localhost/](http://localhost/)[User]/drupal.
I am up to drupal database configuration and it appears mysql is not set up correctly
I get this error: 
> Failed to select your database on your MySQL database server, which means the connection username and password are valid, but there is a problem accessing your data. MySQL reports the following message: Access denied for user ''@'localhost' to database 'lenny212'.

    * Are you sure you have the correct database name?
    * Are you sure the database exists?
    * Are you sure the username has permission to access the database?

For more help, see the Installation and upgrading handbook. If you are unsure what these terms mean you should probably contact your hosting provider.

I believe I need to create a database.
When I run this in Terminal:
mysqladmin -u root -p create drupal

The error message returned is:
> mysqladmin: connect to server at 'localhost' failed
error: 'Can't connect to local MySQL server through socket '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock' (2)'
Check that mysqld is running and that the socket: '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock' exists!

I can confirm /var/run/mysqld folder exists, however this directory is empty.
Now I am stuck, it appears to me MySQL is not set up correctly.
Please help

---

### Post by Vegan on 2010-07-02
sudo tasksel

and pick MySQL server

---

### Post by Lenny212 on 2010-07-02
Thanks Vegan,

MySQL server is not an option in the list generated by "sudo tasksel"

I noticed that [http://localhost/xampp/index.ph](http://localhost/xampp/index.ph) showed MySQL as deactivated however when I run "sudo /opt/lampp/lampp start" in terminal I get:

> Starting XAMPP for Linux 1.7.3a...
XAMPP: Starting Apache with SSL (and PHP5)...
XAMPP: Starting MySQL...
XAMPP: Starting ProFTPD...
XAMPP for Linux started.

So it appears here that XAMPP recognises mysql.

Do I have mysql installed or not?
There are plenty of mysql packages ticked in Synaptic Package Manager.

--------
When I type "sudo tasksel" there is an option for PostgreSQL database.
I don't know what this is.
--------

---

