---
title: "8.04 LTS Server Edition grub error 18"
date: 2008-06-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ajjs79 on 2008-06-08
Hi All

I am getting a an error after installing ub 8.04 LTS Server Edition on a epia via 5000 board with 128mb ram and 160gb hd. After the install and initial reboot I get:

GRUB loading stage 1.5

GRUB loading, please wait...
Error 18

:confused: any ideas folks?

cheers 

Al

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2008-06-08
Seems this may be due to problems with your bios settings for the disk on which grub is installed.  Erreor 18 is for the "selected cylinder being too large and not supported by bios" so you may need to change that to normal or auto in bios.

Here's some info from a forum a long time ago
QUOTE
This may turn out to be a variant of the problem I struggled with. Here's what I did:

1. Set the drive up in LBA mode in the BIOS. That should give disk geometry data with 255 Heads, probably 63 sectors.

2. Install Ubuntu normally. Never mind the /boot partition at the beginning.

3. After the core is installed, Ubuntu reboots the machine. At this point, I set the BIOS settings to "Normal" which gave my 4GB drive a disk geometry of about 8800 cylinders, 15 head, and 63 sectors. It rebooted the machine and...

4. GRUB started up fine and the Ubuntu installation finished.

If this does work I really don't know why. But I'd love to know what kind of hard drive you have and what your LBA and Normal disk geometry was.

Best of luck!
 I managed to get it working the same way ... had my drive set on LBA when I installed Ubuntu then when I rebooted it said Grub error 18, I changed the BIOS settings for the HDD to Auto and now it seems to be booting just fine.
END QUOTE

If this is no help, apologies for wasting time.

---

### Post by ajjs79 on 2008-06-09
I dont have an option for LBA in my BIOS that I can see :(

---

### Post by drf666 on 2009-03-06
I just experienced the same problem with the same Mini-ITX board.

Seems the BIOS doesn't support 48bits LBA (>132Gb), and no updates is available for that.

I managed to get it to work by putting a 256mb "/boot" as the 1st partition, then use as usual as "/".

---

