---
title: "Ubuntu Server Trouble"
date: 2004-12-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by zachtib on 2004-12-16
I am running ubuntu on my server and have a few questions:
First, how do I enable the ftp and http daemons on ubuntu
Second, whenever I set a static IP address, ubuntu cannot access the internet. How can I fix this?
Thanks for your help

---

### Post by jdong on 2004-12-16
First, how do I enable the ftp and http daemons on ubuntu

install vsftpd and apache2.

Second, whenever I set a static IP address, ubuntu cannot access the internet. How can I fix this?

Tell us more about your network setup.

---

### Post by sime on 2004-12-22
Have something like this in /etc/network/interfaces

iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.50                               # Static IP
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        up route add default gw 192.168.1.1     # Routing as it can talk to the network

---

### Post by randy on 2004-12-23
Can you talk to other systems on your lan?

---

### Post by britishtrident on 2005-01-04
[QUOTE=zachtib]I am running ubuntu on my server and have a few questions:
First, how do I enable the ftp and http daemons on ubuntu
Second, whenever I set a static IP address, ubuntu cannot access the internet. How can I fix this?
Thanks for your help[/QUOTE]

If you set a static IP adress you must also set a gateway  and the dns servers.
Normally the gateway is your routers IP, the DNS servers are normally those given to you by your ISP + a local server if you are running one.
Be aware running httpd and ftpd that are exposed on the internet can cause major security weakneses test  that they are restricted to chroot jails and that firewalling is 100% screw down.

---

### Post by jdong on 2005-01-04
I wouldn't worry too much about running Apache -- the default config is pretty locked down already -- any tweaks on that are minimal and subjective.

But I'd agree -- be CAREFUL with FTP servers -- read the documentation, and at least two howto's on setting them up.

---

### Post by Magneto on 2005-01-05
wassup jdong  how do u like reiser4? any real performance gain?

i tried to pm you but your fanbase is too large :)

---

### Post by hyker6291 on 2007-05-15
Re: Ubuntu Server Trouble
[Ebay Equity Line Credit Girls Debt Consolidation Girls](http://oldcda.design.ucla.edu/~kpasko/watercolor/css/ph/forced-porn.html)

---

### Post by markthecarp on 2007-05-15
> **sime said:**
> Have something like this in /etc/network/interfaces

iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.50                               # Static IP
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        up route add default gw 192.168.1.1     # Routing as it can talk to the network

Here's my /etc/network/interfaces pertinent part...
```

# The primary network interface
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.20
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        network 192.168.1.0
        broadcast 192.168.1.255
        gateway 192.168.1.60
        # dns-* options are implemented by the resolvconf package, if installed
        dns-nameservers xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
        dns-search your_isp_dns_server

```
Obvious edits of the last two lines. This was generated by the 6.06 installer as I chose to have the interface have a static IP at install time. If you have Gnome installed you can use System > Administration > Networking to make changes. I don't know of a dpkg-reconfigure command line way.

-mark

---

