---
title: "Which mail packages do I need?"
date: 2012-05-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by clay7 on 2012-05-29
Hello,

I have a small website hosted on a 512 VPS (Ubuntu 12.04 LTS LAMP). The ClamAV is using almost 200MB of RAM, so I thought I'd ditch my configuration of Postfix, Dovecot, and Amavis/Clam/Spamassassin and use Gmail instead (it's free for businesses with < 10 addresses). 

As far as email goes, the only thing I need for my site to do is to send email generated from PHP scripts. Emails don't need to be stored on the server, or be read from the server.

Can I get rid of Postfix, Dovecot, and Amavis/Clam/Spamassassin? Which component do I need to send PHP emails?

Thanks!

---

### Post by clay7 on 2012-05-30
I would try to figure this out this by uninstalling and seeing what happens, but it's on a live system.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-05-30
Well you'll definitely need to keep Postfix since the PHP scripts need a mail transfer agent to send their mail.  Are you planning on delivering mail from these scripts directly to the recipients' mail servers, or are you planning to forward it upstream to another SMTP host for delivery?  I ask this because it may affect whether mail addressed from [email]mysite@example.com[/email] to [email]user@somewhere.cc[/email] will be forwarded correctly or blocked as spam.

If you're not maintaining local deliveries you don't need dovecot.  It's a POP/IMAP server that delivers mail to users.  You should consider setting an alias for root in /etc/aliases to forward administrative mail to your offsite mail account.

Whether you keep the mail scanning armamentarium depends on the types of messages that can be sent through this server.  If people can use an application to mail arbitrary files from your server, then yes, you should continue to scan all the outbound mail and block any malware you find.  However it sounds more like the mail you're dealing with is automated notifications generated by PHP scripts.  Since you control the content of these messages, you don't need to scan them for viruses or spam.

So yes to Postfix, and generally no to everything else.

Check the logs for dovecot transactions.  If no one is connecting to the server to get his or her mail, then you can shut down dovecot.  Next look at /var/log/mail.log and see what kind of email traffic is passing through your server.  If it's only mail from scripts you control, then you can disable amavis and company.

---

### Post by clay7 on 2012-05-31
>  Are you planning on delivering mail from these scripts directly to the recipients' mail servers, or are you planning to forward it upstream to another SMTP host for delivery? I ask this because it may affect whether mail addressed from [email]mysite@example.com[/email] to [email]user@somewhere.cc[/email] will be forwarded correctly or blocked as spam.

I'm planning on delivering mail from PHP (me@mysite.com) to the user's accounts (them@theirsite.com, [email]them@yahoo.com[/email], etc.). Currently, the only people who read email on my site are the admins. There are only 4 email accounts, and the plan is to use gmail (which would host [email]me1@mysite.com[/email], [email]me2@mysite.com[/email], etc.) instead of storing emails on the server. So, the admins and I would just log in to our gmail accounts to read our emails (I'd have to change the MX records with my hosting provider). If a customer sent us emails, it would go to [email]me1@mysite.com[/email], which would then be hosted on the gmail servers. 

So, the two ways customers would get email from [email]me1@mysite.com[/email] are 1. The PHP sends them emails. 2. An admin replies to a customer email which was sent to [email]me1@mysite.com[/email].

As you can see, my email needs are fairly simple. Knowing this, are your suggestions still the same?

Thanks!

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-05-31
> So, the two ways customers would get email from [email]me1@mysite.com[/email] are 1. The PHP sends them emails. 2. An admin replies to a customer email which was sent to [email]me1@mysite.com[/email].

In the second scenario, what is the MX host for mysite.com?  If it's not this machine, then my earlier suggestions should work fine.  Just have any local admin accounts be aliased to their gmail accounts in /etc/aliases, and you should be fine.

---

### Post by clay7 on 2012-05-31
The MX host is currently "mail.mysite.com". I have only 1 MX record. According to [gmail]("http://support.google.com/a/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=174125"), I'd change this to "ASPMX.L.GOOGLE.COM". 

So, it sounds like if change the MX record, alias my email accounts in /etc/aliases, keep Postfix, and remove the other packages I mentioned, I should be good to go?

Thank you very much for your help.

---

