---
title: "12.04 Server Fails To Install :("
date: 2012-06-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by d4m1r on 2012-06-30
Hey guys, I need serious help with this as I've hit a dead end.....See below for everything I have tried. Basically, I am trying to install Ubuntu Server 12.04 on an old Dell desktop I had lying around. Specs of the machine is a 1Ghz Intel P3 CPU, 512MB DDR1 RAM, 40GB Seagate IDE HDD, LG DVD drive, and a D-link gigabit NIC. The install fails at the "base install" portion because of kernal related issues from what I could tell....

-I have verified the disc burned correctly
-Have run a RAM test and everything is fine
-HDD does have a few bad sectors (5-6 I/O errors in the install log) but it should have installed regardless, right?

Anybody else have any other idea's as to what I could try? I am not able to move this PC to somewhere I could plug it in to the internet so I can't use apt-get or any other internet related commands. Below is a picture of the various errors I was seeing:

[IMG]http://i50.tinypic.com/20k2mhg.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by kumargourab on 2012-06-30
cheak the cd.may be cd correpted..

---

### Post by wheeze on 2012-06-30
Does the P3 processor support PAE? Looks like it's having trouble configuring that kernel. I'm not familiar with the server installs but can you choose the non-PAE kernel?

---

### Post by d4m1r on 2012-06-30
> **kumargourab said:**
> cheak the cd.may be cd correpted..

CD is not corrupt, I verified the disk.

> **wheeze said:**
> Does the P3 processor support PAE? Looks like it's having trouble configuring that kernel. I'm not familiar with the server installs but can you choose the non-PAE kernel?

No idea, how do I check? I choose the 32 bit 12.04 server ISO from ubuntu.com and no where on the site or in the installer did it ask about PAE....

---

### Post by bab1 on 2012-06-30
> **d4m1r said:**
> CD is not corrupt, I verified the disk.



No idea, how do I check? I choose the 32 bit 12.04 server ISO from ubuntu.com and no where on the site or in the installer did it ask about PAE.... The Intel Coppermine CPU (1Ghz P3) accepts the PAE kernel.  Except for a few CPU types (Pentium M) PAE is okay for Intel processors from Pentium on.

I can also say for certain that you should be able to install on the hardware you are using. I just installed 12.04 server 32bit on the very same basic hardware (e.g Dell 1GHz CPU (Coppermine)).  This is with 256MB RAM and a WD 80GB HDD. 

The errors you are getting are for dependencies needed to configure PAE.  I wonder if this is because you are off-line.  I believe there is a more basic install for just this type of situation (maybe the alt install ISO ???).

---

### Post by d4m1r on 2012-06-30
Definitely seems PAE related....I don't think the CPU supports it. 12.04 Server ISO by default requires PAE but the 11.10 Server ISO doesn't and I just installed 11.10 perfectly fine.

 I've decided to stay with 11.10 anyway, because it is older hardware. Thanks for the tips though guys.

---

