---
title: "Passive FTP issue on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS with IPTables and OpenVPN"
date: 2020-04-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jimwillsher on 2020-04-30
Hi all

I have a strange issue with FTP. I am trying to SEND a file that's on my Linux box to a FileZilla FTP server using Passive FTP. The Linux box has OpenVPN installed, and also iptables, and not much else. tun0 is the device created by OpenVPN, and device ens3 is the ethernet (it's hosted at a datacentre so it's the equivalent of eth0). ens3 has a public IP address, so no NAT.

Unless I add this line:

```
-A INPUT -p tcp --sport 20 --dport 1024: -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT

```
to my iptables, I cannot send a file to the external FTP site. The connection establishes but then hangs at 0 bytes.

I do have ip_conntrack_ftp in the modules file.

What am I missing?

Full iptables config below.

Many thanks


Jim


```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Wed Sep 19 20:45:08 2012

*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [832:56386]
:INPUT ACCEPT [21:1092]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [2:168]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [2:168]
-A POSTROUTING -s 10.8.0.0/24 -o tun0 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT


*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [46:2718]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [676793:2441881631]

# -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# accept all from localhost
-A INPUT -s 127.0.0.1 -j ACCEPT

# -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# accept all previously established connections
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT

# -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# accept https
-A INPUT -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT

# -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# accept OpenVPN. See comment at top relating to 'tun'
-A INPUT -i ens3 -p udp -m state --state NEW -m udp --dport 1194 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i tun+ -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i tun+ -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i tun+ -o ens3 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i ens3 -o tun+ -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT

# -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Allow FTP connections @ port 21
-A INPUT -p tcp --dport 21 -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT

# Allow Passive FTP Connections
-A INPUT -p tcp --sport 1024: --dport 1024: -m state --state ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT

[B]# THIS LINE - needed to allow PassiveFTP to work properly
-A INPUT -p tcp --sport 20 --dport 1024: -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT[/B]

# -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# reject all other packets coming into the computer, even from other computers in the local area network
-A INPUT -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-port-unreachable

-N LOGGING

-A INPUT -j LOGGING

-A LOGGING -m limit --limit 2/min -j LOG --log-prefix "IPTables-Dropped: " --log-level 4
-A LOGGING -j DROP

COMMIT
```

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2020-04-30
*Thread moved to **Server Platforms for a more appropriate fit**.*

Please use code tags - if you are using New Reply button - highlight text and use the # button in the text box header. 
 
If using Quick Reply then [noparse]```
[/noparse] at the beginning and [noparse]
```[/noparse] at the end.

---

### Post by darkod on 2020-04-30
I don't understand.

1. The iptables rules are from the FTP server machine, right?
2. Are you trying to open the ftp connection using the ftp server vpn address from the 10.8.0.0/24 range? How exactly are you trying to open the ftp connection?

---

### Post by jimwillsher on 2020-05-01
Thanks wildmanne39 for moving the thread (apologies), and thanks darkod for the reply.

No, iptables is on the the Ubuntu server box, where I am trying the FTP the file **from**.  The FTP server itself is a remote Windows box running FileZilla.

There is no VPN involved, it's plain traffic across the internet. The only reason I mentioned OpenVPN (and i should have been clearer) is that this *seemed* to be working before I installed OpenVPN. But with hindsight I am not sure I have iptables-persistent installed by then so it's possible that I was running with no firewall at all at that point.

So if we forget OpenVPN for now, the problem statement is that I seem to have to add that -sport:20 iptables rule for my passive FTP to work, and yet this rule is not mentioned in any internet guides that I can see regarding passive FTP. So whilst I have a working solution, I'm keen to understand why I seem to need that rule when nobody else does...

Many thanks.

---

### Post by darkod on 2020-05-01
In this case your ubuntu machine is the client, trying to send the file.

As far as I can see, you shouldn't need to do anything special. Usually the FW rules are important on the server side, not the client.

In your case, in iptables you allow all outgoing traffic (with the OUTPUT ACCEPT) and there is no rule after that would block the outgoing traffic.
The incoming traffic also seems good because you accept all established and related packets to the INPUT chain.

With the iptables rule you mention as necessary you are in fact changing the port from 20 to 1024 so if that is necessary to work you might be opening the connection in a wrong way.

The port setup is on server side and you shouldn't need to do anything special, even when passive FTP is used. You still open the initial connection request on standard port 21 and after that the server and client will negotiate between themselves the high range passive port to use.

By the way, 1024 is a very bad choice for passive port to use. It should be much higher. If you also control the FTP server I recommend changing the passive port range. Use a small range of 10 ports for example (if you don't have too many clients connecting at the same time), and use high ports like for example 11500:11510.

But bottom line is you shouldn't need any of the FTP rules in your iptables on client side.
For example you have INPUT --dport 21 but that is rule for the server side, the server is the one accepting the connection on port 21. The traffic coming back to the client wil be on random high port, and anyway it would be accepted back because of the INPUT ESTABLISHED,RELATED rule.

Disable temporarily your FTP rules on client side and try to connect to the FTP on standard port 21. If that fails paste here the ftp client log output which should have more details.

---

### Post by darkod on 2020-05-01
Just to add to the above, one exception could be the vpn. It doesn't look like the ftp traffic is passing over the vpn but I can't be sure how you have it set up.

With the vpn connected you can post the following command output to see how the traffic gets routed:
```
ip route show
```

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2020-05-01
If the FTP client (source) is the Ubuntu Server and the FTP server (target) is the Windows server running FileZilla FTP Server, then the only rules you need to be modifying are on the Windows firewall.

To make sure there is nothing else messing with you, temporarily disable Windows Firewall and see if the FTP client can connect and send.  Then re-enable the Windows firewall.  If it worked, the only thing you need to focus on are the correct Windows firewall rules.  If it failed, then the next step is to look at your VPN settings and make sure you are traveling down the correct path / destination and you don't have anything restricting the connection.

LHammonds

---

