---
title: "22.04 +gui, samba, internet access"
date: 2023-03-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by sonofwatt on 2023-03-13
Hi, I've installed 22.04.2 Server in a VM on Proxmox with GNOME/LightDM for GUI. I've run into a couple small issues.
1. In the GUI it says there is no internet connection. For example when going to activate Ubuntu Pro.
Under Network Connections, the list is empty.
At the Terminal, 'ip a' shows I have a local ip, and I can ping google.com successfully.

2. When trying to share a folder in the GUI. I got the initial notification that SAMBA was needed. It installed successfully. 
When I right click my Home dir's Public folder > Local Network Share, click Share this folder, click Guest access, then click Create Share, I get the error "'net usershare' returned error 255: net usershare: cannot open usershare directory /var/lib/samba/usershares. Error Permission denied."
Elsewhere online I found suggestions to add "usershare owner only = false" to the /etc/samba/smb.conf file, but no luck.

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2023-03-14
I don't run a GUI on my servers.  When you install server, it should default to netplan as the network management.   If you install the desktop, it uses network manager.  It is possible that the GUI doesn't know about netplan.  But again, I have little experience with the GUI but do know the net managers are different depending on whether you install server or desktop.

Reference link: [NetworkManager and Netplan](https://ubuntu.com/core/docs/networkmanager/networkmanager-and-netplan)

LHammonds

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-03-14
Please post the output of these two commands:
```

systemctl status NetworkManager | grep -i 'Active:' | awk '{print "NetworkManager.service: " $0}'
systemctl status systemd-networkd | grep -i 'Active:' | awk '{print "systemd-networkd.service: " $0}'

```
That will tell us which Network Renderer is active and how to resolve your problem... Or at the least, which questions to ask next (LOL).

---

