---
title: "[16.04 LTS] Network Manager cannot add routes after openvpn connection"
date: 2016-11-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by arnobru on 2016-11-14
Hi,

I'm currently trying ubuntu on my work computer, trying to figure out if  it can replace Windows for my needs. Turns out it can, but I still have  one problem bothering me :smile:

I've got an openvpn connection that I imported to network-manager  (version 1.2.2-0ubuntu0.16.04.3). This connection has specific routes in  its configuration. Those are in fact **exceptions**,  meaning I want all traffic to go through the VPN except certain networks  specified by the routes. This didn't work out-of-the-box since my  connection couldn't establish.

It seems like network manager is unable to add the routes configured in the openvpn config. My IP address is **10.21.0.1**, gateway is **10.21.0.253**. If I go to the route dialog of network-manager and add network **10.35.0.0/16 **(one of the networks that need an exception) with **10.21.0.253** as gateway, here's what syslog has to say :

```
Nov 14 13:33:39 NetworkManager[701]: <error>  [1479126819.9339] platform-linux: do-add-ip4-route[12: 10.35.0.0/16 0]:  failure 101 (Network is unreachable)
Nov 14 13:33:39 NetworkManager[701]: <warn>  [1479126819.9343]  vpn-connection[0x1d3d5c0,a197813a-98a2-4f91-b3e0-24999f373310,"ovhvpn",12:(tun0)]:  VPN connection: did not receive valid IP config information.
```

Then openvpn doesn't connect.

If I remove the route from network -anager and reconnect, it succeeds. I can then add the route via : **route add -net 10.35.0.0/16 gw 10.21.0.253 **and everything is as expected (all traffic throught VPN except for everything going to **10.35.0.0/16**)

So what's happening here? Why can't network manager add the routes as it  should? The "Network is unreachable" error just makes no sense to me.  I'm actually trying to make that **10.35.0.0/16** network reachable by configuring that route, how can it say that?? 

 I could just make a script that connects and adds the route, but the  network manager approach seems more practical, if I can ever make it  work! :smile:

Thanks in advance for your insight.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2016-11-14
*Thread moved to **Server Platforms**.*

---

### Post by arnobru on 2016-11-21
Anyone?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2016-11-21
Hello, you can bump your thread once every twelve hours to keep it at the top of the list so it can be seen, if you do not get help soon I will move your thread to networking forum and see if that helps but server is the best fit.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-11-21
Have you tried configuring the openvpn client on the command line, not in NM? Honestly, most people using ubuntu servers never touch NM or GUI, so...

I have always set up openvpn on the command line only (but mostly it was on servers with only once or twice on desktop OS).

---

### Post by arnobru on 2016-11-21
Yeah I figured that I could just make it run as a service, and I think i'll end up doing just that, but I would have liked to manage it directly from the desktop. Sure I could just put a launcher that stops/starts the vpn, but the network-manager approach seemed more integrated (shows the status of the link for instance). Let's say i'm just frustrated with this broken network-manager! :)

Thanks for your help, if anyone ever finds a fix i'm all ears!

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-11-21
Each .conf file in /etc/openvpn is starting on boot, as far as I know. If the .conf file is configured as client, that means on booting it will connect to its openvpn server. No need for launchers or anything...

---

### Post by arnobru on 2016-11-21
OK i'll give this a try, thanks! I cannot do it right now cause the tunnel is my only route to my ubuntu desktop :D

---

### Post by arnobru on 2016-12-06
Hey guys,

Finally got the time to configure openvpn as a service on my ubuntu. I first copied my conf file + certificates and keys to /etc/openvpn. This did not work at first, as it gave the impression that the config file was not read, no log to be found in syslog apart from "systemd[1]: Starting OpenVPN service".

I eventually started manually the tunnel via openvpn <conf_file> and found out that the certificates and keys were not found. I managed to solve this by using absolute paths in my conf when specifying :

```

ca /etc/openvpn/ca.crt
cert /etc/openvpn/vpn.crt
key /etc/openvpn/vpn.key
tls-auth /etc/openvpn/ta.key 1

```

Issuing ***service openvpn start ***now launches the vpn, routes specified in my config are automatically added and the tunnel starts at boot time. 

Thanks again for your help, hope this can help somebody.  :)

---

### Post by vittorio88 on 2017-01-10
Hi,

This seems to be a Network Manager bug.
Setting default GW to 0.0.0.0 in Network Manager worked for me.

Here is the bug.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1608646](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1608646)

-Vittorio

---

