---
title: "on 9.04 Mysql server does not start after booting"
date: 2009-05-27
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by JanvL on 2009-05-27
Hi,

I have two PC's one with Kubuntu 9.04 and KDE 3.5.10 the other with KDE 4.2 both have the same problem with Mysql-server.

If I install Mysql-server, the database-server is working.
If I boot the machine Mysql-server will not start.

The cause is in /var/run/mysqld
this directory has owner "mysql" and group "root"
owner - rwx 
group - r-x
world - r-x

If I change the rights for group to rwx and do a /etc/init.d/mysql restart
the server starts normally.

After booting again "group" has no write permissions.

Is this a bug? And if so does anyone has a solution for it?

Regards,
Jan van Leeuwen

---

### Post by JanvL on 2009-05-28
Hello again,

Well, only restarting the Mysql-server also helps.
It would be nice if someone could give me a tip where to put a
little bash-script that does this automatically but only
AFTER the whole system is running.

I tried it in etc/init.d
but until now no luck . . 

I would be grateful for any help because my customer
wants to run a POS system with it and so I need the Mysql-server
and it would be a shame to tell him to change to windows.

Regards,
Jan

---

### Post by grantemsley on 2009-05-28
I had this issue once before.  I believe my workaround was to edit the init.d script to change the permissions before starting mysql.

---

### Post by JanvL on 2009-05-28
Very strange, I have completely de-installed Mysql at my customer, every little bit of it, almost all libs, tools etc.

Then installed it again and now it is working as it should.

This is the 9.04 with KDE 3.5.10.

I will try this on my 9.04 with KDE 4.2 too and will report it here.

Jan van Leeuwen

---

### Post by JanvL on 2009-05-30
The reason is not the permissions!

More went wrong, if you de-install all mysql-komponents in Kubuntu 9.04 with KDE4 using synaptic you will lose all of KDE. I had to re-install it again using the CLI.

Still if I boot the system starting mysql will result in [fail].
just giving the command
sudo /etc/init.d/mysql restart
will start the mysql server.

So the question is still why will it not start at boot time?
In the internet I found it is a bug in 9.04 having to do with mysql-safemode and no solution to be found.
I did
sudo apt-get --reinstall install mysql-server
but it doesn't help.

If anyone has got an idea I would be very pleased . . . 

Regards,
Jan van Leeuwen

---

### Post by JanvL on 2009-05-30
Found a workaround in internet

It must have to do with a timingproblem, so if you
open the script

/etc/init.d/mysql

and you put in the command at the beginning (first command)

sleep 10

and save the script, at the next boot it will take 10 seconds longer but therefore you will have a working mysql-server.

I hope this will help other that are struggleing with the problem.

Jan van Leeuwen

---

