---
title: "8.04 Likewise-open/Samba ignoring create mode"
date: 2009-06-03
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Shawn Parr on 2009-06-03
I have several servers based on Ubuntu 8.04 JeOS that have been integrated into our AD system with Likewise Open.  For the most part it works perfectly.  I can ssh in, I can sudo, etc. etc.  Permissions are followed, and I can control who has login access or not with AD groups.

However if I share out directories via Samba the directory mask, directory mode, and force directory mode attributes are ignored.  For instance with the following in smb.conf:

```

[astest-web]
        inherit permissions = yes
        writeable = yes
        path = /opt/webapps
        force directory mode = 6755
        force create mode = 775
        comment = Samba Share
        valid users = "@NSULA\NSUWebmasters"
        create mask = 775
        directory mask = 6775
        directory mode = 6775

```

An SMB user creating a folder will create it with mode 755 rather than 775, and the sgid bit won't be set.  This is causing me some frustration, as doing several searches here and with Google lead me to believe the above should be doing what I want.

First off, is it possible that some AD policy is causing this to happen?  If that is the case any explanation of what is set in AD to cause this would be great.  I don't admin the AD system, and I really need my ducks to be in a row before I go to the admins here.

If it isn't AD policy, what is causing this to be ignored?  I know the entry for the share is working, as I have been making other changes to experiment and they all work.

I can kind of make this semi-functional by forcing a user and group, however that still causes issues, especially if I have some users using smb and some using ssh.  I really would like to follow the system permissions properly and set new files and folders' owners to who actually created them, then use group permissions to allow everyone to edit.

TIA for any help.

---

### Post by smileypaul on 2009-06-04
I had a similar problem, off the top of my head I can't remember how I fixed the permissions problem, I'll have to check the smb.conf file when I get home.. something is telling me "umask 022" fixed the issue.. but don't quote me on it..

It's annoying when things appear as if they should work, and dont.

Hopefully I'll remember to reply when I get home.

Good Luck

---

### Post by billgarcia on 2009-06-12
Did you guys have to install Winbind? I've tried following the Samba+Likewise integration guide (verbatim... on freshly installed VMs... many times) from Likewise, and I just can't integrate it with AD users. :(

---

