---
title: "15.10 Server hangs on reboot"
date: 2016-03-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by rg4w on 2016-03-24
I have an issue with two servers: sometimes they will reboot, but sometimes they hang during the shutdown phase of reboot.

I've tried using the following:
sudo reboot
sudo shutdown -r now
sudo shutdown -rh now

...and in all cases the behavior with both machines is the same:

If the server has been rebooted recently, it works fine.  But if the server has been running for a while it hangs during shutdown, leaving it in the uniquely disadvanageous state of being unreachable via SSH.

And by "rebooted recently" there's the rub:  I don't really know how long the server has to be running for this issue to occur. I just know that when I try rebooting via SSH shortly after physically (anytime within several hours) rebooting the machine it works fine, leaving me without an easily reproducible recipe.

Hardware for each system is fairly similar, both using Intel N3150 CPU:

Mobo:
[http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16813130881](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16813130881)
Barebones:
[http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16856158045](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16856158045)

Both systems are running Ubuntu 15.10.  The mobo is using Ubuntu Server, while the barebones is running desktop Ubuntu with server components having been added via TaskSel.

When it hangs the Reset button has no effect; only a hard shutdown works.  On the barebones, where I have a full desktop GUI installed, if I go to the machine and turn on its monitor I see it's hanging with the "ubuntu" shutdown screen with the progress dots on it, only the dots are no longer animating.

Thus far my research on possible solutions has led me to this page suggesting modifying /etc/default/grub:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/7114/why-cant-i-restart-shutdown](http://askubuntu.com/questions/7114/why-cant-i-restart-shutdown)

But before I go monkeying around with semi-random experiments it seemed better to ask here and benefit from the collective wisdom of this community.

What should my next steps be for diagnosing/resolving this issue?

Thanks in advance for your help.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-03-24
I haven't seen many similar reports, so we can't be sure it's a bug or not...

But it has to be said that not many people use non-LTS for servers. I personally do not even register the non-LTS releases. If you are trying out tests, or trying to learn new things introduced in 15.10 as preparation for 16.04 LTS, then ok. But if you really plan running these servers for production, forget about 15.10 and don't even waste your time on it. Since 16.04 comes out in less than a month you can keep these servers but try to upgrade them to 16.04 as soon as it comes out. Or simply make a new clean install when it comes out...

The non-LTS releases are supported only for 9 months, so just about when you have solved all the issues and tuned your setup, you have no more support... It's not worth it.

---

### Post by rg4w on 2016-03-24
Thanks for the reply, Darko.  I fully agree about LTS, and would have preferred to use 14.04 but I found the installer wasn't recognizing my keyboard on those two machines, and 15.10 was the only installer that worked.  Both systems are for experiments right now, and won't go into production until after 16.04 is released so with any luck I'll not only get a good LTS I can stick with for a while but maybe this issue will go away as well.  Fingers crossed....

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-03-24
Correct. I'm not sure how Canonical sees it and what's their official policy, but for the server versions I always consider the non-LTS as "trial and error" for getting the next LTS right. Also I don't think they spend too much time trying to fix bugs and missing features in non-LTS because they are preparing to make the next LTS as solid as possible. And that makes sense to me...

So, many issues that are seen on 15.10 will probably not exist in 16.04 even if they are never fixed for 15.10.

---

### Post by rg4w on 2016-03-24
Since these are experimental systems I decided to got for it and follow the advice outlined in the URL I linked to above, adding "acpi=force reboot=acpi" to /etc/default/grub.

So far the system reboots okay, so at least I didn't break anything. :)

I'll let it sit overnight and see what happens, and if it's successful I'll post back here and mark this thread solved.

And if not then I'm at a loss until 16.04 comes out.  Hmmm...maybe this is a good time to help test the beta....

---

### Post by rg4w on 2016-03-25
Update after 24 hours of server idle:  yesterday I had applied the fix to the Grub file as described in my OP here, and waiting overnight before trying a reboot.  Worked, on both machines.

Given that the problem has been intermittent and the length of time needed to expose the issue unknown, before I close this I'm going to let both machines sit idle for a full 48 hours and try again.

I'll report back here by Monday, hopefully to close this.

In the meantime, if anyone here has info on *why* that change to /etc/default/grub is a possible fix I could sure use the education.

---

### Post by rg4w on 2016-03-28
After applying the fix I noted above and then waiting a couple days, both servers now reboot normally.  Given that this was an intermittent problem I can't be sure there's not some bug lying in wait to be discovered later, but for now I'll mark this as closed, and if anyone else comes across a similar problem hopefully the fix described here will be useful.

---

### Post by slave2anubis on 2016-09-13
Hi, i have the same problem, i have a ASrock mobo, with the n3150 CPU, and i am running a 14.04 LTS server on it, mainly a web server. After a few days of running when i do a restart the system hangs and cannot be turned off in any way, shape or form. The only solution is a hard shutdown or to remove power cord.
This problem is really affecting me since often i perform updates and need to reboot.
I will try the above mentioned solution hope it works.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-09-13
!5.10 is EOL, so we don't offer any support for that version any more. Thread closed

---

