---
title: "8.04 Server Partition Guide"
date: 2009-08-07
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jwxie on 2009-08-07
I have browsed so many threads and websites in the past few days and I am still very confused by some of the arguments.

In fact, I had worked on my web server just last summer and I created partition manually. But I don't remember anything about now. That server is still running well with nignx.... :)

I want to know some of the basic things and hopefully write a small guide on advance server partition.

I want to make my life a bit serious on learning server platform.

Please recommend what should be separate.
> /boot
/
/home
/var
/swap
/usr
/tmp
/root

The above is what I could think of... 
Please recommend and tell me the **purpose of each partition** and **the amount** should be given on the be half of a regular server. 

I don't really run this server but for learning purposes only. A general amount is good enough for me to judge. Indeed, the purpose will guide me decide how much should be given to each partition.


I also want to know the type of partition (ext3 and ect) for each partition. 

Last but not the least ATM: logical vs primary and ect.

I hope to get to know more about Linux and Server Management :)

Thank you for helping :)

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-08-07
In his book, *Pro Ubuntu Server Administration*, author Sander van Vugt recommends the following:
/boot 100 MB (50 MB) Ext2     Primary partition
/      20 GB ( 5 GB) Ext3     LVM volume
/var    5 GB ( 1 GB) XFS      LVM volume
/tmp    1 GB ( 1 GB) ReiserFS LVM volume
/srv   50 GB ( 1 GB) XFS      LVM volume
/home  50 GB ( 1 GB) XFS      LVM volume

Numbers in parenthesis are for a minimal system.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-08-07
Partitons on a server are a matter of personal preference, most of the partitoning guides were written when small hard drives were normal. These days with larger hard drives there really isn't a need for many small partitons.

On my personal home server I have 5 drives connected, 2X400Gb 1X320GB 1X120Gb and 1X750Gb external, the first 400gb drive is partitoned as a 10Gb /, 1Gb swap and the rest mounted as /media/movies, the other drives are all mounted in /media, including the external that is used for storing backups.

My server is setup as mainly a file server, so a large / partiton isn't really needed.

---

