---
title: "12.04 - LTSP - On the Thinclient UbuntuOne and nm-tool not working"
date: 2012-07-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by benfenner on 2012-07-04
Hi all

Setup: 12.04 Server 32bit, LTSP Standallone (ltsp (5.3.7-0ubuntu2.1))

If I am login directly on the server, UbuntuOne and nm-tool is working correctly. But if I am working on the Thin-Client none of the mentioned is woking.

It was working on Ubuntu 11.04 smoothly but not on 12.04. Anyone any experience on that?

thanks

Ben

---

### Post by benfenner on 2012-08-08
hi all

I reinstalled ltsp with the ltsp "alternate" cd.(on the previous installation I did the setup manually, so I thought there might be an installation error caused on my side, but it is obvious that it is a problem with the ltsp-package or so).
the problem described in the first post above still exists. ubuntu-one does not sync while working on the thin-clients, but does when logged in and working direct in front of the server. that is annoying, working on the thin-client and every evening going to the server and login with every username just to sync the files.

anyone having the same problem or is it just me ;-)

---

### Post by benfenner on 2012-08-08
sudo nm-tool works in the terminal on the thin-client, but not as standart-user etc. so I guess it is an issue regarding the rights the UbuntuOne app needs to sync while working on the thinclients.

---

### Post by benfenner on 2012-08-16
hi all

with the update of ltsp server package "ltsp (5.3.7-0ubuntu2.2)" the problem has been solved.

many thanks and appreciation to the ltsp programmer team!!!
:p :p :p

---

