---
title: "directory exclusions for full backup"
date: 2009-04-01
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by arsnova on 2009-04-01
Just looking for verification here. I'm creating full backups to tape, and I'm excluding directories /proc and /dev. I suppose leaving off /tmp is an option as well. Is the following correct?: 
[INDENT]
/proc carries dynamic files, so it is unnecessary to backup this directory--in the event of a server failure, it would be rebuilt accordingly with the OS. 

/dev is hardware-dependent and should be excluded in the case that a new machine is required (this is a RAID1 configuration and would be rebuilt at installation time.)
[/INDENT]
These are very broad statements, but please let me know if reasons exist that would find backing up these directories beneficial. Backup/restore is managed by Backup Exec 12, which excludes /proc as the default.

Thanks!

---

### Post by lloyd_b on 2009-04-01
I'd also exclude "/sys", for the same reason as "/proc" - these files are dynamically generated by the kernel.

Lloyd B.

---

### Post by arsnova on 2009-04-01
Thanks, Lloyd.

Is it reasonable to then consider this exclusion list:

[INDENT]/dev
/proc
/lost+found
/sys[/INDENT]

These directories would all be created by a new system and RAID installation, and restoring the backup (/bin, /boot, /etc, /root, /var, and so forth) would fill in the appropriate configuration files, right? The main reason I ask is that I would have thought Backup Exec would have also listed these dynamic directories (/dev, /sys) in the 'exclusions' list. My paranoia runs deep...

Thanks for your input!

---

### Post by lloyd_b on 2009-04-01
I'm not so sure about "lost+found", as I don't really know what this directory does under Linux.

On some older Unix variants, if you attempted a "mv" on a file to a destination that couldn't be reached (permissions or such), then the file would wind up in "lost+found" for that filesystem.

I've never seen *anything* in that directory on a Linux box, however.  Does anyone know exactly what purpose it serves in Linux?

Lloyd B.

---

### Post by arsnova on 2009-04-02
'lost+found' is an orphanage of sorts--my understanding is that corrupted files due to power losses, etc., land here. I've never seen anything in there, either. 

BackupExec is complaining about not being able to backup the databases, and I don't want it to do so (indeed, it doesn't have permissions)--I'm using Zmanda to place a disk backup of MySQL, which is then transferred to tape during the BackupExec run. MySQL, then, is never actually stopped, since ZRM makes hot snapshots of the database. I suppose excluding /var/lib/mysql from the backup as well will clear up this problem. Thoughts?

Log files are being generated during the backup, so is it typical practice to exclude /var/log as well?

Thanks!

---

