---
title: ".rar password recovery"
date: 2007-03-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by clearzen on 2007-03-09
I have forgotten my password to a .rar file and was wondering if there is any tools for ubuntu/linux that would help me recover that password? I know there are several for windows but I don't have windows installed on any pc's and it seems like a waste to install it to get a password.

---

### Post by cully on 2007-03-13
I have the same problem.  Would like to hear solution.

---

### Post by MJN on 2007-03-13
It could well be that rar password recovery is based solely on bruteforce techniques so if your passwords are strong you might never have any joy finding it...

You must know someone with a Windows machine - could you try one of the many trial versions of password crackers with your file on their machine?

Mathew

---

### Post by efex on 2008-01-05
Currently in the same situation. I know this post is old just thought I would refresh it thought there might be a better answer then use windows.

---

### Post by elvinatom on 2008-01-07
i've tried the to get a compress file password and even though i don't know for sure, i believe that brutforce might be the only way (which basically means forget about the .rar file, because if a five digit password takes one day then a six digit password could take one 4 month or so ... and so on)

---

### Post by PinkFloyd102489 on 2008-01-07
Same problem, except I know mine is at least 7 characters long.  I know the first 5 but there's two numbers at the end. I made a bash script to try a successive sequence of passwords, but it didnt work. Ive also tried the numerous RAR utitlies for Windows. Ended up having to crack one of them to get usability out of it, but it's going to take a while to force the password.

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-08
Your one is easy - only 100 permutations.
 
What did you mean by the script didn't work? As in the coding was wrong, or you still didn't find the password?
 
You could've done it manually by now! Employ a small child to do it - they love that sort of thing.
 
Mathew

---

