---
title: "8.04 LTS -- configuring wiki for intranet use?"
date: 2009-05-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by trm84 on 2009-05-29
Hello,
 
 I recently began setting up a file/web server using Ubuntu 8.04 LTS on a computer in our offices.  This may not be possible, but I would ultimately like this server to: 
 
 a) host the primary website for our work, 
 b) allow each of my colleagues to host a personal website (if they choose), 
 c) serve as an FTP server for my colleagues,
 d) host a Wiki, accessible only to my colleagues (ideally on our intranet),
 
 So far, I have setup a through c.  I configured Apache, PHP, and MySQL, setup a virtual host for the primary site, enabled UserDir for my colleagues, and setup users for my colleagues.  

Onto my first couple of questions... On such a server, does one typically let users manage permissions within their own /home/user directory?  I setup the users wtih a /home/user directory containing only an empty public_html directory.  I set permissions to 711 (with chmod) for the /home/user directory, and 755 for the public_html directory.  

Is it possible to provide default permissions to anything a user uploads into these directories?  Specifically, I would like anything in public_html to have permission 755 by default, and anything else to have 711 by default (unless there is a better way of doing this).  I want users to be able to configure their own permissions with SSH, but some users might prefer to not mess with that at all.  
 
My other questions concern setting up d.  I had been considering MediaWiki, but after looking through the section in its manual on user rights, I am not sure it is right for me.  I want all of my colleagues (roughly ~10 of us) to be able to edit the Wiki freely upon logging in.  I would ideally like for colleagues to only be able to login locally on our intranet, but if I can securely configure remote access, that will work too.  

Do you have any advice on how to setup a Wiki in this fashion, without disrupting services a through c?  Which Wiki would you suggest for this application?  I would like a Wiki using MySQL as a backend given that I am somewhat familiar with MySQL.

I apologize for the lengthy post.  I am new to Ubuntu and will appreciate any advice you can provide.  

Thanks.

---

### Post by v3xtra on 2009-05-29
Well, I will tell you this much.  My old job had a Mediawiki installation on a ClarkConnect machine running only on the intranet.  I forget how they set it up to be like that, as it was already set up when I got there, but I believe there is an option to check to make it a private one for only use in intranet connections.  They also had a public webpage for the company available, but I'm not sure if they hosted it on the same box or not.  If they did, then it looks good for you ( just configuring everything is the challenge ).  I don't know if I HELPED anything, but that's my experience with it!  Maybe if I see Mediawiki again I can find it, but I'd definitely give it a shot, it's a great wiki program!

---

### Post by volkswagner on 2009-05-30
Although [Foswiki]("http://foswiki.org/") is not using Mysql as a backend, I would still recommend it for you.  It is feature rich and allows various methods for login, [access control]("http://foswiki.org/System/AccessControl"), and [user authentication]("http://foswiki.org/System/UserAuthentication").  I really like this ability to hide access to certain Webs.  You can have a Web just for Admins in the company.  This webs won't even be readable to non admin (management, business, etc.  you create the group name) users.


If you still want to use MediaWiki (or any other Wiki), you can run it on a not standard port in Apache.  If you don't forward that port to your router, it will be only avail on the internal LAN.

---

