---
title: "8.04 vs 9.10 with plans of moving to 10.04 LTS"
date: 2009-09-23
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by degel3030 on 2009-09-23
I am currently working on a project that will be placing over 300 Ubuntu servers across 8 States in the Southeast. We plan on eventually upgrading to Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (which Mark announced a couple days ago) but we are having major discussions on which product to put out there at this moment, 8.04 LTS or 9.10. We originally settled on putting 8.04 LTS so we wouldn't be rushed into upgrading (5 yr support on Server) but while testing we realized that the version of VirtualBox-ose (1.x) do not support bridging networks or headless mode. This is a major issue for us. So I did some testing of upgrading versions of Ubuntu, LTS -> LTS worked flawless, while going from 8.04 -> 8.10 -> 9.04 had small issues, nothing big that couldn't be fixed remotely, but issues. The reason I am writing is to get your opinion as to which version you would suggest. We are very tempted to just put out 9.10 since the very next LTS will be 10.04. Our window of deployment is November-ish :)

So what do you guys think?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2009-09-23
Hi Degel,

1) Karmic 9.10 is still in testing... this alone should be a dealbreaker!
2) The latest version of Virtualbox (3.0.6) is available for 8.04: [http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads](http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads)

Personally I believe that for servers, a 2-year upgrade cycle is preferable to 6-months.

---

### Post by degel3030 on 2009-09-23
Yes I know you can get VirtualBox 3.x for Ubuntu 8.04 but that is not the ose version. We need the ose version to stay compliant.

The 2-3 year cycle is the reason for initially going with 8.04 but now that the new LTS is going to be 10.04, we are having this discussion. Personally, I'm a little fearful of going with 9.10, but...it is something that we must decide.

Thanks for the reply, everyone else please chime in

---

### Post by degel3030 on 2009-09-23
Oh and to be clear, even if we go with 9.10, we will be going with LTS -> LTS upgrades in the future, this would be the only exception

---

### Post by KiLaHuRtZ on 2009-09-25
I'd stay with 8.04 LTS.  My reasoning is, that it's on point release three and currently more "stable" than 9.04 or 9.10.  An I use the word "stable" meaning less updates.  9.04 is just now getting past what I call the "release beta test".  Typically, when a release comes out, there is usually a slew of bugs, patches and updates within the first 2 to 3 months.  I'm usually behind in upgrading my stuff by six months for this reason, i.e I will upgrade anything on 9.04 to 9.10 when 10.04 is released and anything on 8.04 to 10.04 when 10.10 is released.  In my opinion, if you don't need the latest and greatest, this is the way to go.  Unless you like doing updates and having to reboot due to kernel patches every couple of weeks. ;)  Plus, if you are on 8.04, you can go right to 10.04 because of the LTS.  And again, I wouldn't rush into 10.04 when it is released, I'd wait a few months (at least 2 or 3) before upgrading to that on a production machine. ~My 2 cents...\\:D/\\:D/\\:D/\\:D/

---

### Post by degel3030 on 2009-09-25
I completely agree on waiting, our initial plan was to wait to even look at 10.04 until 10.04.1 was released. Unfortunately the reason for even thinking about using 9.10 is because we kind of do need the latest and greatest. Thank you for your input, it seems to be exactly how we were thinking/planning

---

