---
title: "Apache questions: Restart daemon, get version and output dynamic txt-file from PHP"
date: 2008-01-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kentl on 2008-01-24
Hi,

I have a LAMP installation of Ubuntu and I've began looking at Apache. It seems to work well "out of the box". However I do have three questions,  of which I suppose two are trivial.
[LIST=1]
[*]How do I restart the Apache daemon?
[*]How do I get the Apache version from the command line? I've read that you should **httpd -v** but I get command not found.
[*]I want to generate a text file through PHP dynamically for each call. How do I configure **server/iamtextfile.txt** to be served by a PHP script? Perhaps by a script called **server/iamtextfile.php** where the PHP script is invisible and can not be accessed in any other way, than by looking at the text file. (Or by making this and only this file [iamtextfile.txt] be seen as a PHP script by the server) Apart from this special case, I want the extensions .txt and .php behave as expected normally. The reason is that I want to log the user-agent of those who read the text file.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-24
> **kentl said:**
> 1. How do I restart the Apache daemon?**sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart**   (there is also start, stop and reload)> 2. How do I get the Apache version from the command line? I've read that you should **httpd -v** but I get command not found.Try **apache2ctl -v**> ...The reason is that I want to log the user-agent of those who read the text file.Not sure about this one. Can you not just get this info from Apache's logfile?

Mathew

---

### Post by kentl on 2008-01-24
Thank you! The first two worked like a charm. :-)

Regarding the last one. It would be nice if it was possible, I hope someone (here) are sitting on the answer.

Meanwhile I'll look around for it, and if I find it I'll post it here and contribute to the general wealth of this series of tubes.

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-24
You're welcome.

Is there a reason why you can't just have a normal text file and extract the user-agent from the logfile? Or have I misunderstood what you're trying to achieve?

Mathew

---

### Post by kentl on 2008-01-24
No there is no reason at all for my specific case. :-) And if I fail to find out how to do this using my original way, it's the route I'll be taking.

However this is just a mini project I want to do for fun and as a learning exercise. I'm just thinking in a bit broader perspective and would like to know if it is possible to have a file generated by PHP transparently. I see some usage scenarios for it, like:
[LIST]
[*]In my case I am hosting it on my own server, but in case I host it on someone else's the log files might be unavailable to me.
[*]The technique could be used to create dynamically generated; text files, images, sounds, zip-archives etc.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-24
I understand. Good point about the logfile access.

I'm sure it's doable - indeed quite certain it's doable. Unfortunately I know as much about PHP as I do about Croatian basket weaving so cannot tell you how...

Mathew

---

### Post by kentl on 2008-01-24
The first problem is getting Apache to interpet one specific file as a PHP file. I think that one has all to do with Apache configuration. If I can just sort that one out then it might be as simple as sending the correct MIME-type together with the data I want to deliver.

If I find out how to do it I'll be sure to write it in this thread. And if someone is able to help me out here I'll of course appreciate it a lot too.

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-24
Thinking aloud, perhaps one of the following:

- Specifying a unique file extension and using the AddType application/x-httpd-php directive to associate these files as PHP scripts (probably not what you want if it needs to be transparent to the user)

- Specifying that all .txt files are PHP scripts (but you've kind of said that's not what you want)

- Using the Alias or Redirect directives to match <yourfile>.txt to the PHP-variation of it (this could be transparent to the user and deliver the output of the PHP script to the user with the content-type specified as plain text - they need never know it was dynamically generated)

Mathew

---

### Post by kentl on 2008-01-26
The first two alternatives isn't really what I am aiming for. But the last one, sounds interesting!

I got the suggestion to use <Files> and SetType in another place. But I didn't manage to get it to work. This is what I wrote back there:

--// start

Some output: (cat shows the contents of a text file and $ is my command prompt)
 
$ cat txtfilefromphp.txt
<?php
echo 'This should be a text-file';
?>

$ cat .htaccess
<Files "txtfilefromphp.txt">
  SetType application/x-httpd-php
</Files>

When I surf to it I still get:
<?php
echo 'This should be a text-file';
?>

Which means that it's interpreted as normal text file. I would like the user to read the echo line and think (s)he is reading a normal text file, not a dynamically generated one.

Step one is getting PHP to parse the script. After that I'll have to imitate the http-header so that it exactly matches a normal text file. But I'm still having problems with step one.

--// end

Has anyone got any suggestions as to why the above method fails? I'm new to Apache, as you may have figured out. ;-) I'm doing my best to solve it on my own. And that might be a problem. I wrote the above alone after getting a one-liner answer to use "<Files> and SetType", so I might have screwed something up. :-)

How would SetType compare to the Alias and Redirect methods? I don't want the user to get any 301/302 back telling them to redirect to my script, but it mightn not be how Redirect works.

Thanks for reading!

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-26
> **kentl said:**
> I got the suggestion to use <Files> and SetType in another place.

Settype? Is that a valid directive? What version of Apache are you using?

If you actually meant AddType then your syntax is wrong - check out [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod_mime.html#addtype](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod_mime.html#addtype)

But this is just what I was suggesting above so it might not be what you want.

> I don't want the user to get any 301/302 back telling them to redirect to my script, but it mightn not be how Redirect works.Using Alias they would not be aware given it is all done server-side, and indeed even the use of Redirect is handled by their browser but the URL change would give the game away (it might be configurable to avoid this).

Here's a rather crude example of using Alias - create a file (test.php) in your webroot with the following:

```
<?php
echo 'This is actually a PHP file but appears to you as a text file...';
?>
```Now add the following to your config (note it must be either in the main server config or inside a VirtualHost container, not within any other container e.g. Directory):

```
Alias /test.txt /path/to/script/test.php
```Where /path/to/script/ is the full file-system path (e.g. /var/www/mysite/ etc) to the script. The reason for this is that the intended use of Alias is to enable the inclusion of files/documents outside of the webroot yet still to be able to reference them using URLs.

Try it out here - [http://www.newtonnet.co.uk/test.txt](http://www.newtonnet.co.uk/test.txt)

You could look at the use of [AliasMatch]("http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/mod/mod_alias.html#aliasmatch") instead to match, say, all .txt files against there .php counterparts.

Does this get you any nearer?

Mathew

---

### Post by blahjake on 2008-02-26
'SetHandler' is the directive you're looking for.

For example, to match a specific file 'bar.txt' in a folder '/foo' with PHP 5, you'd use:

```

<Directory "/foo">
   # other directives here
   <Files "bar.txt">
      SetHandler php5-script
   </Files>
</Directory>

```

If you want to have all .txt files handled by PHP then you should just find the place where .php is specified as being handled by PHP and add .txt to the list, most likely in conf.d/php.conf

```

AddHandler php5-script .php .txt

```

-Jake

---

