---
title: "11.10 Server -1st install, can't launch programs"
date: 2012-02-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by iangarforth on 2012-02-29
I don't know - maybe this is normal?

I've done my first ever server install (11.10), playing around with the CLI, and vi, all is good.  I install chromium and try to launch it by doing 'chromium-browser', but all I get is an error message saying "GTK Warning: ** cannot open display"

I wondered if it was Chromium so I installed GParted and that said exactly the same thing.

Finally I installed Firefox, and that said 'No display specified'.

What am I doing wrong..?

---

### Post by Porcini M. on 2012-02-29
There's no graphical stuff installed. You need x11, gtx, a window manager, etc. Server doesn't come with all that by default.

---

### Post by iangarforth on 2012-02-29
There ya go, thought I'd missed something.  Didn't know it wasn't ANY graphical stuff but glad I'm not going mad.  Just stoopid...

Is it worth installing X11, etc - or shall I not bother..?  I get the impression that most don't..?

---

### Post by elliotbeken on 2012-02-29
Depends, if you are learning you can install a gui or just install ubuntu 11.10 desktop, as it can do the same as the server release.

---

### Post by Porcini M. on 2012-02-29
Most people don't use server for the graphical user-type applications - rather, it's better for headless (no monitor/keyboard/etc) servers running in a back room or offsite.

You can install a graphical desktop if you want though (some people do that if only to make administration/configuration easier, or to run graphical applications over "ssh -X"). For example, you could just do:

sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop

to install the xubuntu desktop manager + apps.

---

### Post by spynappels on 2012-02-29
You can, but in the long run it's probably better to get comfortable with the CLI.

If there are some tasks which you feel you need a GUI for, look at something like Webmin, gives you a GUI through a webpage rather than running  a Desktop Environment on the server which wastes resources.

But of course, It's your server, so you can do with it what you want!:p

---

### Post by Jennifer29 on 2012-02-29
I'M a first time linux user had never used the command line before and i didn't have any problems getting my file server setup. Now it just sets in a different room i didn't need a gui to set it up and it works great.

---

