---
title: "12.04 x64 Samba - access problems after upgrade"
date: 2012-05-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by pudn on 2012-05-13
I have recently upgraded a server running 8.04 to 12.04. I achieved this by installing 12.04 'over the top' of 8.04 without a format of the partition. The server appears to work correctly **except for** an intermittent/sporadic problem with a Samba share. Samba is the only real reason for them running Ubuntu on a server.
 
The company have 10+ PC running Windows XP and Windows 7 and all company shared data is accessed via a drive mapped to a Samba share. When I set this up on 8.04 several years ago I set it up with minimal security and usernames and passwords are not required to allow full read/write access to the shared folder.
 
The server has been running 12.04 for about a week now and I have received several phonecalls from them about access problems mainly from a Windows 7 desktop - in particular Sage Accounts not being able to access the sahred data folder although this is possible form other machines at the time. The problems, although more frequent on this client machine are not limited to it.
 
The relevant part of the samba.conf file is as follows, and is the same as used on the server when running 8.04 (The references to oplocks is to allow Sage data to accessed efficently):
 
> 
[CompanyShare]
comment=This folder contains the company shared folders
path=/companyshare
public=yes
writable=yes
 
lock spin time = 15
lock spin count = 200
fake oplocks=no
oplocks=true
level 2 oplocks=true
veto oplock files = /*.dta
 
# By default, the home directories are exported read-only. Change the
# next parameter to 'no' if you want to be able to write to them.
;
read only = yes
 
# File creation mask is set to 0700 for security reasons. If you want to
# create files with group=rw permissions, set next parameter to 0775.
; create mask = 0700
 
# Directory creation mask is set to 0700 for security reasons. If you want to
# create dirs. with group=rw permissions, set next parameter to 0775.
; directory mask = 0700
# By default,

 
Any guidance as to what changed need to be made to the setup to allow the shared folder to be accessed reliably with read/write access by all would be greatly appreciated.
 
My knowledge of Ubuntu/Samba is fairly limited although I have setup/configured a handful of Samba servers over the past few years.
 
TIA

---

