---
title: "12.04 Server Install Problem"
date: 2012-07-02
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by AndyTuson on 2012-07-02
I am trying to install the i386 version of Ubuntu Server 12.04 from CD onto an Abit VP6 motherboard with two 1GHz PIII and 2Gb RAM.

I can get through the installation as far as selecting the correct keyboard, then I get the report that the installation CD-ROM cannot be mounted.

I have downloaded the iso twice (just in case) and have also burnt a couple of CDs, with the same result.

Does anyone know what my problem might be?

Andy

---

### Post by jumpyjester on 2012-07-02
hi andy,

when you get to the boot screen for the CD it mighty be worth checking the disc for defects. i had to download an image 4 times before it would burn properly

---

### Post by AndyTuson on 2012-07-02
I've downloaded twice and both downloads have the same Md5 sum.  I've also burned each download twice and used K3b to burn and verify the disc at the same time.

---

### Post by jumpyjester on 2012-07-02
that may be the case however there can still sometimes be problems with the burn, have you checked it yet using the built in checker in the boot menu of the disc?

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-07-02
And don't burn it too fast. CDs go up to 56x but for OS install CD don't use more than 8x or 10x.

The verify process is not 100% anyway, it tolerates few errors that the install process might not like.

Is it possible that the cd-rom is playing with you? Check cables, power, etc.

---

### Post by AndyTuson on 2012-07-02
Yes, with the same result; it can't find the CD-ROM.

If you've still got the 12.0 server iso download can you chekc what Md5sum you get.  Mine is 32184a83c8b5e6031e1264e5c499bc03.

---

### Post by jumpyjester on 2012-07-02
jumpyjester@ubuntu-desktop:~/Downloads$ md5sum ubuntu-12.04-server-amd64.iso 
f2e921788d35bbdf0336d05d228136eb  ubuntu-12.04-server-amd64.iso

---

### Post by jumpyjester on 2012-07-02
different ISO unfortunately but for relevance

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2012-07-02
> **AndyTuson said:**
> Yes, with the same result; it can't find the CD-ROM.

If you've still got the 12.0 server iso download can you chekc what Md5sum you get.  Mine is 32184a83c8b5e6031e1264e5c499bc03.

That matches the value from: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes/](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes/)

Can you provide more specs for the machine? Video, HDD, etc. Hardware RAID?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-07-03
Can you try creating a [USB boot image]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick/") on a pendrive and boot from that?

---

### Post by jumpyjester on 2012-07-03
[SeijiSensei]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=698195") were you refering to me?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-07-03
Sorry, no.  The OP.

---

