---
title: "11.10 user account issues"
date: 2011-11-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Happy Days on 2011-11-20
I have recently installed edubuntu 11.10 and got the ltsp working nicely.  There is a bug with the user account administration, which doesn't open at all.  You click the User Account under administration, but it does not open.  I have had to create a few users via terminal, but need to fix this.  There have been posts (not in the ubuntu forums I think) of the problem but no solutions as yet.

Thanks for any help

---

### Post by BlueKnyght on 2011-12-06
> **Happy Days said:**
> I have recently installed edubuntu 11.10 and got the ltsp working nicely.  There is a bug with the user account administration, which doesn't open at all.  You click the User Account under administration, but it does not open.  I have had to create a few users via terminal, but need to fix this.  There have been posts (not in the ubuntu forums I think) of the problem but no solutions as yet.

Thanks for any help


Hi there, I had the same problem, but I was able to make a workaround.  I might just as well share it.  I was having suspicions why some features of Edubuntu are not working, while they working well in Ubuntu, such as the User Accounts tool.  So why not try install Ubuntu first which all features and apps are quite working, and then just add Edubuntu desktop by installing it from Ubuntu's repositories.  And I did, and it worked.  Now I have an Edubuntu with a working User Accounts tool.  

I hope you'll find this idea useful.  God bless.

---

### Post by ijnicholas on 2012-01-14
I am very new to ubuntu. I installed edubuntu today and want to set an user accnt for my kid before handing over the computer. I cannot do it. Am I stuck? Where to get info to create an usr acnt using the terminal...??? (i have never used a terminal!!!)
thanks
n

---

