---
title: "SSH Problems with keys"
date: 2008-09-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by noahclark on 2008-09-18
I'm having a problem getting SSH working.  I've followed a few tutorials and I know it is an issue with getting the keys in the right spot.  I have putty on two windows machines and those can both log into the server just fine.  I also have another server that I want to be able to login to my FTP server via SSH and I can't seem to get the keys working correctly.  What do I need to do to get the right key from one server to another server so that one server can login to another?  I coppied over the keyes and put them in the authorized_keys file and also made an id_rsa file inside of putty using my old key and that seemed to get me closer in that it prompts for a password, which protects the file and I'd enter it, but it never accepts it and then finially says, "Permission denied (publickey).

Should I just regenerate another key pair and go from there?

Thanks!

---

### Post by RealPSL on 2008-09-19
If the keys are valid you should simply have to put the public key on the target server in the .ssh directory under the home folder of the target user as authorized_keys. One thing to watch out for is that the permissions of that path must be strict. Only the root user and the target user can have write access to that entire path. Unless that is the case the public key authentication will fail.

---

### Post by noahclark on 2008-09-19
A quick point of clarification.

I need to take the public key from the computer I want to login to and copy it into the authorized_keys of the user I want to have access to the server and set the persmissions to correctly. You say "entire path" what does this mean?  I have to have authorized_keys set correctly or is there more?  Also, is there any system wide athorized_keys that I can set up?  I believe I need to set this up for the user backuppc and I'm not 100% sure that I have a home directory for this user.  I'll have to check when I get access to the machine again.

Thanks again for your help and clarification.

---

### Post by RealPSL on 2008-09-21
> I need to take the public key from the computer I want to login to and copy it into the authorized_keys of the user I want to have access to the server and set the persmissions to correctly.

The public key generated by the user is placed in the .ssh directory of the target user on the remote system. In short the public key goes on the target system.

> You say "entire path" what does this mean? I have to have authorized_keys set correctly or is there more?

This means the absolute path. As an example /home/user/.ssh. All the directories listed in this path (/home, /home/user and /home/user/.ssh) must only have write access by user and root.

---

### Post by noahclark on 2008-10-02
can I mark this solved my self or do I need an admin to do it?

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2008-10-02
Just click 'Edit' in your first post and change the subject line.

---

