---
title: "12.04: Unexpected File System Metadata Changes Make System Unbootable"
date: 2013-05-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jaysmith1963 on 2013-05-14
I have a two server, active/passive cluster. In the last two and a half weeks, both servers became unbootable after I applied updates that included kernel 3.2.0-41-generic. The first time it happened, I just rebuilt the server. The second time it happened, I wanted to know what happened and why. I've figured out the what, but I'm clueless on the why and I haven't been able to completely correct the problems.

First, the pertinent configuration details. Each server has three 1 TB hard drives. Each hard drive has one primary partition which is setup for software RAID. These three partitions make a RAID 5 array. On top of the array, all of the available space is setup as an LVM physical volume (PV). The LVM PV has one volume group which in turn has eleven logical volumes. The logical volumes contain all of the normally expected file systems and mount points: /, /boot, /home/, /usr, /var, /var/log, /tmp, and swap. The other three logical volumes hold Distributed Replicated Block Device (drbd) resources. The cluster software used is Corosync and Pacemaker.

I've spent the better part of a week trying to figure what happened. I'm satisfied that the RAID array is functioning properly and has no problems. As far as I can tell, the LVM setup has no problems either. The symptoms: at some time either during the software update or since the previous one, some of the file system metadata for the / file system was changed. Properties that were changed (from udevadm): ID_FS_UUID, ID_FS_UUID_ENC, ID_FS_TYPE, ID_FS_USAGE, ID_FS_VERSION, ID_FS_LABEL, ID_FS_LABEL_ENC. These changes prevented the udev symlinks disk/by-label and disk/by-uuid from being created. The new UUID was not of the form expected for a UUID. It was just a 16-character long hex number. The file system type, instead of being ext4, was drbd. The file system usage, instead of being filesystem, was raid.

In the early stages of my investigation, I discovered that both the udevadm info command and the blkid command both gave the same, bad value for the UUID. But, the dumpe2fs command showed a valid and what I assumed was a correct UUID for the file system. It was my conclusion (after some crash study of udev) that the bad UUID was what was preventing the system from booting. When I booted in rescue mode from the Ubuntu Server installation CD, I was able to assemble the array, activate the volume group, and successfully mount all the non drbd logical volumes, including the one for /. With the logical volumes unmounted, forced runs of e2fsck against the file systems did not reveal any errors.

Even though I still don't know why the file system metadata changed, I wanted to see if I could correct the problems. I've had mixed success. My efforts have centered around modifying the udev rules, updating the initramfs image, and seeing what happens. I figured out that the udev rules in the /etc directory are not in the initramfs image, so I had to modify the rules in /lib/udev/rules.d. I first tried creating a new rule (I don't remember what I called it, but it started with 99-), but update-initramfs didn't include it in the image. I then tried modifying 95-udev-late.rules, but that had no effect. I finally tried changing 60-persistent-storage-dm.rules and had some success. The rule I put in place required the subsystem to be block, the major node to be 252 and the minor node to be 0 (the / file system maps to device mapper block device 0). The rule modified the ID_FS_TYPE, ID_FS_UUID, ID_FS_UUID_ENC, ID_FS_VERSION, ID_FS_LABEL, and ID_FS_LABEL_ENC attributes and created the disk/by-label and disk/by-uuid symlinks. This was all successful and the system now boots.

The remaining problems: I have been unable to change the ID_FS_USAGE value from raid to filesystem. Also, the blkid program does not recognize the changes at all. As far as blkid is concerned, the UUID is still the 16-character long hex number and the file system type is drbd.

I know this has been a long post and I'm sorry for that. I've tried to keep it as short as possible while still conveying an adequate amount of information. What I'm hoping the forum can help me with is some insight into what caused the problem so that I might be able to prevent a recurrence and I'm hoping I can get the remaining problems solved. I have downloaded the source code for the blkid program to try and figure out what it's doing and why it's not seeing the metadata the same way udevadm info is now seeing it, but C is not my best language and I haven't had any luck.

Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by jaysmith1963 on 2013-05-23
After some more poking around and some more research, I discovered the problem (self-inflicted) and the solution. Six weeks ago or so, it became apparent that I had undersized the / LVM volume on the system. The only LVM volume I could resize was one of the DRBD partitions. There are instructions at the DRBD website for resizing a DRBD resource, including the attendant file system changes. Of course, I wanted to all of this non destructively. And, I had to make the changes on both servers. All of that seemed to go well, but I know I didn't reboot either server after I made the changes. But, what happened is part of the file system signature for a DRBD resource ended up on the last 4 bytes of the newly enlarged / LVM volume file system and the blkid library was reading that information instead of the correct information at the beginning of the file system. I don't know if I did anything wrong or just got unlucky twice. Maybe a little of both. Who knows?

I learned about a command, wipefs, that let's you check or remove file system signatures. The check run of wipefs gave the following:
[FONT=courier new]sudo wipefs /dev/dm-0
[/FONT][FONT=courier new]offset               type[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]----------------------------------------------------------------[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]0x438                ext4   [filesystem][/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]                     LABEL: Root[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]                     UUID:  df567ce8-60fd-464a-9a35-aaa38cd15355[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]
[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]0x136fff03c          drbd   [raid][/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]                     UUID:  131c11590fd8b506
[/FONT]
To fix the problem, I ran:
[FONT=courier new]sudo wipefs -o 0x136fff03c /dev/dm-0[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]4 bytes were erased at offset 0x136fff03c (drbd)[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]they were: 83 74 02 6b[/FONT]


Then, the wipefs check gave:
[FONT=courier new]sudo wipefs /dev/dm-0[/FONT][FONT=courier new]offset               type[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]----------------------------------------------------------------[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]0x438                ext4   [filesystem][/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]                     LABEL: Root[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]                     UUID:  df567ce8-60fd-464a-9a35-aaa38cd15355

And, when I ran blkid, I got:
[/FONT][FONT=courier new]sudo blkid /dev/dm-0[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]/dev/dm-0: LABEL="Root" UUID="df567ce8-60fd-464a-9a35-aaa38cd15355" TYPE="ext4"

[/FONT]

All seems well, now.

---

