---
title: "10.04  Samba PDC  and window7"
date: 2010-07-23
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by bradhor on 2010-07-23
I'm having problems with Ubuntu 10.04 samba PDC and windows7.

I have a test network that I'm using to evauate 10.04 before I use it in production and have come across an intriguing problem with Windows 7. I have a clean brand-new installed Windows 7 ultimate and I have no problems joining the domain. (Standard registry modifications made). I can logon the window 7 box locally without a problem however when I try to logon using the domain the Windows 7 box accepts my password and start to load the user profile, at the point where the desktop would appear message is displayed to say "logging off" and returns me to logon screen.

What I have done to date: --
wiped Windows 7 box and reinstalled
Wiped user profiles both local and on PDC (including all user information)
performed a complete uninstall of Samba (including TDB's) and
reinstalled a fresh copy of Samba and manually edited the smb.conf is a minimum basic PDC

I have no problems with Windows XP (SP3) box at any stage

Any assistance or proposals to help diagnosis problem would be appreciated

Regards
Brad

---

### Post by linux203 on 2010-07-23
Check your SYSTEM eventlog for NETLOGON and/or USER32 messages.

(Use one of the Windows XP workstations to connect to the Windows 7 using Computer Management)

---

### Post by bradhor on 2010-07-24
There are no messages as suggested... however there does appear to be one message of interest :-

--------------------------------------
Event 1530, User Profile Service

Windows detected your registry file is still in use by other applications or services. The file will be unloaded now. The applications or services that hold your registry file may not function properly afterwards.  

 DETAIL - 
 1 user registry handles leaked from \Registry\User\S-1-5-21-875742241-1996173464-328346660-3000:
Process 1220 (\Device\HarddiskVolume2\Windows\System32\winlogon.exe) has opened key \REGISTRY\USER\S-1-5-21-875742241-1996173464-328346660-3000
-----------------------------------------

Not quiet sure what it means, being the 'User Profile Service' and an obvious conflict in Keys, makes me consider that my original (migrated) .V2 profile might not have been deleted ??

Do the knew if Windows7 profile structure include Registry Key's and thus can't just be copied between PDC's. Maybe even some reference to the individual trust accounts ?

I'm going to remove both local and remote .V2 profiles again and verify

---

### Post by bradhor on 2010-07-30
it appears the problem has been caused by profiles.
I've deleted all profiles started with fresh copies

---

