---
title: "10.04 LTS -&gt; 12.04 LTS Upgrade Causing PHP fgets() timeouts"
date: 2014-02-12
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by nlsn on 2014-02-12
Hi all,
Recently upgraded a pool of servers to 12.04 LTS from 10.04 LTS. One of the things I noticed mid-upgrade is that calls to fgets() to a socket opened with either pfsockopen(), fsockopen(), or stream_socket_client() will occasionally fail when calling fgets(). My read timeout is set to 500000 micro seconds (half a second), which had no problems on 10.04.

I've tried several things to fix this from an application standpoint, but none seem to have any effect. The output of stream_get_meta_data() after a failure is this:

```
ret= stream_type=tcp_socket/ssl mode=r+ unread_bytes=0 seekable= timed_out=1 blocked=1 eof=
```

So it the socket is timing out. I've tried searching around, but couldn't find a similar issue/solution anywhere. Anyone have any experience with this? I'm trying to connect to another server on my network that's currently still running 10.04 (would be a pain to upgrade this). The error rate is fairly low, but still happens ~200 times every 5 minutes.

Any help is appreciated, and sorry if I posted this in the wrong section.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-02-13
Clone both machines and see if the same issue occurs if you upgrade both.

What application is using php, Apache, Nginx, something else?

---

### Post by nlsn on 2014-02-13
> **CharlesA said:**
> Clone both machines and see if the same issue occurs if you upgrade both.

What application is using php, Apache, Nginx, something else?

Thanks for your response!

I have about 40 of one of the machines (Apache), and about 12 of the other running.

---

