---
title: "6.06 Server + GUI"
date: 2006-09-06
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by holobyted on 2006-09-06
I've succesfully installed a server using the latest Ubuntu 6.06 server CD. Seeing as how the CLI gets boring after a while, I decided to install the GUI by issuing:

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop

But I also didn't want it to start every single time, since I only want it to be ran when I actually need it. I removed gdm from startup by using

sudo /etc/init.d -f gdm remove

It doesn't run on startup now, but whenever I start gdm manually, I get past the graphical login and that's it - nothing gets loaded. No window manager, no nautilus, no nada.

Can anyone tell me how to get it all right again? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by az on 2006-09-06
GDM needs to be run as root (or with root privs).

It does the authentification and logs you in as another user.

Does

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

work?

---

### Post by holobyted on 2006-09-06
It works, but as I've already said, once I type in my username and password, I don't see anything else.

---

### Post by az on 2006-09-06
Did you install or change the default session?  I can't think of a reason why it's not working if all you did was remove gdm from the runlevel.

---

### Post by holobyted on 2006-09-06
Not that I remember. Any way to restore it to normal? Just to make sure everything's okay.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2006-09-06
What happens when you do> startx <?

---

### Post by holobyted on 2006-09-07
Sorry for the delayed response. I haven't been able to try the command - I'll keep you posted. (Server's at school, I'm at home right now.)

---

### Post by bigken on 2006-09-07
you could try sudo apt-get install ubuntu desktop again ;)

---

### Post by holobyted on 2006-09-07
Okay, I tried the startx (sudo'd) command - I got it to work the first time (ie, I started a Gnome session as root) but I reinstalled gdm, rebooted and everything went to hell. (Meaning all I get is an X mouse pointer and the black/white tile combo.)

I did try to reinstall ubuntu-desktop, but since ubuntu-desktop is only a metapackage, it doesn't do anything.

I might give kubuntu-desktop a try, maybe it'll solve my problems... What do you think?

---

### Post by etcpool on 2006-09-20
what u need is just to set the system run-level  so it can boot into the right state u need, not to remove the whole packages or the config files of it which have a lot of dependencies that may cause your system not to boot properly..

---

