---
title: "Ubuntu Server ssh logon stats"
date: 2010-10-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ftornell on 2010-10-05
Hi,
Just tried Ubuntu Server and I have one question regarding sshd.
The stats that are displayed during the logon is that ubuntu specific or is that sshd-ish? And is it possible to add more information?

Thx!

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-10-05
Those are specific to Ubuntu... 10.04 added a bunch of stuff, including a great phone-home feature.

What do you want to do with it?  Seard for MOTD.

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-10-05
Yes, Ubuntu specific. It's generated by the pam_motd module and landscape using the scripts in /etc/update-motd.d/.

See [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/pam_motd.html") for details.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-10-06
Thought that landscape-sysinfo called run on logon?

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-10-06
According to **man update-motd** it's pam_motd that uses run-parts on the /etc/update-motd.d directory to run the various scripts there to build up the /var/run/motd file. landscape-sysinfo is one of the parts called and I believe it's the one that adds most/all of the system info details.

I think after this it still concats the motd.tail file so that is the easiest place to add a simple message. But if you wanted to run a script on login that adds info to motd then the place to put the script would be in /etc/update-motd.d with a numeric name prefix setting where it shows up in the message.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-10-06
Thanks! I don't know a whole lot about the motd system. :)

---

