---
title: "9.04 server, added 2 gigs but only shows 3.1 gigs"
date: 2010-11-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Pro_D on 2010-11-19
I have a 64 bit server (uname -m) that was running 2 gigs of memory.  Found out that it could handle another 2 gigs.  Bios shows all 4 slots with 1024 in each slot.  Ubuntu shows 3.1 gigs however.  'cat /proc/meminfo' shows 3244756 KB for memtotal.

Fishing for ideas to try to troubleshoot.  Before the upgraded memory there was 1.9 gigs available (shared video memory on motherboard).  Rather used to things like this just working with linux so a little strange seeing a large chunk missing.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-19
It's complicated to troubleshoot these sort of problems, unfortunately.

Does the Bios show yer total memory somewhere?

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-11-19
> **Pro_D said:**
> I have a 64 bit server (uname -m) that was running 2 gigs of memory.  Found out that it could handle another 2 gigs.  Bios shows all 4 slots with 1024 in each slot.  Ubuntu shows 3.1 gigs however.  'cat /proc/meminfo' shows 3244756 KB for memtotal.

Fishing for ideas to try to troubleshoot.  Before the upgraded memory there was 1.9 gigs available (shared video memory on motherboard).  Rather used to things like this just working with linux so a little strange seeing a large chunk missing.

I wonder if your vid card is stealing the extra memory.  Can you configure how much memory is reserved for the video card?  Usually in the BIOS.

Also, what does memtest show?

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-11-20
Hi,

Have a look in your bios, you might/should have an option for memory remapping, enable it and you should see almost 4Gb ram.

The reason your seeing less than 4Gb is that PCI/PCI express cards reserve a block of memory starting at 4Gb and so Linux can't use this memory. Memory remapping moves the last gb ram to above 4Gb so that 64bit systems can access it.

My big backend system with 8Gb ram show about 7.9Gb with memory remapping enabled and 7.3Gb with remapping disable.

Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by Pro_D on 2010-11-20
> **CharlesA said:**
> It's complicated to troubleshoot these sort of problems, unfortunately.

Does the Bios show yer total memory somewhere?

Yep.  I am surprised I forgot to mention this.  It shows 4096 as expected.


> **arrrghhh said:**
> I wonder if your vid card is stealing the extra memory.  Can you configure how much memory is reserved for the video card?  Usually in the BIOS.

Also, what does memtest show?

Bios is EXTREEMLY simplistic - I couldn't locate a setting for how much memory the onboard video was steeling to change or just see it.

When I have the chance and everyone can afford it I will take it down and do a memtest (from a disk 10.04 LTS disk).


> **ian dobson said:**
> Hi,

Have a look in your bios, you might/should have an option for memory remapping, enable it and you should see almost 4Gb ram.

The reason your seeing less than 4Gb is that PCI/PCI express cards reserve a block of memory starting at 4Gb and so Linux can't use this memory. Memory remapping moves the last gb ram to above 4Gb so that 64bit systems can access it.

My big backend system with 8Gb ram show about 7.9Gb with memory remapping enabled and 7.3Gb with remapping disable.

Regards
Ian Dobson

Extremely simplistic bios but I didn't think to look for something like this... will check around the time I take it down for testing.  Pretty sure the only PCI device is 2nd nic.  Motherboard has onboard video and onboard sound (and onboard gigabit network).



Thanks for the tidbits (I should have stumbled on memtest myself...)

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-20
If the BIOS showed all 4GB, then it should be seeing the entire amount (minus video memory)

---

### Post by randumnumber on 2010-11-20
Perhaps the on-board video card has not been disabled? Even though you have a standalone card it could still be allocating ram for itself. But I don't see why it would be taking up .9 gb unless it was working on a percentage system to allocate video ram.

---

### Post by maticer on 2010-11-20
I was dealing with similar issue today on 10.10 and 10.04 on workstation (laptop). Just posted my reply in this topic: [**Ubuntu 10.04 64bit showing only 2.7 GiB out of 4GiB**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10141957#post10141957")

In short: got no luck - my laptops BIOS/Chipset (Compaq n6400) can't remap APIC and PCI address :(

---

### Post by ian dobson on 2010-11-21
> **randumnumber said:**
> Perhaps the on-board video card has not been disabled? Even though you have a standalone card it could still be allocating ram for itself. But I don't see why it would be taking up .9 gb unless it was working on a percentage system to allocate video ram.

Not quite, just think about it. How does the CPU communicate with the graphic card? Over IO (very slow) or direct memory writes (quick). A graphic card with 512Mb ram maps the entire ram on the card into the CPU's address space (4Gb going down). When the CPU writes to an address that's mapped into the graphic card the data exists in the CPU's ram and the graphic card ram. So remapping ram thats used my a graphic card frees this memory for use from the CPU (just think what would happen if a Program/data was loaded into the memory used by the graphic card).

The BIOS itself, PCI cards/PCI express cards and their BIOS get mapped into the CPU address space so you can easly loose 700Mb-1Gb ram on a Normal PC system.

Here's an interesting document about memory mapping/holes [http://techfiles.de/dmelanchthon/files/memory_hole.pdf](http://techfiles.de/dmelanchthon/files/memory_hole.pdf)
Regards
Ian Dobson

---

### Post by abix_adam_pl on 2010-11-21
Show us uname -a and free , like this:

```
adasiek@sea-star:~$ uname -a
Linux sea-star 2.6.35-22-generic-pae #35-Ubuntu SMP Sat Oct 16 22:16:51 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux

adasiek@sea-star:~$ free
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       6045704    1099620    4946084          0      65968     409508
-/+ buffers/cache:     624144    5421560
Swap:      3905532          0    3905532


```

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-21
***free -m*** is a bit easier to read. :)

---

### Post by Pro_D on 2010-11-21
Just to be complete, free with and without -m

```
$ uname -a
Linux server 2.6.28-19-server #66-Ubuntu SMP Sat Oct 16 18:11:06 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

$ free
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       3244756    2761240     483516          0      53256    1986416
-/+ buffers/cache:     721568    2523188
Swap:      8626768      52540    8574228

$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          3168       2696        472          0         52       1939
-/+ buffers/cache:        704       2464
Swap:         8424         51       8373

```

As far as memory holes go... the only thing that makes sense so far (besides something being set wrong) would be the onboard video is stealing ram on a percentage.  @ 2 gigs installed it showed 1.9, at 4 gigs installed it shows 3.1

---

### Post by mykb on 2010-11-22
> **Pro_D said:**
> Just to be complete, free with and without -m

```
$ uname -a
Linux server 2.6.28-19-server #66-Ubuntu SMP Sat Oct 16 18:11:06 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

$ free
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       3244756    2761240     483516          0      53256    1986416
-/+ buffers/cache:     721568    2523188
Swap:      8626768      52540    8574228

$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          3168       2696        472          0         52       1939
-/+ buffers/cache:        704       2464
Swap:         8424         51       8373

```As far as memory holes go... the only thing that makes sense so far (besides something being set wrong) would be the onboard video is stealing ram on a percentage.  @ 2 gigs installed it showed 1.9, at 4 gigs installed it shows 3.1

What's the max RAM that's supported by the board?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-23
> **Pro_D said:**
> Just to be complete, free with and without -m

As far as memory holes go... the only thing that makes sense so far (besides something being set wrong) would be the onboard video is stealing ram on a percentage.  @ 2 gigs installed it showed 1.9, at 4 gigs installed it shows 3.1

free -m just displays it in megabytes, making it easier to read.

I ran into a similar problem on an Atom box, where the chipset only supported 3.5GB of RAM and give 512MB to the video, so I only have 3GB of RAM to work with. Chipset limitation in that case.

---

### Post by Pro_D on 2010-11-27
Sorry about the delay - besides a bit busy I lost the thread but learned another feature of the forum :) .

Based on the memory tester mentioning that the cached memory was only about 3.5 gigs I suspect the processor or the chipset can't actually address more than that... take a bit off for the video memory and it pretty well fits with 3.1 gigs remaining.  Still thats a bit over 1.2 gigs added to available memory for the system....

Motherboard is annoying: You can use either 2 or 4 slots and the memory has to match in all the slots.  It was dirt cheap though...

Thanks much for the help in narrowing it down and other tidbits.

---

### Post by arnavk007 on 2010-11-27
what is your config
if you have a mobo wid igp the igp maybe using the memory

also which proccy and chipset are you using

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-27
Yep, definitely a chipset thing then.

---

