---
title: "Send mail from a home Server"
date: 2013-01-24
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by brent1975 on 2013-01-24
I have a simple site sitting on a home ubuntu server 12.04. The site requires that an account email notification be sent to the registering user before he/sh can join. Is there an easy way of doing this? I have read a little about this over the internet but not to clear on the steps I need to do. I heard php sendmail function and I also read some people using gmail smtp mail server for this...   Any one have a simple solution that is some what easy to do?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-01-24
Setting up an email server at home is fairly simple, however, your ISP probably blocks all inbound and outbound SMTP traffic that doesn't go through their SMTP servers/gateway.

Using a php script to send email is asking for trouble, IMHO.

I wrote up what was needed to have an email setup in 2011 that might help: [http://www.jdpfu.com/2011/08/16/readers-ask-about-hosting-email](http://www.jdpfu.com/2011/08/16/readers-ask-about-hosting-email)  It is much more than you'd think.

---

### Post by brent1975 on 2013-01-24
> **TheFu said:**
> Setting up an email server at home is fairly simple, however, your ISP probably blocks all inbound and outbound SMTP traffic that doesn't go through their SMTP servers/gateway.

Using a php script to send email is asking for trouble, IMHO.

I wrote up what was needed to have an email setup in 2011 that might help: [http://www.jdpfu.com/2011/08/16/readers-ask-about-hosting-email](http://www.jdpfu.com/2011/08/16/readers-ask-about-hosting-email)  It is much more than you'd think.

Oh well I don't want to do anything that would cause issues. I would be okay using the ISP smtp. I don't for see it being a very large amount of emails that would be going out. I will take a look at your document and see what I come up with.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2013-01-24
> **TheFu said:**
> Using a php script to send email is asking for trouble, IMHO.

There's no inherent vulnerability using PHP scripts with the mail() function.  I've done that for years.

Are you talking about doing it in a secure manner that is not vulnerable to being exploited by spammers?  That's certainly an issue, but it sounds like the message the OP is talking about is generated by the script and mailed out to a remote address.  That isn't a security hole the same way a generic script that accepts random values for To and From would be.  Similarly a script that uses a form to collect visitor information and mails it to a fixed address isn't vulnerable either, so long as the destination address is included only in the script and not exposed on the form page.

---

### Post by und3rtug4 on 2013-01-25
The issues on sending email from a local smtp server is that, most definitely, your "home connection" ip range will be blacklisted on major IP reputation system's, the ones who feed the anti spam engines. 

The mails will be tagged as spam and dropped on most of your destination smtp servers.

Although, you can easily use some PHP Pear packages to use an external smtp server for the job, and make a simple PHP mail sender.

 - Get PHP Pear:
```
sudo apt-get install php-pear
```

- Get the PHP Pear mail package:
```
sudo pear install mail
```

Make some PHP mail sending function like this very simple example:

```

require_once "Mail.php";

function EXAMPLE_SEND_MAIL($mail, $subject, $message)
{
    $from = "<from.gmail.com>";
    $to = "<to.yahoo.com>";
    $subject = "Hi!";
    $body = "Hi,\n\nHow are you?";

    $host = "ssl://smtp.gmail.com";
    $port = "465";
    $username = "myaccount@gmail.com"; 
    $password = "password";

    $headers = array ('From' => $from,
          'To' => $to,
          'Subject' => $subject);
        
          $smtp = Mail::factory('smtp',
          array ('host' => $host,
            'port' => $port,
            'auth' => true,
            'username' => $username,
            'password' => $password));

        $mail = $smtp->send($to, $headers, $body);

        if (PEAR::isError($mail)) {
          echo("<p>" . $mail->getMessage() . "</p>");
         } else {
          echo("<p>Message successfully sent!</p>");
         }
}	


```

That way you could use some remote and "trusted" smtp server to do the job for you! 
For more info about the PHP Pear packages, check [[COLOR="SeaGreen"]PHP PEAR SITE[/COLOR]]("http://pear.php.net").

Props!

---

### Post by lneely on 2013-01-25
> **brent1975 said:**
> I heard php sendmail function and I also read some people using gmail smtp mail server for this...   Any one have a simple solution that is some what easy to do?

Install postfix and configure it to relay outgoing mail through an SMTP server.  I found the following link to be helpful.

[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2008/11/11/relaying-postfix-smtp-via-smtpgmailcom/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2008/11/11/relaying-postfix-smtp-via-smtpgmailcom/)

---

