---
title: "11.04 - Out of Range Error on Monitor"
date: 2011-05-07
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by gk007 on 2011-05-07
I just installed Ubuntu server on one of my computers, but when I boot up the screen goes blank and the monitor gives me an 'Out of Range' error.  I understand that this means that the resolution settings are too large for the monitor, but I don't understand how to change them, since there is no GUI installed.

Details:
Monitor:
LCD
Recommended Resolution is 1280x1024
I have also tried it on another monitor with a recommended resolution of 1920x1080, This also gave me an OOR error.

Ubuntu Server version 11.04

---

### Post by ploef on 2011-05-09
Greetings,

I'm experiencing the same issue on a fresh install of 11.04 server.

The screen I'm using is a crt that supports up to 1024x768.

The screen displays fine until after Grub. After that it just turns black and reports the resolution being out of range.

I tried editing:
/etc/default/grub

by modifying

#GRUB_GFXMODE=800x600
to
GRUB_GFXMODE=1024x768

But this only changes the resolution of the Grub menu. Afterwards the broblem remains.

Is there a way to manually set the resolution of the base console?

With kind regards,

---

### Post by ploef on 2011-05-12
So nobody with an idea about how to solve this? Are a link to some possibly usefull info?

As right now connecting with ssh to the server is working correctly, it os not really a problem.
But if for some reason that woudln't work anymore I'm in trouble. :(

If you need any kind of info about my hardware/installation, just ask. :)

With kind regards,

---

### Post by PureLuck on 2011-05-24
This is my first time to install Ubuntu Server and this is how I overcame the problem.

1. Boot Ubuntu Desktop 11.04 CD and select Try Ubuntu
2. Once booted, from the main menu select Places, and choose your drive
3. From the main menu, select Applications, Accessories, Terminal
4. Type in
     > sudo gedit
4. From gedit, select Open, select your drive and navigate to /boot/grub and open grub.cfg
5. Edit line
[INDENT]set gfxmode=auto[/INDENT]
replace with
[INDENT]set gfxmode=640x480[/INDENT]
6. Add line immediately after
[INDENT]set gfxpayload=keep[/INDENT]
   eg.
     > set gfxmode=640x480
     set gfxpayload=keep
7. Save and Restart

For more information see
[http://harrison3001.blogspot.com/2009/09/grub-2-graphical-boot-tips-to-set.html](http://harrison3001.blogspot.com/2009/09/grub-2-graphical-boot-tips-to-set.html)

---

### Post by back2arie on 2011-05-27
It happens to me too, and it's kinda annoying :(
Ubuntu 11.04 server 64 bit.

I edited the /etc/default/grub, and uncommented this line:
```
GRUB_TERMINAL=console
```Then run update grub command:
```
$ sudo update-grub
```Last, edit /boot/grub/grub.cfg
Find the menu entry, something like linux /boot/vmlinuz-xxxx.
And remove **vt.handoff=7** option. 

Problem solved.

---

### Post by Bryn38 on 2011-11-06
I'm  having trouble getting the 'out of range' error on my monitor. This  happened after upgrading to 11.1 and now I can't get to the sign-on  page. It gives me the out of range error. 

I've tried hitting esc  or shift after the Post screen, but it just  takes me to a screen where it says Dsub or something in the upper right  hand corner, then when it would normally go to the sign on screen, it  gives me the out of range error. 

I'm apparently not able to get to the safe mode or the regular mode. Rather frustrating. Any suggestions? 

Thanks!
 		                   		  		  		  		  		  	   	 		 [IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/statusicon/user_online.gif[/IMG]  		 		 		[[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/report.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/report.php?p=11431838") 		 		  	 	 	 	 		  		 			 			[[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/edit.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/editpost.php?do=editpost&p=11431838")

---

### Post by eweber on 2011-11-10
Same issue here.  Noob trying to learn Linux and build a file server / myth server using 11.10.  The login screen used to come up, but then I would reboot and get the Out of Range error on monitor.  Now i never see login screen.  Must have re-installed 20 times trying different options.  Downloading 11.04 now.  All of my hardware is about 1 year old, nothing ancient.  Really frustrating. Thought the os would be more stable, more ready for prime time.  I expected to be challenged during configuration of apps, but not during installation.

---

### Post by PrinceAlexzander on 2012-07-22
Thank you so much. I followed the config file edit and it works PERFECTLY thank you so much. I thought i would never see windows vista again!

---

### Post by alone_frank on 2013-01-02
After spending half a day trying various solutions to the same problem this is the only one working..... thank you very much pure luck

---

### Post by poga2 on 2013-09-12
i solved this problem in 12.04.3 server installation :
the system boot but it's impossible to see something on the screen
if the host on which you have this problem was accessible by ssh, edit default/grub on 
```
[COLOR=#0000ff]*sudo nano /etc/default/grub*[/COLOR]
```
find the line > [COLOR=#008000]#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#008000]uncomment this[/COLOR] line by removing the '#' before or copy paste (ctrl+k, ctrl+u) to keep original setting
then [COLOR=#0000ff]save[/COLOR] and exit this file
finish with ```
[COLOR=#0000ff]*sudo update-grub2*[/COLOR]
```
restart

hope this help someone ...


at least one !

Pol

---

### Post by adam-tuba on 2013-09-20
thanx, it worked for me!!

---

