---
title: "8.10 won't start under VPS"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ISagalaev on 2008-11-04
I have an Ubuntu installation running on hosted VPS. After upgrading it to 8.10 it starts for like 3 secs and then stops. Hosting support says that it happens after VPS lets it goes into a normal init process. However I don't know where (and for what) to look. I can't find anything suspicious in /var/log/messages, /var/log/kern.log or /var/log/syslog.

Can anyone give me any clue on what to try?

---

### Post by marianm on 2008-11-04
> **ISagalaev said:**
> I have an Ubuntu installation running on hosted VPS. After upgrading it to 8.10 it starts for like 3 secs and then stops. Hosting support says that it happens after VPS lets it goes into a normal init process. However I don't know where (and for what) to look. I can't find anything suspicious in /var/log/messages, /var/log/kern.log or /var/log/syslog.

Can anyone give me any clue on what to try?

chceck your VPS server and host distribution - 32 / 64bit is it the same? it can be a problem if you share /lib directory betwen 32 and 64bit version

---

### Post by ISagalaev on 2008-11-04
They're both 32 bits. It was working OK before the upgrade BTW.

My current theory is that Ubuntu has cleaned *all* the kernels from /boot since it's just empty. I'll try to upload kernels there from my home machine there.

---

### Post by CrucifiedEgo on 2008-11-04
Most likely your VPS provider loads the kernel for you.  Xen and Virtuozzo(OpenVZ) use the host kernel.  for example, i have a xen VPS with slicehost, and here's what i have:

james@poseidon [~/bin] $ ls -1 /boot | wc -l
0

How did you upgrade the VPS?

---

### Post by ISagalaev on 2008-11-04
I did the standard "sudo do-release-upgrade". It went well up to final request for reboot. Then it hadn't come back up.

---

### Post by ISagalaev on 2008-11-04
BTW, I have a working VPS that does boot up (though it's Breezy 5.10!) and my non-working VPS mounted in a separate partition. So I can compare files here and there but I don't know exactly what Ubuntu does during the boot process.

---

### Post by ISagalaev on 2008-11-08
To close the case... I hadn't succeed at resolving the problem so I just created a new VPS running Hardy and copied data from the old one.

---

### Post by arcane47 on 2008-11-11
I am suffering the same issue... Going from Dapper to Hardy.
No idea what is going on in the boot, other then a quick refresh of the process list when booting via OpenVZ control panel.

Bootlogd does not work, I've tried everything here.

Any help?

---

### Post by Philio on 2008-11-11
Has the update installed the correct kernels?

If your using Xen did it install the Xen kernel for example?

Ubuntu is a pain to get to work under Xen, think the config changes to make it work nicely stop the standard kernels booting at all, should there be a problem with the Xen one!

---

### Post by arcane47 on 2008-11-11
Running OpenVZ, Virtuozzo...
Did I need to configure a separate kernel?

Nowhere did I read about upgrading under a VPS would cause this problem.  This should be noted in upgrading docs.

---

