---
title: "9.10 i386 will not install on Dell Poweredge 600sc"
date: 2009-11-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Saghaulor on 2009-11-16
When I attempt to install 9.10 on my server, it hangs.

It was giving me an error regarding not being able to find groups 'floppy'.

So I disabled the floppy drive in the Bios. Then when it tried to boot into the installer, the machine would lock up at a blinking cursor after I selected "install Ubuntu server."

So I tried to boot the 9.10 1386 desktop livecd, and that hanged after I selected "try Ubuntu without making changes to your computer."

Then I put 8.04.2 i386 server in the machine and viola, everything works peachy keen. 

I guess it doesn't really matter to me, I like ext4, so that was my main reason for switching to 9.10.

If you have any ideas, I'm open ears.

---

### Post by dca on 2009-11-16
Does it have an older ATI video card, that may cause the issue with the blinking cursor on the desktop installer.  Interestingly enough on older ATI card I was able to boot Ubuntu, but not Kubuntu - same issue...
 
As far as server not being able to install, are there any non-supported RAID cards installed?

---

### Post by Saghaulor on 2009-11-20
> **dca said:**
> Does it have an older ATI video card, that may cause the issue with the blinking cursor on the desktop installer.  Interestingly enough on older ATI card I was able to boot Ubuntu, but not Kubuntu - same issue...
 
As far as server not being able to install, are there any non-supported RAID cards installed?

I would assume this to be the antiquated ATI card you are referring to, however, I do not know if this RAID controller is unsupported. As I said in the OP, I can install 8.04.2 i386 just fine, so as of Hardy, the RAID and ATI card were supported. 

> /etc/network$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Broadcom GCNB-LE Host Bridge (rev 32)
00:00.1 Host bridge: Broadcom GCNB-LE Host Bridge
00:02.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82540EM Gigabit Ethernet Controller (rev 02)
00:05.0 Ethernet controller: D-Link System Inc RTL8139 Ethernet (rev 10)
00:06.0 Ethernet controller: D-Link System Inc RTL8139 Ethernet (rev 10)
[B]00:07.0 RAID bus controller: LSI Logic / Symbios Logic MegaRAID (rev 01
00:08.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Rage XL (rev 27)[/B]
00:0e.0 IDE interface: Broadcom CSB6 IDE Controller (rev a0)
00:0f.0 Host bridge: Broadcom CSB6 South Bridge (rev a0)
00:0f.1 IDE interface: Broadcom CSB6 RAID/IDE Controller (rev a0)
00:0f.2 USB Controller: Broadcom CSB6 OHCI USB Controller (rev 05)
00:0f.3 ISA bridge: Broadcom GCLE-2 Host Bridge


Any other ideas? Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by dca on 2009-11-20
Okay, the RAGE I thought would work because I could've sworn Ubuntu ships with the fglrx drivers.  Then again, the only reason why I'm curious is I'm seeing this a lot lately with certain RAID cards and others.  They work fine in 8.04, but not in others (newer vers).  I wouldn't be surprised if it's an LTS thing, such as all the drivers ever when it comes to the fakeRAID cards and others are included in the LTS releases but not in the interim releases.
 
Here check this out:
 
[http://www.ubuntu.com/news/lts-6.06.2](http://www.ubuntu.com/news/lts-6.06.2)
 
...see how it references the Adaptec 2xxx RAID controller in the announcements, I couldn't get 7.10 to install on a Dell server when that came out, finally through CentOS on it and called it a day.

---

### Post by dca on 2009-11-20
Not for nothing, I would probably just stick w/ 8.04LTS for all the above reasons: long term support, you know it works, etc.  Because if what I posted above is what's happening and certain RAIDs are causing issues it looks like the only way to beat the system is if LSI or whoever is selling the RAIDs (Adaptec, et al) offers a driver and rebuld the RPM (because you know it'd only be available for RHEL or SLES) using alien.

---

### Post by Saghaulor on 2009-11-20
I appreciate the input.

Lucid comes out in six months, and is the next LTS. I wonder if that will support my old Poweredge.

---

### Post by mlerley on 2010-06-24
I'm having the same problem now installing Lucid on a PowerEdge 600SC.  Same results when I tried 9.10 also.  I'm going to download 8 now and proceed; maybe I can upgrade after I get it installed.  I'm guessing it's a kernel configuration thing that's causing it to fail.  Haven't been able to find any other info about it, though.

---

### Post by mlerley on 2010-06-24
Update: I installed 8.04.4 successfully and then did a distribution upgrade in the usual way to 10.04 and it worked great.  No kernel issues with Lucid.  Just so you know.

---

### Post by jsuiker on 2013-04-12
Same here: I had problems installing 12.04 on a PowerEdge 600SC so I went back to 8.04 and upgraded to 10.04 and 12.04 without a problem.  This is a printout of my lspci: 

00:00.0 Host bridge: Broadcom GCNB-LE Host Bridge (rev 32)
00:00.1 Host bridge: Broadcom GCNB-LE Host Bridge
00:02.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82540EM Gigabit Ethernet Controller (rev 02)
**00:08.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Rage XL (rev 27)**
00:0e.0 IDE interface: Broadcom CSB6 IDE Controller (rev a0)
00:0f.0 Host bridge: Broadcom CSB6 South Bridge (rev a0)
**00:0f.1 IDE interface: Broadcom CSB6 RAID/IDE Controller (rev a0)**
00:0f.2 USB Controller: Broadcom CSB6 OHCI USB Controller (rev 05)
00:0f.3 ISA bridge: Broadcom GCLE-2 Host Bridge

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-04-12
This thread is over 4 years old, if you still have problems, I'd suggest you start a new thread, as this one is closed.

---

