---
title: "14.04LTS apache ignoring php.ini file"
date: 2015-06-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by m0rph3us0306 on 2015-06-04
Migrating off some older servers and have the vhost setup, and some things are just not working.  I put a quick phpinfo page up and it does show the following;
**PHP Version 5.5.9-1ubuntu4.9**

[TABLE="width: 600"]
[TR]
[TD="class: e, bgcolor: #CCCCFF"]Configuration File (php.ini) Path[/TD]
[TD="class: v, bgcolor: #CCCCCC"]/etc/php5/apache2[/TD]
[/TR]
[/TABLE]

[TABLE="width: 600"]
[TR]
[TD="class: e, bgcolor: #CCCCFF"]Loaded Configuration File[/TD]
[TD="class: v, bgcolor: #CCCCCC"]/etc/php5/apache2/php.ini[/TD]
[/TR]
[/TABLE]

So in there I added
include_path = ".:/usr/share/php:/includes/stuff"  (just a test, but my point is to include that as a path).  Restart everything and still not there, that same page doesn't show that added path.  A quick workaround using an .htaccess file and this value;
php_value include_path ".:/usr/share/php:/includes/stuff"

And the phpinfo page has 2 columns now, a local and a master

[TABLE="width: 600"]
[TR]
[TD="class: e, bgcolor: #CCCCFF"]include_path[/TD]
[TD="class: v, bgcolor: #CCCCCC"].:/usr/share/php:/incldes/stuff[/TD]
[TD="class: v, bgcolor: #CCCCCC"].:/usr/share/php:/usr/share/pear[/TD]
[/TR]
[/TABLE]


The problem is I have other things like DB parameters, diff values and can't just manually override via local files, etc.   I added some postgres DB things, those too are ignored.  So I am wondering if there are any known issues with 14.04 and PHP.  All packages are up to date, and just a bit lost right now on this.

Note:  I did some readings and one odd thing is it says it's using that default file, but I actually move the /etc/php5/apache/php.ini and restarted apache, that phpinfo page loads fine, same phpinfo page, etc. making it seem that it is really using another file.

---

