---
title: "10.04 Server RAID5 LVM help"
date: 2010-12-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ContagiousIdea on 2010-12-05
I've been beating my head against this for the past 12hrs or so. I'm a light linux user over the last couple of years and I decided to built a HTPC/NAS device. 

Setup:
40gb ide -> usb boot drive
3x2tb sata (4k Sector) drives 

I've got another 2tb identical drive but it's holding data that is going to be copied to the raid after it's up and running and then be 'grown' into the raid array to yield a final 5+tb array.

I tried doing a disk util raid array and it ended up failing after reboot due to it using the /dev/sd* designations and they swapped. I have no idea how to do the UUID version, my googlefu and practical guide to ubuntu. So I decided to do it manually in order to also fix the sector issue as disk util wasn't formatting them correctly and once formatted wouldn't let me create a raid array from the discs.

What I've done: (followed:[http://dtbaker.com.au/random-bits/ubuntu---howto-easily-setup-raid-5-with-lvm.html](http://dtbaker.com.au/random-bits/ubuntu---howto-easily-setup-raid-5-with-lvm.html))

install mdadm

create raid partitions with fdisk -u -c (took me hours to figure out the -c fixes the 2048 sector issues) partitioned entire drive to fd. Did this for all 3 drives

mdadm --create /dev/md0 --level=5 -n 3 /dev/sdc1 /dev/sdd1 /dev/sde1

built mdadm.conf file

# pvcreate /dev/md0
# vgcreate vg1 /dev/md0
**Now here is where I'm getting stuck**:
When I check the size of the vgdisplay I'm showing:
# vgcreate vg1 /dev/md0

TOTAL PE 953863
FREE PE/SIZE 953863 / 3.64TiB

When I create a logical volume with:
#lvcreate -l 953863 -n lv1 vg1 /dev/md0

DiskUtil shows a 1tb volume instead of a 3.64 (Thought it would be closer to 4tb)

Didn't go as far as putting a filesystem with mkfs or making a dir to
 mount it yet as it seemed as if it was only going to be a 1tb array.

I really am tearing my hair out here.

---

### Post by littlegreiger on 2010-12-05
That lvcreate command should work, but I usually just use```
sudo lvcreate -l 100%VG -n lv1 vg1 /dev/md0
```to create a logical volume that spans the entire array.

---

### Post by ContagiousIdea on 2010-12-05
Hrm.. thats throwing a:
Invalid argument 100%VG
Error during parsing of command line.

had to convert your -l to -L for some reason thats the way it's been the whole install.

Went back and looked at man pages again and my -L instead of -l was part of the problem but I kept getting an error during parsin of command line when I used it. I sudo su'ed rather than sudoed and got it to run with:
```
lvcreate -l 100%FREE -n 1v1 vg1 /dev/md0
/dev/md0: write failed after 0 of 4096 at 4096: Input/output error
```

---

### Post by ContagiousIdea on 2010-12-05
Now it's showing one drive failed and one removed... I'm sitting here remoting in from work...


AGRH Going home in a half hour, I think I'm going to follow CharlesA's advice since I need a gui since it's a combo htpc/server that I will re-install with the desktop version and start over. I'm sure there is a misconfigred something somewhere. I know what I'm doing up to this point now I just need to install things more carefully next time I hope. It's a brand new drive and it's one of the WD greens so I suppose it's possible it failed but doubtful. I'll have to figure out how to stress test it other than benchmarking it with disk util.

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2010-12-06
I don't even bother with LVM on mdadm anymore.  It's just one more thing to fix if you ever have a problem imho.  Here's all it would take to get you a working array.  Do these from the command line...
```
sudo apt-get install mdadm
```

Then, format the disks as linux raid devices like this...
```
sudo fdisk /dev/sdc
```

```
Command (m for help): [COLOR="Red"]n[/COLOR]
Command action
	e	extended
	p	primary partition (1-4)
[COLOR="red"]p[/COLOR]
Partition number (1-4): [COLOR="red"]1[/COLOR]
First cylinder (1-182401, default 1):[COLOR="red"] [enter][/COLOR]
Last cylinder or +size or +sizeM or +sizeK (1-182401, default 182401): [COLOR="red"][enter][/COLOR]
command (m for help): [COLOR="red"]t[/COLOR]
Partition number (1-4): [COLOR="red"]1[/COLOR]
Hex code (type L to list codes): [COLOR="red"]fd[/COLOR]
Changed system type of partition 1 to fd (Linux raid auto)
Command (m for help): [COLOR="red"]w[/COLOR]
The partition table has been altered!
 
Calling ioctl() to re-read partition table.
Syncing disks.
```

Do that for sdc,e,f

Next, create the array...
```
sudo mdadm --create --verbose /dev/md0 --level=5 --raid-devices=3 /dev/sd[cde]1

```

Watch and wait for the array to sync...
```
sudo watch cat /proc/mdstat
```

Now that we have set up the array, we need to edit the mdadm configuration so it knows how to reassemble it when the system boots.

```
echo "DEVICE partitions" > /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf
echo "HOMEHOST fileserver" >> /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf
echo "MAILADDR root@localhost" >> /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf
mdadm --detail --scan >> /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf
```

Now that the array is built we need to format it. What filesystem you choose is up to you, but I would probably recommend ext4. Note: For my array I chose to use ext4.

```
sudo mkfs.ext4 /dev/md0
```
This will take a while, especially if your array is large.

If you chose to use ext2/3/4 you should also be aware of reserved space. By default ext2/3/4 will reserve 5% of the drives space, which only root is able to write to. This is done so a user cannot fill the drive and prevent critical daemons writing to it, but 5% of a large RAID array which isn’t going to be written to by critical daemons anyway, is a lot of wasted space. I chose to set the reserved space to 0%, using tune2fs:

```
sudo tune2fs -m 0 /dev/md0
```
Next we should add the array to the fstab, so that it will automatically be mounted when the system boots up. This can be done by editing the file /etc/fstab.

```
sudo nano /etc/fstab
```
Your fstab should already contain a few entries (if it doesn’t something is wrong!). At the bottom add a line similar to the following:

```
/dev/md0	/storage	    ext4	defaults	0	1
```
I chose to mount my array on /storage, but you may well wish to mount it somewhere else. If the folder you chose doesn’t exist you will need to create it. As I said earlier I chose to use ext4, but here you will need to enter whatever filesystem you chose earlier.

```
sudo mkdir /storage
```

Now, mount the array.

```
sudo mount -a
```
This will mount anything mentioned in the fstab that isn’t currently mounted but should be (hopefully your array!).

You should now have a working RAID-5 array! Next I would strongly suggest you investigate how to look after and monitor it, being able to cope with one drive failure is no use if you don’t notice when it fails and let a second fail!

Adding the other disk to the array later is this easy.

```
sudo mdadm --add /dev/md0 /dev/sdf1
```

```
sudo mdadm --grow /dev/md0 --raid-devices=4
```

Wait for it to finish
```
sudo watch cat /proc/mdstat
```

Then grow the filesystem
```
sudo umount /storage
```

ow that it is unmounted we can run a filesystem check to make sure everything is in order:

```
sudo fsck.ext4 -f /dev/md0
```

Once the filesystem has been checked we can perform the resize. If you decided to use something other than ext2/3/4 this may be done differently, but for the ext2/3/4 filesystems we use the resize2fs tool.

```
sudo resize2fs /dev/md0
```
This will automatically grow the filesystem to the new size of the device.

You can now remount the drive and start filling it up again!
```
sudo mount -a
```

Long post, but hope that helps :)

---

### Post by ContagiousIdea on 2010-12-07
Wow... That was an epic post that was also VERY easy to follow. RAID is going up now thanks to your help, just waiting on the thing to format and recover, then doing the rest of the tasks.

Once again I can't thank you enough that was exactly what I needed!

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2010-12-07
Glad to hear that it worked for you.  Mdadm posts always end up being long, but I'd rather be wordy, so they're easy to follow.

---

### Post by ContagiousIdea on 2010-12-07
> **rubylaser said:**
> Glad to hear that it worked for you.  Mdadm posts always end up being long, but I'd rather be wordy, so they're easy to follow.

Well now that I know I can help others as well, this was always a fuzzy area to me. I was doing this in a teamviewer session from another location and it futzed out on me whilst doing the formatting section so I'll have to wait another hour or so to finish it up but I'm stoked. 4TB usable space right now but I'm going to copy 2TB of data too it once it finishes setting up and test that for a bit before I ingest the other 2tb drive I have for it.

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2010-12-07
That's a great idea to test it out before using it for real.  Also, you'll want to setup smartmontools, and mdadm monitoring to help catch a failing disk before it fails, and to get a warning from mdadm if a hard drive ever really fails.

---

### Post by ContagiousIdea on 2010-12-07
> **rubylaser said:**
> That's a great idea to test it out before using it for real.  Also, you'll want to setup smartmontools, and mdadm monitoring to help catch a failing disk before it fails, and to get a warning from mdadm if a hard drive ever really fails.

I've installed smartmontools, just need to config it.

When you said stop and wait for the array to sync did you mean the entire 'recovery' process prior to formatting? Thats around 500min or so at 6tb Raid5 =4tb usable.

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2010-12-07
That's exactly what I meant.  Although, you can put a filesystem on it and even data while it's syncing, I always let it run over night to do it's initial sync, and then apply the filesystem afterwards.  I guess I like to err on the side of caution.

If you're sync speed is slow, which that doesn't sound terrible, you can try to speed it up a little with these commands...
```
echo 300000 > /sys/block/md0/md/sync_speed_max
echo 30000 > /sys/block/md0/md/sync_speed_min
echo 16384 > /sys/block/md0/md/stripe_cache_size
```

Hopefully, that will increase the speed of your sync a little.

---

### Post by ContagiousIdea on 2010-12-08
Well all of that worked great except it didn't mount on reboot. Transferred about 300gb from a backup drive to the raid while I was at work and during that time it transfered a 100gb while I watched just fine, set it up with 300gb and let it run while I did stuff. It unexpectedly shutdown at somepoint during that time period and I couldn't log back in from work. Come home and it's turned off still, start it up and it struggled to start after a reboot it booted but wouldn't load the raid.


Now I was running htop just to take a look at the processes and my 4th cpu (i3) is going nutz all 4 should be around 3-5% but #4 is 50-70% constantly with the rest around 1-6%...

Disc utility says the raid is re-syncing but it's got an empty white spot in the partition and only 2 of the drives show as fd partition the otherone is an unknown.

It's still listed as a 4tb array, and mdstat says 400min or so at 80mbs to rebuild...

htop shoes a few processes around 6-8% but nothing that should be chewing 60% from one process...

It's a new build so I wonder if something with the board or memory is at fault... grr just when I get it almost setup, any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2010-12-09
Sorry for the delay.  It sounds like a disc got kicked out the array which means that it either wasn't available (bad cable, or connection ) or had a problem SMART error.  Have you SMART tested each of these drives with smartmontools?

The i3 is a dual core processor with hyper threading, so two of those cores are just virtual.  When an array is rebuilding you can expect your machine to work hard, the processor is syncing the array together.

In regards to the not showing up at boot, do you have an /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf file?  Finally, although, your array is still showing up as the correct size, it's running degraded, it should show up as such with this command...

```
mdadm --detail /dev/md0
```

---

### Post by ContagiousIdea on 2010-12-09
> **rubylaser said:**
> Sorry for the delay.  It sounds like a disc got kicked out the array which means that it either wasn't available (bad cable, or connection ) or had a problem SMART error.  Have you SMART tested each of these drives with smartmontools?

The i3 is a dual core processor with hyper threading, so two of those cores are just virtual.  When an array is rebuilding you can expect your machine to work hard, the processor is syncing the array together.

In regards to the not showing up at boot, do you have an /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf file?  Finally, although, your array is still showing up as the correct size, it's running degraded, it should show up as such with this command...

```
mdadm --detail /dev/md0
```

In regards to the CPU your right I figured out a couple hours ago that htop wasn't showing me the correct sorting by cpu usage and /dev/md0 was using the 30-40% of cpu cycles I was missing.

On the reboot ubuntu tells me to skip or manual fix the raid, the detail shows 
```


mdadm: metadata format 00.90 unknown, ignored.
/dev/md0:
        Version : 00.90
  Creation Time : Tue Dec  7 15:55:09 2010
     Raid Level : raid5
     Array Size : 3907026944 (3726.03 GiB 4000.80 GB)
  Used Dev Size : 1953513472 (1863.02 GiB 2000.40 GB)
   Raid Devices : 3
  Total Devices : 3
Preferred Minor : 0
    Persistence : Superblock is persistent

    Update Time : Thu Dec  9 21:23:51 2010
          State : active, resyncing
 Active Devices : 3
Working Devices : 3
 Failed Devices : 0
  Spare Devices : 0

         Layout : left-symmetric
     Chunk Size : 64K

 Rebuild Status : 41% complete

           UUID : 194065b8:5601b973:b8756c74:3dd5f86e (local to host fileserver)
         Events : 0.33

    Number   Major   Minor   RaidDevice State
       0       8       32        0      active sync   /dev/sdc
       1       8       48        1      active sync   /dev/sdd
       2       8       64        2      active sync   /dev/sde

```

So it's rebuilding it again. Once it's done I'll try and mount it and see if the data is there or not. I think my problem here is I'm going at this problem backwards. I really should have knowledge of how to diagnose and understand the raid before I attempt it rather than the other way around but this was my method of training.

```

DEVICE partitions
HOMEHOST fileserver
MAILADDR root@localhost
ARRAY /dev/md0 level=raid5 num-devices=3 metadata=00.90 spares=1 UUID=194065b8:5601b973:b8756$

```

It looks like the array came back on its own it just has to rebuild for some reason. I'm wondering if this has to do with Ubuntu changing the designators of /dev/sd() rather then specifying the raid parts by uuid, is that possible? 

You've been so much help I actually wouldn't mind donating some to your cause that is if you have one other than helping me. :D

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2010-12-09
Ah, no big deal, I'm happy to help.  I normally like testing things like this in a virtual machine that I can document the whole process and work out all the bugs with snapshots.  You can make changes and roll back a lot faster than waiting hours for a multi-terabyte array to sync.

The UUID format is the correct way to do this.  That way if the disk order changes, mdadm can still assemble the array properly.  One thing you can correct in the mdadm.conf is making the ```
metadata=00.90
``` line read ```
metadata=0.90
```.  That will get rid of this error.
```
mdadm: metadata format 00.90 unknown, ignored.
```

---

