---
title: "13.04 /var/wtmp being removed after each reboot"
date: 2014-10-31
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by twoshells on 2014-10-31
Hey everyone, so I have dozens of vpn'd servers running 13.04 and we had an issue where there was a crash of sorts.  Anyway, I realized that the wtmp log file wasn't there when I'd run 
```
last reboot
```
and I can't find ANY information, besides the man docs that say it can't be disabled.  So, I did a touch on the file, created it, set the owner and permissions appropriately in [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/13532556/amazon-ec2-last-command-error]("http://stackoverflow.com/questions/13532556/amazon-ec2-last-command-error")
I ran the last reboot command again and at least the file was there.  So I rebooted and POOF it's gone again.  So, now I'm under the impression that there's a script somewhere that's running that kills the wtmp log file.

I did a big grep: ```
grep --exclude-dir={proc,sys} -rnw '/' -e "/var/log/wtmp"
``` to see if I could find a clue to how the file is being removed.  Nothing.

Can anyone help in this?  The ultimate goal is to just track the last time a system booted in the most human-readable fashion.  Thanks!

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2014-10-31
> so I have dozens of vpn'd servers running 13.04
First thought on me is why not an LTS release for a production server? This is end-of life already.

> we had an issue where there was a crash of sorts
> I ran the last reboot command again and at least the file was there.  So  I rebooted and POOF it's gone again.  So, now I'm under the impression  that there's a script somewhere that's running that kills the wtmp log  file.

Last time I see this behavior (although not a VPN server and not on a file) is a hacked web server, the site was down for some reason. Then I checked some system files and another program was installed. You sure no one touched your system?

---

