---
title: "Postfix main.cf question"
date: 2011-11-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by balagosa on 2011-11-20
One thing obvious for the main.cf configuration is that double configurations are not allowed. Like

```
smtpd_delay_reject = yes
smtpd_delay_reject = yes
```

But my question comes within the configurations like 

```
smtpd_recipient_restrictions = check_sender_access hash:FILE_A,   check_sender_access hash:FILE_B
```

Is the above statement possible to implement in postfix?

---

### Post by lisati on 2011-11-20
> **balagosa said:**
> One thing obvious for the main.cf configuration is that double configurations are not allowed. Like

```
smtpd_delay_reject = yes
smtpd_delay_reject = yes
```

But my question comes within the configurations like 

```
smtpd_recipient_restrictions = check_sender_access hash:FILE_A,   check_sender_access hash:FILE_B
```

Is the above statement possible to implement in postfix?

I would think so: I have done similar with check_client_access without noticing errors, one entry for a manually edited file, and another entry for a file automatically generated by a script that analyses my system logs.

---

### Post by balagosa on 2011-11-20
Thanks for the quick reply. Before I mark this thread as solved, I will like a second opinion.

---

### Post by hawkmage on 2011-11-20
Looking at the Postfix config documentation here: [http://www.postfix.org/postconf.5.html](http://www.postfix.org/postconf.5.html)

I do not see that you can use check_sender_access with smtpd_recipient_restrictions.  I only see it as being used with smtpd_sender_restrictions.

---

### Post by smtp on 2011-11-28
Hello,

Could you please explain a bit the idea behind your question?

Basically smtpd_recipient_restrictions defines access restrictions that the Postfix SMTP server applies in the context of the rcpt to command.
check_sender_access search the specified access database for the mail from address

---

