---
title: "10.04 Server won't allow client computers to connect to the internet"
date: 2011-01-23
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by phoenix32 on 2011-01-23
Hey folks,

I'm new to the forums, and finding myself in a pickle here.  This is my first attempt at a server, and I running Ubuntu 10.04 server.  I had to reconfigure my network, so now I am attempting to use it as a server.  I have a Linksys WRT54G2 connecting various machines-- Windows XP, Ubuntu builds, and LinuxMint 10 Julia.

The long and the short of it is that the server connects to the Internet-- I can get updates and install programs via terminal.  The server also connects to the router, as tested by pings.  The client computers all ping back and forth nicely, and I can access the file share via FTP from the local side and externally (this is part of a larger network).

How can I get it so that my client computers can access the Internet through the router and server?

Thanks!


-Phoenix32
Overly-caffeinated Coffee Lover

---

### Post by wongo888 on 2011-01-23
Usually the router will have a DHCP server on it and it will hand out IPs to all the clients. The servers on LANs usually have static IPs that are not managed by DHCP.

Are you asking about setting up a VPN?

---

### Post by phoenix32 on 2011-01-24
No VPN.  The router is set to a static IP address; setting it to "Automatic Configuration - DHCP" mode got me nowhere.  However, the DHCP server on the router is enabled.  The LAN port on the server is a static IP address, and the WAN port was assigned by the ISP.

---

### Post by wongo888 on 2011-01-24
A router typically has a WAN side and a LAN side. The WAN side faces the Internet and should be configured as your ISP dictates. The LAN side is typically managed by a DHCP server inside the router.

When you first install 10.04 server the networking component will use DHCP to get you connected ASAP, but users typically convert the server to use a static IP. Lots of how-tos on the Internet about how to do that.

When you do that, you will have to configure the DHCP server on your router to **not** manage all the IPs on your subnet. You want to restrict the range to something smaller, say 192.168.0.100 to 192.168.0.254 and then that opens all the IPs from 192.168.0.2 to 192.168.0.99 for static assignment. Assign one of those to your server and you should be done.

---

