---
title: "Cannot Ping from Server"
date: 2006-04-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by wfx on 2006-04-18
Hi,
my home-lan works very good but i have one problem (after a breezy update?).

I can ping/connect any website from any desktop-system (192.168.0.xy)
what is connected to the server
but not from the server itself?

Example: **Desktop**
wolfgang@hercules:~$ nslookup ubuntu.com
Server:         195.3.96.68
Address:        195.3.96.68#53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name:   ubuntu.com
Address: 82.211.81.166

Example: **Server**
root@philoctetes:~# nslookup ubuntu.com
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

I have not one idea where i should start?
thx.

---

### Post by gunderwood on 2006-04-18
Check your resolv.conf on your server. Ensure that the nameservers are correct. Also is your server behind a router? Does it have a default route defined outside the network? Check your routing table.

```
route
```

It should look something like this.

Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
default         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0


Do you have multiple network cards?

Greg

---

### Post by fdoving on 2006-04-18
I would start looking for DNS servers in /etc/resolv.conf.

It should be something like this:
```

search example.com
nameserver 127.0.0.1
nameserver 192.168.0.1

```

Replace 127.0.0.1 and 192.168.0.1 with the IPs of your ISPs DNS servers.


- Frode

---

### Post by wfx on 2006-04-19
@fdoving
i see that the reolv.conf is something new.

**root@philoctetes:~# cat /etc/resolv.conf**
```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
```
So i have a new resolv.conf system handling and i have to learn how to use it.
On the Dekstop my resolv.conf looks normal or right:
**wolfgang@hercules:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf**
```
search chaos
nameserver 195.3.96.68
```

@gunderwood
Yes i have
eth0: 10.0.0.140 for adsl modem (ppp0) used with pptp
eth1: 192.168.0.1 lan with a dhcp server for the desktop's
The server do a lot (router, http, database, NFS and Samba, Printserver)
and all works ~90 perfect i miss only some mail function (hula) but later :)

I dont know why ubuntu remove my nameserver entrys but, ok.
It was the missing nameserver entry in the resolv.conf.

---

