---
title: "10.04 - log SCREEN output in a cron script"
date: 2011-04-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by iissmart on 2011-04-14
I have a very simple script to defrag my XFS partitions:

```
#!/bin/bash

string=`ps aux | grep -i xfs_fsr | grep -v grep | grep SCREEN`

if [ -z "$string" ]; then
        screen -c /root/.screen_xfs_fsr -dmS xfs xfs_fsr -v
fi
```

This script is run via an entry in crontab:

```
* 4 * * 0 /root/defrag.sh
```

Now, I'm trying to get it to log the output of xfs_fsr (hence the -v for verbose) to a file. I added the -c flag to the screen command just now, to enable logging for just this screen session. Here is /root/.screen_xfs_fsr:

```
screen 0
logfile report.txt
logtstamp on
log on
```

However, the report.txt file only contains a blank command prompt, "root@sysname:~#"

I have a feeling it's because I'm creating the SCREEN session and immediately detaching from it with the -dm flag, but I don't want cron to get stuck attached to the screen session. How can I get it to log the output to a file?

My end goal is to see, on a weekly basis, the output of xfs_fsr -v along with timestamps (logtstamp on) to see how long it ran for.

Thanks!

---

### Post by gobbledigook on 2011-04-14
does the script give you the desireed output when run from CLI?

if so then you just need to redirect the output when run from cron from /dev/null to a logfile... ie: 
```
* 4 * * 0 /root/defrag.sh 2> /home/USER%/log
```

---

### Post by iissmart on 2011-04-14
> **gobbledigook said:**
> does the script give you the desireed output when run from CLI?

if so then you just need to redirect the output when run from cron from /dev/null to a logfile... ie: 
```
* 4 * * 0 /root/defrag.sh 2> /home/USER%/log
```
The script doesn't output anything from the command line when run -- because it starts SCREEN then immediately detaches. I want to capture the output of xfs_fsr, which is run from inside the SCREEN session.

That being said, editing the script to say "screen -c /root/.screen_xfs_fsr -dmS xfs xfs_fsr -v > /root/report.txt" also outputs nothing. The file is created, but empty.

---

### Post by egpetrich on 2011-04-18
I'm taking a stab in the dark, but I wonder if the "screen 0" command in your config file is the cause of your problem.

The man page says that the "screen" command will "establish a new window.... If a command is specified after 'screen', this command... is started in the window; otherwise, a shell is created."

Your logfile is showing only a shell prompt. If the command specified on your cron script's call to "screen" were executed, I wouldn't expect to see a shell. The command would execute and then exit, which would terminate the virtual screen.

I'd recommend removing the "screen 0" command from your config file and see what happens.

---

### Post by iissmart on 2011-04-18
If I remove "screen 0" then no log files are created. I can run SCREEN manually with "screen 0" excluded from the config, but I get this warning:

```
/root/.screen_xfs_fsr: log: window required
```

It flashed on the bottom of the terminal window for about a second then goes away. That's why I added "screen 0" to the file, because I thought it wasn't making a window. Maybe I have to identify the window in a different way?

---

### Post by egpetrich on 2011-04-19
Well, I've definitely learned more about "screen" today. I'm not sure that you'll get what you want using this method, but let's see.

When you issue the "screen" command within your config file, you're creating a new window within the screen session. Since you didn't specify a command to run in that window, you get a shell. That's why your logfile shows you nothing but a shell prompt. Your call to "xfs_fsr" will complete (unlogged), and then I expect the sub-shell will take over and just sit there until you kill the process, or attach to the screen session and exit.

I think that you could get your output logged if you change your config file "/root/.screen_xfs_fsr" to be:
```
screen 0 xfs_sfr -v
logfile report.txt
logtstamp on
log on
```
and then change your Bash script's line to be:
```
screen -c /root/.screen_xfs_fsr -dmS xfs
```

Having said all of that, the "logtstamp" command will only log the current time after two minutes of inactivity. (You can change the timeout period, but it will always operate on a timeout.) This doesn't seem to be what you want.

You said that your goal is to see the output of "xfs_fsr", along with timestamps to show you how long it ran. To get that, I would change your Bash script to be:

```
#!/bin/bash

echo -n "-I- Defrag started on " >> /root/report.txt
date >> /root/report.txt
xfs_fsr -v >> /root/report.txt
echo -n "-I- Defrag complete on " >> /root/report.txt
date >> /root/report.txt
exit 0
```

This code doesn't contain any checks to prevent overlapping "xfs_fsr" runs. You could use something similar to the check in your original code, or you could also try using the "setlock" command.

---

### Post by iissmart on 2011-04-22
> **egpetrich said:**
> I think that you could get your output logged if you change your config file "/root/.screen_xfs_fsr" to be:
```
screen 0 xfs_sfr -v
logfile report.txt
logtstamp on
log on
```
and then change your Bash script's line to be:
```
screen -c /root/.screen_xfs_fsr -dmS xfs
```

This is close! Logging seems to be working now, everything is being output to report.txt but I don't have any timestamps in the file at all. Is there a way to use the 'date' command along with a SCREEN session? I'm using SCREEN so I can attach to the process in case it hangs. I'm assuming since SCREEN would detach immediately, the end date & time would be only milliseconds after the start date & time if I used your example above.

---

### Post by egpetrich on 2011-04-23
You would need to create a script with the following contents:
```
date
xfs_fsr -v
date

```
Call it something like "/root/check_xfs_with_date" (and don't forget to "chmod u+x /root/check_xfs_with_date"). Then, change your config file to:
```
screen 0 /root/check_xfs_with_date
logfile report.txt
logtstamp on
log on
```

---

