---
title: "16.04:  New naming convention for Ethernet Devices?"
date: 2016-06-04
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mattlach on 2016-06-04
Hey everyone,

So I am starting to embrace the new server edition and after years of considering the 14.04 server release Ubuntu's best to date, I am now starting to do installs with 16.04.  (I've had enough "spending hours tearing my hair out" experiences that I now only use LTS releases)

One thing that has stood out to me is that there is now a new naming convention for Ethernet devices.  What I used to know as eth0, has now become enp2s0

Does anyone know why this was done? 

Can anyone explain to me what the naming convention now is?  How can I predict what it might be on a new system.

On FreeBSD the network devices are named after the module name (em0, em1, igb0, igb1 etc.) but that is obviously not the case here, since I am using the tg3 module for my Broadcom NetXtreme card, and "enp2s" looks nothing like "tg3"

I decided to see if I could look at the udev rules (/etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules) and maybe change the names, but that file doesn't appear to be there at all anymore.  In fact ALL the udev rules files are gone. (??)

Can anyone help make me somewhat less confused as to how this all works now?   I had just become so good at managing it the old way :p   

It always seems that as soon as you learn something well enough to be comfortable with it, they go and change everything ;p

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-06-05
[Predictable Network Interface Names]("https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/PredictableNetworkInterfaceNames/")
probably what you're looking for.

or to sum it up, systemd for the win.:D

---

### Post by mattlach on 2016-06-05
> **deadflowr said:**
> [Predictable Network Interface Names]("https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/PredictableNetworkInterfaceNames/")
probably what you're looking for.

or to sum it up, systemd for the win.:D

Ahh, yes.  Thank you.   

My problem was I didn't know the keywords to search for to come up with this one.

I can see where this could be helpful.  I recently swapped out a dual port NIC for a quad port NIC in my Proxmox (debian jessie based) box, and all hell broke loose.   In the end I went in and edited /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules to get the interface names back the way I wanted them, and recreated my bridges and bonds in /etc/network/interfaces with the new names, all from the tiny low resolution console screen without copy and paste (because I no longer had SSH)  it was a bit of a pain.

I have to say, I will miss eth0 though.

---

### Post by houstonbofh on 2016-06-06
Many people find them less them "predictable" but it follows the systemd directive of "just do whatever the heck you want and stuff the user complaints." :)  There will be more of these, like the breaking of screen...  It is why other alternatives traditionally though of as difficult are getting more interest.

---

### Post by mattlach on 2016-06-11
> **houstonbofh said:**
> Many people find them less them "predictable" but it follows the systemd directive of "just do whatever the heck you want and stuff the user complaints." :)  There will be more of these, like the breaking of screen...  It is why other alternatives traditionally though of as difficult are getting more interest.

Wait, what is happening with screen?  I can't live without a functioning screen.   I do everything in screens.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-06-11
> **mattlach said:**
> Wait, what is happening with screen?  I can't live without a functioning screen.   I do everything in screens.

I think it's a reference to this bug:
[https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=825394]("https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=825394")

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-06-11
Bugs will always appear when something changes.  That's no reason to stand still.  And the fact one thing *we* might like gets hit does not mean disaster for everyone.

On the rpm side, we were all told systemd would bring the zombie apocalypse.  It never came.  We were OK.  Fedora has worked fine for me just like it always did.

---

