---
title: "9.04 Problems installing Serveraid manager on IBM x232"
date: 2009-09-25
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by m.ardito on 2009-09-25
Hello,

we are experimenting a 9.04 on an old almost dismisses IBM servre x232 type 8668 model 13G. It has a serveraid 4x ultra 160 scsi controller and 6 hot swap slots on the front.

It is a server, ona typical server hardware, but we started from a desktop 9.04 cd (silly newbie :)) and then stripped down most unneeded desktop software.

we missed previous WinNt4 serveraid manager software, useful to monitor and notify problems on the raid5 array we use, so after a bit of search, found this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4464944](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4464944) (Monitoring utility for IBM ServeRAID) and followed the procedure there by the letter and anything went OK, until we got this:
-----------------------------------------
user@server:~/Desktop/dnld$ sudo dpkg -i raidman_9.00-1_i386_mod.deb 
[sudo] password for user: 
Selecting previously deselected package raidman.
(Reading database ... 179925 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking raidman (from raidman_9.00-1_i386_mod.deb) ...

IBM
Version 9.00

Setting up raidman (9.00-1) ...
starting IBM ServeRAID Manager agent ...
cut: fields and positions are numbered from 1
Try `cut --help' for more information.
cut: fields and positions are numbered from 1
Try `cut --help' for more information.


Installation completed successfully.
The application can be started by running: /usr/RaidMan/RaidMan.sh

*** CAUTION ***
RaidMan depends on compat-libstdc++ and libXp packages for it to function properly.
Please make sure that these packages are installed.

-----------------------------------------
well, the words
"Installation completed successfully.
The application can be started by running: /usr/RaidMan/RaidMan.sh"
encouraged us enough to try but this is what we get.
-----------------------------------------
user@server:~/Desktop/dnld$ sudo /usr/RaidMan/RaidMan.sh
#
# An unexpected error has been detected by HotSpot Virtual Machine:
#
#  SIGSEGV (0xb) at pc=0xb7d3a896, pid=25002, tid=3083380416
#
# Java VM: Java HotSpot(TM) Client VM (1.4.2_12-b03 mixed mode)
# Problematic frame:
# C  [libc.so.6+0x79896]  memcpy+0x46
#
# An error report file with more information is saved as hs_err_pid25002.log
#
# If you would like to submit a bug report, please visit:
#   [http://java.sun.com/webapps/bugreport/crash.jsp](http://java.sun.com/webapps/bugreport/crash.jsp)
#
Aborted

-----------------------------------------
more, following this page
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159987&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159987&page=3)

we tried to fine an equivalent to compat-libstdc++ RPM for ubuntu and then 
ended downloading this:
compat-libstdc++-7.3-2.96.118.i386.rpm 
and dumping its content with alien:
-----------------------------------------
alien -t compat-libstdc++-7.3-2.96.118.i386.rpm
-----------------------------------------
then extracting from the tgz all the libs and moving them to /usr/lib
then immediately tried to run raidman again
-----------------------------------------
user@server:~/Desktop/dnld$ sudo /usr/RaidMan/RaidMan.sh

with the same results :((

do we need to reboot?
was this work completely wrong?

any hints?

Thanks, 

M

---

### Post by snowflake on 2009-10-05
I have the same problem with jaunty. I tried to install serveraid manager 9.0 but the same behavior as you. :(
If I don't install libstdc++5 package, then raidmanager (RaidMan.sh) and the agent (RaidAgent.sh) has started (with some warning), but in the raid manager I couldn't log in (nor root or guest).
I think jaunty uses different libstdc++5 library.

I would appreciate some advice, idea...

---

### Post by m.ardito on 2009-10-05
> **snowflake said:**
> I have the same problem with jaunty. I tried to install serveraid manager 9.0 but the same behavior as you. :(
If I don't install libstdc++5 package, then raidmanager (RaidMan.sh) and the agent (RaidAgent.sh) has started (with some warning), but in the raid manager I couldn't log in (nor root or guest).
I think jaunty uses different libstdc++5 library.

hi, thanks for replying.. no progress, also tried rpm > deb install some compat libraries, with no changes at all. 

> **snowflake said:**
>  I would appreciate some advice, idea...

me too. :)

we're going to move current 9.04 installation on another machine, then install 8.04 on the x232. when we'll have raidman working, we'll move the 9.04 on a vm on 8.04, plus others... unless we find some clue... 
another way could be try fedora or opensuse...

i'll post here any progress or clue :)) bye

---

### Post by m.ardito on 2011-02-10
well, it took a while to get there, and we ended up with 8.04 lts installed on another server a x205, but it worked. Some details here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1670744](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1670744) , along with other stuff

I'll mark this as solved.. Marco

---

### Post by big_blue on 2011-08-04
Hi.

I have a similar problem with my ibm raid controller. I hope someone can help me to get the raid manager working on my ubuntu server. Here are the details:
IBM eserver xSeries 345
Ubuntu 10.04 LTS

The syslog shows:
IBM PCI ServeRAID 7.12.05  Build 761 <ServeRAID 6i>

I try it with the raidman 6 and raidman 9 software, but without success. In the raidman 6 docu i found the ServeRAID 6i in the docu, so i try out this software, but it shows the following in logs:

August 4, 2011 3:15:26 PM GMT+01:00     INF 201:C00K-S--L--     ghlsvr02        No controllers were found in this system.


With raidman 9 i am able to start raidMan GUI, connect to the server. I am also able to see a controller, but the controller is not responding. So i get no informations abou it and the raid.

I hope someone can help me with this issue. It would be very nice if someone knows which version of the raidman software i have to use to get the controller working.

THANKS a lot

---

