---
title: "16.04 caused a loss of NAS drives"
date: 2017-01-31
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mike.lussier on 2017-01-31
I recently removed 15.10 and installed 16.04 to my home media server. I have 5 NAS units that are connected via Esata. This is 20 drives. All the drives are ext4 and shared out on NFS. 
On 15.10 they are worked great no issues. when I moved to 16.04 now 8 of the drives are not accessible and Ubuntu reads them as zfs and doesn't let me see them. afraid to loos what was on them I marked those drives and reverted back to 15.10 and the drives were fine. 
I pulled those NAS units and plugged them into another server and installed 16.10 fresh and it did the same thing. I stated they were unconnected ZFS drives. I shutdown that station and move the drives back to the 15.10 and the came backup as ext4 and I could access the data. 

Zero confidence in 16.XX

Any thoughts ? 

There is something to be said for not upgrading to 16

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2017-01-31
*Thread moved to **Server Platforms** as the more appropriate forum.*

> **mike.lussier said:**
> Zero confidence in 16.XX&#8230;and yet hundreds of thousands have installed it with no problems.
> Any thoughts ?Yes, a few:

[LIST=1]
[*]What are your backup practices? With 20 HDDs surely you must have massive backup throughput/capacity.
[*]If everything is backed up, no need to be so fearful of losing anything.
[*]Are they configured as either HW or SW RAID?
[*]What type of NAS units?
[*]Why are you running on Wiley (15.10) in the first place?
[/LIST]
> There is something to be said for not upgrading to 16
Indeed there is. Many of the sysadmins and gurus on this forum who are responsible for enterprise-level installations will remain on Trusty (14.04) until they are good and ready to go to Xenial. But neither would they do what you did and install a non-LTS version. They do not chase the shiniest bells and whistles. In fact, every superfluous bell and whistle counts against an OS that is dedicated to server use.

Your version is already past end of life. Wiley support ended last August, so the latest bugs and security holes have gone unpatched. You may actually wish to fire up Trusty in that spare server of yours instead of yet another non-LTS and see if that isn't a better fit.

While I am the furthest thing from an enterprise-level sysadmin, I run four separate servers at home, all on Xenial. I also run one ZFS partition and must say that it is a phenomenally useful file system&#8213;but I digress. One small server was recently upgraded from Trusty, but had I not done so, it would have dutifully hummed along just as reliably and uncomplainingly as it has been doing for years&#8213;until Trusty EoL in 2019.

I'm not sure if your post is a request for recommendations, but if it is, then my recommendation is to run your system on Trusty, while experimenting and stress-testing Xenial for your specific needs. You will then have more than two years to work out bugs, formulate upgrade strategies and possibly reconfigure your setup. For one thing, if I were you, I would seriously consider *actually* moving to that ZFS protocol that your system is now only mistakenly detecting it as. A 20-disk setup is ripe for the sort of extra functionality, redundancy and efficiency that ZFS is designed for. And a two year window is ample for you to explore, plan and implement.

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-02-01
+1

I second using only LTS releases and using ZFS for such a large array of disks.

As for 16.04 I help maintain a number of servers with it and haven't seen any major issues.

---

