---
title: "22.04 Server, how to install boot-able raid 10 array?"
date: 2022-09-17
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2022-09-17
I have [4 Intel 128GB SSDs]("https://ark.intel.com/content/www/us/en/ark/products/125018/intel-ssd-545s-series-128gb-2-5in-sata-6gbs-3d2-tlc.html"), i figured i would use raid 10 so i have 240 with redundancy

I am not sure how to put them in to a array and have them bootable, i thought i should use zfs, but that partition type is not a option in the list for some reason

i could make 2 raid 1 arrays and be just as happy as with raid 10 is that easier to do?

Maybe i should use md and use ext4?

When i selected lvm the menu is broken, i can select stuff with the keyboard to add disk, but i cant see anything in the list, see photo, surely that is a reported bug for 22.04.1 right? (yes that is a old dirty dell 4:3 monitor)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-09-17
You'll want to be specific with your storage layout needs, not just make broad strokes for the intentions.  Probably want at least 4 storage volumes on a server, just as a starting point.

When I'm installing a new server, I setup the storage BEFORE getting into the install. It is much easier that way.  Then in the "Something Else" storage part, I just select the existing volumes to be used.

The boot areas are never complex, since Ubuntu doesn't handle those well.  If you want all the menu-driven stuff for storage setup, Ubuntu isn't the best choice.  Also, since most enterprises have moved to virtual machines and containers for their system deployments, the storage setup is more about the "data" storage setup on the host computer. Setting up RAID1, 10, whatever on data drives AFTER the OS is already installed on the hardware is pretty easy and we have all sorts of wild options available.

Some ideas for your consideration.

BTW, RAID1 using LVM is easy to setup, provided the installation was to a single disk with the LVM option checked. Plenty of LVM how-to guides exist.  Since the OS volume should be 40G or less, all that extra storage is for data and can be setup post-install in any method you like, provided you plan ahead.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2022-09-18
bulk storage will be on a separate array that i will setup later, i have never setup a raid array let alone a bootable one, no idea what the partition layout needs to look like, normally i would use gparted and set my drives up, but i have no idea what i should do for a raid array

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-09-18
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> bulk storage will be on a separate array that i will setup later, i have never setup a raid array let alone a bootable one, no idea what the partition layout needs to look like, normally i would use gparted and set my drives up, but i have no idea what i should do for a raid array

Seems you have much to learn first. It isn't just a checkbox at install time. Sorry.
You should decide which file system and/or volume manager you'd like to use, if any. That's first.  Then you'll want to see how that file system works in different modes - RAID modes.
You'll need to decide if you are using legacy BIOS to boot or UEFI.  What does that do to the RAID setup, if anything?  
If you don't have a $300 HW-RAID card, I don't think you can actually boot from RAID devices.  The OS can be RAID'd, but then the initrd will need to have RAID capability built-in.

You seem to have ignored my suggestion to use virtual machines.  This is the best way to learn about stuff like this. Expect to do 5 installs as you try different things out.  With a VM, all the hardware is virtual, so there isn't any real risk. Plus, installing into a VM with smaller virtual disks will be much faster.  If you've never used RAID before, using RAID10 isn't exactly the first step, IMHO.  RAID10 has to be setup from the start, whereas RAID1 can be created later, at least with LVM.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2022-09-18
i guess i could use a VM, but i could just use hardware that is not actively in use... the worst thing i could do i put some unnecessary wear on the SSDs... (and i have 10 of them total)

since booting a raid 10 is not gonna happen, i'll just make a pair of raid 1, i only have 4 sata ports to work with (onboard B450 chipset) and i have a addon card for my hdds

i am setting up the drives on separate hardware then plan to drop them in to replace my temporary single 500gb hdd

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2022-09-21
Wait... What do you mean booting RAID10 is not going to happen? IF you set up a boot partition on one of the drives, you can... and rsync it to one of the other drives... Then partition another partition that size and rsync it for the just in cases...

TheFu is right in that it's not a checkbox... It's some prep-work to do before the install. Less work that when I setup Boot-On-ZFS servers or Boot-On-LUKS encypted drive servers, but there are how to's:
[https://www.howtoforge.com/install-ubuntu-with-software-raid-10](https://www.howtoforge.com/install-ubuntu-with-software-raid-10)

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2022-09-21
I finally got something installed yesterday, i just made 2 raid 1 arrays using ext4 (i do not see any zfs options anywhere, not even in gparted), made it in legacy boot mode (i really do not see why i should care what one i use, and i have my usb setup for legacy not uefi)

is that guide from the ubuntu 8.04 erra? based on the screenshots i'd say it is

---

