---
title: ".htaccess &amp; .htpasswd Files not Working"
date: 2007-06-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ryan9939 on 2007-06-13
Hi everyone, I'm working on putting up an osCommerce store in Ubuntu 7.04, and this is my first time doing it, and I'm having an issue password protecting the admin page. 

The site is located at /var/www/catalog 
The admin page is located at /var/www/catalog/admin

I have put the .htaccess file in the folder /var/www/catalog/admin and the .htaccess file in the same folder (I realize this is a security issue, but I'll change it after I get it working). The issue is, I'm not getting a prompt to enter the admin page. The contents of my .htaccess file are


AuthUserFile /var/www/catalog/admin/.htpasswd
AuthGroupFile /dev/null
AuthName "OS Commerce Administration"
AuthType Basic
require valid-user

I've also tried chmod 644 on both those files (as recommended by some sites), but it's still not giving me a password prompt to enter that page. These 2 files were created locally, and don't have any .txt extention or anything like that either.

I've tried everything and have probably read ever .htaccess / .htpasswd reference site on the internet (a little bit of an exaggeration, but I've spent a good 2 hours trying to figure out why it doesn't work). Any insight would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks

---

### Post by dominator22 on 2007-06-14
Have you installed the appropriate libapache2-mod-auth package?  For plain authentication, install: libapache2-mod-auth-plain

---

### Post by lvanderree on 2007-06-30
I think by default all files under /var/www ignore the .htaccess file, and that's why the .htpasswd file is also ignored.

My solution to solve this is change /etc/apache2/sites-available/default

sudo vi /etc/apache2/sites-available/default
or
sudo nano ....
depending on your preference


You see something like: 
```

        <Directory /var/www/>
                Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
                **AllowOverride None**
                Order allow,deny
                allow from all
                # Uncomment this directive is you want to see apache2's
                # default start page (in /apache2-default) when you go to /
                #RedirectMatch ^/$ /apache2-default/
        </Directory>

```

Change this to:
```

        <Directory /var/www/>
                Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
                **AllowOverride All**
                Order allow,deny
                allow from all
                # Uncomment this directive is you want to see apache2's
                # default start page (in /apache2-default) when you go to /
                #RedirectMatch ^/$ /apache2-default/
        </Directory>

```

and restart apache (sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 force-reload) and you see the .htaccess file is read and you are required to enter a username/password

---

### Post by psi36 on 2007-07-09
Thanks lvanderree!
I had the same issue, and now it's solved!

---

### Post by bprof on 2008-03-25
Thank you lvanderree  lvanderree, you way solved it.

---

