---
title: "Ubuntu 12.10 name resolution not working"
date: 2012-12-06
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by flycast on 2012-12-06
Name resolution in not working on a vmware guest Ubuntu server 12.10. The VMWare is is set for a bridged connection. Ubuntu has firewall disabled. I can ping by IP address but not by name. IF I do a "host google.com" I get > ;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

Ping by IP works
DNS is not working.
Firewalls are disabled.
Hosts file works properly

/etc/network/interfaces:
> # This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo eth0
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
iface eth0 inet static
	address 192.168.xxx.190
	netmask 255.255.255.0
	broadcast 192.168.xxx.255
	network 192.168.xxx.0
	gateway 192.168.xxx.11
	dns-nameservers 24.56.100.20 192.168.69.2 208.67.222.222 208.67.220.220 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4

iface eth0 inet6 static
	pre-up /sbin/modprobe -q ipv6 ; /bin/true
	address fe80::250:56ff:fe25:92fe
	netmask 64
/run/resolvconf/resolv.conf:
> # Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 24.56.100.20
nameserver 192.168.69.2
nameserver 208.67.222.222 (note that it is missing the last three)

This is kicking my butt! I have been searching on and off for a few days now to no avail. Any ideas?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2012-12-06
It appears that you have done everything correct to me. Can you ping the name server IPs from both the hostOS and inside the client VM?  Can you ping the router/gateway?  Use IP addresses.

Perhaps having too many NS entries is causing the issue? Doubtful, but a bug like that is not completely out of possibilities.

---

### Post by flycast on 2012-12-06
Yes, I can ping all the nameservers and the gateway from both computers. I will remove all but three nameservers. I did that at the end but it did not help. It still has the issue without them.

---

### Post by flycast on 2012-12-06
I just installed a spankin fresh virtual machine with Ubuntu 12.10 iso and name resolution works on that machine. I wonder if reinstalling name resolution would fix the issue?

---

### Post by flycast on 2012-12-06
Even more interesting...DNS works when I use DHCP but not with static IP's

---

### Post by TheFu on 2012-12-06
I don't use IPv6. Does removing that section help?

Also, the "network" option isn't listed in the man page for the ipv4 section. I'd comment that out, though hopefully it should be ignored.  Use **man interfaces **to check it yourself.

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-12-09
> **flycast said:**
> (note that it is missing the last three)

The glibc resolver only recognizes three nameserver addresses, so resolvconf truncates the list after the first three. See the "nameserver" stanza in resolv.conf(5).

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-12-09
> **flycast said:**
> I just installed a spankin fresh virtual machine with Ubuntu 12.10 iso and name resolution works on that machine. I wonder if reinstalling name resolution would fix the issue?

What do you mean by "reinstalling name resolution"?

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-12-09
> **flycast said:**
> Even more interesting...DNS works when I use DHCP but not with static IP's

Is it possible that your nameserver only responds to queries from DHCP-leased addresses?

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-12-09
> **TheFu said:**
> Also, the "network" option isn't listed in the man page for the ipv4 section. I'd comment that out, though hopefully it should be ignored.

The "network" option used to exist but has been superfluous for a very long time and references to it have been removed from documentation.

---

