---
title: "10.4 LTS server installation issues"
date: 2010-08-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by MakOwner on 2010-08-09
I have some old hardware (Dell PE350s) that while are quite long in the tooth are still chugging along.  

I want to put 10.4 LTS server on one of them to use as an internal web server.  

I have spent all day trying to get 10.4 installed, to and it fails every single time.  

The failure is always with getting files of the install CD.
Most often it's in the tzdata packages, but it changes when going to 10.4 desktop.

The installation media tests OK; I can install 9.10 (desktop!) on the same hardware with no issue.  

Can anyone toss me a clue as to why 10.4 won't install while 9.10 will??

I'm currently attempting an upgrade from a 9.10 install.

---

### Post by Vegan on 2010-08-09
I think the kernel probably does not like your old box. I am lucky my generic Pentium 3 is liked.

I am putting together a new server, with a modern MB and CPU so I will be able to use updated software for a long time to come.

My advise, find a newer machine.

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-08-09
Hm.  On old hardware, you may want to run 8.04.

With that said, there's no reason that yous shouldn't be able to install 10.04... I don't know why the installer would hang on getting packages off of the disc, unless the disc was bad.  I know you said it tested OK, has the same disc worked on another machine?

Have you tried a net install?  It just uses the disc to boot the installer & setup the system, but all the package download is done from the internet.

Have you tried a different disc or media?  That old hardware may not boot from usb, but maybe boot from PxE... 

You installed 9.10 desktop?  But both 10.04 server & desktop installs fail?  Are you picking 32-bit for everything or...?  The server install defaults to 64-bit I believe.

---

### Post by dbsaville on 2010-08-10
I am new to installing a Linux server, first this is a experiment I have a laptop 64bit. I installed Ubuntu server on it. It is not connected to the internet so I am loading it all from disk. I could not get the DHCP3 to install. Any suggestions? Also I am trying to hook another client to the network and I can ping the server from the client but can not ping the client from the server from within windows. It seems to work fine from a Ubuntu Client but not from windows. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by MakOwner on 2010-08-10
I have tried new several pieces of new media, downloaded a new copy of the ISO to try a new burn of the image, all sorts of stuff.  The media (all of them) have worked fine in other hardware.  

I just tried a 9.10 server install and it fails with "failed to download" and file corrupt messages too.   These servers all have only 1 GB RAM so at this point I'm making an assumption that it's a memory limitation in the installer.

*really* odd that the desktop installer works fine - I upgraded the desktop to 10.4 with no issues, but then horked the installation trying to remove unneeded desktop stuff I dont' want on a server install.

Major disappointment here.   

I'll try the net install and see if it makes a difference.

Edit:  I'm using the i386 server install disks -- that shouldn't have any 64 bit code, right?  At least I see no place to choose...

> **arrrghhh said:**
> Hm.  On old hardware, you may want to run 8.04.

With that said, there's no reason that yous shouldn't be able to install 10.04... I don't know why the installer would hang on getting packages off of the disc, unless the disc was bad.  I know you said it tested OK, has the same disc worked on another machine?

Have you tried a net install?  It just uses the disc to boot the installer & setup the system, but all the package download is done from the internet.

Have you tried a different disc or media?  That old hardware may not boot from usb, but maybe boot from PxE... 

You installed 9.10 desktop?  But both 10.04 server & desktop installs fail?  Are you picking 32-bit for everything or...?  The server install defaults to 64-bit I believe.

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-08-10
> **MakOwner said:**
> I'm using the i386 server install disks -- that shouldn't have any 64 bit code, right?  At least I see no place to choose...

Yes, i386 or x86 is the disc you want.

Again, I would install 8.04 on a server that's old.  It's much more stable/better supported IMHO.

Did you try the net install?

There's also a minimal installer I believe that lets you pick & choose what you want...

Perhaps vanilla Debian would work best on your rig as well.  I actually prefer it for server work...

---

### Post by MakOwner on 2010-08-10
Replying to myself - uggh.

Alternate install CD for 10.4 seems to be working so far - at least it got past the tzdata packages.  it's at about 39% right now.  

It looks like it's installing the desktop - open office, etc.

Is there a server version of the alternate install?

This may help some - way back in the day there were packaged installation options, like LAMP, and that sort of thing.

I did a LAMP install on like version 6 or 8 LTS (been so long I don't remember and it's running on a 600MHZ Celeron, so the 1GHZ PIII should be an upgrade) and loaded a photo gallery application on it for use here at home by two people.  It's getting long in the tooth and it's time has come...

So, that's my end goal...  duplicate that setup with current versions of software on new hardware...

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-08-10
I think the server install is basically the 'alternate' installer.  [MinimalCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD) is the option I was talking about with the net installer.

---

### Post by MakOwner on 2010-08-10
OK, this is getting kind of weird -- the full desktop install from the alternate CD worked fine -- but when I tried the 'command line installation' - which I presume would be more server-like, i.e, no games, office, X windows, etc...  it fails.

I'll try grabbing the image at your link.

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-08-10
Hm.  I still think you should be running 8.04 on that old rig :P

Unless there's some *need* to run 10.04, 8.04 is still fully supported for 3 more years I believe.  (On the server platform, that is.)

---

### Post by MakOwner on 2010-08-10
> **arrrghhh said:**
> Hm.  I still think you should be running 8.04 on that old rig :P

Unless there's some *need* to run 10.04, 8.04 is still fully supported for 3 more years I believe.  (On the server platform, that is.)

Hardy/Intrepid era installations are still supported?  Updates quit working for it a while back.  

And as for running 8.x on it, well, probably so - but it's been so long since I installed it I need a refresher anyway and I'd rather ask for help on something current :popcorn:

So, with minimal CD image I was able to get the server installed with the additional bonus of finding the "LAMP" package group as an option.

So, do I mark the thread solved - as it is for me, but it seems really odd that the desktop installer would work where the server install wouldn't.  I guess the assumption is that no one is crazy enough to run hardware that old anymore ;)

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-08-10
8.04 LTS is supported until April 2013 on the server platform.

Technically, 6.06 is still supported on the server platform (until June 2011).

I don't get why I can't get the official doc on this, but [here's](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases) a wikipedia article on Ubuntu releases - has a very nice list of the releases and their support near the bottom.

---

### Post by MakOwner on 2010-08-11
> **arrrghhh said:**
> 8.04 LTS is supported until April 2013 on the server platform.

Technically, 6.06 is still supported on the server platform (until June 2011).

I don't get why I can't get the official doc on this, but [here's](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases) a wikipedia article on Ubuntu releases - has a very nice list of the releases and their support near the bottom.

Then I should be set - keep the e-Machines 600 MHZ Celeron running with the PowerEdge 350 as a cold standby with a newer OS loaded.  

Now to dig up my notes from the setup, and figure out how to dump and restore the mysql DB.

ooohh... - I use Gallery for the photo thing -- in 10.4 it's in the package repository -- wasn't in there when I did it before, so this may be a little easier this time!

---

