---
title: ".htaccess and WordPress permalinks"
date: 2013-06-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by andperry on 2013-06-20
First of all I need to say that I'm not sure whether this is an Ubuntu issue or a WordPress issue, but I've got to start somewhere so am trying this forum first.

I've just created a new WordPress site (I'm even newer to WordPress than I am to Ubuntu). The site was successfully set up on the live domain (on a remote server with a web hosting company). I've copied it across to my own Ubuntu 12.04 server in order to try and continue development offline. I've copied all the files and the database, and have a script that automatically changes all the URL references in the database records. The home page of the local site loads OK in a web browser.

WordPress has been set up to use permalinks - the .htaccess file was automatically generated on the live site and the permalinks work OK, so I can only presume that the syntax is correct. The .htaccess file was copied along with everything else to the local server, but the permalinks do not work in the local environment. I've checked the file permissions for .htacess and they are set to 664.

Any ideas?

Thanks,

Andrew.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2013-06-20
*Thread moved to **Server Platforms**.*

---

### Post by sandyd on 2013-06-20
> **andperry said:**
> First of all I need to say that I'm not sure whether this is an Ubuntu issue or a WordPress issue, but I've got to start somewhere so am trying this forum first.

I've just created a new WordPress site (I'm even newer to WordPress than I am to Ubuntu). The site was successfully set up on the live domain (on a remote server with a web hosting company). I've copied it across to my own Ubuntu 12.04 server in order to try and continue development offline. I've copied all the files and the database, and have a script that automatically changes all the URL references in the database records. The home page of the local site loads OK in a web browser.

WordPress has been set up to use permalinks - the .htaccess file was automatically generated on the live site and the permalinks work OK, so I can only presume that the syntax is correct. The .htaccess file was copied along with everything else to the local server, but the permalinks do not work in the local environment. I've checked the file permissions for .htacess and they are set to 664.

Any ideas?

Thanks,

Andrew.

rewrite may be disabled on your setup,

Try enabling with
```

sudo a2enmod rewrite
```

---

### Post by mcduck on 2013-06-20
Have you enabled use of .htaccess files in your Apache configuration?

In the site configuration file make sure you have "AllowOverride All" set.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingUseOfApacheHtaccessFiles]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingUseOfApacheHtaccessFiles")

---

### Post by 2Stoned on 2013-06-22
As mentioned, it must be the rewrite module. Check if the correct modules are loaded: ```
sudo apache2ctl -t -D DUMP_MODULES
```

If the rewrite module is not loaded enable it. 

@mcduck
By default it is enabled

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2013-06-22
> **2Stoned said:**
> By default it is enabled

You mean .htaccess?  No, it's not.  Look at the default configuration in /etc/apache2/sites-available/default.

```

       DocumentRoot /var/www
        <Directory />
                Options FollowSymLinks
                AllowOverride None
        </Directory>
        <Directory /var/www/>
                Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
                AllowOverride None
                Order allow,deny
                allow from all
        </Directory>

```

The first <Directory> stanza applies to any directory other than /var/www which is governed by the second stanza.  Neither of these enable .htaccess by default since they include "AllowOverride None".

---

### Post by 2Stoned on 2013-06-23
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> You mean .htaccess?  No, it's not.  Look at the default configuration in /etc/apache2/sites-available/default.

You are right. I tought it was enabled by default :-#

---

### Post by andperry on 2013-06-27
I have implemented the suggestions made in this thread. The other problem I found was that the .htaccess file was in DOS format because I had created it originally in Windows across a SAMBA share. Converted it to Unix format.

Don't know exactly which of the factors contributed, but it's all up and running now.

Many thanks everyone for your help.

Andrew.

---

