---
title: "6.06 LTS or 6.10?"
date: 2007-01-27
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by wesmsl on 2007-01-27
I am trying to decide between the two server editions, 6.06 LTS and 6.10.  I read that 6.06 LTS has 5 years of support.  At the same time 6.10 is a newer version (not always better).  I was wondering what the differences are between them and maybe someone could shoot me in the right direction for which one to use.

Thanks,

---

### Post by pay on 2007-01-27
Edgy (6.10) has more bleeding edge technology, and as a result, it may be less stable. Most then enhancements Edgy has wouldn't really help with a server anyway. Dapper (6.06) has been tested more throughly.

---

### Post by kingmonkey on 2007-01-27
If its a server I would personally go for 6.06 version.

If you need anything thats only included in 6.10 then its dead easy to upgrade

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2007-01-27
I would go for dapper myself despite my realitivly good experience with edgy.

---

### Post by PurplePenguin on 2007-01-27
> **wesmsl said:**
> I am trying to decide between the two server editions, 6.06 LTS and 6.10.  I read that 6.06 LTS has 5 years of support.  At the same time 6.10 is a newer version (not always better).  I was wondering what the differences are between them and maybe someone could shoot me in the right direction for which one to use.

Thanks,

For a server, stick with 6.06.  You'll get added stability and the extra support doesn't hurt, either. :)

It's quite easy to get a server up and running with Ubuntu, too, by the way.

---

### Post by jpeddicord on 2007-01-27
If you are going for a server, definitely use 6.06. Most of the time you won't need bleeding-edge applications that are in the newer releases.

A quick warning if you use VIM: Version 7 is only in 6.10, and not in 6.06. The only difference is that 7 has tab support, not that big of a deal. :)

---

