---
title: "Missing ethernet adapter"
date: 2010-09-03
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by tfireaper on 2010-09-03
Hey guys.  I went to connect to my web server today and noticed that I couldn't connect.  So I went ahead got on the server and did some troubleshooting.

first, i did ifconfig.  it showed that only the loopback interface was even detected.

then, i checked to make sure the entry had not gotten deleted in /etc/network/interfaces. it wasnt.

finally i did lspci and it was detecting my adapter.

I really need to get this server back online ASAP! Please help guys!

---

### Post by kevinthecomputerguy on 2010-09-03
Does this command show you an ethernet card?
 
ifconfig -a
 
If so, has the eth number changed? maybe it is eth2 now?
If so, then change your /etc/interfaces file to call to the new number.
 
I have seen this happen once or twice in my day.

---

### Post by tfireaper on 2010-09-03
That worked.  I just had to change it to eth1.

Why does something like this happen without me doing it?

---

### Post by BkkBonanza on 2010-09-03
The interface name is assigned by the udev rule in /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules. You will see in there it matches the MAC address and sets the interface name. So it should only happen if the card is changed. 

That rule file above is generated by another rules file, /lib/udev/rules.d/75-persistent-net-generator.rules - so if you wanted to dig further as to why then that would be the place to explore. 

That may shed light on the auto-magicness of udev.

---

### Post by tfireaper on 2010-09-05
Thanks man! Moderators can now close this thread!

---

