---
title: "16.04: Point releases now require do-release-upgrade???"
date: 2016-08-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mattlach on 2016-08-28
Wow,

I just went through my updates on some of my 16.04 servers, and they were all prompting me to do a "do-release_upgrade" for the point release of 16.04.1

Why on earth did they do this?   This creates so much more work.   Handling them through regular package updates like in 14.04 was so much easier to manage.

Is this the way its going to be from now on?   This is quite obnoxious.

If I opt to stay on 16.04 an not upgrade to 16.04.1, because it breaks all my dependencies and creates a nightmare, will I still have full length LTS support for security patches, etc?

Thus far, 16.04 has been a massive downgrade for me, from 14.04.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-08-29
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt full-upgrade
```

That's all I've ever used and I'm on 16.04.1 now. Started at the beginning.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-08-29
Now you confused me for a second, but I think one one test 16.04 I had it was enough to run the standard apt-get dist-upgrade to go to 16.04.1. As always. No do-release-upgrade.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-08-29
> **darkod said:**
> Now you confused me for a second, but I think one one test 16.04 I had it was enough to run the standard apt-get dist-upgrade to go to 16.04.1. As always. No do-release-upgrade.

hehe. 16.04 (and from 15.04 I think) can use both. You can use just 'apt' in 16.04 with the two commands I gave being equivalent to
```

sudo apt-get upate
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

Check 'man apt' in a terminal. [This page]("https://www.maketecheasier.com/apt-vs-apt-get-ubuntu/") is a bit over the top but some idea of the differences between the two.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-08-29
Sorry for being unclear. I was referring to the OP. Trying to say he got me confused for a moment whether dist-upgrade really moved my test 16.04 to 16.04.1.

:)

---

### Post by mattlach on 2016-08-29
> **darkod said:**
> Now you confused me for a second, but I think one one test 16.04 I had it was enough to run the standard apt-get dist-upgrade to go to 16.04.1. As always. No do-release-upgrade.

Yep, my bad.

I was way too tired when I posted this last night, and I got things confused.

I was working on a series of boxes I thought I had installed 16.04 on, but it turns out I remembered it wrong.  They were still on 14.04, which is why they were prompting me to do the do-release-upgrade :p


Please disregard this thread in it's entirety. :oops:

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-08-29
Please mark as solved and that will save others some time. Thanks.

---

