---
title: "2.6.17.13 Kernel problems with ubuntu server"
date: 2006-09-11
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by piksi on 2006-09-11
Hello,

I'm building up an ubuntu server which would act as my personal storage and player for video/etc files and also as a fileserver. I have a nebula digitv tuner card and nvidia 7600 gs, and decided to install ubuntu server distro as it will mostly work as a server. I also installed X for mythtv, but noticed that there weren't any nvidia drivers built in in the 2.6.15-26-amd64-k8 kernel i'm using. 

so i followed the official instructions on the forum for 2.6.17 kernel and downloaded the newest 2.6.17.13 stable. I've compiled a couple of kernels for debian in the past so i was surprised of few things:

a) loading the current 2.6.15 kernel config to the new kernel gave about 200 errors for undeclared values

b) the devfs is missing in the new kernel as it was marked obsolete already in 2.6.15. I cannot get the kernel to boot as it first fails on "NO-APIC syncing" and after i boot it with no apic kernel parameter it fails "unknown file system devfs"

So how am i going to get the kernel started if it has changed so drastically? what is there to replace the devfs to make it able to boot?

I guess this problem is only with the kernel configured for the server usage as i haven't seen anybody report such errors on desktop ubuntu...

Thank you for any answers :-)

---

### Post by rastilin on 2006-09-11
Are you really saying you compiled your own kernel? Why?

sudo apt-get install linux-server nvidia-glx

That should run perfectly with acceleration. Unless you know how the entire system hooks together compiling your own kernel's just asking for trouble. 

Nvidia drivers aren't built in anyway. They're not open source so they'll never be included in the kernel. The nv drivers are the best you can hope for and they don't work with the latest cards.

One more thing, Ubuntu's kernels aren't built directly from the kernel.org sources. They have the ubuntu patches added on.

---

### Post by piksi on 2006-09-11
The reason I wanted to build a new kernel was to get rid of some futile services and get a sleeker system. I've done this on debian before and it sure wasn't as hard as it now seems to be with ubuntu.

Far before i even considered compiling a new kernel and compiling nvidia modules for it - i did exactly what many nvidia guides here have said, i've installed all the needed nvidia packages and kernel packages but failed to get x running even on the default config nor nv-driver.

I was about to compile the nvidia module to use beside the new kernel and was just surprised that devfs is now gone, and i have no idea what is there to replace it. Debian and ubuntu count on devfs by default and i'd like to know if it's even possible to compile a system without devfs support (apparently it is because many desktop ubuntu users have compiled with success).

What are the ubuntu patches like? do they affect a lot on the behaviour of the system? I'm a bit surprised because i'm used in just wgetting the newest kernel and compiling it without any patches...

Thank you anyway for answers!

---

### Post by bernied on 2006-09-11
I've compiled and used my own kernel with kubuntu 6.06. My reason was because I couldn't get a Bluetooth mouse to work properly (it would need tweaking everytime windows got started) until I did.

I didn't use the existing config because it comes with every possible driver, so you end up with hundreds of modules. Just work through the config (menuconfig, xconfig, etc) quietly and patiently. You can make a perfectly servicable (dare I say better) kernel.

Some things I do to make life easier - 
- compile hardware drivers into the kernel, not as modules, then you don't have to worry about getting them loaded. 
- if you want to know what drivers the standard ubuntu kernel is using, lsmod will tell you. You can then search for these in menuconfig to find out what they're for.
- initrd is a pain in the ... You don't need an initrd if everything you need is compiled in.

devfs has been replaced by udev - I think. I don't know (or understand) the details, but I'm sure google will enlighten you.

---

### Post by rastilin on 2006-09-11
I remember reading that Debian has a policy of not patching their kernel with custom patches, to make it less prone to problems.

"The reason I wanted to build a new kernel was to get rid of some futile services and get a sleeker system. I've done this on debian before and it sure wasn't as hard as it now seems to be with ubuntu."

Two words, use Gentoo. The entire reason for using Ubuntu is to have everything pre-configured right? Either way, recompiling the kernel is unlikely to help performance, most of the stuff is loaded as needed, the stuff that isn't is probably system critical. In either case, you won't save more than a few hundred KB of memory usage and no noticeable speed improvement.

"Far before i even considered compiling a new kernel and compiling nvidia modules for it - i did exactly what many nvidia guides here have said, i've installed all the needed nvidia packages and kernel packages but failed to get x running even on the default config nor nv-driver."

As I said. The nv driver doesn't work on the newer cards. I have a 6800gt and I couldn't get a desktop on the livecd until I specified "vesa" in xorg.conf. You'll need to manually specify "nvidia" in the drivers section of xorg.conf. Look for the section that says "nv".

"I was about to compile the nvidia module to use beside the new kernel and was just surprised that devfs is now gone, and i have no idea what is there to replace it. Debian and ubuntu count on devfs by default and i'd like to know if it's even possible to compile a system without devfs support (apparently it is because many desktop ubuntu users have compiled with success)."

I thought devfs was stripped out of the kernel ages ago. If it's the same dev filesystem I'm thinking of, they've meant to remove it for ages but it was too embedded. I believe udev is the new hotness. This is irrelevant because the default configuration is plenty fast.

"What are the ubuntu patches like? do they affect a lot on the behaviour of the system? I'm a bit surprised because i'm used in just wgetting the newest kernel and compiling it without any patches..."

I have no clue. I switched away from gentoo for precisely this reason. I spent too much time troubleshooting obscure problems. The entire reason we have distributions is because stuff is pre-configured for us. So, my advice is simple "stop touching stuff".

sudo apt-get install linux-686-smp nvidia-glx

Just install that, it's what I'm running and it'll work fine. It's obscenely fast as it is. The default kernel's fully pre-emptible, runs at 250Hz, preconfigured with the best options for all areas. It's much easier this way, trust me.

---

### Post by bernied on 2006-09-11
And sorry I can't help with nvidia - I believe it's one of those non-open-source binary drivers that don't play nicely with the linux kernel and really make you hate the corporations.

And one more thing - are you compiling a 64-bit kernel? If yes, then this a whole new kettle of fish - I believe. Not being wealthy enough myself to have such modern equipment, again I can't help you. But I believe that your whole system needs to be 64 bit. Did you start with 64-bit ubuntu-server? Is there such a thing?

---

### Post by bernied on 2006-09-11
I kind-of agree with rastilin. I also have a gentoo system, that is my hobby file- and web-server. It is my toy for learning about linux. With ubuntu I _use_ linux and get to ooh and aah over the lovely desktop. 

You won't do any damage by trying your own kernel, the old one will probably still be installed, right? Just watch out for the automagic stuff in grub if ever you accept a kernel upgrade. Put your new kernel outside the automagic area.

---

### Post by syh on 2006-09-12
Just fixed the problem myself!!

I noticed that when it was installing nvidia-glx, some of the code spewed out had something like 2.6.17.11 stuck in the middle of it. Sure enough, the nvidia drivers available from that package haven't been updated with the newest from nvidia's site. 

On the page [http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_1.0-8774.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_1.0-8774.html) (that's for 32 bit drivers), click the Download - NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-8774-pkg1.run link ([http://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-8774/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-8774-pkg1.run](http://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-8774/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-8774-pkg1.run))

and just follow the directions. (type  sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-1.0-8774-pkg1.run)

It opens a utility that asks a handful of questions, most of which I didn't know the answer for. I took the path of least resistance for all of them (whatever decision would let them ignore errors, leave config files alone, and just install the damn drivers), and when I rebooted, it went straight into X as expected.


Here's some info about my setup that might be pertinent (warning: i'm still a bit of a newbie with this stuff)
I am using the kernel.org 2.6.17.13 kernel with the patch to fix second hard drives, ntfs, and xfs. Since my box is in the closet on the top shelf and outputs to the TV in the living room, I use putty to SSH to it from my other box. I booted into 2.6.17.13, got the X failure blue screen, and my Xorg.0 showed errors loading the nvidia driver. Best of luck to you, and wish me luck getting LIRC to work correctly /sigh.

---

### Post by piksi on 2006-09-15
Hello!

I gave up importing the old config and managed to compile a bootable 2.6.17.13 without initrd (which i've always found quite futile), and the strangest thing is that the difference on speed it boots is quite awesome. I haven't seen this kind of jump on any other kernel i've compiled on e.g. debian systems.

I did get nvidia to work on x on the normal ubuntu kernel with just installing the packages you mentioned, but now after update - not even reinstalling the packages and running the nvidia-glx-whatever enable works - because the nvidia driver just isn't there. 

At first i tried installing the nvidia kernel source package and compiling it with the kernel (kpkg blah blah module_image) but the compiling always failed (perhaps it's because its' meant for 2.6.15 kernels?) so now i'm without nvidia/nv kernel module.

I don't like installing the official nvidia driver because i don't like it putting random stuff everywhere around /usr /etc ... can i make-kpkg somehow out of the official nvidia driver so that i could just dpkg -r it if something goes wrong after installing?

Thank you very much on earlier responses :-)

---

### Post by rastilin on 2006-09-15
The thing about installing the nvidia binary of the nvidia website is that it overwrites some stuff. So when you install the nvidia package at a later date, it will have problems with different driver versions.

Yes you probably could make such a version, but why? As I understand it the nvidia driver basically has three stages.

linux-686-smp (the kernel)
linux-restricted-modules (the driver-kernel interface)
nvidia-glx (the driver)

So maybe it would help if you reinstalled the linux-restricted package for your kernel.

---

### Post by syh on 2006-09-16
> **piksi said:**
> Hello!

I gave up importing the old config and managed to compile a bootable 2.6.17.13 without initrd (which i've always found quite futile), and the strangest thing is that the difference on speed it boots is quite awesome. I haven't seen this kind of jump on any other kernel i've compiled on e.g. debian systems.

I did get nvidia to work on x on the normal ubuntu kernel with just installing the packages you mentioned, but now after update - not even reinstalling the packages and running the nvidia-glx-whatever enable works - because the nvidia driver just isn't there. 

At first i tried installing the nvidia kernel source package and compiling it with the kernel (kpkg blah blah module_image) but the compiling always failed (perhaps it's because its' meant for 2.6.15 kernels?) so now i'm without nvidia/nv kernel module.

I don't like installing the official nvidia driver because i don't like it putting random stuff everywhere around /usr /etc ... can i make-kpkg somehow out of the official nvidia driver so that i could just dpkg -r it if something goes wrong after installing?

Thank you very much on earlier responses :-)

Honestly, I'm still much of a novice. I can tell you this much though: the kernel source package still has an old version that doesn't work with 2.6.17.13, so the package from the website is needed if you want to use this kernel. For me, it was SO easy, it wasn't even funny. As I remember, I downloaded the file to /usr/src and ran the setup script (as it says on the website). I think that the way it's set up is that it'll only install into the latest kernel file (or the kernel that you're currently running. check (uname -a) ). Worst comes to worst, you'll have to copy your config file, boot from on old kernel, delete the directory and rebuild it, but that doesn't take long at all.

Wow, tons of rambling. Summary: I don't know. 

Have you had any other problems with the new kernel? I've been having major issues with my third hard drive (which is xfs) and with my sql server, and the mythtv gui won't come up. In short, I went from a fully functional mythtv system with a non-functioning remote control to a totally broken mythtv box with a semi working remote control. Any ideas? Sorry for the threadjacking!

---

### Post by donbcivil on 2006-09-25
> **bernied said:**
> I kind-of agree with rastilin. I also have a gentoo system, that is my hobby file- and web-server. It is my toy for learning about linux. With ubuntu I _use_ linux and get to ooh and aah over the lovely desktop. 

Personally, I don't want to have all my machines be like
gentoo where I have to spend LARGE amounts of time under
the hood.  But I don't want it hermetically sealed either.

I'm still evaluating ubuntu to see whether it has the
right balance.

---

### Post by piksi on 2006-10-02
Well, it's time to have an update on the situation:

- I found out that the IO-apic problem had nothing to do with my config, it's just that the new nforce AM2 motherboards are not supported well with the new kernels. So, running with NOAPIC solved the situation quite well.

- I updated to 2.6.18 and having a significant boost in both speed and not having to worry about ppp/pcmcia and all other futile stuff popping out everywhere (as i don't have those). I like to keep my system tidy :-)

I never had any other probs with the kernel compiling, and my main reason for starting the thread was to wonder the bugs that occurred during boot. I never had any actual problems with doing the menuconfig, as i said i've done it quite a lot of times in debian during the years :-)

Oh, and i gave up initrd as it seemed more logical to have all needed stuff compiled in the kernel (except for dvb, sensors and that sort of stuff).

Now i've compiled support for nebula digitv card and i'm just wondering why it seems so daunting to get mythtv to work... mythtv backend keeps the device busy so that mythtv-setup fails stating "resource busy" :-D

---

### Post by piksi on 2006-10-03
Now i've ran to this following interesting problem after changing 2.6.17.13 to 2.6.18:

when i boot, i get this message:

> 
fsck.ext3: no such file or directory while trying to open /dev/sdc1
The superblock could not be read or does not describe a correct ext2 filesystem.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2 filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with an alternate superblock:
    e2fsck -b 8193 <device>


Whereas many people have this kind of message when having a bad superblock - my kernel tries to mount ext3 as ext2...

I have no idea why this happens as i've compiled 2.6.18 with the old 2.6.17.13 config file (with of course checking that everything seems ok), and when i boot back to the 2.6.17.13 i don't get any mount problems. the system seems to be stable with 2.6.18 though...

Does anyone have a clue of why this happens?

---

