---
title: "6.06 not installing on HP ML350 G5, should I install 7.04 Server?"
date: 2007-05-29
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by obimeister on 2007-05-29
I have a project to make a mail&www server which should run probably next 5-10 years. Hardware is already bought: HP Proliant ML350 G5 with sas harddrives (those 2.5" small sata-things), I chose Proliant because HP seems to have decent driver support. What I'm planning to install is postfix, dovecot, apache, php, sql, horde and probably webmin. 

Tried to install 6.06 LTS but installation hangs. Then I tried 7.04 desktop cd and it seemed to find all hardware no prob. I think the problem is in 6.06 kernel version and too old smart array driver which doesn't support this smart array version (e200i I think). I could install 7.04 server, but Im worried about what will happen after 2008, can I upgrade to new version without too much fuss or am I left alone?

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by obimeister on 2007-05-30
Ok there was no problem with drivers, installation program just freezed for some reason. killall udpkg and skipping keyboard selection I managed to install Ubuntu 6.06. Installation didn't find Broadcom ethernet card but after first boot and editing interfaces file it was found. Wery nice.

---

### Post by rjholtz on 2007-06-11
can you tell me what you did to make the ethernet interface work?  I am in the same situation now and would appreciate the pointers.  This is my first time using ubuntu, but I have used redhat and fedora for about 4 years, just not sure about this /etc/network/interfaces file.
Thanks!

---

