---
title: "Bind9 and Name-based Apache config, subdomains"
date: 2006-12-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by thejerz on 2006-12-08
Hi everyone,

I read this forum a lot - it has helped me slowly conquer Linux.  However, this is my first post!  I'm not a Linux expert, but I've seen various people saying, "unless you are a DNS expert, you CAN'T use bind."  If you're going to write back with a similar comment, please save your time.  Thanks in advance for any help you can offer.

I have recently placed a server for my start-up business in a colocation facility.  I have 2 IP addresses.  I am trying to set up the server to run multiple websites on one instance of Apache (2) with 1 IP.

I understand the process to be:
1) Install Bind9 and Apache.
2) Configure Bind to use my IP address, and designate the name-servers.
3) Set up apache with multiple <VirtualHost *>'s, using the ServerName and DocumentRoot to specify each site.
4) Start Bind and Apache2.
5) Rock out, drink beer.

I did this, and it worked partially (no. 5 went without a hitch).  I have 1 website working, but I cannot get different domains or sub-domains on the existing working domain to work.  So I'm going to post my Apache and Bind9 files.  I have replaced my domain with example.com and my ip with 123.45.67.89.  The nameservers I provided to my GoDaddy (purchased the domain from them) are ns1.example.com and ns2.example.com - and, again, my "example.com" does work.  Getting multiple domains and adding sub-domains seem like two different problems, but I think there is a problem in my config for bind or apache2 that is limiting me.  Also, since I started using Bind, my apt-get stopped working - an example "Failed to fetch [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/dapper/universe/source/Sources.gz](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/dapper/universe/source/Sources.gz)  Could not resolve 'archive.ubuntu.com'".  I believe adding virutalhosts, configing bind, and this apt-get problem are related.

Can anyone help?  If you need any other files, please just ask.  Or any other questions... please ask.

THANKS!!!

-thejerz

from /var/named/ on the server:
=======================
example.com.zone:
$TTL 600
@       IN      SOA     ns1.example.com.  admin.example.com. (
                        2003091101 ; serial
                        28800 ; refresh
                        7200 ; retry
                        604800 ; expire
                        86400 ; ttl
                        )
; Nameservers
        IN      NS      ns1.example.com.
        IN      NS      ns2.example.com.
; temp mailserver until we install one
       IN      MX  5   mail.example.com.

;nameserver records
ns1     IN      A       65.57.104.50
ns2     IN      A       65.57.104.50


; Webserver
www     IN      A       65.57.104.50
 www     IN      CNAME     example.com

*.example.com.  *     IN        A       65.57.104.50

; for mail.example.com and ftp.example.com
mail    IN      A       65.57.104.50
ftp     IN      A       65.57.104.50
=======================
named.conf:
// generated by named-bootconf.pl

options {
        directory "/var/named";
        recursion no;
};

zone  "0.0.127.in-addr.arpa" {
        type master;
        file  "0.0.127.in-addr.arpa.zone";
};

zone  "1.1.10.in-addr.arpa" {
        type master;
        file  "1.1.10.in-addr.arpa.zone";
};

zone  "67.45.123.in-addr.arpa" {
        type master;
        file  "67.45.123.in-addr.arpa.zone";
};

zone  "localhost" {
        type master;
        file  "localhost.zone";
};

zone  "example.com" {
        type master;
        file  "example.com.zone";
};

// do i need to put this here?
zone "theotherdomainiwanttowork.com" {
        type master;
        file "theotherdomainiwanttowork.com.zone";
};


from /etc/apache2/sites-enabled on the server:
=======================
000-default:
NameVirtualHost *:*

<VirtualHost *:*>
        DocumentRoot /var/wwwexample/
        ServerName [www.example.com](www.example.com)
        ServerAlias example.com
</VirtualHost>

<VirtualHost *:*>
        DocumentRoot /var/wwwthatotherdomain/
        ServerName [www.otherdomainlongname.com](www.otherdomainlongname.com)
        ServerAlias otherdomainlongname.com
</VirtualHost>

---

### Post by brt on 2006-12-08
first, you will have to fix your resolv-problem, (so you can apt-get again). you may need to tell bind the nameservers of your provider, so it can resolve foreign names to ipadresses.

check your /etc/resolv.conf it should look something like this:
nameserver 127.0.0.1
nameserver 123.123.123.123 (1st nameserver of your isp)
nameserver 234.234.234.234 (2nd nameserver of your isp)

you can also setup the ipadresses of your isp within your bind configuration using:

forwarders { 123.123.123.123; };

to check if your dns server returns ipaddresses for your domains use:
dig @10.0.0.17 theotherdomainiwanttowork.com
where  10.0.0.17 is the ipadress or name of your own dns server.

only if you get the correct ipadress for your domain you can be sure that the request reaches the apache at all, so you should fix your dns problems first.

i do not use wildcards in my apache config, but my apache configs look quite similar, so it may be correct, but it won't do any harm if you just use ipaddress:80 instead of *:* .

---

