---
title: "tls init def ctx failed 207"
date: 2009-03-01
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by john_es on 2009-03-01
I am following the guide at:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/serverguide/C/openldap-server.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/serverguide/C/openldap-server.html)

I get to the part:

 Finally, restart slapd:
sudo /etc/init.d/slapd restart

But I get an error when trying to start the service:

tls init def ctx failed 207


From what I can tell on the web, it may be a perms issue.

Can anyone shed some light on what the perms should be for the various folders/certs, from following the guide?

I need a second set of eyes on this.

Thanks...

---

### Post by PeteInGB on 2009-03-08
I spent a lot of time on this as well after following the Ubuntu guide.  After some research, it appeared that something was wrong with my certificates (also created while following the guide), so I recreated them.  The first time I created them I had simply accepted the defaults for country, state, company name, etc.  I didn't realize that during the final step, when signing my certificate, I had received a message that the commonName was missing or invalid.  I then decided to recreate the certificates, this time providing a common name in addition to country, state, organization, etc.  Once I did, the signing was successful and restarting slapd went without a hitch.

Hopefully this gets you going again!


Pete

---

### Post by yuefei on 2009-07-22
thanks Pete
i've met the same pb
and i'll try your solution

fei

---

### Post by tburkhol on 2009-12-14
I had a great deal of trouble getting openldap to accept certs signed by my own CA, as described by the Ubuntu guide. Eventually, it became clear that the problem was with gnutls rejecting either the server.key or signed-server.crt.  I used gnutls' certtool to generate the key, CSR, and have the CA sign, and it worked first time.  There really needs to be a warning on the openldap/SSL documentation page that gnutls and openssl don't interact seamlessly.

certtools commands:

```
certtool --generate-privkey --outfile server.key
certtool --generate-request --load-privkey server.key --outfile server.csr
certtool --generate-certificate --load-ca-certificate ca.crt --load-ca-privkey ca.key.insecure --load-request server.csr --outfile signed-server.crt

```In my case, ca.crt and ca.key were generated by the openssl method, and ca.key.insecure came from:

```
openssl rsa -in ca.key -out ca.key.insecure
```

---

### Post by althara on 2011-02-16
Since I just ran into this issue I thought I'd update the thread with a couple insights.

If the error message is "main: TLS init def ctx failed: -1" then you have a file permission or encryption issue. Group on the ssl crt and key files should be the same as slapd group in /etc/default/slapd. The cert should be chmod 644, and the key should be chmod 640.

Second, there does seem to be some incompatibility with openssl generated certificates vs those generated with gnutls. My original certificates and keys were generated with xCA which uses openssl.

I was able to resolve the error "main: TLS init def ctx failed: -207" by generating a new server key, cert request, and signed cert with certtool using my existing ca certificate and key. 

To get everything working right I had to modify my exported ca key to be compatible with certtool by running: certtool -k < old.key > new.key. The error I received from gnutls before fixing my key was: 

certtool: importing --load-ca-privkey: old.key: Base64 unexpected header

Aside from converting my ca key, following the steps outlined by tburkhol above got me a cert and key that openldap is happy with.


ETA: Given my problem with the ca cert key, I had a hunch that the true problem was gnutls being unable to use the key generated by openssl to read the cert generated by openssl. I've verified this is what was causing the problem that was generating the -207 error. Fix: convert your openssl key using the gnutls tool (run: certtool -k < openssl_generated-server.key > server.key); place that file in your slapd.conf. Then openldap has zero problems reading the certificate generated by openssl. This seems like a particularly bad bug, so I'll be figuring out where to file it shortly.

---

### Post by kennethconn on 2012-05-10
> **tburkhol said:**
> ... 
certtools commands:
 
```
certtool --generate-privkey --outfile server.key
certtool --generate-request --load-privkey server.key --outfile server.csr
certtool --generate-certificate --load-ca-certificate ca.crt --load-ca-privkey ca.key.insecure --load-request server.csr --outfile signed-server.crt

```In my case, ca.crt and ca.key were generated by the openssl method, and ca.key.insecure came from:
 
```
openssl rsa -in ca.key -out ca.key.insecure
```
 
Hi, I am running into problems at this stage also, and I came across this thread.
 
I cannot get openssl to use settings from my ldap.info template/config file such as tls_ww_server, so I am trying to use certtool.
 
Is using ca.key.insecure (without a password) not a security issue?
 
Thanks.

---

### Post by demhyt on 2012-05-11
I face the problem when i'm using ubuntu 11.10 server. I can't solve that problem, i create new certificate with openssl but it is still can't solve my problem. And i using geotrust free ssl certificate and that's work.

---

