---
title: "14.04 Server Install - TMI"
date: 2015-07-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Allen_Papapetrou on 2015-07-08
Over the weekend I installed 14.04.2 Server on an Acer V3 772G where I replaced the internal 1TB HDD with an HGST 1TB 7200rpm HDD.

My goal was to install and test Server for node.js on a home computer before using a host provider.

This machine is connected to a Motorola Surfboard cable modem Ethernet/WiFi router.

Whereas 14.10 and 15.04 desktop installed cleanly on the same HW using ethernet, Server used WiFi. Apparently, the install could not find my Ethernet connection.

After the install of 14.04.2 server no lan or wan connections existed, unlike the desktop installs.

After repeated searches for solutions I have given up. Today, there is TMI because of all the options, partial info, and outdated info available.

I installed Linux and used it from the mid 1990s until 2003, including servers and a home GW machine for internet access and samba for sharing files between, windows nt, apple, and linux. Apparently, my experience is way outdated and probably interferes with working in today's environment.

So, I'm going with the much more mature LAMP environment, and, at age 68, waiting for the server environment to mature.

Aloha.. Allen

---

### Post by ranger12 on 2015-07-08
Hi Allen, maybe I misunderstood your post but did you state the server is on wifi? I am not sure if I can help since my network is using 12.04.5 on both the server and the 1 workstation I have but my server is hard-wired into my router with ethernet and not wifi. It may not make any difference though.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-07-09
It would help if you let us know the details of your networking hardware. Run the following command and paste the output in your next post:

```
sudo lshw -C network
```

---

### Post by Allen_Papapetrou on 2015-07-09
Hi ranger12 and cariboo,

**To ranger12: **
I stated my HW connections were the same for Desktop and Server installs. Both installs had the same ethernet and wifi connections.

**To cariboo:**
Thanks for the lshw suggestion. However, I've already reformatted the drive and installed 15.04 Desktop. Like I said, I'm not going back to Server until it's more mature.

**Maturity:**
More mature to me, means well defined scenarios with the install tree well laid out. For example, I should have ethernet available during and after the install by default for my install scenario. I should be able to install on a USB HDD, like I can with Desktop.

Thanks for the offer cariboo. I'm sure I'll come back to server again if I live long enough to see it mature.

BTW, I've got plenty of OS Systems internals from updating the VM OS with local mods on an IBM mainframe back in the 1980s for NERDC at the U. of Florida. Yet, all that practical experience is out-of-date and on another platform. Whereas, the conceptual experience will never be out-dated.

Thanks again...
Aloha.. Allen

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-07-10
Ubuntu Server is mature enough to be quite popular ...

My website runs on 14.04 Server running a LEMP server.  Plenty of people use LAMP.  I'd say it's not a matter of "being mature", but one of setup.  Unfortunately, we can't help with the problem if you've already reinstalled 15.04 -- which is not an LTS release and only has 9 months of support.

---

### Post by Allen_Papapetrou on 2015-07-10
> **QIII said:**
> Ubuntu Server is mature enough to be quite popular ...

Allen:
Maturity is much a matter of personal experience and opinion. So, How long have you used Server? What release did you start with?
> **QIII said:**
> 
My website runs on 14.04 Server running a LEMP server.  Plenty of people use LAMP.  I'd say it's not a matter of "being mature", but one of setup.  Unfortunately, we can't help with the problem if you've already reinstalled 15.04 -- which is not an LTS release and only has 9 months of support.
Allen:
Thanks QIII for adding to my knowledge base with LEMP. I was unaware of it before your post.

The only reason I'm on 15.04 Desktop is my project partner who upgraded from 14.10. I wanted to be in the same environment as him, otherwise I would have gone with 14.04 Desktop. Unfortunately, he is not a Systems or HW guy. Just an advanced applications programmer. His wife handles the Systems and HW issues.

Switching back to 14.04 Server is just a matter of wiping the HDD and reinstalling Server.  Before I install server Ubuntu must resolve these issues...

**Issues:**
Using the same HW configuration
1. How come Desktop recognises Ethernet for the install and Server does not?
2. How come Desktop recognises and installs on a USB SSD and Server does not?

Aloha.. Allen

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-07-10
I've used Ubuntu Server since Dapper (June, 2006) or  maybe Hardy (April, 2008).  I stick with LTS versions for servers because of the 5 year support.  LEMP I just started using recently.  I don't know if it better or worse than LAMP, and I won't get into a territory marking contest about the advantages/disadvantages of Apache vs Nginx.  Everything is a trade-off.  But I'm having fun with Nginx's event-driven nature over threading, its low memory use and its asynchronous processing.  I also use it on my home server and on my Raspberry Pi.

Let's answer one question at a time and start with the issue of functionality after installation:  Ethernet.  I'm changing the title of your thread because when you say "Ethernet Problems" or the like, some really good folks with a lot of knowledge are drawn like flies.  :)

I'd recommend starting a new thread in "Installation and Upgrades" for the issue with the USB installation.  It is best to keep each thread to one subject to avoid confusion.

To help everyone help you sort out the problem, would you please let us know the make and model of your ethernet adapter?  You give the model of your machine -- but as we all know, specifications can change during production.

Solving connectivity issues is not my forte, so I'll leave you to those who are better equipped to help. 

Best wishes!

---

### Post by Allen_Papapetrou on 2015-07-10
I've requested QIII close and rename this topic back to 14.04 Server Install - TMI.

I'm going to open new topics as per QIII's advice.

Mahalo.. Allen

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-07-10
Closed per user request

---

