---
title: "10.04 backup locally and remotely"
date: 2010-10-23
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by sitush on 2010-10-23
Hi

I have a 10.04 server running Samba with VPN and SSH, data stored to a dedicated 2Tb internal drive and with approx 10 Windows clients (XP/Vista and 7) using the Samba shares.

I have been asked to set up a second 2Tb disk using a caddy for backup purposes and with the requirement that:

1. periodically, the backup disk is inserted into the server and a full backup of the data disk is performed;

2. daily, the backup disk resides on a machine connected to an external network and incremental backups are performed on the major backup produced by [1] via SFTP or any other viable mechanism.

The reason for the approach is because of the sheer volume of data and the time + bandwidth involved in backing up solely to the external system. With a max upload speed of just 1Mbps, running the entire thing offsite would take forever, especially as there are major changes to the data from time to time.

Doing [1] or [2] is no particular big deal, but I'm out of my depth when it comes to combining them. Can it even be done without totally confusing the backup record-keeping. I do not seem to be able to find a similar scenario in my search of umpteen different manuals & websites.

If anyone offer me any guidance then I would be very grateful.

---

### Post by sitush on 2010-10-28
Anyone? Sorry for bumping but I asked this of a weekend and that perhaps was not the ideal thing to do.

Thanks.

---

### Post by hawk2010 on 2010-10-28
You can do this by using Duplicity . It supports encrypted incremental/full backup actions. You can use scp, ftp and other transfer mechanisms to transfer files using duplicity. sudo apt-get install duplicity

---

### Post by Vegan on 2010-10-28
If you can spare a machine then you can use it as a backup file server.

Using FTP makes a script based backup feasible.

I use a script to backup my database as well as my web sites. Then I copy them to another machine.

My other machine is Windows 7 based so I make a scheduled task to copy the backups from the SAMBA shared backup folder to a secondary hard disk.

If the folder on the Linux box rises up to a DVD worth, I burn a disk so I can have an archival copy.

My server is backed up every day, with a 90 day rotation as that should be enough backups to protect against problems.

So given a second machine running Linux I would select vsftp and create user accounts on the backup machine for the job.

Then in the script I tar/dump what I want to backup and then I gzip it to reduce storage costs. Then I create recovery files to protect the files when copied.

So with a second linux box, I would open an FTP session and then upload the backup files and then I have 2 copies. You can use several servers for extra redundancy.

---

### Post by sitush on 2010-10-29
Thanks for those suggestions.

I'll take a look at Duplicity but I'm not too sure about Vegan's suggestion - I understand that I could make a local backup and then copy it to a remote machine but what I've actually been tasked to do is use the *same* drive for both the local and the remote backup (it will be connected to the fileserver periodically for a full backup and then connected to the remote server for the rest of the time in order to do incrementals), so there is nothing to make the initial backup on. If that makes sense: I have the feeling that I may not be explaining this very well.

---

### Post by hawk2010 on 2010-10-29
To add to my suggestion I personally use SCP to do the backing up using duplicity. This way I know that Confidentiality and integrity is maintained throughout the transfer session. Just a tip. I use SSH key based authentication so it can be automated with a bash script.

---

### Post by sitush on 2010-10-30
@hawk2010

Thanks for the tip - I've never really delved into bashing SSH/SCP so will have to do some reading up.

I've just SSH'd into the server, set up some simple scripts based on [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DuplicityBackupHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DuplicityBackupHowto) and run them against some test files. All seems ok.

I presume that because there is a manifest included in the backup set this is what enables me to physically move the disk from the server to the remote machine & do incrementals (have to adjust the scripts, obviously!)

Slightly concerned about Duplicity being beta also, but if it works for me then that's all that matters I guess.

---

### Post by sitush on 2010-10-31
Hm, I've hit a problem with scp now.

The removable drive is mounted on the remote server as /media/mrsebackup & I can ls it via SSH but when I try:

duplicity /media/mrse scp://user@domain/media/mrsebackup

it returns:

Remote file or directory does not exist in command='mkdir "media/mrsebackup"'

It works if I backup to the remote user's home directory, but that is no use to me.

Is this a remote mount issue?

EDIT: found the solution to this at [http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/209](http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/209)
The path is relative to the user's home directory, eg:

duplicity /media/mrse scp://user@domain/../../media/mrsebackup

---

### Post by sitush on 2010-11-17
Hm, something has gone wrong here just as I thought I'd got everything running ok.

When I try a backup to another machine on the local network:

sudo duplicity /media/mrsedata scp://192.168.1.98/../../media/mrsebackup

I am asked for my GnuPG passphrase but when I enter it I immediately receive an "Invalid SSH password" error and the thing bombs. This is despite being able to SSH into the remote machine with the exact same password.

There seem to be quite a few posts about this error out there but I can't spot a solution. Any ideas, anyone?

---

### Post by trundlenut on 2010-11-17
can you access the same folder on the remote machine via?

Also, what's the chance of the drive be damaged whilst be carried back and forth between the two sites and what are the connection like on the drive, how will they survive being plugged and unplugged alot?

---

### Post by sitush on 2010-11-17
Yes, I can access the folder remotely via SSH.

I not worried about damage to the drive, although I accept that it may be an issue for some. There will not be many insertions, drives are cheap and there will be rotations of full backups on to different ones.

[edit]

I can also scp as normal - eg: scp source.txt username@192.168.1.98:/targetdestination - and the prompt for the SSH password is handled ok.

Looks like the problem is somewhere inside Duplicity.

---

### Post by sitush on 2010-11-17
Here's a full listing of the output, verbosity set to 9.

duplicity -v9 /media/mrsedata scp://it_europe@192.168.1.98/../../media/mrsebackup
Using archive dir: /root/.cache/duplicity/5b55344b42b6c3af2e98a9e3ac965cd5
Using backup name: 5b55344b42b6c3af2e98a9e3ac965cd5
Import of duplicity.backends.localbackend Succeeded
Import of duplicity.backends.rsyncbackend Succeeded
Import of duplicity.backends.ftpbackend Succeeded
Import of duplicity.backends.cloudfilesbackend Succeeded
Import of duplicity.backends.giobackend Succeeded
Import of duplicity.backends.botobackend Succeeded
Import of duplicity.backends.imapbackend Succeeded
Import of duplicity.backends.webdavbackend Succeeded
Import of duplicity.backends.hsibackend Succeeded
Import of duplicity.backends.tahoebackend Succeeded
Import of duplicity.backends.sshbackend Succeeded
Main action: inc
PASSPHRASE variable not set, asking user.
GnuPG passphrase: 
================================================================================
duplicity 0.6.08b (March 11, 2010)
Args: /usr/bin/duplicity -v9 /media/mrsedata scp://it_europe@192.168.1.98/../../media/mrsebackup
Linux mrse-srvr1 2.6.32-25-generic-pae #45-Ubuntu SMP Sat Oct 16 21:01:33 UTC 2010 i686 
/usr/bin/python 2.6.5 (r265:79063, Apr 16 2010, 13:09:56) 
[GCC 4.4.3]
================================================================================
Using temporary directory /tmp/duplicity-bN7E9S-tempdir
Registering (mkstemp) temporary file /tmp/duplicity-bN7E9S-tempdir/mkstemp-KZ4IKO-1
Temp has 7365537792 available, backup will use approx 34078720.
Running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' (attempt #1)
State = sftp, Before = 'Connecting to 192.168.1.98...
it_europe@192.168.1.98's'
State = sftp, Before = ''
Invalid SSH password
Running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' failed (attempt #1)
Running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' (attempt #2)
State = sftp, Before = 'Connecting to 192.168.1.98...
it_europe@192.168.1.98's'
State = sftp, Before = ''
Invalid SSH password
Running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' failed (attempt #2)
Running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' (attempt #3)
State = sftp, Before = 'Connecting to 192.168.1.98...
it_europe@192.168.1.98's'
State = sftp, Before = ''
Invalid SSH password
Running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' failed (attempt #3)
Running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' (attempt #4)
State = sftp, Before = 'Connecting to 192.168.1.98...
it_europe@192.168.1.98's'
State = sftp, Before = ''
Invalid SSH password
Running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' failed (attempt #4)
Running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' (attempt #5)
State = sftp, Before = 'Connecting to 192.168.1.98...
it_europe@192.168.1.98's'
State = sftp, Before = ''
Invalid SSH password
Running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' failed (attempt #5)
Giving up trying to execute 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98' after 5 attempts
Removing still remembered temporary file /tmp/duplicity-bN7E9S-tempdir/mkstemp-KZ4IKO-1
Backend error detail: Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/bin/duplicity", line 1239, in <module>
    with_tempdir(main)
  File "/usr/bin/duplicity", line 1232, in with_tempdir
    fn()
  File "/usr/bin/duplicity", line 1133, in main
    sync_archive()
  File "/usr/bin/duplicity", line 910, in sync_archive
    remlist = globals.backend.list()
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/duplicity/backends/sshbackend.py", line 270, in list
    l = self.run_sftp_command(commandline, commands).split('\n')[1:]
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/duplicity/backends/sshbackend.py", line 197, in run_sftp_command
    raise BackendException("Error running '%s'" % commandline)
BackendException: Error running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98'

BackendException: Error running 'sftp  -oServerAliveInterval=15 -oServerAliveCountMax=1 it_europe@192.168.1.98'

---

### Post by Grant Walters on 2010-11-17
i would suggest taking a good look at rsync.  the task you are talking about is ideally suited for rsync as it only transfers the changed portions of files.
you can use the same command for local backup and remote backup and it allows creation of filter files to include/exclude files and directories that really don't need to be backed up.  check the section on filtering so see who to exlcude windows temp files like ~blahblah.tmp.
There is a backup switch to allow making backups of file on the remote before the transfer which takes can care of your incrementals
-b, --backup                make backups (see --suffix & --backup-dir)
--backup-dir=DIR        make backups into hierarchy based in DIR

---

### Post by sitush on 2010-11-17
I'll certainly take another look. Duplicity, however, is basically a fancy wrapper around rsync and provides encrypted transfers + inherently supports umpteen full backups as well as increments to the last full backup, which I do not think rsync does without bolting on a load of extras. Unless I misread things.

OTOH, if Duplicity is broken, as it appears possibly to be here, then it is of no use.

---

### Post by Grant Walters on 2010-11-18
I hadn't actually looked at duplicity before.  It certainly seems to look a lot like rsync with config files.  a bit of playing with rsync directly could be your answer though if you are having trouble with duplicity.  rsync can certainly use  ssh.
This line is from the man page.
rsync -av -e "ssh -l ssh-user" rsync-user@host::module /dest

---

### Post by sitush on 2010-11-18
Grant, thanks for this. I am wondering if something installed subsequent to Duplicity has upgraded me to a version of Python which is incompatible, but in any event I'll definitely trial plain old rsync if only on the grounds that it should give me a more granular control of what is going on. Of course, with granularity comes complexity ... but I guess that is what good documentation by the sysadmin is for.

The chances are extremely high that I'll be kicked off this job soon as I got it through a mate who has now left the employer, and it is anyone's guess how favouritism will work next (it's a multinational, plenty of scope!). So, documentation of whatever I set up is critical.

---

