---
title: "10.04 LTS Server kernel update."
date: 2011-01-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by btnoob on 2011-01-09
Hello.

  I am not very familiar with Ubuntu..so please be gentle :biggrin:.

I am runnig a home NAS based on 10.04 64bit using the server kernel. I did a update and the kernel version seems to be 2.6.32-27-server.

  My question is :

1. Is it recommended that the kernel be update to the latest stable version from kernel.org
2. What sort of kernel update cycle does Ubuntu follow for the LTS Server kernel.
3. Is there a good (recommended) hardening guide for relatively light install. (ie no Apparmor)

Cheers....

---

### Post by btnoob on 2011-01-09
Ah...just found this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1663122](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1663122)

But it really does not answer what I am asking.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-01-09
I just use whatever kernel is in the default repos. Less work that way. There really isn't a reason to use a different kernel unless you are running into problems, or your hardware isn't supported by the kernel you are using.

As for hardening, what all do you have running on that server? You can do a bit without AppArmor.

---

### Post by btnoob on 2011-01-09
> **CharlesA said:**
> I just use whatever kernel is in the default repos. Less work that way. There really isn't a reason to use a different kernel unless you are running into problems, or your hardware isn't supported by the kernel you are using.

As for hardening, what all do you have running on that server? You can do a bit without AppArmor.


Hi Charles..Thx for the reply. I was looking to update the kernel cos 2.6.32-27-server feels rather old. From a security point of view I would feel better, though every thing works just fine. That is why I wanted to know what is the (semi) official recomended guide to updating (or not) the kernel for a LTS install.

I only have Samba and ssh running with ufw. I installed using expert mode so it a bare bones system with samba, ssh, ufw and irqbalance slapped on.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-01-09
I see. The kernel is patched when security vulnerabilities are found. :)

Take a look here: [www.ubuntu.com/usn](www.ubuntu.com/usn)

---

### Post by James78 on 2011-01-09
> **btnoob said:**
> From a security point of view I would feel better, though every thing works just fine. That is why I wanted to know what is the (semi) official recomended guide to updating (or not) the kernel for a LTS install.
> **CharlesA said:**
> I see. The kernel is patched when security vulnerabilities are found. :)

Take a look here: [www.ubuntu.com/usn](www.ubuntu.com/usn)
Ahh. Yup, as CharlesA stated, all the good security vulnerabilities and critical issues are backported to the kernel, for as long as 10.04 is supported, which is a bit since it's an LTS. So the only thing you're missing out on is new features/whatever changed in the kernel, but that's not a reason to upgrade unless you actually have a problem with the current kernel. :)

As for your hardening question, you could (should!) play with the syctl.conf file (read a tutorial first though, so you don't mess anything up). You can protect your system from things like mitm attacks, and spoofed IP's, just by changing the settings in there.

---

### Post by btnoob on 2011-01-10
Thx Guys...

---

