---
title: "10.04x64 Errant chown after sudo and tar"
date: 2011-09-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Calcipher on 2011-09-28
Alright, this is a strange one.  Whenever anyone uses tar to extract files and preface it with sudo all unpacked files are owned by the first user on the system and not by root. 

Example:
```

$ whoami
root

$ id
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)

$ tar xvf example.bz2
*snip output*

$ ls -al 
...
drwxr-xr-x 13 first_user first_user   4096 2011-07-10 14:43 
,,,

```

Note: First_user was just a made up name, I mean uid=1000.

So, what on earth is doing this?

Edit: It doesn't seem to just be tar, touching something in the /tmp/ folder also does this.

---

### Post by Calcipher on 2011-09-28
> **zackwasa said:**
> I believe the tar command tries to preserve the ownership of the files by default. You can add the *--no-same-owner* flag to make it not preserve the ownershipThe problem is that any user who uses sudo to create files is getting ownership of first_user:first_user, it is like someone did a chown immediately after the tar.

---

### Post by gmargo on 2011-09-28
> **Calcipher said:**
> The problem is that any user who uses sudo to create files is getting ownership of first_user:first_user, it is like someone did a chown immediately after the tar.

It's basically a coincidence. 

The **tar(1)** file format, which you can see some of on the **tar(5)** man page, includes the user id and group id of the original file.  When you extract the content of that tar archive using **sudo**, the user id and group id (as specified in the tar archive) are restored to the local filesystem.

And, by coincidence, the tar file you are extracting has files owned by user id 1000 (which is usually the first user id assigned.)

You can see this yourself by adding an option to the tar command:
```

$ tar tv --numeric-owner -f example.tar

```The solution is to _not_ use **sudo**.  Then if a normal user (say user id = 1002) extracts the tar file, **tar** will change the ownership of each file/dir to user id 1002.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-09-28
> **gmargo said:**
> The solution is to _not_ use **sudo**.
I concur. It was a bit puzzling to see that you were running as root. You should never have to do that; run as a normal user; use sudo only as needed.

---

### Post by Calcipher on 2011-09-28
I agree that the solution is to not use sudo, it was just something an admin did and I was really confused by.  Thanks for the info.

---

