---
title: "EC2 10.04 EBS AMI &amp; Webmin no workies..."
date: 2010-06-17
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by samandiriel on 2010-06-17
I recently started with Amazon's EC2, and it's been smooth sailing up to this point.  I installed the official EBS AMI ( ami-714ba518 ) for Ubuntu 10.04 and installed LAMP, etc.  All this worked fine.  However, Webmin is a bust.

I cannot fathom why I can't get Webmin working after adding the webmin repo and installing via apt-get.  This worked just fine on my physical server, but on Amazon it gives me "Firefox can't establish a connection to the server at xxxxxxx:10000."

I made sure my security group allowed port 10000 through to my IP, and MySQL client connections work fine, so that can't be the problem.

Anyone have any ideas or things to try?  I'd greatly appreciate it...

---

### Post by john4 on 2010-06-23
I'm getting the same problem.  Someone help!!!

---

### Post by samandiriel on 2010-06-23
> **samandiriel said:**
> I recently started with Amazon's EC2, and it's been smooth sailing up to this point.  I installed the official EBS AMI ( ami-714ba518 ) for Ubuntu 10.04 and installed LAMP, etc.  All this worked fine.  However, Webmin is a bust.

I cannot fathom why I can't get Webmin working after adding the webmin repo and installing via apt-get.  This worked just fine on my physical server, but on Amazon it gives me "Firefox can't establish a connection to the server at xxxxxxx:10000."

I made sure my security group allowed port 10000 through to my IP, and MySQL client connections work fine, so that can't be the problem.

Anyone have any ideas or things to try?  I'd greatly appreciate it...

I couldn't make the deb work at all.  A manual install worked fine, tho - just downloaded the tarball and ran the install script as per the Webmin site's instructions.

---

### Post by samandiriel on 2010-06-25
ARGH! It stopped working after a reboot.  I am going to ask on the Webmin forums and see if I can find a solution there (and will post it back here if I do).

---

### Post by samandiriel on 2010-06-28
> **samandiriel said:**
> ARGH! It stopped working after a reboot.  I am going to ask on the Webmin forums and see if I can find a solution there (and will post it back here if I do).

Haven't heard anything on the webmin forums ([https://sourceforge.net/projects/webadmin/forums/forum/600155/topic/3752023/index/page/1](https://sourceforge.net/projects/webadmin/forums/forum/600155/topic/3752023/index/page/1)), but have discovered the problem seems to be with the service not starting after reboot.  Prodtpd exhibits the same behaviour.  If I can figure it out, I shall post back here.

---

### Post by gineta on 2010-12-06
Uhmm I have the seam problem of you and I discover 2 eerors
1 is with perl

Edit this file sudo nano  /usr/lib/perl/5.10/Config.pm
or the file in your perl version

search for the line require 'Config_heavy.pl'; in my perl is the 69 
Good number :p

ok delete the line and replace for  > use Config;

The second error get webmin is:
This error I not have idea how to solve. Anyway try to install from source and you get more clear the problem you not see from the repository. If you get any solution please post :P

> cron/postinstall.pl failed : Require cron/uninstall.pl failed : <pre>Attempt to reload Time/Local.pm aborted.
Compilation failed in require at /opt/webmin-1.530/cron/cron-lib.pl line 35.
BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at /opt/webmin-1.530/cron/cron-lib.pl line 35.
Compilation failed in require at /opt/webmin-1.530/cron/uninstall.pl line 2.
</pre> at web-lib-funcs.pl line 1340.

bandwidth/postinstall.pl failed : bandwidth::module_uninstall failed : Undefined subroutine &cron::list_cron_jobs called at /opt/webmin-1.530/bandwidth/bandwidth-lib.pl line 137.

cluster-cron/postinstall.pl failed : cluster-cron::module_uninstall failed : Undefined subroutine &cron::list_cron_jobs called at /opt/webmin-1.530/cluster-cron/cluster-cron-lib.pl line 19.

fsdump/postinstall.pl failed : fsdump::module_uninstall failed : Undefined subroutine &cron::list_cron_jobs called at /opt/webmin-1.530/fsdump/uninstall.pl line 9.

quota/postinstall.pl failed : quota::module_uninstall failed : Undefined subroutine &cron::list_cron_jobs called at /opt/webmin-1.530/quota/quota-lib.pl line 529.

servers/postinstall.pl failed : servers::module_uninstall failed : Undefined subroutine &cron::list_cron_jobs called at /opt/webmin-1.530/servers/servers-lib.pl line 384.


---

### Post by James78 on 2010-12-06
This tutorial covers using the Virtualmin installer script (installs Webmin also of course). It worked perfectly for me in 10.04.
[http://wwww.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1197883](http://wwww.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1197883)

Of course, I hope you don't mind having Virtualmin too, otherwise you shouldn't use the guide. Manually installing Webmin and all that isn't recommended I've heard though, as there's too much configuration to do.

---

### Post by gineta on 2010-12-07
HI I install webmin from the first versions many years ago and never any problem. I like webmin because I make easy task in short time.
Anyway the problem is the seam 
Undefined subroutine &cron::list_cron_jobs called at /usr/share/webmin/

Install webmin from source also is very easy but also fail.
The question is the seam where is the problem with cron in webmin?

---

### Post by gineta on 2010-12-07
OK I advance a little in the problem 
I see Perl in UBUNTU EC2 AMI not work like need

[COLOR="Red"]I try [/COLOR]
**# sudo perl -MCPAN -e 'shell'**
> &Config::AUTOLOAD failed on Config::launcher at /usr/lib/perl/5.10/Config.pm line 71.
Compilation failed in require at /usr/share/perl/5.10/ExtUtils/MakeMaker.pm line 9.
BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at /usr/share/perl/5.10/ExtUtils/MakeMaker.pm line 9.
Compilation failed in require at /usr/share/perl/5.10/CPAN.pm line 46.
BEGIN failed--compilation aborted at /usr/share/perl/5.10/CPAN.pm line 46.
Compilation failed in require.

This the error make the files perl of webmin not work
Now how I solve the problem with perl any ideas
Thanks in advance

---

### Post by gineta on 2010-12-08
Problem SOLVE!!!  :popcorn: :KS SOLUTION FOR UBUNTU 10.10

For any reason Perl not work fine in the Public Ubuntu AMI of AMAZON

THis make the next time you reset your server webmin not start again :((

I AM NOT INTEREST in play with perl and make any critical error in a working server. For that I make this solution sure work for all the buddies 

First you need the next:
1 Install in the directory /opt The installer App-perlbrew-0.15
follo the instructions very easy and install /Normally is install 
inside the folder /root


2.- with App-perlbrew install Perl 5.12.1

3.- Inside the folder /opt download webmin from sources 
    execute the file setup
4.- The software ask for teh folder webmin I change for not get any more errors for /etc/ec2_web and /var/ec2_web

5.- The script ask for you folder PERL is you already install like I means here you put: /root/perl5/perlbrew/perls/perl-5.12.1/bin/perl

6.- follow the instruction and teh system ask for user and password you setup the user like to use

7.- WEBMIN WORK :D ;)

---

### Post by gineta on 2010-12-08
PART II

Configure MCPAN for install the modules you NEED in webmin

/root/perl5/perlbrew/perls/perl-5.12.1/bin/perl -MCPAN -e shell


Would you like me to configure as much as possible automatically? [yes] 

.............


Searching for the best CPAN mirrors (please be patient) .............................................................................................................. done!

New urllist
  [ftp://mirror.tje.me.uk/pub/mirrors/ftp.cpan.org/](ftp://mirror.tje.me.uk/pub/mirrors/ftp.cpan.org/)
  [ftp://cpan.etla.org/pub/CPAN](ftp://cpan.etla.org/pub/CPAN)
  [ftp://ftp.cpan.nl/pub/CPAN/](ftp://ftp.cpan.nl/pub/CPAN/)
  [ftp://mir1.ovh.net/ftp.cpan.org](ftp://mir1.ovh.net/ftp.cpan.org)
  [ftp://mirror.hostfuss.com/CPAN/](ftp://mirror.hostfuss.com/CPAN/)

Autoconfiguration complete.

**AFTER THAT:**
install DBI

and you get .............
...............
Appending installation info to /root/perl5/perlbrew/perls/perl-5.12.1/lib/5.12.1/i686-linux/perllocal.pod
  TIMB/DBI-1.615.tar.gz
  /usr/bin/make install  -- OK

again MAKE:
install DBD

---

