---
title: "MOTD showing 3x amount of updates"
date: 2014-03-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by smeerbartje on 2014-03-18
When I log in to my server (12.04.4), I get the MOTD. However it's showing the amount of updates three times. Anyone else facing the same problem? And better: how to solve this?

[FONT=Courier New]Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04.4 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.8.0-37-generic i686)

 * Documentation:  [https://help.ubuntu.com/](https://help.ubuntu.com/)

  System information as of Tue Mar 18 08:07:13 CET 2014

  System load:  0.37              Processes:           107
  Usage of /:   55.3% of 1.34TB   Users logged in:     0
  Memory usage: 28%               IP address for eth0: x.x.x.x
  Swap usage:   4%                IP address for eth1: x.x.x.x

  Graph this data and manage this system at:
    [https://landscape.canonical.com/](https://landscape.canonical.com/)

1 package can be updated.
0 updates are security updates.

1 package can be updated.
0 updates are security updates.

1 package can be updated.
0 updates are security updates.

Last login: Mon Mar 17 15:34:38 2014 from blablabla.com
[/FONT]

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-03-18
Has it always done this?
Or is this new?

TTY login (message-of-the-day [motd]) updates are triggered by /etc/init/mounted-run.conf
The content is generated by shell scripts in /etc/update-motd.d

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-03-18
How many instances of Landscape do you have running?

```
ps aux | grep landscape
```

---

### Post by smeerbartje on 2014-03-18
Only one instance running:
[FONT=Courier New]user@server:~$ ps aux | grep landscape
user   22054  0.0  0.0   4384   840 pts/4    S+   20:55   0:00 grep --color=auto landscape[/FONT]

Anyone an idea what this does? /usr/lib/update-notifier/update-motd-updates-available

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-03-18
> **smeerbartje said:**
> Only one instance running:
[FONT=Courier New]user@server:~$ ps aux | grep landscape
user   22054  0.0  0.0   4384   840 pts/4    S+   20:55   0:00 grep --color=auto landscape[/FONT]

Anyone an idea what this does? /usr/lib/update-notifier/update-motd-updates-available

Landscape isn't running and that script in /usr/lib is a python program meant to check for updates and notify you of them.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-03-18
I recall a bug that was fixed for this issue.  Perhaps perform some updates and reboot.

---

### Post by smeerbartje on 2014-03-20
How stupid :)... it was my grep command which appeared :).

Well, when I execute /usr/lib/update-notifier/update-motd-updates-available, then I get the following:

rogier@server:~$ /usr/lib/update-notifier/update-motd-updates-available

[FONT=Courier New]0 packages can be updated.
0 updates are security updates.

0 packages can be updated.
0 updates are security updates.

0 packages can be updated.
0 updates are security updates.[/FONT]

My system is completely up-to-date, contents of update-mots-updates-available is:

[FONT=Courier New]#!/bin/sh -e
#
# helper for update-motd


# poor mans force
if [ "$1" = "--force" ]; then
    NEED_UPDATE_CHECK=yes
fi

# check time when we did the last udpate check
stamp="/var/lib/update-notifier/updates-available"
if [ -e "$stamp" ]; then
    stampt=$(stat -c %Y $stamp)
else
    stampt=0
fi

# get list dir
StateDir="/var/lib/apt/"
ListDir="lists/"
eval $(apt-config shell StateDir Dir::State)
eval $(apt-config shell ListDir Dir::State::Lists)

# check if we have a list file that needs checking
d="/$StateDir/$ListDir"
for f in $d/*; do
    # ignore dirs
    if [ ! -f $f ]; then
	continue
    fi
    t=$(stat -c %Y $f)
    if [ $t -gt $stampt ]; then
	NEED_UPDATE_CHECK=yes
    fi
done

# check if sources.list was modified since last check
EtcDir="etc/apt/"
SourceList="sources.list"
eval $(apt-config shell EtcDir Dir::Etc)
eval $(apt-config shell SourceList Dir::Etc::sourcelist)
if [ $(stat -c %Y "/$EtcDir/$SourceList") -gt $stampt ]; then
    NEED_UPDATE_CHECK=yes
fi

# output something for update-motd
if [ -n "$NEED_UPDATE_CHECK" ]; then
    echo "" > $stamp
    /usr/lib/update-notifier/apt-check --human-readable >> $stamp
    echo "" >> $stamp
fi

# output what we have (either cached or newly generated)
cat $stamp[/FONT]

---

### Post by smeerbartje on 2014-03-20
Some additional information; I found this thread: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-notifier/+bug/1146170](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-notifier/+bug/1146170)
It looks like it's solved, but why am I still facing this error? (I'm up-to-date)

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-03-20
Yes, that is the bug, but it looks like the patch was commited to Trusty (14.04).  You can manually apply the patch or remove update notifier or just ignore the multiple messages.

Carefully follow the instructions in Post #2 of the bug tracker link and see if it goes away.

---

### Post by smeerbartje on 2014-03-21
Thanks; I have changed the script by hand and it's working fine now. Why isn't 12.04.4 being patched thorough the official way??? It's LTS right?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-03-21
There are two answers to that question.

1) See [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/StableReleaseUpdates) for how bugfixes get applied to a released version of Ubuntu. Including criteria and procedure.

2) For your specific bug, nobody has initiated the procedure. Feel free, if you are subscribed to the bug, to start the SRU process.

---

### Post by smeerbartje on 2014-03-21
Thanks; I'll see what I can do...

---

