---
title: "9.04 amd64 server won't recognize raid 1 mirror"
date: 2009-06-03
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by chuugokujin on 2009-06-03
ubuntu 9.04 amd64 server edition
motherboard: Supermicro PDSML-LN2 

I have 3 identical disks, the 2nd and 3rd is on a RAID 1 mirror. I tried to install the system on the 1st disk and it succeeded and recognized the raid during the installation. However, it won't boot after installation, even the system is installed on the 1st disk, which is not part of RAID.
Can I get help? Thanks,

---

### Post by smileypaul on 2009-06-03
Any specific error you get after booting?

Grub error? 

Could be something as silly as changing the Hard drive mode in the BIOS from AHCI to IDE.

Try and provide a few more details.

---

### Post by ronparent on 2009-06-03
With 9.04 I have found that a raid is not automatically activated on boot. This should not affect you however unless you have a separate /home or other boot essential partion on the raid?

---

### Post by chuugokujin on 2009-06-04
To you guys above,

There is no specific error showing, the screen is black with a little _ sign flashing, that's all.
Not even a grub error. The bios is set to RAID, and the raid was recognized during the installation. Everything was fine, until reboot.

The raid has neither data nor mount point, it's just a free space, it should not affect the file system IMO.

---

### Post by OlineSixtyOne on 2009-06-04
Is your BIOS set to boot from the first hard drive or the RAID array (or something else)? 

I had a similar problem when installing 9.04. My first disk was a small old disk and my second disk was a brand new large data disk. I installed 9.04 to the first disk and rebooted to a blinking "_". My BIOS was set to boot from the second disk. After telling the BIOS to boot from the first disk everything was good.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-06-04
How is your raid array set up? Is it software raid or did you follow the FakeRaidHowto?

---

### Post by chuugokujin on 2009-06-04
My boot sequence shows the only hard drive that boots is the first one, the other 2 are excluded from boot order. 

to cariboo907, it's not software raid, but set up by bios, should be a hardware raid controller.

---

### Post by ronparent on 2009-06-05
In most current MB that offer raid, it is not strickly a hardware controller. In windows the driver serves the purpose of software of accessing the raid. In ubuntu that purpose is met with dmraid. 

Can you boot from the live cd? If so lets try an experiment. Boot, install dmraid, activate your raid, and query **dmraid -r**. What is the output? Also **dmraid -l**. If the raid chipset for your board is listed, then it is supported. What is listed in /dev/mapper? If you have partitioned your raid drive, does the partitiom(s)show up along with the entire drive. Can the raid partition(s) be mounted. Note: The entire raid drive represented without an ending number on the name cannot mount. Do you notice any stange behavior while doing this poking around?

I don't know that this will tell us anything other than that the raid works, but I'm otherwise out of ideas since your boot problem appears to be related to the raid setup. If nothing show up, you will probably have to look for something unrelated to the raid?

---

### Post by bjk03 on 2009-06-06
I had a similar problem when I installed 8.10 amd64. I found the following to work for my setup. I used the amd64 liveCD to do it. ```
Open the terminal and enter the following commands
sudo grub
find /boot/grub/stage1
(Use the output from this command in the next command)
root (hd0,1)
setup (hd0)
quit
You may have to modify the hard disk parameters to suit your setup… that’s what
the second command helps you do. My root partition is the second on my first hard
disk. If yours is the first for instance, then you’ll have to modify the “root” step as
follows:
root (hd0,0)
```
I've since updated to 9.04 and had no problems with that.

---

### Post by chuugokujin on 2009-06-07
To above guys,
Thank you all for help. Since I had no more time to solve it I already deployed the server without a raid, now I have no chance to try it out again. :(

Thanks again anyway

---

