---
title: "6.06 or 5.10 for FTP server?"
date: 2006-07-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by iam2sam on 2006-07-14
On the server distro path (somewhere), 6.06 is refered to as "release candidate", hence this question.  Which is the best OS for building a server at this point in time?  Background follows.

I have a Dell PE1650 server to be used primarily for serving files securely to internal customers (however, the server lives in public address space).  The ftp server application is PureFTPd.  Secondary use will be for serving web pages under Apache.  I now have an environment built on this machine with OpenBSD, PureFTPd, and Apache 2.  However, it is not deployed to production.  

My problem is time:  my primary experience and workload is not Unix/Linux related, and the time that I take to educate myself on implementation issues in that environment takes away from the already strained time resource available for my primary duties.  I originally chose OpenBSD for defensive reasons.  There was an employee in my dept. who was assailing the concept of an FTP server on security grounds.  His objections were largely groundless, but found some reception.  At the time, OpenBSD had the most defensible rep for security in the default config, so I chose it.  I chose PureFTPd for much the same reason.

Unfortunately, available resources for non-Unix IT people trying to use  OpenBSD to achieve immediate results are thin, to say the least.  Getting the current server environment set up and running in even basic form proved to be quite the project.  I've been hearing good things about Ubantu for a couple of years.  A little investigation suggests to me that it is plenty secure, and that it has available support an order of magnitude better than OpenBSD, with actual forum posts from PureFTPd users.  In the meantime, the staff member who originally objected to FTP now supports the project.  My current plan is to switch the PE1650 to Ubantu/PureFTPd, probably in August.  

So, after reading my novel, which version do you recommend that I use, and why ;?)

Many thanks in advance.

Scott

---

### Post by Jagot on 2006-07-14
6.06 was a release candidate before the final release, as was 5.10.  It is now the real deal - it's final - tt was released on 1st June.

I have no experience with web servers so I am afraid I can't answer the rest of the thread, but in my view if you want the latest software and equal stability to 5.10, then go with 6.06.

---

### Post by Randomskk on 2006-07-14
Although you've learnt ProFTPd and may not want to swap, you may want to look into vsftpd if security is a concern.
Besides that, 6.06 Dapper Drake is the perfect OS for an FTP server, as it's a long term release - 5 years of security updates for servers running it, so your server won't need to be upgraded until you want it to be.

---

