---
title: ".htacces/.htpasswd not working?"
date: 2009-06-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Tambor on 2009-06-20
Hi, I just got a new machine to run Ubuntu and set up my database as I had in my old machine. The database is working well but it's not asking the password anymore. I re-do the .htaccess and .htpasswd but it's not asking the password. This Ubuntu came installed from Dell, I don't know if it can be the reason?

My .htaccess file content is:

AuthType Basic
AuthName "database"
AuthUserFile /etc/.htpasswd
Require valid-user

and my .htpasswd was generated in /etc/

Thanks.

---

### Post by Tambor on 2009-06-22
No suggestions?

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2009-06-22
Make sure to have an [font="monospace"]AllowOverride[/font] in effect for tat directory in your Apache configuration.

---

### Post by kustomjs on 2009-06-22
also make sure you restart apache after getting it set.

---

### Post by Tambor on 2009-06-26
I put the content of .htaccess into httpd.conf and it worked. I had this file blank in my old machine but now it was necessary to be done. The main difference is that I had to put inside a directory:



<Directory /var/www/>
   AuthType Basic
   AuthName "name of you want"
   AuthUserFile /where/you/put/your/.htpasswd
   Require valid-user
</Directory>


Thanks all.

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-06-26
If you have access to httpd.conf, it's definitely much easier to edit that instead of using .htaccess files.

Do you understand now why your .htaccess file didn't work? I'm guessing you did not specifically allow the override.

---

### Post by Tambor on 2009-06-26
You mean put AllowOverride inside the .htaccess?

I didn't do it because it was not necessary im my old machine, maybe that is the problem...

Thanks for your attention,

Tambor

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-06-26
No. To use a .htaccess file, you need to manually set the line "AllowOverride" in the <Directory> section of the directory you want to modify.

For example, in your original post, you wanted to have authentication information handled by .htaccess. That means you have to add this line to httpd.conf:

```
<Directory /path/to/www>
    AllowOverride AuthConfig
</Directory>
```

AllowOverride has other options, such as Indexes (which, when enabled, will show a directory list when there is no Index file to serve). For more information: [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/core.html#allowoverride](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/core.html#allowoverride)

---

### Post by Tambor on 2009-06-29
Rigth, we should have it.

Thanks again,

Humberto.

---

