---
title: "From email address for apache virtual hosts through postfix and google apps"
date: 2009-08-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by amidsin on 2009-08-18
I would appreciate if somebody could point me in the right directions for setting up my websites which should be able to send emails.

What I'm trying to do: Set-up a couple of web sites build based on Drupal on Ubuntu server (8.04). I'm using Apache virtual hosts to manage my sites. These sites should be able to send emails. I'm using postfix for that. To avoid rejection of emails (especially since my server is hosted by Amazon EC2), I'm relaying my emails though Google Apps. I would like to have emails generated by each web site to have different originating email addresses so that any reply messages would go to different mailboxes. Drupal website are set up to send emails from different email addresses. Postfix is using smtp_sasl_password_maps parameter for using different Google apps accounts.

I have all of this working except for the last aspect. Emails from both websites end up being sent from a single address. Here is my understanding of a problems (of course I'm mistaken in my diagnosis) - Both websites are sent by web-data unix account. Postfix is using this unix account as originating email address for choosing the sasl authentication parameters. As a result, single Google apps account is used. Google apps is overwriting Reply To address of the messages according to account, which is being used for authentication.

I don't know where I could fight this. I have done some research on the following questions and could not find answers so far:
- Can I make Drupal or PHP in general or Apache to use different unix accounts for sending emails?
- Can I make Postfix to use Reply To address rather then originating unix account for sasl authentication selection? Can Portfix address overwriting be used to achieve this?
- Can I work around somehow overwriting of Reply To address by Google Apps?

I would appreciate any pointers. Please let me know if any additional information about my configuration would be useful.

I hope to put together tutorial if I'm successful in making all this work.

Thank you.

---

