---
title: "10.04 LTS degraded software RAID5 array with LVM won't boot"
date: 2010-07-05
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by syuzh on 2010-07-05
I've been searching for a long time now, and I still can't find the solution. And it's driving me nuts. I also get sent to a Busybox (initramfs) shell with no text editor and don't know how to copy all the error messages and post them here. If there is a way, let me know.
I've typed it out in the meantime:

```

md0 : inactive sdxxxx
Attempting to start the RAID in degraded mode...
mdadm: CREATE user root not found
mdadm: CREATE group disk not found
[   33.818079] raid5: failed to run raid set md0
mdadm: failed to RUN_ARRAY /dev/md0: Input/output error
mdadm: Not enough devices to start the array while not clean - consider --force.
Could not start the RAID in degraded mode.
Gave up waiting for root device  Common problems:
-blah blah something something rootdelay
ALERT! /dev/mapper/**group1-boot** does not exist. Dropping to a shell!
```group1 is the LVM group. boot is the name of the logical volume mounted to /
Another logical volume is mounted to /home
And 1 more for swap

This is with a 3 disk RAID5 array. I turned off the system, pulled out a drive, and started it back up. Fresh install, all I've done so far is apt-get update and upgrade.

I'd really appreciate some help to solving this problem.

---

### Post by elvinatom on 2010-07-05
you might wanna consider repairing your array before you go any further. The degraded array is not even clean.  Mdadm probably refuses to start it because it's a great risk to your data.

---

### Post by syuzh on 2010-07-05
I don't have any data on there. This is all just for testing purposes.

If a drive dies and you can't boot into a degraded array, how do you find out which one it is?
And how do you clean it? What's that supposed to mean?

---

### Post by syuzh on 2010-07-05
OK this is really pissing me off.

It turns out it's re-syncing the array with no data on it. Friggin retarded.
Now I want to tell it to assume it's clean and just skip the whole thing, but the --assume-clean doesn't work with grow.

Now I'm trying to add a drive to it.
sudo mdadm --add /dev/md0 /dev/sdd1

And it adds it fine, but it's added as a spare. NOT what I want. Now the --backup-file says it's only needed if you're adding to a RAID5 without a spare. Well, guess what, there's a spare. So when I try to use:
sudo mdadm --grow /dev/md0 -n5
it says it needs a backup file to backup critical data or something. WTF?

So here we go:
sudo mdadm --grow /dev/md0 --backup-file=/media/usb/tmp
And then I get:
no changes to grow

WTF? This is getting really stupid.

Tried everything with the --force option too. Nothing.
%^#$#$$#%

---

### Post by elvinatom on 2010-07-06
stay calm.
first of all, the resync is normal - mdadm does not care about what's on it - it just makes it usable.  When you create a new array it has to resync as well. secondly, you did not add the new drive properly. i'm not sure how it's done off my heart but I know that you either used the wrong command or you didn't finish adding the drive properly.  Google up how it's done, there's a ton of super simple step-by-step help out there on how to accomplish anything with mdadm.  I use it on my file server for several arrays as well as one workstation and imho it's a fantastic program; safe fast and reliable.  you must understand that arrays are storrage containers and therefore safety is crucial.

and another thing:  having "/boot" on a raid5 array (or on any stripe array) might not be such a good idea, because of the troubles you're in right now. use either a plain partition or a mirrored array for that.

yet another thing: in a raid5 array, when one drive fails the array is using it's backup algorythm to recreate the lost data.  this is only for the worst emergency.  the array has lost all of it's data and must recreate it from its redundancy.  that means: do not use it under any circumstance - repair it first.

---

