---
title: "Can't ping out from server"
date: 2018-02-22
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Maheriano on 2018-02-22
This is very weird, I can't ping anything externally from my server. Here is the troubleshooting I've done so far:

1. I have 2 nearly identical Ubuntu Server virtual machines on the same VMWare server, the only difference in how I set them up is how much disk space they have. One can ping no problem, the other one cannot. I'll call the working one server-old and the non-working one server-new.

2. Server-old has zero problems, it can ping google.ca and anything else without issue. Server-new can't ping any domain nor IP, the only ones I can get to actually return are localhost and 8.8.8.8. Those work.

3. /etc/resolv.conf are the same for both, they show this (with numbers instead of stars):```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 207.*.226.*
nameserver 64.*.135.*
nameserver 207.*.226.*

```

4. Server-new is being used as our production server and all inbound traffic works perfectly. It's our web server hosting our public facing website. There are NAT policies and port forwarding in place on our firewall.

5. My ultimate goal here is to run a script that makes an outbound connection to the Google Drive API via a PHP script and this is what started it all. The script fails on server-new but works perfectly on server-old and also works fine on an unrelated Amazon EC2 server I also have.

6. Both server-old and server-new are on our DMZ.

7. This is even stranger, we have 2 separate ISP coming into the firewall in our server rack, one on X1 and the other on X4. I have both networks set up on load balancing so it's random which outbound connection you will get. Our domain is set to go to our static IP from ISP 1 so all inbound connections are through ISP 1 for that reason. Running the PHP script will work if I randomly go out on ISP 1 but will fail if I randomly go out on ISP 2. I can test this with 100% certainty by switching which ISP I have in the load balancer. It either works 100% of the time or fails 100% of the time. I'm wondering if the pings are making their way out but can't find their way back because of this. Probably not since server-old is working regardless of which ISP it goes out on. It works every time, only server-new fails.

8. So I'm thinking I need to fix the issue where the server-new cannot ping anything regardless of ISP, it just doesn't work, however all inbound works perfectly.

---

### Post by darkod on 2018-02-22
First thing first, are the settings of the VMs in VMware really identical/correct? Does the vNIC have the correct portgroup/switch? I assume yes since incoming traffic is working, but best to check.

Then, are you using iptables firewall (or any other)? I have seen too many people trying to "secure" their server too tight and blocking their own traffic in their attempt... What do iptables look like:
```
sudo iptables -L -n -v
```

Is your routing/network settings OK? Try pinging the gateway first, and then traceroute to 8.8.8.8. Don't focus on DNS settings right now, if you can't ping even an IP that has nothing to do with DNS. More like routing problem.
```
ping -c 4 <gateway>
traceroute 8.8.8.8
route -n
```

---

### Post by Maheriano on 2018-02-22
I actually figured it out after 3 weeks of frustration and right after I posted here. I disabled a NAT policy on my firewall for outbound requests and it solved everything. The script works great now and I can ping without issue. Thanks for your suggestion, sorry I had you write all that out.

---

