---
title: "8.04LTS to 10.04LTS"
date: 2010-07-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mcarrara on 2010-07-19
I have about 6 servers running 8.04LTS.  I have been testing 10 on a new server.  I would like to use newer versions of some key software that is not available for 8.  So I was considering moving to 10.  My questions are:

1. Can a server running 8.04LTS be upgraded to 10.04LTS?
2. Should I do a clean install and transfer configuration files?
3. Should I even upgrade because I am not having any real problems with what I have?

Thanks for the opinions.

Mark

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-07-19
I would say don't upgrade if 8.04 is working for you.  Introducing 10 may just introduce new issues.

With that said, I don't think you can go straight from 8.04 -> 10.04.  I think you'd have to go thru the pain of doing a release upgrade thru 8.10 -> 9.04 -> 9.10 finally to 10.04.  Please, someone correct me if I'm wrong!

With that said, clean install is the best IMHO for anything - even if you were on 9.10.  They just take a lot more care to ensure everything is put back to the way it was.  I've just had some upgrades go poorly that I eventually just did a clean install on - starting with a clean install would've saved me a lot of headaches.

---

### Post by valbaca on 2010-07-19
[https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/installing-upgrading.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/installing-upgrading.html)
 
The other questions depend heavily on how critical the servers are. It is smart that you are testing it on one server before deploying to all of them.
 
Personally, I would wait a few months to allow documentation to "catch up" with 10.04 and for most bugs to be found. 8.04 is still well within support time and if everything is working there is no compelling reason to upgrade **now**. Slowly moving servers over in order of criticality (least critical first) would be the safest bet.

---

### Post by mcarrara on 2010-07-19
they are mission critical to us.  The thing is we are a school so I have a few weeks to get it right, but I am leaning towards waiting until next summer.

Mark

---

### Post by cdenley on 2010-07-19
The transition from 8.04 to 10.04 should be well-supported, as one LTS release to the next always is. Generally, it shouldn't create any problems, but there is always a possibility. In my opinion, you should either upgrade to the next LTS release at some point, or keep using what you have until it reaches the end of its life, then re-install from scratch. The first (what I do) should be easier and less problematic, but would have to be done more often. Either one you choose, there is no hurry, unless you really need the new features the newer version would provide.

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2010-07-19
> **mcarrara said:**
> they are mission critical to us.  The thing is we are a school so I have a few weeks to get it right, but I am leaning towards waiting until next summer.

Mark

There are major differences between 8.04 and 10.04.  The Upstart system and Grub2 being two that come to mind.

All my servers are 8.04 and I won't switch until I see all the bug fixes.  I'll bet some of the 8.04 config files won't work with 10.04.

I would your testing through the year and change over next summer.

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-07-19
> **cdenley said:**
> The transition from 8.04 to 10.04 should be well-supported, as one LTS release to the next always is. Generally, it shouldn't create any problems, but there is always a possibility. In my opinion, you should either upgrade to the next LTS release at some point, or keep using what you have until it reaches the end of its life, then re-install from scratch. The first (what I do) should be easier and less problematic, but would have to be done more often. Either one you choose, there is no hurry, unless you really need the new features the newer version would provide.

Perhaps I should open another thread, but I'm mostly just curious - is it possible to go straight from 8.04 to 10.04?  It would seem quite a dubious upgrade, considering grub2 and the new upstart system to say the least... I think if you run grub 'legacy' that it keeps that system unless you do a fresh install... At least that's what it did for my server.



But to reiterate to the OP - it does sound like it would be best to wait.  Like others have said, unless you absolutely **need** some new feature/program, stick with what works.  

"If it's not broken, don't fix it."

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-07-19
8.04 Server will be supported through April 2013, so no rush. :)

I think I read somewhere that an 8.04 to 10.04 server upgrade isn't even officially supported yet; it won't be until the release of 8.04.5 later this month. (maybe I am wrong though)

But it should work fine, even if not "officially" supported. A fresh reinstall is not necessary unless you wish to take advantage of a new feature like the ext4 filesystem.

---

### Post by cdenley on 2010-07-19
> **arrrghhh said:**
> Perhaps I should open another thread, but I'm mostly just curious - is it possible to go straight from 8.04 to 10.04?  It would seem quite a dubious upgrade, considering grub2 and the new upstart system to say the least... I think if you run grub 'legacy' that it keeps that system unless you do a fresh install... At least that's what it did for my server.


Yes, upgrading between LTS releases always are supported.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades#Upgrade%20from%208.04%20LTS%20to%2010.04%20LTS](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades#Upgrade%20from%208.04%20LTS%20to%2010.04%20LTS)

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2010-07-19
> **cdenley said:**
> Yes, upgrading between LTS releases always are supported.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades#Upgrade%20from%208.04%20LTS%20to%2010.04%20LTS](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades#Upgrade%20from%208.04%20LTS%20to%2010.04%20LTS)

Huh, not sure how I missed that.  Thanks!

---

### Post by mcarrara on 2010-07-20
I think I will stick with 8.04 and keep playing with 10.04 for at least a year.

Mark

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2010-07-20
> **mcarrara said:**
> I think I will stick with 8.04 and keep playing with 10.04 for at least a year.

Mark

Good idea, if you are running the server software, you have 3 years before it reaches EOL.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2010-07-20
> **theozzlives said:**
> Good idea, if you are running the server software, you have 3 years before it reaches EOL.

It's five years of support on the server.  The EOL is 2013 for 8.04 Hardy server.

---

### Post by cdenley on 2010-07-20
> **bab1 said:**
> It's five years of support on the server.  The EOL is 2013 for 8.04 Hardy server.

Which is in a little under 3 years.

---

### Post by mister_p_1998 on 2011-01-05
Can I use Hardy Server repos in my Hardy Desktop?
Steve

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-01-05
> **mister_p_1998 said:**
> Can I use Hardy Server repos in my Hardy Desktop?
Steve

There is no separate Server repo, as far as I know. :)

---

### Post by mister_p_1998 on 2011-01-05
So can I expect updates for the server sections for another two years?
How does it know whether Im running a Desktop or Server installation?

---

