---
title: "10.04 Server, mdadm RAID 1 &amp; GRUB"
date: 2011-06-12
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Bradburts on 2011-06-12
Hi,
I have been trying to install release 10.04.2 64bit server with software RAID without success.
I have followed:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/advanced-installation.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/advanced-installation.html)
In steps 4 & 7:
"4 & 7.Use the rest of the free space on the drive and choose Continue, then Primary." 
I am not provided with the option to select PRIMARY. I continue anyway.
At step 8:
"8.As with the swap partition, select the "Use as:" line at the top, changing it to "physical volume for RAID". Also select the "Bootable flag:" line to change the value to "on". Then choose "Done setting up partition"
I cannot select bootable.
I can only install from USB, I do not have a PATA port.
I am also facing the problem that when installing (from USB) the GRUB install fails. GRUB install fails even if I don't RAID. So I will need to solve this issue as well in a way which allows me to RAID.
My aim is simply to install a server and configure RAID 1 using mdadm both to keep costs down and to avoid issues if hardware fails.
I wanted to create various mount point so as to simplify re-installs & backups. 
Adding the extra mount points is now more of an eventual requirement as I struggle to get a simple RAID installed or even a simple bootable system.
If you want me to dump something plz give me the command!
It would help to know more about RAID options, can I create LVG within RAID or RAID within LVG? It takes a long time to install from USB only to find a problem with the install & any narrowing of options would help.
At the moment the main issue is 'Unable to install GRUB in /dev/sda' but I need to solve in a way which allows RAID.
Ta

---

### Post by brettg on 2011-06-12
You say you are trying to configure RAID, but don't state the reason.

Do you want JBOD or are you trying to configure fault tolerance? If so, what type? You should ask yourself "if I am having this much trouble configuring it now, how much trouble will I have if a disk fails and I need to rebuild the array"

Can you accept the fact that your "fault tolerant" array is likely to lose more of your data than Just a Bunch Of Disks should a disk fail unless you know what you are doing?

The last thing you want to be doing is coming here next year with "OMG a disk failed and I don't know how to rebuild my 10Tb array! Help!"

If this is just for mucking about and learning then that is fine but I would advise against using software raid for fault tolerance in a real production server unless you are a bit of a raid guru and know how to rebuild a broken array. Get yourself a proper hardware RAID card for a proper server and you can carry on sleeping at night.

If you just want JBOD, [use LVM]("http://tuxnetworks.blogspot.com/2010/11/howto-configure-nasfileserver-with-lvm.html"), it is much simpler and less prone to lose all your data if you were to, say, reload your OS for some reason.

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-06-12
Those instructions really need fixed.  Do not set the boot flag.  It does not mean anything with an msdos partition table, and it means something entirely different and is incompatible with raid on GPT.  I am guessing your disks are larger than 2 TB so you have to use GPT.  In that case, you need to create a 1 MB bios_grub partition on each disk.

---

### Post by Bradburts on 2011-06-13
I am trying to setup RAID 1, for fault tolerance. The aim is to create a reliable NAS and small office server. I will probably use the server to develop on from time to time but (hopefully) within a virtual machine. Eventually I would hope that the NAS feature were within a VM but as I am struggling to install thats seems to be a few steps away. 
I appreciate that I do not know what I am doing right now but I hope that I will know sometime soon.
I am trying to setup RAID 1 using mdadm. From what I read pseudo RAID cards/mobos may have OS compatability issues anyway and may not allow the drives to be used by another controller i.e. I may hit another brick wall or be stuffed a few years down the line if the controller fails. Then there is also the extra expense and power used (I am trying to be as green as possibly, <20W hard drives spun down).
So mdadm seems to be the way to go. 
I hope to be able to partition the drives such that /home and static between installation stuff in /var are protected e.g. /var/www. 
What I have not been able to find is a good overview of how to partition within a RAID, or indeed even a working instruction!
I appreciate (now) that this is not going to be easy, There would seem to be a hole either in the quality of information available and/or the robustness of the tools.  Hopefully this thread, when detailed, will help another Ubuntu newbie.
 
Anyway:
The drives are 2*Samsung HD204UI 2TB.
I managed to boot 11.04 desktop from USB. From here I had access to shell, fdisk and 'Disk Utility'. After a lot of messing around I managed to delete the existing RAID partitions (not sure how!). I then managed to install to sdb (from the desktop). This time I did not get the GRUB failed to install message. The computer will not boot from sdb, just a blank screen. I assume that it has hung as on other occasions when I have failed to install GRUB I see what appears to be an attempt to boot from network.
sdb is GUID, has BIOS boot, EXT4 and swap.
I rebooted from USB hoping to install to sda. The desktop install does not allow me to select device. I continue but receive 'ubi-partman failed exit code 10'.  
Q) How do I view and interpret this log '/var/log/syslog' ?
I continue anyway and it hangs. On reboot I appear to be booting from sdb.
Q) How do I confirm the boot device used from Ubuntu desktop?
 
What would be great is step by step install guide. At the moment I cannot find any reliable information and have to resort to suck it and see. Eventually something works but I have no idea why. 
For starters how would I wipe the hard drive? I am not sure how I wiped the RAID but if I know then I can get back to clean and keep trying until I establish a reliable method.
 
Am I expected to create BIOS partition? If so how?

---

### Post by Bradburts on 2011-06-13
Part success. Managed to make sdb boot.
The instructions at:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1563699&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1563699&page=3)
cover the issue very well.
Basically I have a new Intel Mobo and many Intel Mobos expect the partition to have a bootable flag even though the GUID partition table (the one I am using) does not need, and does not normally have, the bootable flag.
Correct using fdisk as detailed.
 
So I can create a bootable drive and therefore should be able to create a bootable server. 
 
Now what I would like to understand is the detail around GUID partition tables and mdadm RAID. 
Do I just create partitions using gparted, one on each disk, and set the RAID flag and then bind those together in mdadm?
If I use the whole drive as RAID (excluding GRUB) can I subdivide the RAID latter as I could with an LVM?
brettg, you say 
'If you just want JBOD, [[COLOR=#444444]use LVM[/COLOR]]("http://tuxnetworks.blogspot.com/2010/11/howto-configure-nasfileserver-with-lvm.html"), it is much simpler and less prone to lose all your data if you were to, say, reload your OS for some reason'
Could I not create as many RAID partitions as I want with whatever mount points? Why would this not protect my data during re-installs? Seems the same as LVM to me albeit with another driver on top.

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-06-13
There is no need for gparted; just use the normal server installer.  As I said before, all you need to do is create a 1 MB bios_grub partition in addition to the raid partition.

LVM can be stacked on top of the raid, and is a great way to manage it.  You might want to see [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lvm](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lvm).

---

### Post by Bradburts on 2011-06-13
Thanks.
I think I see where I also went wrong.
Originally I think I selected Guided & setup LVM which gave me root & swap LVs which I then linked with software RAID. So I placed RAID on top of LVM rather than LVM on RAID
 
So should I....
1) Create 1 MB bios
2) Create 1 large partition for each disk
3) Link the two into RAID
4) use pvcreate to grab the RAID
5) vgcreate the group
6) Create root & swap partitions
7) Install 
Plz confirm.
 
I think that I can figure out the pvcreate etc commands but would like to know I am heading in the right direction before I spend the time and then find issues and loose all hair.
 
Finally please confirm that after all this I will be able to create new partions and mount points and therefore I would easily be able to say create a new LV and modify fstab to mount the new LV as, say, /var/mail???
The worse I may have to do is boot from a liveCD if I wanted to move something serious in root.
If this is the case then I love LVM as it obviously means I can do a lazy install now and just rejig latter on. 
Which I suppose explains why the simple two partition scheme presented by the installer is sufficient.

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-06-13
You don't need to run any of the manual lvm commands; the installer will do that for you.  Just setup the raid, then then choose the option to set up LVM.  Use the raid volume as the LVM PV, then define whatever LVs you want.

---

### Post by Bradburts on 2011-06-14
Thanks, that works fine!
It is a much easier install with 11.04.
The links were great, I know understand the disk organisation and I am sure that will help in the future.
 
Looking back at Brettg's comment, should I be worried with this setup? 
Cannot see any reason to worry, once the disks are set there is no reason to tinker.
Also out of preference would you hold the OS on another disk, say a USB stick?

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-06-14
Do bear in mind that the purpose of raid1 is to maintain server uptime; to keep it from going down until you replace the HD.  It is not a substitute for backups.

---

### Post by Bradburts on 2011-06-14
Thanks for all your help.
Yes, I will need to run backups as well, was just wondering if ppl prefer to install the OS onto a seperate drive and reasons why etc.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-06-22
I'm running a RAID10 array and have Ubuntu installed on it. I wanted to get the performance benefit of RAID0 as well as avoiding any interruption of service that RAID1 provides. I also back up important data to en external USB disk.
Some may choose to put the OS on an SSD for speed and reliability. I consider my RAID to have enough of both for my purposes.

---

