---
title: "7.10 :seting up my PC for remote connection ? How2 ?"
date: 2007-12-19
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2007-12-19
How can I setup my Ubuntu 7.10 so I can remotly connect to it and work on it as if I wa there.

I sometimes get long periods of doing nothing at work so I thought I could remotly connect to my hope PC to do developement on it but I do not know how.

Can someone tell me how or point me to the documentation/tutorial ?

---

### Post by reckless2k2 on 2007-12-19
it depends on if you want a GUI or not. My workplace blocks many things and restricts certain installs so your options might be limited. 

you want putty from a windows block to ssh into you ubuntu box at home. you will need to have ssh on the ubuntu box and ports open on your router at home. if this is all a foreign language to you then actually running the ubuntu desktop from home on you PC at work will be even more complicated. 

in the community docs they talk about all of this. if you want command line experience then simple ssh will be fine.

---

### Post by Browser_ice on 2007-12-19
> **reckless2k2 said:**
> running the ubuntu desktop from home on you PC at work will be even more complicated.

complicated but not impossible, right ?

This would be the ideal thing to what I am looking for.

How do I do it ?
What are the bad sides of it ?
Does this mean it will be easier for hackers to get into my PC ?

---

### Post by reckless2k2 on 2007-12-19
having port 22 will open you up for attacks but any open port will do that. i suggest a few things. 

in sshd_config you want to disable root login and put a setting for "AllowUsers" and only specify yourself. then install a program called fail2ban that will block attacks after like 5 failed attempts. simple solutions to harden yourself. 

as far as desktop to desktop....i use a simple program called xwinlogon from windows to linux if i need a desktop. you have to use compression over WAN. again...if this is crazy talk i'll explain more. 

the "hard" thing is that running X over ssh and LAN/WAN is not GNOME good. meanign that if you are using GNOME desktop then it can have problems. KDE works better and fluxbox works best. each has a little bit of a learning curve depending on what you are doing. 

you getting this? we might have to continue via PM.

---

