---
title: "9.10 server grub install nvidia raid FAIL!"
date: 2009-11-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by dreadmaul on 2009-11-20
This system was previously running 9.04 server, which installed and ran like a champ.

9.04 detected the nvidia raid array, configured the mapper and has been GREAT.

9.10 not so much.!

I did a complete fresh install from CD and while it did detect the nvidia array correctly it seems to fail on installation of grub, or lilo for that matter.

What is up with that?

---

### Post by dca on 2009-11-20
Is this similar to what you're experiencing?  User on new openSUSE says previous vers of openSUSE & Ubuntu both worked w/o a hitch.  Might have to file a kernel bug report?
 
Is there any reasons you needed to go w/ 9.10?  I would see if 8.04LTS works and stay with that until the next LTS comes out...

---

### Post by dreadmaul on 2009-11-20
Here's an interesting update.

I tried installing 9.10 x64 desktop and it actually installed just fine.

It's running on the array using mapper and installed grub and everything.

So... why does desktop install work just fine but server install has an epic fail?

Things that make you go hmmmmm?

---

### Post by dreadmaul on 2009-11-22
So.. since there is no apparent FIX to the problem, I checked into a work around.

So I reinstalled 9.04 server from scratch with all the partitions setup the way I wanted. Then I did a do-release-upgrade and it APPARENTLY WORKED!

So the system is showing 9.10 in /etc/issue and I am still running on my lvm'd nvidia raid volume.

Still would like to see the 9.10 server cd work correctly though!

---

