---
title: "12.04.4 released already?"
date: 2014-01-17
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by mark99 on 2014-01-17
Hi,

I performed an apt-get dist-upgrade on approximately thirty 12.04.3 servers this morning (mostly VMs, some installs on hardware). All of those servers are now reporting 12.04.4, and 7 of them (6 VM, 1 hardware) had Apache 2.2 upgraded to Apache 2.4 (which broke a ton of stuff). There are another 15 or so servers still running Apache 2.2, and I can't figure out what forced the 2.4 upgrade on those specific machines.

I thought 12.04.4 wasn't going to be released until the 6th of Feb. What happened?

Note: I'm in Australia, would something to do with local APT mirrors be the cause?

-- Mark

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2014-01-17
The updated 12.04.4 ISO images will be released in Feb. You are more then welcome to help testing them:
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/precise/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/precise/daily-live/current/)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-17
Doesn't sound like mark99 is or wants test it, sounds like he is being forced to involuntarily use it!

---

### Post by howefield on 2014-01-17
Not unusual to see the new release announce itself in advance of the official release date.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2014-01-17
No, they just updated the [base-files package in preparation for the release of 12.04.4]("http://changelogs.ubuntu.com/changelogs/pool/main/b/base-files/base-files_6.5ubuntu6.7/changelog") in Feb. They always do that.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-01-17
Just saw a BootInfo report from a user who just installed 12.04 and it said 12.04.4, but still had the 3.8 kernel. The manifest shows 3.11 for 12.04.4, so it seems the description has changed on download (or probably update)?

---

### Post by howefield on 2014-01-17
> **oldfred said:**
> Just saw a BootInfo report from a user who just installed 12.04 and it said 12.04.4, but still had the 3.8 kernel. The manifest shows 3.11 for 12.04.4, so it seems the description has changed on download (or probably update)?

Sounds like s/he installed 12.04.3 and updated, one would have to fresh install 12.04.4 to get the 3.11 (saucy) kernel or manually install via apt-get.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-17
I just did a 'sudo apt-get update/upgrade' and:

```
cat /etc/issue
Ubuntu 12.04.4 LTS \n \l
```

On a regular Xubuntu install and a minimal.

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2014-01-17
Mine too. When I create a VM I always do apt-get upgrade and I see 12.04.4 on the new installs. I haven't done upgrades on production servers so I don't know which may be broken. But now announcement at all and just release a new version? I remember this happening in 12.04.3.

---

### Post by thnewguy on 2014-01-18
My systems also show that they are running 12.04.4, however my Apache version has remained at 2.2. Not sure what would have caused the OP's server to get a new version of the web server.

---

### Post by mark99 on 2014-01-18
Bucky Ball is correct - I did not expect or want the 12.04.4 upgrade at this time. I especially did not want Apache 2.4 due to the breakage it causes with some compiled modules that we use.

I am still unable to work out why we got Apache 2.4 on some servers and not others. I wonder if there is a package installed on those particular servers and not on the others which forced the 2.4 install. Is it possible to work it out by typing some apt command, or looking at a dependency graph somewhere?

---

