---
title: ".xls (visual basic) to .asp conversion"
date: 2010-09-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jonny.milano on 2010-09-16
Well, I know this is a bit out in left field but my gf's dad has created a fairly large application in Excel 2003 and now we need to run it online. I setup mono and xsp2 on my Ubuntu server in order to test but have no idea how to convert a monster .xls file in VB to ASP or maybe even PHP (one can hope, right??) 

Does anyone out there know?

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-09-16
well there are a couple problems. 
first VB != VBA != VB.Net. if dude used Excel 2k3 to build it, then it is in VBA (visual basic for applications) which is based on VB6 (the last pre-.net version).

as for moving it to asp, that will be rather tricky, especially without tools like visual studio. 
pages are reasonably complex objects, with a series of lifecycle events that can be tricky to the uninitiated. I have no idea if apache + mono can even run aspx pages. 

i would start by upscaling the vba to vb.net or c#.net (it's not as hard as you might think), and then start trying to get it into the page, peice by peice,

---

### Post by jonny.milano on 2010-09-16
OK, I checked with him. It is infact in VBA. So, this move to VB.Net, how is it done? What's Visual Studio? Are we crazy? 

I have background with Apache, PHP, and HTML but I've managed to install mono and xsp2 and have confirmed that the demo .aspx files are running along with .asmx files (why do I feel like we may need to convert the Excel file to .asmx files too?? *groannn)

I've done some research and see that Apache can and will! ;) run mono and aspx files. I think it just passes them to mono, gets them back, and serves.

---

### Post by jonny.milano on 2010-09-16
More Googling (sp?) has me wondering if converting to vb.net is needed.

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-09-16
well if you want to run it via mono, you do need some .net runtime in there. thats what mono is, an OSS implementation of the .net clr and C#. you are right, there are probably other ways but they will require some development. you probably  won't be able to just copy code to a new file, or run some conversion script.

now you may be refering to ASP classic (pre .net) which would use VB6, but won;t run under mono. unless you find another way to host it, you will need an MS server.

---

### Post by jonny.milano on 2010-09-16
So.. er.. I know we are on Ubuntu Forums here but you've been so helpful. I can easily get a Windoze Server up and running. Would this mean I could run this mammoth .xls file in VBA on the Windows Server. Maybe even run a VM Server (Windows 2003) under Ubuntu. Would this make our conversion from VBA any easier??

THANK YOU thank you THANK YOU!

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-09-17
> **jonny.milano said:**
> So.. er.. I know we are on Ubuntu Forums here but you've been so helpful. I can easily get a Windoze Server up and running. Would this mean I could run this mammoth .xls file in VBA on the Windows Server. Maybe even run a VM Server (Windows 2003) under Ubuntu. Would this make our conversion from VBA any easier??

THANK YOU thank you THANK YOU!
very possibly, though I caution you, this is a highly custom thing so we can only be of so much help. you probably want to use MS frontpage. I don't thing expressions can do classic asp. I've only ever deployed the .net version, so I can't be of too much help with the exact components needed, but you should be able to find some tutorials on creating asp classic apps.

in the end, your best bet is probably to rewrite the thing, using the existing code as a knowledge base. it is likely that there isn't enough of a program to stand alone (hence it used excel as a hosting algorithm).

if you want, post the code, and I'll see if I can make an informed recommendation.

---

### Post by koenn on 2010-09-17
> **endotherm said:**
> 
in the end, your best bet is probably to rewrite the thing, using the existing code as a knowledge base. it is likely that there isn't enough of a program to stand alone (hence it used excel as a hosting algorithm).
this



or, quick and dirty : just put the entire xls file on a web server. If you open it through IE, on a computer where a compatible version of Excel is installed, it'll probably work. Slap on a  notification saying "you need Windows, Internet Explorer and Excel 2003 to view this page" to pretend it's a design decision.
It violates every principle I hold dear in web and application development, but it might actually work.

---

### Post by jonny.milano on 2010-09-17
> **koenn said:**
> this
It violates every principle I hold dear in web and application development, but it might actually work.

I know right! This was actually talked about - and I really was not into the idea but it may be a quick and dirty solution while we move this thing to ASP. It's huge and I will try and get some code to post up here (thank you endotherm for having a look at it).

---

### Post by jonny.milano on 2010-09-21
After more digging and searching (endotherm you were a huge help) we've come to the conculsion that this would just be a total rewrite (take screenshots and work closely with my g-friend's dad). It's gonna be crazy.

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-09-25
sounds like it'll be a fun project, and a good opportunity to bond with the gf's dad. 
good luck, and feel free to pm me if you have any questions. can't guarantee I can help, but...

---

### Post by jonny.milano on 2010-09-26
> **endotherm said:**
> sounds like it'll be a fun project, and a good opportunity to bond with the gf's dad. 
good luck, and feel free to pm me if you have any questions. can't guarantee I can help, but...

Sounds good! and thank you SO much! JM

---

