---
title: "iptables won't allow email to pass thru"
date: 2007-06-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-20
I have an ubuntu 7.04 box with iptables setup to forward port 80 requests to 8080 where dansguardian is.
This works fine for the content filtering.

It seems however I need addtional rules to allow email traffic to just pass through the firewall to the internet as right now when using the ubuntu box as the gateway it interferes with pop3 and smtp.

There is no mail server on the ubuntu box so I just want it to accept the email traffic and send it on its way in/out

Here is the physical layout

my network ----ubuntu(default gateway)----cisco 506e(set to allow all outbound traffic no other rules)---internet

any suggestions on what I would need to do?

Thanks,

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-06-20
Its hard to tell, but it sounds like you are not using your own SMTP server; but are using your ISP to send and receive email.  if so, you need to open outbound ports for sending to and receiving from your ISP, and allow the established inbound connection.  Pick the ports that match what your ISP requires:

port 25 for SMTP (possibly 587 if you use a submission port instead)
port 110 for POP3 (995 for secure POP)
port 143 for IMAP (993 for secure IMAP)

MrC

---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-21
I believe I have the correct ports open though at time of posting I did not have access to the contents of my iptables. I'll post it in a few when I am back at work.

Thanks,

---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-21
ok here is my iptables

```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Tue Jun 19 17:38:09 2007
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [572624:301499277]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [599703:302710434]
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 110 -j ACCEPT 
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 110 -j ACCEPT 
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT 
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Jun 19 17:38:09 2007
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Tue Jun 19 17:38:09 2007
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [69471:4782677]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [26050:1564826]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [26050:1564826]
-A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080 
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Jun 19 17:38:09 2007

```

---

### Post by turinglabs on 2007-06-21
> **prezbedard said:**
> 
It seems however I need addtional rules to allow email traffic to just pass through the firewall to the internet as right now when using the ubuntu box as the gateway it interferes with pop3 and smtp.


Packets being routed through your firewall will cross the FORWARD chain (they won't hit the input or output chains, those are for traffic to or from your firewall itself).  Since you already have a default ACCEPT policy on your FORWARD chain, you just need to enable IP forwarding to get this to work. 

If you only want to allow pop3 and smtp through the firewall from your LAN (and drop the rest), then you need to add a few rules to the FORWARD chain, and you should also change the default policy to DROP:

```

iptables -P FORWARD DROP
iptables -A FORWARD -i <LAN interface> -s <LAN network> -p tcp -m multiport --destination-port 25,110 -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -j LOG --log-prefix "FORWARD DROP:"
iptables -A FORWARD -j DROP

```

The above also logs any drops. Somewhat better would be creating a separate rule for SMTP traffic, and specifying a destination of your ISP's email relay.

---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-21
I was thinking I needed to do some forwarding but am not familiar enough with iptables.

What is the best way to put in a rule for smtp/pop3 traffic?


Thanks

---

### Post by turinglabs on 2007-06-22
This rule is the pop3/SMTP rule:

'iptables -A FORWARD -i <LAN interface> -s <LAN network> -p tcp -m multiport --destination-port 25,110 -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT'

But you don't need it if you turn on IP forwarding at the operating system level with 'sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward=1' (since you are allowing all traffic across your FORWARD chain already).

---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-25
I went in and added the smtp/pop3 rule

I checked my iptables file and the rule was there however all the other rules were gone!!

This has happened on several occasions now.

I re added the port forward for 80 to 8080

**What causes this to happen and what can I do to prevent it?**

Also on another note I found that this box could get onto the interent though it could in the local network. I found that the default gateway was gone. I figured how to re add it and hope that doesn't happen again.

Thanks again,

---

### Post by turinglabs on 2007-06-25
The '-A' means append, so adding a rule like that won't overwrite your rules. They were probably empty to begin with. You can always check with 'iptables -L -nvx' before you add a rule.

---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-26
Is there anything else besides a reboot of the machine that can clear the iptables?

I've been reading about how to write a  script that can restore the rules at startup.

---

### Post by turinglabs on 2007-06-26
> **prezbedard said:**
> Is there anything else besides a reboot of the machine that can clear the iptables?

I've been reading about how to write a  script that can restore the rules at startup.

This will clear the tables and reset all the counters:

```

for table in filter nat mangle
do
	iptables -t $table -F
	iptables -t $table -X
done

```

A good way to do your own iptables script is to tie it to network startup. You can use the 'pre-up' command in /etc/network/interfaces for this. See interfaces ( 5 ).

---

### Post by prezbedard on 2007-06-27
Thanks for the help. I'm going to look into the pre-up.

One other question. Is there a reason iptables is set to clear when a machine is rebooted? Doesn't seem to make much sense logically anyway.

Thanks,

---

### Post by turinglabs on 2007-06-27
The iptables chains will always come up empty with default accept policies, and IP forwarding disabled at boot-time, unless a startup script of some sort changes this.

---

