---
title: "[18.04] Unable to get IP via DHCP with netplan"
date: 2018-05-02
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by voidrunner2 on 2018-05-02
Env: Windows Pro 10 running VirtualBox 5.2.8
Iso: Ubuntu server live 18.04
Created a vm with a single bridged networking adaptor
Proceeding through basic server install. Times out at network config if using DHCP for ipv4, (ipv6 is disabled). Worked ok when switched to static ip
completed install, edit /etc/netplan/*.yaml (50-cloud-init.yaml)
replaced manual IP config with renderer: networkd, dhcp4: yes, dhchp6: no, ran netplan apply
Unable to get ip address
Trying manually: $ sudo dhclient <nic>
got IP, everything works
reboot
can't get IP (sitting at Wait for network)
.... sigh

---

### Post by voidrunner2 on 2018-05-03
Updated virtualbox to 5.2.10 ... same issue
Switched to server alt iso - installed just fine but after reboot it again can't get ip
Switched Bridge to Nat - live installer got IP no problem.
16.04 has no issues with bridged. I wonder if it's some virtualbox bug that 18.04 runs into

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2018-05-03
I don't think it's a Virtualbox bug (unless the Windows version has one that the Linux version doesn't). I have several 18.04 servers running in VMs which have no trouble getting an IP address with a bridged network adapter.

I did notice that your .yaml filename is different from mine. Mine is 01-netcfg.yaml. Might that be making a difference?

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2018-05-03
I used VirtualBox 5.2.8 on Windows 10 and the "alternate" server ISO was able to get a DHCP address during install.  I am hard-wired into the LAN, not Wireless.

LHammonds

---

### Post by Scottworld on 2018-05-22
OK I managed to fix the Virtual box / Bridge / Netplan issue ...  where you dont get a DHCP address on a bridge...


Steps I did were...

    apt update
    apt dist-upgrade
    apt install bridge-utils


Now rename / move the default cloud netplan config and create a new one for the bridge.

      mv 50-cloud-init.yaml 50-cloud-init.old
      nano 01-bridge.yaml


Below are the contents of  01-bridge.yaml  (if you want a static address you can modify the file with the parameters needed)
#-----------------------------------------
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd

  ethernets:
    switchports:
      match: {name: "en*"}

  bridges:
    br0:
      interfaces: [switchports]
      dhcp4: yes
      parameters:
        stp: false
        forward-delay: 0
#---------------------------------------------------

Create the file /etc/cloud/cloud.cfg.d/99-disable-network-config.cfg containing:

    network: {config: disabled}

Then run:

    netplan --debug apply

You will find the bridge does not take the DHCP request and you wont get an address.....
SO.. with the virtual machine powered off, go into the Virtual box settings of the network adaptor and make sure you have the following set for your VM

     Attached to BRIDGED ADAPTER
     Promiscuous Mode: ALLOW ALL      <---  This is what fixed it for me

Bring up the VM again and you should get a DHCP address on the Bridge.

---

