---
title: "8.04.1 LTS Server Support Inquiry"
date: 2008-10-28
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by kotter71 on 2008-10-28
If I install the ubuntu-desktop group of packages on top of the 8.04.1 Server distro and add a bunch of additional desktop packages (such as OpenOffice, firefox, etc), will all of this software still be supported until 2013?  Or just the software that is considered part of the original Server-only package?

I hope this question made sense.  If anyone has any links to the actual LTS support contract details, I would love to know about it.  Everything that I have found about LTS support so far is very superficial.

The reason I ask is that I want to delay the mandatory update on a bunch of workstations for as long as possible (certainly longer than 18 months).  If I install the Desktop version of 8.04, then I am only covered until 2011.  However, if I install the Server version and just add a subset of the desktop components (which is all that my users really need), then it looks, on the surface, as if I will covered until 2013.  Am I missing something here?

Please advise and thanks very much for you time,
Brent.

---

### Post by Vegan on 2008-10-28
The server and desktop are quite different. The server can manage with more memory etc while the desktop is more limited.

I use the server, and remote manage it with TELNET.

---

### Post by kotter71 on 2008-10-28
> **Vegan said:**
> The server and desktop are quite different. The server can manage with more memory etc while the desktop is more limited.

I use the server, and remote manage it with TELNET.

Yeah, I understand that (although, without knowing too much about your setup, I really don't recommend the remote management of anything using TELNET, if you can help it).  But that's not my question.

I need to know if all of the packages on my machine are supported for 5 years or are some of the desktop packages I just installed somehow only supported for 3 years.  Basically I am looking for more information on how exactly LTS Desktop vs. Server is supposed to work.  3 years from now, I don't want to run Update and suddenly find out that all of the "Server" packages are still receiving updates, while all of my "Desktop" packages are not.

For this reason I just sent an email to Ubuntu Sales; however, I was hoping that some of you folks out there have already had experience with something like this.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-10-28
If you are paying for support it is best to contact Canonical. Am I reading this right that  you don't plan to do any updating for 18 months? You should at least do the security updates at the least. 

I agree with you about advising the other poster that using telnet for administration is unsafe.

Jim

---

### Post by kotter71 on 2008-10-29
> **cariboo907 said:**
> If you are paying for support it is best to contact Canonical. Am I reading this right that  you don't plan to do any updating for 18 months? You should at least do the security updates at the least. 

I agree with you about advising the other poster that using telnet for administration is unsafe.

Jim

Actually, no.

It's like this:

1) I want the longest support path possible.  3 years is good.  But 5 years is so much better.

2) The Desktop LTS version (8.04) is supported for 3 years (until 2010).  The Server LTS version (8.04) is supported for 5 years (until 2013).

3) For this reason, I want to install the Server 8.04.1 LTS version on my clients' workstations, and then I want to additionally install the "ubuntu-desktop" group of packages, so that my users will have a GUI (just like I might do with any server, should I decide that I want it to have a GUI there, too).  In addition, I will install all sorts of other necessary desktop applications (like OpenOffice, Firefox, etc).

4) After 3 years, I want to be absolutely certain that I can still update ALL of the packages I installed on these systems.  This is why I am worried that the "desktop" applications may no longer be supported with updates during the 4th, and 5th years.  I need to know whether or not any packages NOT considered "Server" software in this particular LTS release still receive developer attention.

5) After the 5th year (2013), 8.04 LTS will no longer be supported.  As such, I will be forced to UPGRADE to the next LTS version.  Fair enough.

6) I am not "paying" Ubuntu for any additional support.  I am simply inquiring into the details of what the general "Desktop" versus "Server" LTS support agreement entails.

Is this more clear?

---

### Post by Macchi on 2008-10-29
I probably should not jump into this discussion, but as an IT manager for a middle sized industry I understand the difficult dilemma between: (1) long term stability & support AND (2) short term flexibility & added functionality.

The server and the desktop distros strive also toward different goals and different directions. A "Frankenstein" distro server+desktop would be difficult to manage in practice. For instance, what happens to hardware and software between year 3 to year 5? It could be manageable for half a dozen machines but definitely cannot be handled with elegance for several dozen machines.

My recommendation is to stick to STANDARD DISTROS such as Ubuntu and prepare for evolution and change. Reflect upon a growth and migration strategy for the organization that accounts for each class of systems such as servers, workstations and desktops. 

PS: Please forget about that program called TELNET on a server (unless you are working with embedded systems) Take a few minutes to read the ssh-server recommendations on the Ubuntu community wiki and stick to encrypted communications for administration of your servers in the future.

---

### Post by kotter71 on 2008-10-29
> **Macchi said:**
> I probably should not jump into this discussion, but as an IT manager for a middle sized industry I understand the difficult dilemma between: (1) long term stability & support AND (2) short term flexibility & added functionality.

The server and the desktop distros strive also toward different goals and different directions. A "Frankenstein" distro server+desktop would be difficult to manage in practice. For instance, what happens to hardware and software between year 3 to year 5? It could be manageable for half a dozen machines but definitely cannot be handled with elegance for several dozen machines.

My recommendation is to stick to STANDARD DISTROS such as Ubuntu and prepare for evolution and change. Reflect upon a growth and migration strategy for the organization that accounts for each class of systems such as servers, workstations and desktops. 

PS: Please forget about that program called TELNET on a server (unless you are working with embedded systems) Take a few minutes to read the ssh-server recommendations on the Ubuntu community wiki and stick to encrypted communications for administration of your servers in the future.

Thanks very much for your thoughtful reply.  I sincerely appreciate all of the responses so far.  [One minor correction, however: I've been a system administrator for more than a decade and I stopped using TELNET back in the 1990s.  TELNET was first mentioned in the comment of the first reply.  But no matter.  Your point is well worth repeating.]

I have one question.  How does adding a GUI to your server suddenly make it a "Frankenstein" distro?  I realize that real system administrators spend ~99% living in the command line (and so do I), and for most, adding a GUI would not necessarily be a consideration.  However, I had always imagined that running "apt-get install ubuntu-desktop" shouldn't necessarily invalidate the status of my machine as a "Ubuntu Server" classification.  In this regard, I assume that my system would be no different than a RedHat/CentOS distro in which a GUI can be installed on all of their server products right out of the box.  The question is whether or not Ubuntu sees it the same way.  And I suspect they do not.

With regard to your comment about managing hardware, I work in a university.  These people simply DO NOT upgrade hardware.  Ever.  They hang onto their antiquated machines until someone forces the mice and keyboards out of their hands.  And the machines we purchased are perfect for them, especially taking into account that they don't have any PCI cards whatsoever -- everything (NIC, Sound, and Video) is provided by the Intel motherboard.  This is the most static environment I have ever worked in.  This is exactly why the longest term support is the most beneficial.  Of course, if something breaks (ie. the motherboard), then we might be forced to upgrade to a more recent board (and thus a more recent distro).  Since we only have 7 machines in this particular group, this is not a big issue.

Does anybody know where Ubuntu publishes the details of their LTS agreement documents?  I did contact Ubuntu Sales yesterday, but so far there is no response.

Thanks again to every one who is pitching in.

---

### Post by koenn on 2008-10-29
> **kotter71 said:**
>   3 years from now, I don't want to run Update and suddenly find out that all of the "Server" packages are still receiving updates, while all of my "Desktop" packages are not.

The way I understand LTS, this is exactly what's going to happen.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2008-10-29
Interesting thread; I've wondered the same thing myself. 

However, I do not think it is really as big of a deal as you're making it out to be. I can see critical server packages continuing to evolve as new security threats emerge. But how many updates do you think, for example, OpenOffice 2.4 is likely to receive in 2012 and 2013? My prediction is that OpenOffice 2.4 will be quite stable by April 2011. 

I absolutely agree, however, that you deserve a straight answer to your question. Good luck!

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-10-29
> **kotter71 said:**
> If I install the ubuntu-desktop group of packages on top of the 8.04.1 Server distro and add a bunch of additional desktop packages (such as OpenOffice, firefox, etc), will all of this software still be supported until 2013?  Or just the software that is considered part of the original Server-only package?Hi Brent,

You can be forgiven for being confused about exactly what is, and isn't covered under the 5 year LTS banner for Ubuntu Server compared with the 3 year cover for the Desktop version.

As I understand it, the only packages eligible for receiving updates for the full 5 years are those packages explicitly listed in the Server edition package list. You can see the list for 8.04.1 Server edition at [http://releases.ubuntu.com/hardy/ubuntu-8.04.1-server-i386.list](http://releases.ubuntu.com/hardy/ubuntu-8.04.1-server-i386.list) - the /pool/main/ and /pool/restricted/ trees are what you're interested in. This list can be considered exhaustive on the basis that a full server install can be achieved without an Internet connection and hence all available packages are on the CD.

Any packages installed over and above that list (including a GUI and related apps from the main/restricted repositories) will only be supported for 3 years.

Canonical really need to clarify this and provide unambiguous advice as it causes endless confusion.

> The reason I ask is that I want to delay the mandatory update on a bunch of workstations for as long as possible (certainly longer than 18 months).  If I install the Desktop version of 8.04, then I am only covered until 2011.  However, if I install the Server version and just add a subset of the desktop components (which is all that my users really need), then it looks, on the surface, as if I will covered until 2013.  Am I missing something here?As 8.04 is an LTS release then the Desktop version will be fully supported until April '11 (3 years), and the Server version (limited to the packages in the Server list) until April '13 (5 years). See the graphic [here]("http://www.ubuntu.com/products/whatisubuntu/serveredition/benefits/lifecycle") for details.

Only standard releases are limited to 18 months support (this applies equally to Desktop/Server editions).

Any help? Or have I just confused you even more?!

Mathew

---

### Post by kotter71 on 2008-10-30
> **snowpine said:**
> Interesting thread; I've wondered the same thing myself. 

However, I do not think it is really as big of a deal as you're making it out to be. I can see critical server packages continuing to evolve as new security threats emerge. But how many updates do you think, for example, OpenOffice 2.4 is likely to receive in 2012 and 2013? My prediction is that OpenOffice 2.4 will be quite stable by April 2011. 

I absolutely agree, however, that you deserve a straight answer to your question. Good luck!

That's a really good point.  It's funny that I was just thinking about this before I checked for any new replies.  So long as I am getting the latest kernel, along with software most vulnerable to remote exploits (sshd, I am looking at you), then who really cares about the rest?  Some of the profs here are still using RedHat 9.  So updates of desktop apps are truly not a concern here.

---

### Post by kotter71 on 2008-10-30
MJN, I think you have completely solved this issue for me.  I believe that this case is officially closed.  Thanks everyone for your contributions!

---

