---
title: "DOS Attack"
date: 2009-02-13
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by spynappels on 2009-02-13
Hi Guys,

 This may seem like a very basic question, but how can I check if a webserver has been subjected to a DOS attack on port 80? A server has been generating a huge amount of traffic, enough to bring down an internet connection to an entire office. I'm not sure where from. I presume the auth logs will not show this as nobody is necessarily logging into the server, but how can I track where traffic is coming from and find out if it is a DOS attack?

Any help gratefully accepted.

Stef.

---

### Post by marduk667 on 2009-02-13
I would start with the serverlogs and netstat...

---

### Post by ddmdllt on 2009-02-13
If the attack was made using regular HTTP requests and if you're using apache, apache logs should be able to answer you.

I'm not sure however of what is logged if a TCP connection is opened on port 80 but without further valid HTTP request. In this case, I suppose your firewall log may help.

---

### Post by hossan on 2009-02-13
You can try the below given commands on your terminal 

$ *sudo tcpdump -npi eth0 port http*

It displays the traffic to your eth0 network device. If you spot an IP that seems to be making unusual number of connections you can block it.


$ *sudo netstat -plan|grep :80|awk {'print $5'}|cut -d: -f 1|sort|uniq -c|sort -nk 1*

This one can sort and display the number of apache connections from client IP's to the server.

Apache access logs can also you help you on this.

---

### Post by spynappels on 2009-02-13
Thanks for that guys.

Does netstat log? can I check what netstat saw yesterday? The server has been taken offline as it was constantly crashing the internet for the entire office, even if port forwarding was disabled. 

This makes me feel that the traffic was being generated by the server, but this would suggest it had been cracked as it was not set up to generate traffic unless specifically asked to.

---

### Post by ddmdllt on 2009-02-13
Most programs that write to standard text output may be used to log (with a loop, some pipes, and a redirection of the output),

I've not the time to develop more on this just now, but I suppose someone else may help you before I come back.

---

### Post by spynappels on 2009-02-13
OK, I have the server isolated. There is an entry in the auth.log file that I am not sure about. Could anyone enlighten me as to what it does?

```
Feb 13 07:55:34 stefan-desktop sudo:     root : TTY=unknown ; PWD=/ ; USER=user ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/gconftool --get /system/http_proxy/use_http_proxy
Feb 13 07:55:35 stefan-desktop sudo:     root : TTY=unknown ; PWD=/ ; USER=user ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/gconftool --get /system/http_proxy/host
Feb 13 07:55:36 stefan-desktop sudo:     root : TTY=unknown ; PWD=/ ; USER=user ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/gconftool --get /system/http_proxy/port
```

Does this mean that this machine was set up as a proxy? Could this explain why the server was generating so much traffic? Now that it is connected to a different Internet node, it does not seem to be causing the internet to crash...

I'm out of my depth here..

---

