---
title: "12.04LTS - Apache 2.2.22 stops responding nightly - need to restart every morning"
date: 2013-12-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Fangs404 on 2013-12-20
I have a Linode running Ubuntu 12.04 LTS, current with all updates. Every morning for the last couple weeks, I've noticed that Apache is non-responsive. I have to restart (sudo service apache2 restart) to get it going again. Here are some server graphs:

last 24 hours:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/4FLhi83.png[/IMG]

last 30 days:
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/pbxDsP4.png[/IMG]

I've checked /var/log/apache2, and the current error.log offers no suggestions:

```
[Sun Dec 15 06:29:11 2013] [notice] Apache/2.2.22 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.3.10-1ubuntu3.9 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/1.0.1 configured -- resuming normal operations
[Sun Dec 15 06:29:28 2013] [notice] Graceful restart requested, doing restart
[Sun Dec 15 06:29:29 2013] [notice] Apache/2.2.22 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.3.10-1ubuntu3.9 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/1.0.1 configured -- resuming normal operations
[Mon Dec 16 19:09:52 2013] [notice] caught SIGTERM, shutting down
[Mon Dec 16 19:11:36 2013] [notice] Apache/2.2.22 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.3.10-1ubuntu3.9 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/1.0.1 configured -- resuming normal operations
[Mon Dec 16 19:28:17 2013] [error] server reached MaxClients setting, consider raising the MaxClients setting
[Tue Dec 17 12:24:51 2013] [notice] caught SIGTERM, shutting down
[Tue Dec 17 12:24:53 2013] [notice] Apache/2.2.22 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.3.10-1ubuntu3.9 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/1.0.1 configured -- resuming normal operations
[Tue Dec 17 13:14:51 2013] [error] server reached MaxClients setting, consider raising the MaxClients setting
[Wed Dec 18 16:00:42 2013] [notice] caught SIGTERM, shutting down
[Wed Dec 18 16:00:43 2013] [notice] Apache/2.2.22 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.3.10-1ubuntu3.9 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/1.0.1 configured -- resuming normal operations
[Wed Dec 18 17:31:15 2013] [error] server reached MaxClients setting, consider raising the MaxClients setting
[Thu Dec 19 11:10:14 2013] [notice] caught SIGTERM, shutting down
[Thu Dec 19 11:10:15 2013] [notice] Apache/2.2.22 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.3.10-1ubuntu3.9 with Suhosin-Patch mod_ssl/2.2.22 OpenSSL/1.0.1 configured -- resuming normal operations
[Thu Dec 19 11:46:23 2013] [error] server reached MaxClients setting, consider raising the MaxClients setting
```

The SIGTERM is me restarting it.

/var/log/syslog doesn't really offer any insights either. It's just filled with sendmail errors, but could those sendmail errors be contributing to the apache non-responsiveness?

I'd love any advice I can get. I just don't know why this is happening.

[edit]
Digging around, I discovered that the entries in my /etc/hosts file for my domain were wrong. I corrected those, but I have no idea if that'll fix my apache issues. It ought to fix the sendmail errors at least.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-12-20
Just curious but why would you need to have any entries in /etc/hosts when you can have them setup in DNS for your domain?

When Apache fails to respond, is it still listed as listening on port 80?

---

### Post by Fangs404 on 2013-12-21
> **CharlesA said:**
> Just curious but why would you need to have any entries in /etc/hosts when you can have them setup in DNS for your domain?

When Apache fails to respond, is it still listed as listening on port 80?

The reason I edited /etc/hosts is because [Linode's setup instructions say to do so](https://library.linode.com/getting-started#sph_ubuntu-debian).

Good question about port 80.... I'll check the next time it happens (probably tomorrow). It was non-responsive again today.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-12-21
Interesting. I thought that was done automatically, but hey, if the instructions tell you to do it.. do it. :p

---

### Post by Fangs404 on 2013-12-23
Hm, I'm not sure how to tell whether apache is listening on port 80. I tried "lsof -i" and saw nothing. netstat didn't really show anything either. Is there a specific command I should use?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-12-23
```
sudo netstat -nlp | grep 80
```

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2013-12-24
> **CharlesA said:**
> Interesting. I thought that was done automatically, but hey, if the instructions tell you to do it.. do it. :p

I suspect they suggest editing /etc/hosts because they don't expect most customers to run a DNS server.  You can configure reverse DNS from the "remote access" screen in the server's dashboard.  That creates a  PTR record for your IP address pointing to the hostname you enter.  Forward resolution requires a server providing DNS for your domain.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-12-24
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> I suspect they suggest editing /etc/hosts because they don't expect most customers to run a DNS server.  You can configure reverse DNS from the "remote access" screen in the server's dashboard.  That creates a  PTR record for your IP address pointing to the hostname you enter.  Forward resolution requires a server providing DNS for your domain.

I guess that makes sense. I've always added a DNS entry for both the main domain name and the server's hostname. Whatever works.

---

### Post by Fangs404 on 2013-12-24
> **CharlesA said:**
> ```
sudo netstat -nlp | grep 80
```

Ok, here's the output right now (apache stopped responding as expected last night and is currently not responding):

```
$ sudo netstat -nlp | grep 80
tcp6       0      0 :::80                   :::*                    LISTEN      7018/apache2
udp6       0      0 fe80::f03c:91ff:fe9:123 :::*                                2853/ntpd
unix  2      [ ACC ]     STREAM     LISTENING     800      2307/dbus-daemon    /var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket
```

So it's listening, it looks like. In fact, when I restart apache, I see similar output:

```
$ sudo service apache2 restart
 * Restarting web server apache2
 ... waiting                                                                                                                                           [ OK ]
$ sudo netstat -nlp | grep 80
tcp6       0      0 :::80                   :::*                    LISTEN      12760/apache2
udp6       0      0 fe80::f03c:91ff:fe9:123 :::*                                2853/ntpd
unix  2      [ ACC ]     STREAM     LISTENING     800      2307/dbus-daemon    /var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket
```

So, the output is essentially identical, save for the different pid.

Any ideas on what might be causing this? I just tried uninstalling (sudo aptitude remove apache2) and reinstalling (sudo aptitude install apache2), but I doubt that'll solve anything.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-12-24
Apache2 isn't listening on IPv4? 0.0.0.0:80? It looks like it's currently listening on localhost [noparse](:::)[/noparse], are you running Varnish or another caching proxy?

---

### Post by sandyd on 2013-12-25
> **Fangs404 said:**
> Ok, here's the output right now (apache stopped responding as expected last night and is currently not responding):

```
$ sudo netstat -nlp | grep 80
tcp6       0      0 :::80                   :::*                    LISTEN      7018/apache2
udp6       0      0 fe80::f03c:91ff:fe9:123 :::*                                2853/ntpd
unix  2      [ ACC ]     STREAM     LISTENING     800      2307/dbus-daemon    /var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket
```

So it's listening, it looks like. In fact, when I restart apache, I see similar output:

```
$ sudo service apache2 restart
 * Restarting web server apache2
 ... waiting                                                                                                                                           [ OK ]
$ sudo netstat -nlp | grep 80
tcp6       0      0 :::80                   :::*                    LISTEN      12760/apache2
udp6       0      0 fe80::f03c:91ff:fe9:123 :::*                                2853/ntpd
unix  2      [ ACC ]     STREAM     LISTENING     800      2307/dbus-daemon    /var/run/dbus/system_bus_socket
```

So, the output is essentially identical, save for the different pid.

Any ideas on what might be causing this? I just tried uninstalling (sudo aptitude remove apache2) and reinstalling (sudo aptitude install apache2), but I doubt that'll solve anything.
Odd - it seems apache is only listening on ipv6, and not ipv4. Is your site accessed via port 80?

Can you post a copy of your virtualhost please?

---

### Post by Fangs404 on 2013-12-26
Sorry for the slow responses - Christmas and all. Yes, it does appear that it's only listening on ipv6.... Very odd indeed. Here's my virtualhost:

```
<VirtualHost 173.255.198.65:80 [2600:3c00::f03c:91ff:fe93:824a]:80>
        ServerAdmin EMAIL_HERE
        ServerName gfairchild.com
        ServerAlias www.gfairchild.com
        DocumentRoot /srv/www/gfairchild.com/public_html/
        ErrorLog /srv/www/gfairchild.com/logs/error.log
        CustomLog /srv/www/gfairchild.com/logs/access.log combined
</VirtualHost>
```

That's it, pretty simple.

I can access my website just fine, and the router I'm using (WRT54GL) is older and not capable of ipv6 (at least not with the tomato firmware I have), so I know that ipv4 must be working....

> **CharlesA said:**
> Apache2 isn't listening on IPv4? 0.0.0.0:80? It looks like it's currently listening on localhost [noparse](:::)[/noparse], are you running Varnish or another caching proxy?

Nope, no caching proxies here. Just a few simple Wordpress sites and some stuff for my research.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-12-26
That looks right. Not sure why it isn't listening on IPv4, though, have you checked the apache or system logs?

---

### Post by Fangs404 on 2013-12-28
> **CharlesA said:**
> That looks right. Not sure why it isn't listening on IPv4, though, have you checked the apache or system logs?

Yeah, I checked apache and syslogs, and I don't see anything indicating a problem. That's why this is so confusing.

---

### Post by Henrik_Iivonen on 2013-12-31
Is your server ip NAT?
Can you paste output of 
```
ifconfig
```

I was just wondering if the ipv4 listen address was correct one.

---

### Post by Fangs404 on 2013-12-31
> **Henrik_Iivonen said:**
> Is your server ip NAT?
Can you paste output of 
```
ifconfig
```

I was just wondering if the ipv4 listen address was correct one.

```
$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr f2:3c:91:93:82:4a
          inet addr:173.255.198.65  Bcast:173.255.198.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: 2600:3c00::f03c:91ff:fe93:824a/64 Scope:Global
          inet6 addr: fe80::f03c:91ff:fe93:824a/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1930849 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1299493 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:777588107 (777.5 MB)  TX bytes:2598107316 (2.5 GB)

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:65536  Metric:1
          RX packets:58714 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:58714 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
          RX bytes:7033730 (7.0 MB)  TX bytes:7033730 (7.0 MB)
```

Does this look ok?

I've decided that if I can't get this resolved by this weekend, I'm just going to reinstall the OS. In fact, I need to do that anyway because my Linode is running 32-bit Ubuntu, and I want to switch to 64-bit.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2013-12-31
That looks right...

Are you moving to 64-bit because you increased the RAM your VPS has? I've been running 32-bit on all my VPSes, but none of them have 4GB of RAM.

---

### Post by Fangs404 on 2014-01-01
> **CharlesA said:**
> That looks right...

Are you moving to 64-bit because you increased the RAM your VPS has? I've been running 32-bit on all my VPSes, but none of them have 4GB of RAM.

I'm wanting to reformat anyway just because of this stupid apache error that no one can seem to diagnose. I've had the same install upgraded through several LTS versions, so it might just be that time. I don't currently have 4gb of ram yet, but I figure I might as well make the jump to 64-bit now because at the rate my VPS upgrades are coming, it won't be long before I'm at 4gb.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2014-01-01
> **Fangs404 said:**
> I'm wanting to reformat anyway just because of this stupid apache error that no one can seem to diagnose. I've had the same install upgraded through several LTS versions, so it might just be that time. I don't currently have 4gb of ram yet, but I figure I might as well make the jump to 64-bit now because at the rate my VPS upgrades are coming, it won't be long before I'm at 4gb.

Sounds reasonable. Good luck!

---

### Post by Fangs404 on 2014-01-07
After some frustrating debugging, I *think* I've tracked it down to mod_ssl. I have a single site (not of huge importance) that uses SSL. I hammered that one site, and I was able to reproduce the hanging issue. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apache2/+bug/1028470](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apache2/+bug/1028470) seems related, but at the end, they say that updating the kernel should fix it. However, I'm running a newer kernel than they suggest (I'm running 3.12.6), and I'm still experiencing the issue. [https://issues.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=54502](https://issues.apache.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=54502) hints that it might be fixed in Apache 2.4, but who knows since the ticket wasn't closed.

So I think what I'll do for now is disable the SSL site to make sure that fixes the issue. If it does, I'll just keep it disabled until 14.04 LTS comes out, which will surely upgrade Apache to 2.4, and perhaps the issue will be resolved then.

If this does indeed fix the issue (I'll likely know by midday tomorrow), I'll post again in this thread. This was beyond frustrating to debug, and if I can save someone else some headache, I'm happy.

If anyone knows of a way to make mod_ssl play nice and not cause Apache 2.2.22 to hang, I'd love to hear it!

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-01-07
Rather than rebuilding your current Linode, I'd recommend just creating a new one and starting with that.  Use dpkg with "--get-selections" to build a list of currently installed packages, and "dpkg --set-selections" to install the same packages on the new machine.  Then use rsync to copy over any relevant files in places like /etc or entire directories like /home.  Once it's working, change your DNS entries to point to the new server and turn off the current one.  Given that Linode charges only for the amount of time your server is operating, this won't cost you very much, and it will limit the amount of time your server is unavailable.

Make sure your DNS records have short lifetimes, say a TTL of 43200 or 86400.  You should keep the current server up for a couple of days after the switchover to handle people whose DNS servers haven't yet updated their cached entries for your domain.

---

### Post by Fangs404 on 2014-01-07
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> Rather than rebuilding your current Linode, I'd recommend just creating a new one and starting with that.  Use dpkg with "--get-selections" to build a list of currently installed packages, and "dpkg --set-selections" to install the same packages on the new machine.  Then use rsync to copy over any relevant files in places like /etc or entire directories like /home.  Once it's working, change your DNS entries to point to the new server and turn off the current one.  Given that Linode charges only for the amount of time your server is operating, this won't cost you very much, and it will limit the amount of time your server is unavailable.

Make sure your DNS records have short lifetimes, say a TTL of 43200 or 86400.  You should keep the current server up for a couple of days after the switchover to handle people whose DNS servers haven't yet updated their cached entries for your domain.

Dang, that would've been more convenient. I already rebuilt it, but when I inevitably have to do this again in the future, I'll use your method. That's a lot easier.

And it seems the mod_ssl issue was the reason for my headaches! Apache is still up this morning, and it's actually consistently responding much quicker than it used to.

---

