---
title: "Proftpd works on 14.04, gives 550 error on 16.04"
date: 2018-06-23
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2018-06-23
The title sums things up, but here's the detail about my problem. The drive that contains my 14.04 system and FTP server is failing the SMART tests, so I've installed 16.04 on a separate drive, moved critical stuff to the new drive, and installed a fresh copy of the server from the repositories. I've verified that the /etc/proftpd/proftpd.conf file's content matches that used in the older system, and that the full paths to the server's data storage files have the required permissions: 775 for directories and 774  for files. The configuration has been working properly for many years now, on the 14.04 system, the 12.04 before that, and back to 8.04 -- but the 16.04 installation consistently gives an error 550 permission denied result for any and every attempt to upload a file. This happens when accessing it from a remote location using my custom uploading program, when attempting to upload manually from a remote location, and even when accessing manually through localhost. Connection succeeds, and I can download, but uploading fails.

Google searches have revealed a number of similar but not quite identical situations. I've tried each of the "cures" described for those; only one of them resulted in any change at all and that change was to make the server refuse all connection attempts. I'm out of ideas now; I can provide logs but none of them go enough levels into the guts of the program to provide any hints.

I've suspected something in apparmor or systemd is causing this, but cannot find any apparmor profile that appears related to proftp at all, and systemd's actions remain a hidden mystery to me still. Anyone have ideas?

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2018-06-24
bump, please

---

### Post by darkod on 2018-06-24
I would focus on what user the write is intended as. I know you said you have the same config but focus on that part. With 775 you could RW only as owner user and group. Everyone else would have only R. Since you can download but not upload it looks obvious that proftpd is considering the connection is made by "other" user, not the one that has ownership.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2018-06-24
> **darkod said:**
> I would focus on what user the write is intended as. I know you said you have the same config but focus on that part. With 775 you could RW only as owner user and group. Everyone else would have only R. Since you can download but not upload it looks obvious that proftpd is considering the connection is made by "other" user, not the one that has ownership.As a matter of fact, you nailed it -- but since the uploads were all being attempted anonymously, the user name of "ftp" is being generated by the configuration file.

The idea finally dawned on me that perhaps I had forgotten to create "ftp" as a user during the setup of the new system, so I took a close look at the /etc/passwd file to see if that were the case. The user was there, as a system user with UID 126 -- but its home directory was shown as /svn/ftp rather than /home/ftp!

A quick use of "sudo usermod" to correct the route appears to have fixed the immediate problem. Uploading works properly once again. The debug logs, however, still show an invalid "setsockopt" report. The only cause I can find via Google appears to be lack of a pair of modules: ipt_nat_ftp and ipt_conntrack_ftp were shown in a 2003 message found in a Debian archive -- <https://lists.debian.org/debian-user/2003/02/msg03401.html> and the resulting thread. Since this was 14 years ago and things have changed considerable since that time, I'm reluctant to blindly load both modules. And I'm mystified by why the user "ftp" had its home directory in the wrong place!

However I'm glad to have the server working once again, and hopefully someone will have suggestions about the remaining mysteries. Thanks very much for the response!

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2018-06-25
And I finally figured out what happened: The install script for proftpd apparently creates the home directory for the user "ftp" in the "/srv" directory now, where the previous versions created it in "/home." My configuration file used the "~" shortcut for "/home/" to specify the location of the directory to use when doing the automatic chroot for anonymous users. Both /srv/ftp/ and /home/ftp/ have the same set of subdirectories, so I never got a "no such place" warning about the path mismatch, but the mismatch was totally confusing the server engine itself.

Lessons learned: (1) Do not use handy shortcuts in configuration files; always spell out full paths. (2) Verify home directory locations of all involved users whenever a seemingly impossible mystery pops up!

---

