---
title: ".htaccess ErrorDocument directives not working"
date: 2010-11-12
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Crazedpsyc on 2010-11-12
I have ubuntu 10.10 installed with apache2 on my laptop and everything has been going pretty smoothly with it. Now I am trying to set custom error documents. I did this before on 10.04 with apache2 but it doesn't work this time. I can go to the error page ([http://localhost/error.psp](http://localhost/error.psp)) by typing in the name, but if I go to something like [http://localhost/random.htm](http://localhost/random.htm) (which doesn't exist) I still get the same old apache2 error 404 page. I have the following in my .htaccess file (in /var/www) > ErrorDocument 400 /error.psp?errcode=400 ErrorDocument 401 /error.psp?errcode=401 ErrorDocument 403 /error.psp?errcode=403 ErrorDocument 404 /error.psp?errcode=404 ErrorDocument 405 /error.psp?errcode=405 ErrorDocument 408 /error.psp?errcode=408 ErrorDocument 410 /error.psp?errcode=410 ErrorDocument 411 /error.psp?errcode=411 ErrorDocument 412 /error.psp?errcode=412 ErrorDocument 413 /error.psp?errcode=413 ErrorDocument 414 /error.psp?errcode=414 ErrorDocument 415 /error.psp?errcode=415 ErrorDocument 500 /error.psp?errcode=500 ErrorDocument 501 /error.psp?errcode=501 ErrorDocument 502 /error.psp?errcode=502 ErrorDocument 503 /error.psp?errcode=503 ErrorDocument 506 /error.psp?errcode=506  and I restarted apache, but I still get that same apache2 error page. Any ideas?

EDIT: Ok i just fixed it. I added that same chunk to /etc/apache2/conf.d/localized-error-pages

but can you tell me how to get the attemped url in mod_python/psp?
I have "req.uri" now and it says /error.psp instead of /random.htm

---

