---
title: "14.04 Server: installing lightdm and Mate"
date: 2014-07-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by ju2wheels on 2014-07-18
Hi all, im running Ubuntu 14.04 server and im trying to get lightdm and Mate desktop going on it so that I can have the server headless most of the time but still be able to manually kick up lightdm and get a desktop as needed. 

I have done the following install: 'sudo apt-get install xorg xserver-xorg mate-desktop lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter nvidia-experimental-310'

And I setup /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf as follows:
```
[SeatDefaults]
greeter-session=lightdm-gtk-greeter
user-session=mate
```

Have also tried lightdm-gtk-greeter-ubuntu, but all I get on boot is a black screen with the underscore cursor on the top left of my screen. The logs dont show any errors other than the lightdm looks like it starts and then stops.

When I try to manually restart lightdm it throws an unknown instance error on stop and effectively does nothing.

Any thoughts on how I can get this going? I could install gdm or ubuntu-desktop first but I really dont want to.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-07-18
I do not run the mate desktop, but looking at the package, there doesn't look to be enough there to make a working desktop.

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/trusty/x11/mate-desktop](http://packages.ubuntu.com/trusty/x11/mate-desktop)

---

### Post by ju2wheels on 2014-07-20
Shiieet, good catch, all that text output and I would have never noticed it wasnt installing enough packages. So contrary to what I thought and despite there being some Mate packages there, Mate is actually not packaged for 14.04 in the default repos (only in 14.10).

I added the upstream repo and was then able to get it all working from a fresh install:
```

echo "deb http://repo.mate-desktop.org/archive/1.8/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mate-desktop.list
wget -qO - http://mirror1.mate-desktop.org/debian/mate-archive-keyring.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install xorg lightdm lightdm-gtk-greeter mate-core mate-desktop-environment mate-notification-daemon

```

---

