---
title: "11.04 Ubuntu VPS 100% RAM usage [images]"
date: 2012-04-03
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by royevans on 2012-04-03
As the title states, I currently have a VPS that, at first start, runs normally, but within a three-five day period the memory usage skyrockets.

Below is what I get from SSH using "top""

[IMG]http://puu.sh/nNDx[/IMG]

And here is the VPS process:

[IMG]http://puu.sh/nND4[/IMG]

Here is why I believe it's not normal:

[IMG]http://puu.sh/nNAN[/IMG]

The screenshots are posted in the reverse order from which they were taken. I've used "ps aux" as well, yet I still can't seem to find what is using all this memory. Any help would be appreciated.

*edit* I just ran "free -m:

[IMG]http://puu.sh/nPc2[/IMG]

I'm honestly at a loss here, free -m is saying one thing, as are the processes, but the monitor is saying another. could this be a problem with vePortal?

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2012-04-04
> **royevans said:**
> I'm honestly at a loss here, free -m is saying one thing, as are the processes, but the monitor is saying another. could this be a problem with vePortal?

Looks like you have 2gb 'guaranteed' RAM, and it's burstable to 3gb.  You're using more than that.  Perhaps that's why...?  Unless you mean before this 3-5 day period RAM usage is significantly lower than 2gb, and suddenly goes over 3gb...?

I don't know if you can sort columns with top, but you easily can with htop.  Hopefully you can install it (or already have it installed) and you can then just click on the %MEM column.  Perhaps this will help you find the culprit?  

Or are those absolutely all the processes running...?  If that's the case, then that is very strange indeed.

---

### Post by zeljkojagust on 2012-04-04
I agree with arrrghhh, if you have or can install htop check memory usage with it, but based on process listing and free output, I think there is something wrong with memory usage interpretation of GUI you are using for your VPS. Always trust your terminal.

---

### Post by royevans on 2012-04-18
The problem seems to have solved its self somehow.

---

