---
title: "12.04 server won't boot with raid10 for data"
date: 2013-11-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by jeffbaker2 on 2013-11-21
Greetings everyone.  First time poster, here.

I'm installing 12.04 server on two identical boxes.  

md0 is raid1 for swap (2 disk, no spares)
md1 is raid1 for / (2 disk, no spares)
md2 is software raid10 for data (8 disk + 2 hot spares) (this box is for psql) is an 

I can build the system fine with md0 and md1.  I tried building md2 using mdadm from the cli and the raid built fine.  When I rebooted it, the system hangs on a black screen very soon after Ubuntu starts to load.  I've read about issues with Ubuntu concealing and getting stuck at the warning message about booting with a degraded array, so I rebuilt the system and marked it ok to boot with a degraded array.  I experienced the same results.

I've also tried building md2 as part of the install routine.  I've built it first and last during install with the same results.  

Two identical systems are acting the same way.

I've spent days rebuilding these systems and I don't feel like I'm getting any closer.  If you have an idea what I'm doing wrong here, please let me know.  I've tried several different guides, but they all seem to be the same.  

Thanks

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-11-21
Welcome to the forums.  What is the rationale for RAID1 for swap?

Try using a non-RAID / install or just boot a LiveDVD and run some diagnostics to make sure the motherboard and PSU are OK.  It's possible that all of those drives trying to spin up at once is causing the voltage rails to sag so system can't boot correctly.  Plug in a voltmeter in the 12VDC pin on the motherboard and watch it during boot.  If it drops more than 10% then that could be the problem.  Check the 5VDC rail as well.

What is the hardware?

---

### Post by jeffbaker2 on 2013-11-21
Hi tgalati4.  Thanks for the quick reply**.**

The system is a SuperMicro Fattwin blade.  The blades slide in to a chassis for power, so there isn't a way for me to throw a voltmeter on it while it's running.  I'm thinking that it's probably not a power issue though, because there are 4 blades in this chassis and this happens whether all the blades are on or if just this one blade is on.  If I had a good way to get to it, I'd absolutely try your voltmeter idea just to confirm.  If it helps, the system seems to boot fine when the raid10 isn't configured.  

The swap is on raid1 because that's what the first guide I read on how to do this said to do.  :)  These blades have 128GB of RAM on them, so I'm hoping to never use the swap.  md0 is sda1/sdb1 and md1 is sda2/sdb2.  sda and sdb are both SSD.  The 10 drives for raid10 are spindles.

I really appreciate help on this.    I'm out of ideas.

Thanks

[edit:  I'll run some diagnostics on it tomorrow, but I have 2 blades that fail the same way under the same circumstances, so I'm not real hopeful that I'll find a hardware failure.]

---

### Post by jeffbaker2 on 2013-11-21
If it helps, the black screen that it boots to seems to happen even if I boot Ubuntu from a flash drive.  The situation persists until I erase the MBR on the raid10 drives.

---

