---
title: ".htaccess support in apache2"
date: 2006-04-16
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Gaia on 2006-04-16
Hi,

I'm having a problem with .htaccess and apache2.  It keeps giving me a forbidden message and not displaying directories containing an .htaccess file.

Is there something special you need to do to enable .htaccess?

Thanks.

---

### Post by dgrafix on 2006-04-16
lol,

im getting the absolute opposite. Im generating an .htaccess file and i  get no prompt whatsoever.

](*,)

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2006-04-16
Posting the files would be a good idea if oyu want help.  Also anything in error_log that may or may not be relevant.

---

### Post by dgrafix on 2006-04-16
here is apache2.conf:
[ATTACH]8401[/ATTACH]

here is .htaccess created as root with 644 perm

[B]AuthUserFile /var/www/html/secure/.htpasswd
AuthGroupFile /www.null
AuthName "Authorization Required"
AuthType Basic
require valid-user[/B]

also im confused on starting and stopping the apache:
this does one thing:
**sudo apache2 -k stop,start or restart**

and this does another:
**sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 stop,start or restart**

they are obviously different as one needs a -k. which do i use? 
Also, which user does apache use, is it root?

Where do i find this error_log?

@gaia, sorry to hijack your post, but reading on some of your posts on the other forums, were both trying to do the same thing, and having a similar nightmare time :)

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2006-04-16
For apache 2, i'll need to see sites-enabled/000-default, as that's relevant to the filesystem permisisons.  

You're probably just missing the correct 'AllowOverride' directive for that directory.

As for the invocation, use the second form.

As for error log, it is in /var/log/apache2.

---

### Post by peanut butter on 2006-04-17
lol i just asked this look at this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=161127]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=161127")

it should answer dgrafix's question.

---

### Post by dgrafix on 2006-04-17
hehe yes i saw that on the way in!

Unfortunately, i think it only really helps if you know what an override is (not just by definition :))

lordhunter, here is that file
[ATTACH]8409[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by dgrafix on 2006-04-17
im still totally confused over the way to start and stop apache. (see above)
the 'sudo apache2 -k start' version seems to be the only one to start the server and  the other is the only one that seems to stop it!!

---

### Post by LordHunter317 on 2006-04-17
You always use the second form above.    Always.  If it's not working, you screwed something up.

---

