---
title: "8.04 weird samba problem"
date: 2009-05-01
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-05-01
Basically I copied my smb.conf file from 6.06 and added the samba users with smbpasswd -a.

I've two shares on a mounted drive:  /data/1 /data/2  Everything is fine on 6.06 (I maintained dual boot for testing before committing to 8.04).

My problem is a windows user can connect to either share, answer the prompt with username and password and the share works fine.  The isssue is when they then try to access the second share it opens as expected without password but is read only.  Write access is essential. 

Rebooting windows lets me connect to either share correctly, but the the other becomes read only if accessed without rebooting. If I reboot into 6.06 without rebooting windows either share works correctly read/write (I kept usernames and passwords synced between 6.06 and 8.04 in an attempt to make the change over transparent to windows users.

This is a showstopper that will kill 8.04 replacing 6.06 which I was planning to roll out at the end of the month.  I hadn't noticed it as I was only using one share at a time until yesterday. 

Help! I've never seen anything like this before.

--wally.

---

### Post by Carlos Pena on 2009-05-02
Did you sorve your problem? 

I think you need to create the users in linux first using the useradd command (and groupadd if your have groups). And then create for samba with the smbpasswd command.

Carlos Pena
Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republica

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-05-06
The username and password are the default Ubuntu user setup during the install.  I've added that username and password with smbpasswd.  I've guest access disabled so read access would be denied if the samba username and password were incorrect.

--wally.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-05-06
Looks like a problem with synaptic and automatic updates.  Seems samba-common was at 4.7 while samba was at 4.4

Removing samba and reinstalling with apt-get install samba seems to have fixed things both ar 4.7 now and it again works as it always had.

--wally.

---

