---
title: "16.04 server : Script in /etc/cron.d wont run"
date: 2017-02-22
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by fizgig on 2017-02-22
So I have a simple file called startprogram in /etc/cron.d.  It has permissions 644 and is owned by root:root.

This file has one line:  ```
@reboot root /home/user/somedir/start_the_program.sh
```

The start_the_progam.sh program is dead simple:

```
#!/bin/bash
cd /home/user/somedir
touch am_I_here

```

I should then be able to restart ubuntu and then see a new file called "am_I_here".  As you may guess, I don't.  Can anyone guess why?

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-02-22
Have you tried making both files executable? Usually scripts run by cron still have to be executable. In your case you have one script calling up another one, so try making both of them executable.

---

### Post by fizgig on 2017-02-22
Thanks.  No other file in the /etc/cron.d directory was executable but I made it executable anyhow.  The .sh script was already executable.  Didn't seem to make a difference.

---

### Post by darkod on 2017-02-22
Then there is something wrong in the setup. Are you sure it should work that way to run scripts on boot? I have only done scheduled cron jobs, and using crontab -e to set them up.

Never an on-boot script in /etc/cron.d

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-02-22
Try using the full path of touch, ie **/usr/bin/touch** in your **start_the_progam.sh** as cron often needs that; it apparently has a different $PATH variable to users.

---

### Post by fizgig on 2017-02-22
Thank you.  I changed it to /usr/bin/touch (after verifying that was what it really was for me) and it still didn't run.  This is a real pain!

---

