---
title: "U10.10 Server - Mouse/Keyboard Unresponsive at Boot"
date: 2011-03-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Wug on 2011-03-20
I installed Ubuntu server 10.10 yesterday, which went OK.  Since then, I have un-crippled apt (which was configured to work only with local repositories on the CD, but it wasn't recognizing the CD so I manually added ubuntu's repositories).  After having done that, I installed xorg, gdm, gnome, openjdk, firefox, and worked out the kinks with the internet connection (which didn't configure automatically at the install)

I then apt-got nvidia-current and tried to configure it with 'sudo nvidia-xconfig'.  Reading the output, it indicated that there had not been a xorg.conf file when it began, and it had created one.  However, upon attempting to restart the X server, it failed.  I figured that I could get it back to before by deleting xorg.conf (since it had been created by nvidia-xconfig) and starting x again, which worked.  This leads me to my actual problem:

After that I restarted, and on that and subsequent restarts I get to the gdm login screen and the mouse and keyboard are totally unresponsive.  The indicator lights on the keyboard do not light up when I press the caps/num/scroll lock keys.  Numlock is on by default, and turns off right after ubuntu starts booting.  The indicator light on the usb wireless mouse is lit, indicating that it is recognized on some level.  I am stuck at the login window, unable to log in or do anything.  If I press the power button on the computer, the shutdown dialog box appears (but of course I can't click anything), so the system is responsive, just not the mouse or keyboard.

Furthermore, it would be cool if the original problem about installing the nvidia drivers was fixed too.

---

### Post by Wug on 2011-03-20
It seems like responsiveness is lost as soon as the bios stuff is finished and OS begins to load.  I spammed caps lock to determine exactly when it broke, and it was very shortly after the bios' hard drive detection screen (which appears at every boot).

---

### Post by Wug on 2011-03-20
I did some googling on xorg.conf and tried to set up a manual section for the keyboard in it, including the following:

```
Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

```

but I still had the same problem.  I have basic access to the filesystem through the 'Rescue a Broken System' set of utilities on the install CD.

---

### Post by Wug on 2011-03-20
I've given up and am reinstalling.  I found a few other threads with what seem to be the same problem, and none of them found a solution, most just tried a bunch of things and got nowhere, then reinstalled.  The worst part is I have no idea what could have even caused it - nvidia-xconfig did nothing other than create xorg.conf and deleting it should have reverted the system to its original state, but it didn't.  Oh well.

edit -
I'm leaving the thread open just in case somebody does have a solution, since other people seem to have had this problem but it doesn't seem to have been solved.

---

### Post by Vegan on 2011-03-20
Check your BIOS and make sure USB Legacy is enabled and then get a new keyboard and install 10.10 fresh and try that

---

### Post by Wug on 2011-03-21
First of all, it isn't that it never worked, it's that they both suddenly stopped working at the same time.  They both worked in the bios and in windows.  And they had been working before.  If the bios had not been configured to work with the mouse and keyboard, than the past year of my life has been a lie.  Especially because I was constantly navigating around the boot menu as I switched between devices with the keyboard.

In any case, I reinstalled and everything seems to be working much better.  In retrospect, I think it may have been in issue with the first installation, because a lot of other things that didn't work properly the first time configured themselves automatically the second time.  I just reinstalled on top of the old installation, I didn't format or anything.

I know that this is common sense, but for future reference, if this happens to anyone else after an installation that you think might've been a bit broken but which (superficially, and after some tweaking) seems ok, you should probably just do it over again properly until it behaves as expected.

---

