---
title: "16.04LTS Server Networking/Admin Question"
date: 2017-11-08
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by linuksguru on 2017-11-08
Hi,

I'm a longtime MacOS and SuSE user, and now decided to try Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS for KVM virtualization & Google Ganeti cluster.

I installed Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS with MATE desktop, since I'm quite uncomfortable with PC without GUI, a trait of my Mac heritage.
First problem I have encountered that NetworkManager (which settings are edited through GUI utilities) cross the way of /etc/network/interfaces, creating conflicting entries in /etc/NetworkManager/.

Q: What is default (recommended) way to manage network connection in Ubuntu Server? Webmin or just manual editing of /etc/network/interfaces? 
I'll have several servers in a Ganeti cluster with multiple Ethernet connection to maximize throughput of certain virtual machines.

In SuSE there is a YaST utility which offers convenient GUI editing of many system settings, including switching between ifup scripts and Wicked network manager. Ubuntu server seem to rely on more traditional approach of editing config files.

Thanks in advance for any suggestion(s).

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-11-09
manual.  Servers don't have GUIs.

I wouldn't use webmin. Seems like an undesirable attack vector. Of course, if you only allow localhost access with it, say with an ssh tunnel, that would mitigate a few of the issues.

On a server, a GUI isn't a convenience. It is a liability. GUIs are hard to automate.

---

