---
title: "10.04.2 Server - Intermittently hangs with no indication of cause in logs"
date: 2011-08-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by cpruitt on 2011-08-09
**Quick Description**

_The attached log file includes two crashes/reboots within the past day or so_

I have recently started trying to set up / manage a Linux (Ubuntu 10.04.2 LTS) server in our data center (all other servers are Windows boxes). The server periodically hangs and becomes unresponsive and I'm at a loss to find anything in any log that indicates a specific cause. Sometimes it's up for hours, sometimes days (14 days at longest). Plugging a monitor in to the machine after a hang shows nothing at all. In an effort to troubleshoot the problem we've tried disabling APIC, more out of "educated desperation" than anything else. Unfortunately we are limited in some of the troubleshooting we can do, as we have a single client website hosted on the box (the reason we set it up) so anything that involves significant downtime is a problem.

As this is our first attempt at setting up a linux box, we are using a "well equipped" desktop grade machine but not what I would call "server grade" hardware. This is a standalone box, not a VPS. We are using a hardware, not software, RAID array and have plenty of memory in the box.

**Caveats / Background:**

[LIST]
[*]I am relatively new to Linux in general.
[*]I spend much more time writing code than managing servers. I'm comfortable with working on the box, but I'm not really a sysadmin guy.
[*]I'm comfortable with the command line but have more experience with OS X (BSD).
[*]I am unsure of all of the tools / information / Logs that may be available, though I try to be thorough in checking what I do know.
[*]I did not physically configure the hardware so I'm not sure of all of the specs but I can get any info I need to troubleshoot.
[*]I may be skipping very basic steps or missing obvious places to look for information without knowing it.
[/LIST]

**A little more detail:**

[LIST]
[*]Real memory: 8GB
[*]Ubuntu 10.04.2 LTS
[*]Hardware RAID 10
[*]Managing sites with Webmin version 1.550
[*]Server is in a remote data center. Hands on-troubleshooting is difficult.
[/LIST]

We have attempted two Linux setups at this point. The first was on a hardware config identical to this one, but with no actual pieces of hardware reused. That attempt was using CentOS and we were attempting to set up CPanel. We scrapped that install because of this same problem (periodic crashing / hanging).

The second attempt (this one) is showing the same behavior. The only thing I can really see in common are the hardware configuration (though CentOS & Ubuntu may have more in common than I think).

The box will run fine for hours, days, or even weeks, and then just stop responding entirely. I check all of the logs I know to check (primarily messages, syslog and kern.log) but I don't see anything that seems like an error to me. I do see lines that I don't understand that may or may not be problems, such as:

```
rsyslogd: [origin software="rsyslogd" swVersion="4.2.0" x-pid="814" x-info="http://www.rsyslog.com"] rsyslogd was HUPed, type 'lightweight'.
```

Most of our syslog entries seem to be logs of webmin related cron jobs running. My gut tells me that there is possibly some component in our configuration Linux does not like or needs a driver update (maybe the raid card for example), but I'm unsure of how to do more to track down or determine what that might be. Guess and check is expensive.

Another thought I've had is that one or more of the cron jobs that are running are tripping something up, but it doesn't appear to be reproducible on demand and, again, I'm at a loss on how to test that theory any further. The same cron job does not appear to be running each time the server goes down.

This is a portion the log just prior to our last hang:

```
Aug  8 11:00:01 linhost01 CRON[10771]: (www-data) CMD ([ -x /usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl -a -f /etc/awstats/awstats.conf -a -r /var/log/apache2/access.log ] && /usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl -config=awstats -update >/dev/null)
Aug  8 11:00:01 linhost01 CRON[10772]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/status/monitor.pl)
Aug  8 11:01:01 linhost01 CRON[10799]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/virtual-server/collectinfo.pl)
Aug  8 11:05:01 linhost01 CRON[10898]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/status/monitor.pl)
Aug  8 11:06:01 linhost01 CRON[10924]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/virtual-server/collectinfo.pl)
Aug  8 11:09:01 linhost01 CRON[11007]: (root) CMD (  [ -x /usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime ] && [ -d /var/lib/php5 ] && find /var/lib/php5/ -type f -cmin +$(/usr/lib/php5/maxlifetime) -print0 | xargs -n 200 -r -0 rm)
Aug  8 11:10:01 linhost01 CRON[11023]: (www-data) CMD ([ -x /usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl -a -f /etc/awstats/awstats.conf -a -r /var/log/apache2/access.log ] && /usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl -config=awstats -update >/dev/null)
Aug  8 11:10:01 linhost01 CRON[11024]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/status/monitor.pl)
Aug  8 11:11:01 linhost01 CRON[11063]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/virtual-server/collectinfo.pl)
Aug  8 11:15:01 linhost01 CRON[11149]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/status/monitor.pl)
Aug  8 11:16:01 linhost01 CRON[11176]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/virtual-server/collectinfo.pl)
Aug  8 11:17:01 linhost01 CRON[11243]: (root) CMD (   cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly)
Aug  8 11:20:01 linhost01 CRON[11279]: (www-data) CMD ([ -x /usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl -a -f /etc/awstats/awstats.conf -a -r /var/log/apache2/access.log ] && /usr/lib/cgi-bin/awstats.pl -config=awstats -update >/dev/null)
Aug  8 11:20:01 linhost01 CRON[11280]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/status/monitor.pl)
Aug  8 11:21:01 linhost01 CRON[11307]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/virtual-server/collectinfo.pl)
Aug  8 11:25:01 linhost01 CRON[11392]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/status/monitor.pl)
Aug  8 11:26:01 linhost01 CRON[11432]: (root) CMD (/etc/webmin/virtual-server/collectinfo.pl)
[SERVER DOWN AFTER THIS POINT]
```

If anyone can help shed any light or even give me anything else I can post here that might be helpful I would be very appreciative. I'm all for jumping in to learn by doing, but I'm starting to reach the end of my rope on this one.

Happy to post any specific log info or information that might be helpful in offering any suggestions.

---

### Post by dinu90 on 2011-08-09
Hi,

You can try to set up the following script as cron job to run each minute:
```

#!/bin/sh

mkdir -p /var/log/ssmonitor
date=`date +%H_%M`

top -b -n 1 > /var/log/ssmonitor/top_$date
netstat -anp > /var/log/ssmonitor/netstat_$date
ps -efww > /var/log/ssmonitor/ps_$date
free > /var/log/ssmonitor/free_$date
w > /var/log/ssmonitor/w_$date

```

After the server goes down, reboot it and just check the logs to see the cause.

[**java tutorials**]("http://www.java-forums.org/java-tutorial/")

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-08-09
At this point it couldn't hurt to eliminate simple hardware problems like a faulty RAM stick. Have you run memtest+?  I would run it at least an hour to get rid of that concern.

Just some thoughts,
Regards.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-08-10
> **papibe said:**
> At this point it couldn't hurt to eliminate simple hardware problems like a faulty RAM stick. Have you run memtest+?  I would run it at least an hour to get rid of that concern.
+1 Run the memtest as long as you can bear it - 1 to 10 full passes. I have been shocked in the past by faults only memtest has revealled.

---

### Post by cpruitt on 2011-08-11
> **dinu90 said:**
> You can try to set up the following script as cron job to run each minute:
```

#!/bin/sh

mkdir -p /var/log/ssmonitor
date=`date +%H_%M`

top -b -n 1 > /var/log/ssmonitor/top_$date
netstat -anp > /var/log/ssmonitor/netstat_$date
ps -efww > /var/log/ssmonitor/ps_$date
free > /var/log/ssmonitor/free_$date
w > /var/log/ssmonitor/w_$date

```

After the server goes down, reboot it and just check the logs to see the cause.

I'll need to look into what each line is logging to make sense of the results (like I said, still a little new) but it's not a bad idea.  I'll give this a shot.

---

### Post by cpruitt on 2011-08-11
> **papibe said:**
> At this point it couldn't hurt to eliminate simple hardware problems like a faulty RAM stick. Have you run memtest+?  I would run it at least an hour to get rid of that concern.

Just some thoughts,
Regards.

I've not yet run memtest for two reasons:

1. The box is in a remote data center and from what I understand I need physical access to the box

2. From what I understand it can sometimes take days to really thoroughly test the memory and downtime is bad.  My thought with regard to the memory is to use another box to test the replacement memory I have, and if it's verified to be good, swap it into the box at our data center and then test the memory I pulled out of the data center box (the stuff I can't currently test).  Is there any reason the memory has to be in the production box to be tested?

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-08-11
The sort of memory issues that *might* be causing your symptoms (might not be RAM at all) are likely to be timing related. The timing margins can sometimes be too tight between the mobo hardware and the RAM cards. So your idea of testing in another mobo is solves the downtime issue but may not be conclusive because the timing margins will probably be different.

---

### Post by cpruitt on 2011-08-11
Good to know.  I'm going to keep it in mind, though maybe as a last resort option.  The weirdest part is that another box with completely different hardware (but identical spec) was doing the same thing with CentOS.  Would the type of problem you're describing be likely to appear on two separate but identically configured hardware systems?

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-08-14
Definitely hardware related.  I would swap the motherboard/cpu/memory.  You mentioned you tried a second linux box with similar hardware so it's kind of pointing to that direction.

Raid controllers are usually pretty reliable and would probably spit out tons of info in the syslogs before freezing anything. What components are you using.  Motherboard / Memory / CPU?

You said you plugged in a monitor and no response.. That's pretty bad at least a video screen of a frozen login would be better than nothing.

If you get a new motherboard get one with IPMI you can remote to the console remotely no need to plug in a monitor.

---

### Post by Havis on 2011-08-14
You can use memtester, to test memory without the need for reboot (but you need root privileges).
apt-get install memtester
man memtester


BTW, you mentioned the machine has HW raid, what kind of HW raid card is it?

---

