---
title: "10.04 LTS versus 10.10 or 11.04 for support?"
date: 2011-07-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by sneakyimp on 2011-07-20
I was in the process of configuring a server with 11.04 when someone told me that 11.04 would not be supported much longer, while 10.04 server (the LTS release) will be supported until 2013 or something.  Is that true?  If so, does this mean that security updates for all of my packages will run out for 11.04 ?  Hoping to get some official answers here and make sure I don't waste my time installing a server version that will be dropped shortly.

Also wondering what the big differences between 10.04, 10.10, and 11.04 are.

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-07-20
10.04 Server version will be supported until 2015.  Desktop 2013.

So after 2015 no more security updates but you can always upgrade to the next full version and hope everything works :)

---

### Post by nmaster on 2011-07-20
> **sneakyimp said:**
> I was in the process of configuring a server with 11.04 when someone told me that 11.04 would not be supported much longer, while 10.04 server (the LTS release) will be supported until 2013 or something.  Is that true?  If so, does this mean that security updates for all of my packages will run out for 11.04 ?  Hoping to get some official answers here and make sure I don't waste my time installing a server version that will be dropped shortly.

Also wondering what the big differences between 10.04, 10.10, and 11.04 are.
  if you're looking for answers, the wikipedia pages are pretty good, especially with things like version numbers and dates.  for example, this table shows that indeed 10.04 will be supported until April 2015:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases#Table_of_versions](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ubuntu_releases#Table_of_versions)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-07-20
For all LTS releases, server support is for 5 years. The only reason you'd want to install one of the interim releases is for new features, and right now the only new feature is cloud computing.

---

### Post by sneakyimp on 2011-07-20
> **cariboo907 said:**
> For all LTS releases, server support is for 5 years. The only reason you'd want to install one of the interim releases is for new features, and right now the only new feature is cloud computing.

Could you elaborate on the 'cloud computing' thing?  I've instantiated 10.04 in the Amazon Cloud.  Wondering what this extra feature might be all about.

---

