---
title: "10.04 server won't boot up"
date: 2011-09-09
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by bio_amateur on 2011-09-09
I have a machine with Ubuntu server 10.04 64-bit. Then I install the GNOME on top of it. Everything works fine until recently, when /boot partition is filled up. The /boot partition is quite small, and after a few updates of the kernel, it become full (128MB), so I got some error message regarding this issue during some updates. This small-size /boot was actually pre-configured by the company we bought the machine. Nevertheless, it's working fine until I restart the machine; then nothing show up (neither login screen from terminal nor the gnome login screen).

As the machine is mounted with shared folder, I can still login remotely to fix, but there is no way I can get either terminal login display or gnome back. I tried remove gnome-*, and ubuntu-desktop, and reinstall them. I tried to clean up some unused kernels, and rerun "apt-get -f install". None of that help making my system back to working condition. Could someone give me some advice.

Thanks.
Tuan

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-09-09
How can youlogin if the system does not boot? I assume it bootgs but yu don't get the GUI.

If so, boot your system. If you don't get a grub menu, press <shift> during the boot.
Press 'e' when the menu shows, find the line that contains *_quiet splash_* and replace *_quiet splash_* by *_text_*; next press <ctrl>x . This should take you to console and solve the problem. You can make these changes permamnent by editing *_/etc/default/grub_* and running *_update-grub_*

I can not help you to cleanup the mess.

---

### Post by bio_amateur on 2011-09-12
Hi Wim,
   I just followed your steps on the local machine, it seems doesn't make any difference as I still receive a black screen. However, I still can login remotely from another machine. Any suggestions?

Thanks

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-09-12
Can you explain to us how you can login remotely if the system doesn't boot I think this is something we can't understand?

When you hold down shift when the system boots do you get a grub boot menu?

What are you logging in remotely to? What tool are you using?

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-09-12
> **bio_amateur said:**
> Hi Wim,
   I just followed your steps on the local machine, it seems doesn't make any difference as I still receive a black screen. However, I still can login remotely from another machine. Any suggestions?

ThanksYou can try *_nomodeset text_* instead of *_quiet splash_*. Else I don't know.

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-09-12
Ah, so it does "boot" it's just you aren't getting video?  Does the BIOS screen show up?

---

### Post by bio_amateur on 2011-09-12
> **Entilza said:**
> Ah, so it does "boot" it's just you aren't getting video?  Does the BIOS screen show up?

Yes, it is. This is the content of the grub boot item

recordfail
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 9fc5386d-...
linux /vmlinuz-2.6.38-10-generic root=UUID=fc7ec813-.... ro vga=792 quiet splash
initrd /initrd.img-2.6.38-10-generic

'recordfail' keep coming back each time i try to remove it.

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-09-12
why do you want to remove recordfail it looks like to be a standard function of grub2.

check /etc/default/grub for any options with the vga

when you do update-grub it rebuilds /boot/grub.cfg so your changes won't be permanent unless you change the defaults.

I think its your vga= line check maybe 791 or remove it altogether?

---

### Post by bio_amateur on 2011-09-13
> **Entilza said:**
> why do you want to remove recordfail it looks like to be a standard function of grub2.

check /etc/default/grub for any options with the vga

when you do update-grub it rebuilds /boot/grub.cfg so your changes won't be permanent unless you change the defaults.

I think its your vga= line check maybe 791 or remove it altogether?

After removing vga=792, I can login to local shell. Now, I try to install ubuntu-desktop with
aptitude install --without-recommends ubuntu-desktop
and then nvidia driver. After that I run 
update-grub
and then vga=792 comes back. The problem has not been resolved. Any suggestions?

Thanks

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-09-13
yep, remove the vga=... again and update grub again

Where did you remove the vga=... ? /etc/default/grub ?

---

### Post by bio_amateur on 2011-09-14
> **Wim Sturkenboom said:**
> yep, remove the vga=... again and update grub again

Where did you remove the vga=... ? /etc/default/grub ?

actually, i modified grub on boot menu for temporarily fixed; this allows me to login with root to install ubuntu-desktop & graphics drivers; then I restart and vga=792 comes back (I guess because I haven't make a permanent update to grub, i.e. not update /boot/grub/menu.lst nor /etc/default/grub, yet. Which one should I change?

Thanks

---

### Post by Entilza on 2011-09-14
/etc/default/grub

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-09-14
> **bio_amateur said:**
> ... Which one should I change?
That depends on how many problems you want to have ;) Software updates might run *_update-grub_* which reads /etc/default/grub and as a result vga=... might come back after a software update if you don't make the changes in /etc/default/grub but elsewhere.

---

### Post by bio_amateur on 2011-09-14
Thanks Wim and Entilza for your support. 
I removed "vga=" from the /etc/default/grub file, and can boot to the local shell properly. 
However, GNOME has not been successfully fixed yet; even though I did purge all gnome-related packages, and does a clean install. Any suggestions?

Thanks,
Tuan

---

