---
title: "10.04 server cli resolution too small"
date: 2010-11-18
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by dgermann on 2010-11-18
Hi--

After installing 10.04 lts server, when I go to log in, the type on the screen is so small I almost need a magnifying glass!

I have tried several changes in /etc/default/grub:

uncommented line GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=800x600x24
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=720x480x8

After each one I ran update-grub and rebooted. None of them made any difference. I suspect I am barking up the wrong tree.

How do I make this large enough to read without going blind?

Thanks!

---

### Post by NathanBC on 2010-11-19
Try editing /boot/grub/grub.cfg (after you make a backup copy:) )

Find the section that looks something like this:

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-22-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 21639872-dfd4-4769-a12a-2df0fcf9cbde
    linux    /vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-generic root=UUID=a4238596-089f-4430-8989-aceebaaaf4c8 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /initrd.img-2.6.35-22-generic

On the next to the last line (the one that starts with linux) add[COLOR=#663300] vga=0x312[/COLOR] after ro.

Save it, and reboot.

---

### Post by dgermann on 2010-11-21
NathanBC--

Thank you for helping me.

OK, I tried that and it made no difference. It still comes up with tiny type at the login screen. Other ideas?

A worry: the file I edited says 
```
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

```

So is there another way to make changes here that is A) safer and B) which will be permanent?

Thanks!

---

### Post by cmileto on 2010-11-21
Perhaps this could help, although I must say I have never done this...

[http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/ubuntu-linux/118296-change-font-size-terminal.html](http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/ubuntu-linux/118296-change-font-size-terminal.html)


ALso look here:  [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VESA_BIOS_Extensions#Linux_video_mode_numbers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VESA_BIOS_Extensions#Linux_video_mode_numbers)

---

### Post by dgermann on 2010-11-22
cmileto--

Thank you for helping me.

That table will be quite useful, thanks. I think I have seen it elsewhere, but didn't know where to look to find it again.

Yes, I too had found instructions like that; unfortunately, in 10.04 grub does not have a menu.lst file; it uses a different method for booting. <sigh>

---

### Post by dgermann on 2010-11-27
Hi all--

Here is what I did that seems to have worked; my remaining question is how to make sure it is kept after an update?

I edited the line in /etc/default/grub that reads:
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet"
```

to read instead:
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet 915.modeset=0 nomodeset"
```

Then sudo update-grub, then reboot.

Anybody know how to make this stick?

Thanks for helping me!

---

