---
title: ".htaccess advice"
date: 2016-02-03
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Joe67 on 2016-02-03
Am trying to improve seo, a website i use to check over mine recommends i allow caching. Ding this i need to have a .htaccess file and add code, am sure i read before having a .htaccess is risky and can cause security issues. Is this correct?

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2016-02-03
not correct. and you need .htaccess only if you are not in control of server (e.g. if someone is hosting your website they will use .htaccess to give you some apache server access). read more here:
[https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/howto/htaccess.html](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/howto/htaccess.html)

> [FONT=Courier New].htaccess[/FONT] files (or "distributed configuration files")    provide a way to make configuration changes on a per-directory basis. A    file, containing one or more configuration directives, is placed in a    particular document directory, and the directives apply to that    directory, and all subdirectories thereof.

and when using a host for the website you will have this situation (i.e. no access to main server config files): 

> In general, **you should only use .htaccess files when    you don't have access to the main server configuration file**. There is,    for example, a common misconception that user authentication should    always be done in .htaccess files, and, in more recent years,    another misconception that [mod_rewrite]("https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/mod_rewrite.html") directives    must go in .htaccess files. This is simply not the    case. You can put user authentication configurations in the main server    configuration, and this is, in fact, the preferred way to do    things. Likewise, mod_rewrite directives work better,    in many respects, in the main server configuration.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2016-02-03
Thread moved to **Server Platforms**

---

### Post by Joe67 on 2016-02-11
great, thanks for your help

---

### Post by Habitual on 2016-02-11
And generally speaking directives in an .htaccess file are slower to process.
Each file access on the server will require apache to re-read the .htaccess file,
whereas in a the site.conf it only has to be read once.

---

