---
title: "Router"
date: 2009-07-26
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-26
Hi,
I am trying to set up a 6.06 LTS server as a router and DHCP server.
I have installed 2 network cards, and they are up and running.

eth0 is set up to get IP address from my ISP.
eth1 is set up with static address and serves DHCP clients.
This is how my /etc/network/inerfaces looks like:
```
# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
   address 10.10.160.1
   netmask 255.255.255.0
   network 10.10.160.0
   broadcast 10.10.160.255
```
And the /etc/dhcp3/dhcpd.conf:
```
# A slightly different configuration for an internal subnet.
subnet 10.10.160.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
   authoritative;
   option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
   range 10.10.160.100 10.10.160.150;
   option domain-name-servers 213.167.96.50 , 213.167.96.34;
   option domain-name "HALVORSEN";
   option routers 10.10.160.1;
   option broadcast-address 10.10.160.255;
   default-lease-time 600;
   max-lease-time 7200;
   }
```
The DHCP server runs fine, and the clients get their IP addresses in the correct range.
I am able to ping my ISP's public IP given to eth0 from the clients.
From the server i am connected to Internett, but not from the client.
I have used this tutorial to tune my setup with Webmin:[http://ubuntulinuxhowto.blogspot.com/2006/06/setup-your-computer-to-be-router.html]("http://ubuntulinuxhowto.blogspot.com/2006/06/setup-your-computer-to-be-router.html")
This gave a file called /etc/iptables.up.rules :
```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Sat Jul 25 13:31:58 2009
*raw
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [3594:407731]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [2599:418667]
COMMIT
# Completed on Sat Jul 25 13:31:58 2009
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Sat Jul 25 13:31:58 2009
*mangle
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [3594:407731]
:INPUT ACCEPT [2566:180809]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [391:25561]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [27455:3378146]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [2986:443636]
COMMIT
# Completed on Sat Jul 25 13:31:58 2009
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Sat Jul 25 13:31:58 2009
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
COMMIT
# Completed on Sat Jul 25 13:31:58 2009
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Sat Jul 25 13:31:58 2009
*filter
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
# Internal network
-A INPUT -i eth1 -j ACCEPT
# Internal network
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
# Existing
-A INPUT -m state -i eth0 --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
# Utenfor regel
-A INPUT -j DROP
COMMIT
# Completed on Sat Jul 25 13:31:58 2009
```
But the setup doesn't work... :(
Does anyone have a clue in what to check for?

---

### Post by kustomjs on 2009-07-26
best thing you could do is download a iso image from smoothwall.org and install smoothwall as your router.

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-07-26
> **asai said:**
> 
But the setup doesn't work... :(
Does anyone have a clue in what to check for?
looks ok to me. 
post the result of these commands - checks if your pc can actually route.
```

cat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward  ## should return 1
route -n

```

---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-26
```
cat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
```
returns 1

route -n returns:
```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
10.10.160.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth1
81.166.2.0      0.0.0.0         255.255.254.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         81.166.2.1      0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
```
The IP address from my ISP is 81.166.3.217
Hmmm... Where is 81.166.2.0 from?

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-07-26
> **asai said:**
> ```
cat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
```
returns 1

route -n returns:
```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
10.10.160.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth1
81.166.2.0      0.0.0.0         255.255.254.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         81.166.2.1      0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
```
The IP address from my ISP is 81.166.3.217
Hmmm... Where is 81.166.2.0 from?
no, that's correct : 81.166.2.0  with mask 255.255.254.0  covers a range from 81.166.2.1 to 81.166.3.255

routing looks OK, so next suspect is your firewall ...

it seems to be missing a MASQUERADE rule - you're going to need that

---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-26
> **koenn said:**
> 
it seems to be missing a MASQUERADE rule - you're going to need that

And how do I do that?

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-07-26
something like this
```

iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE

```
you're using iptables save/restore syntax so you'll have to adapt it.
Check the tut you pointed to, it's in there as well.

---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-26
Thanks, Koenn. I'll try your suggestion.
I see now that i overlooked the beginning of the turorial:

*"Do network address translation on external interface:" and choose the external interface (the one that is connected to the internet) and click on "Enable firewall at boot time?" then click on "Setup Firewall".*

I chose the correct option, but I forgot to set the interface. I also forgot to check the box enable at boot.

So my /etc/iptables.up.rules now look like this:
```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Sun Jul 26 21:52:52 2009
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
-A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
# Internal network
-A PREROUTING -i eth1 -j ACCEPT
# Internal network - lo
-A PREROUTING -i lo -j ACCEPT
# Existing
-A PREROUTING -m state -i eth0 --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
# External
-A PREROUTING -j DROP
COMMIT
# Completed on Sun Jul 26 21:52:52 2009
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Sun Jul 26 21:52:52 2009
*mangle
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
COMMIT
# Completed on Sun Jul 26 21:52:52 2009
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Sun Jul 26 21:52:52 2009
*raw
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [36516:8598543]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [6770:1546868]
COMMIT
# Completed on Sun Jul 26 21:52:52 2009
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Sun Jul 26 21:52:52 2009
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
COMMIT
# Completed on Sun Jul 26 21:52:52 2009

```

When I have tried this I'll post my result.
To get Internet connection to post here, I had to do some rewiring... ;)
So some time tomorrow I will wire back and try it out.

---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-27
This was the trick!!
When i now rewired and tested with the new configuration, it works like a charm. :D

One last question: I have my web-server inside the network. How do I set up the router to route external traffic on port 80 to a specific address?
Right now I have Apache running on the router with my web-pages, and therefore it runs this. This is OK as a backup, but my real updated server is on another machine in the network.

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-07-27
> **asai said:**
> This was the trick!!
When i now rewired and tested with the new configuration, it works like a charm. :D
great. 

> **asai said:**
> 
One last question: I have my web-server inside the network. How do I set up the router to route external traffic on port 80 to a specific address?
Right now I have Apache running on the router with my web-pages, and therefore it runs this. This is OK as a backup, but my real updated server is on another machine in the network.

your router can't handle this because of the MASQUERADE - this is a form of Network Address translation ( [http://users.telenet.be/mydotcom/library/network/nat.htm](http://users.telenet.be/mydotcom/library/network/nat.htm) ) that lets you connect a home network to the internet while using 'private' addresses, but the downside is that the are not routable on the internet : the only visible address on the internet is the IP address of your eth0 (the one where the MASQUERADE happens)

the workaround is to make iptables relay the traffic based on port numbers - this is called port forwarding.
you probably need a rule like this one :

```
iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination adres_of_server_on_lan

```
you only need this for new, incoming connections (eg traffic from outside towards your server). 
For replies to outgoing connections (eg you surfing the web), your iptables keeps track and does the translations automatically
but again, you need to put this in your up.rules in the correct syntax

---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-27
Thanks for your reply.

> you need to put this in your up.rules in the correct syntax
Any suggestions on how this line may look? :)

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-07-27
from the looks of it : 

in the  the ```
*nat 
```section
something like
```
-A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination adres_of_server_on_lan
```
maybe somewhere near that MASQUERADE rule

I thought you would have been able to  figured one that out ....

---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-27
> I thought you would have been able to figured one that out .... 
I know... I thought of that line. Will try it.

Thanks for your help koenn. Much appreciated. :)

---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-29
Works perfect now.
Thanks for all help on this issue.
:)

---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-29
Well, one last question: Looks like when i use this link: [http://asai.dyndns.org/](http://asai.dyndns.org/) from outside (internet) it is directed to the correct server. But if I use the same link from the LAN it goes to the router server, which also runs apache. Earlier i used this server as a backup if the main server was down for maintenace. Then I just changed the port in my old router to direct to this server instead.
Is there a way to tell the router to always direct traffic on port 80 to the same server, both for WAN and LAN traffic?

---

### Post by FerociousTwig on 2009-07-29
Hey Koenn, do firewalls basically configure your iptables for you? Also, can you point me to a good place to start learning about iptables as they seem pretty intimidating right now =/ 

P.S. Wait for Koenn to reply, but my guess is you just have to change the source in your port forwarding rule. In shorewall which is a cmd line firewall you make macros for each rule and you can specify where the traffic is coming from that the rule applies to. I'd imagine you can do something similar in iptables...

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-07-29
> **asai said:**
> Well, one last question: Looks like when i use this link: [http://asai.dyndns.org/](http://asai.dyndns.org/) from outside (internet) it is directed to the correct server. But if I use the same link from the LAN it goes to the router server, which also runs apache. Earlier i used this server as a backup if the main server was down for maintenace. Then I just changed the port in my old router to direct to this server instead.
Is there a way to tell the router to always direct traffic on port 80 to the same server, both for WAN and LAN traffic?
that's because the DNAT rule is set for the eth0 interface only.
You could try an additional rule on the eth1 interface 
```

-A PREROUTING -i eth1  -d 81.166.3.217 -p tcp --dport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination adres_of_server_on_lan

```
specifying the ip adress is necessary because otherwise all traffic towards any port 80/tcp would be redirected, so you wouldn't be able to get to any website at all - only yours.

Not sure that this is going to work, as it's usually not necessary to do such things : the web server on your LAN should be accessible from your LAN without going through the router, just by going [http://adres_of_server_on_lan](http://adres_of_server_on_lan) ( or  [http://hostname_of_server_on_lan](http://hostname_of_server_on_lan)  if you have an adequate dns solution, or up to date /etc/hosts files everywhere)

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-07-29
> **FerociousTwig said:**
> Hey Koenn, do firewalls basically configure your iptables for you? Also, can you point me to a good place to start learning about iptables as they seem pretty intimidating right now =/ 

yes, what most people here call 'firewall' are just tools to configure iptables. But you can just as well write them by hand.

I don't remember any good tutorials on iptables - not at a beginners level. I learned the basics from websites/blogs/forum posts that explain do do one particular thing (like in this thread) and then look up the explanation for the options in 'man iptables'

It's not that hard. What you need to begin with is to understand how tcp/ip network traffic works - in general-, and how your network is layout out (routers, which interface connects to what, ...). 
Then think about what traffic you need to allow, block, and possibly redirect or NAT. After that, iptables syntax is just a way of expressing your decision. 

take e.g.
```

iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -i eth1  -d 81.166.3.217 -p tcp --dport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination adres_of_server_on_lan

```
it says : 
an IP packet ...
- i eth1 : which arrives on this machine through eth1
-d 81.166.3.217 : and has 81.166.3.217 as destination address 
--dport 80 : and destination port 80
-p tcp : where port 80 is a tcp port

-j DNAT--to-destination adres_of_server_on_lan : change the destination address of this packet to adres_of_server_on_lan

PREROUTING  : do all of the above *before* you take a routing decision, so; change the destination address first, then route it (to the new destination)

so, telling iptables what to do is usually not too hard - making up your mind about what precisely you want to tell it sometimes is.

---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-30
```
-A PREROUTING -i eth1  -d 81.166.3.217 -p tcp --dport 80 -j DNAT --to-destination adres_of_server_on_lan
```
Did not work.:(
But ok, the server is of course accecible on the lan trough hostname. ([http://server/](http://server/)) but e.g on my laptop i have this page as my homepage in the browser, and when I log in at home, i get the wrong server.

Another question: Is there a way to tell apache to redirect all to the other server?
What if I stops apache on the router, will it automatically search for another web-server on the lan?

---

### Post by asai on 2009-07-30
It's up and running. I'm using the host file, and it is working great.

One last question however: In this routing table, is it possible to reroute specific addresses? Say I wanted to disallow a internet site to be accessed from my lan, could i route this to my own server instead? And possibly also a specific page that tells the user that this page is not allowed?
Or could this be done in another way?

---

### Post by koenn on 2009-08-02
can't really say why that iptables thing didn't work, but since you're doing something very unusual, i.e. force routing between two hosts on the same network, while routing is meant to connect separate networks, and adding firewalls and NAT in the mix, it's kinda difficult to track. 

anyway, you seem to have worked something out.

yes, you can set up redirection in apache, to have all or specific pages redirected to another page on another server. 

> "What if I stops apache on the router, will it automatically search for another web-server on the lan?"
If it's stopped, it's not going to do anything anymore.


> One last question however: In this routing table, is it possible to reroute specific addresses? Say I wanted to disallow a internet site to be accessed from my lan, could i route this to my own server instead? And possibly also a specific page that tells the user that this page is not allowed?
Or could this be done in another way? 
In a routing table, you route. You can send a packet any direction you like, but if it has 123.123.123.123 as destination address, it's not going to stop until it reaches 123.123.123.123, no matter how many different directions you route it in.
(in fact, it will at some point give up, without reaching 123.123.123.123 or the address you're trying to 'route' it to)

What you want is a form of redirection, which you can accomplish in a number of ways :
- change the destination address of packets (DNAT) -> iptables
- set a different address for a given URL (or the hostname in the URL) in stead of the 'real' address -> DNS server, /etc.hosts
- a web proxy can probably be configured to redirect certain url's

---

### Post by asai on 2009-08-02
Thanks for your replies. As I said the router is going very well, so I will leave it running for now.
I will look into web proxy at a later time, because I think this might be what I am looking for. I will start a new tread on this issue if I get into trouble or only to inform of my success. :)

---

