---
title: "8.10 and Raid 1"
date: 2008-11-14
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-14
Hey guys! 

Ok so, some of you may or may not have seen my post asking for advice on what to get for a server box because my current was failing. Well, I found a 2 or 3 year old PowerEdge SC430 for 200 bucks I'm going to pick up tonight and try. 

2.8 Ghz Pentium D Dual Core  
1Gb DDR2 800mhz
80Gig Sata
RAID 1 card

I'd like to put 8.10 Server 64 on it, (that reminds me, why is the 64bit download called amd64? it will work with intel, yes?) and buy another 80gig hdd to throw in there and make use of that, but I've never set up raid with ubuntu before, or raid 1 period. So I'm lookin' for a point in the right direction.

Is this something I can do after the install and getting it all up and running, a little down the road? Put in the card, hook the original and a second hard drive to it and go from there, or does it need to be set up before installation?

Also, is this something done in bios, or do I set it up within Ubuntu? 

Sorry for the newb questions... 
Thanks for the advice.

---

### Post by Nostalos on 2008-11-14
According to the Intel site, yes it does support 64bit. [http://www.intel.com/products/processor/pentium_d/specs.htm](http://www.intel.com/products/processor/pentium_d/specs.htm) But unless you are trying to address more than 4GB of RAM or toss many Terabytes of disk space at it,  64bit would do nothing but consume more memory/disk space than its 32bit brethren.

Also the reason it is labeled amd64 is because its based on the 64bit instruction set by AMD.  Intel had their own called Itanium, but AMD won out on that spec.  Most newer Intel processers support the amd64 instruction set.

As for the Raid.  I don't beleive you can add it later without backing up your install and rebuilding the raid device.  Typically with hardware raid controllers there is a screen on bootup asking you to press a key sequence (ie Ctrl-D) to setup the raid configuration.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-14
Hey thanks for the great reply, that answered all my questions.

One more. Will any sata 80 gig 7200rpm drive work fine? Or must they be 100% identical? 

The one in the system is ATA-150..

---

### Post by Nostalos on 2008-11-14
The recommendation is that they be identical.   There are cases where you can have 2 different drives with the exact same number of sectors,  But that is uncommon.  Most raid controllers will complain if you are trying to do a raid1 or raid 5 and the drives do not have the same number of sectors.

If you don't use identical drives you will probably only be left with Raid0.  ie. 2 80 gig drives that make one giant 160Gig drive.  Much faster, but leaves you with no data protection other than backups.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-14
Hmm. So any 80gig sata 7200rpm drive may not work?

Sorry to re-ask that. Just trying to clarify. They may have  a different sector count? I wasn't initially even thinking about that, was thinkin about the sata speeds..

---

### Post by Nostalos on 2008-11-14
Thats correct.  Not saying it will not work.  Some RAID cards will allow you to do it.  Others will not. If you want to be 100% sure it works, buy an identical drive and save yourself some headache.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-14
It's a "HP D4992-60002 NETSERVER NETRAID-1 CONTROLLER W/4MB Ram"

...I shall google!

lol fo' real? SCSI? 

/kicks self

---

### Post by Nostalos on 2008-11-14
hehe. Yep. thats a SCSI interface it seems.  So would have to buy 2 new drives to even use it.   But on a side note, was looking through the specs.  It will handle 2 different size disks.   It just sizes to the smaller of the two.   So if you bought an 80G and a 100G drives,  you with only have an 80G RAID1 drive.  the other 20G would be lost.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-14
I was already fightin' with having to buy another drive as it was. Certainly not going to get two...

...and it doesn't support software raid, so that stinks.

So much for redundancy. I guess I need to star thinking about backups. I suppose dropping in a second drive or external and setting up a cronjob to tar stuff will have to do. (Unless you have other ideas. I'm all ears!)

Dang! 

Well sorry to waste your time, appreciate your help.

edit: or cron it to a thumb drive? hmmm

---

