---
title: "12.10 differences"
date: 2012-10-21
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by griffinmt on 2012-10-21
I just upgraded a 12.04 server to 12.10.
It was built with MAAS but no other servers had been added to its private network yet, but I confirmed that dnsmasq was setup correctly for dhcp and iptables for forwarding etc.
Now I have upgraded to 12.10, dhcp is no longer available and I found that dnsmasq was removed. :mad:
What is controlling dhcp now, and where do I edit the correct configuration. This has to be done before I build the other servers and my small testing cloud. :cry:
 
TIA

---

### Post by darkod on 2012-10-21
Is there something in 12.10 that you need, or you upgraded because it's the latest?
Most people that run servers upgrade them only from LTS to LTS. The current 12.04 LTS has support for 5 years and the new normal release 12.10 only 18 months.

Unless there is something you really need in 12.10 that you can't do with 12.04, the suggestion would be to redo this server with 12.04 again instead of upgrading the others to 12.10.

On another note, even if dnsmasq is not included by default you should be able to install it and use it since you are used to it.

---

### Post by griffinmt on 2012-10-21
Just installing dnsmasq wasn't enough. Found that the isc-dhcp package was what was running. So after removing dnsmasq again, I edited the dhcpd.conf file for the correct subnet info. After a bunch of wasted time poking around, found that just running dhcpd would reload the file parms. Since then, that has worked as desired.
 
I expect that I will be rebuilding these systems a number of times, and the LTS aspect is the least of my concerns. It is an educational execise, since the doc is very sparse with little detail an expect to *struggle*.
It is interesting to note that when downloading the boot images for 12.10 MAAS, they all are 12.04 images.

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2012-10-21
As the previous post stated, for the server platform it's always recommended to stick to LTS releases.

I would recommend sticking to 12.04, and upgrade to 14.04 when that comes around a couple of years later.

---

### Post by griffinmt on 2012-10-21
Fair enough. I'll rebuild the MAAS system to 12.04 and start again (not any big issue).
 
Then I should be ready for JuJu and see what makes that tick.:popcorn:

---

### Post by arrrghhh on 2012-10-21
> **griffinmt said:**
> Fair enough. I'll rebuild the MAAS system to 12.04 and start again (not any big issue).
 
Then I should be ready for JuJu and see what makes that tick.:popcorn:

Hah, evidently you do need 12.10.  I think JuJu is new as of 12.10....

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuServer](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/QuantalQuetzal/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuServer)

Honestly, do you need MAAS and JuJu?  Or are you just playing around?  If you're just messing around, put it in a VM and then who cares whether it's stable or not...

Just know that messing with bleeding edge systems with brand new enhancements - you might end up bleeding yourself...

---

