---
title: "12.04 kernel performance"
date: 2012-05-20
forum: Server Platforms
---

### Post by iridium191 on 2012-05-20
Hi forum,

I recently deployed two Ubuntu 12.04 virtual servers, one using the virtual kernel and one with the default generic/server kernel. I also deployed two 10.10 servers. All are running on our Xenserver host and are have only SSH installed.

To compare the performance of 12.04 and 10.10 and the virtual and server kernels I wrote a simple bash script that loops 5 million times calculating a square root. The problem is it takes the 10.10 servers running 2.6.35-32 half the time it takes the 12.04 servers to complete the loops - 4 hours compared to 8! 

I also notice that when idle the 12.04 server 1 minute CPU load average jumps around while the 10.10 server load averages sit steady on 0.

Any thoughts on why there should be such a huge difference between the two kernel performance?

---

### Post by Doug S on 2012-05-20
Any tests I have done between 10.10, 11.10 and 12.04 only show similar or improved results, although I haven't done the exact test you described. I have a 10.10 server and 2 12.04 servers (one 12.04 is pathetic and one 12.04 is a recent i7 based computer). If you post your bash script I will try it on my servers. (I could write my own bash script, but I want to do exactly what you are doing.) 
 
About load averages: There was a change in the load average calculation code just prior to the final 12.04 release. Yes, the 1 miniute reported load average is noisey and sometimes reports high now under light actual loads. Previously it reported low, under many conditions.
References:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/838811](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/838811)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/995284](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/995284)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/985661](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/985661)
[http://www.smythies.com/~doug/network/load_average/index.html](http://www.smythies.com/~doug/network/load_average/index.html)
 
Oh, by the way, welcome to Ubuntu forums.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2012-05-20
I made a file, sqrt_loop with this:```
#!/bin/bash
echo "square root loop - begin"
echo
COUNTER=1000
until [ $COUNTER -lt 1 ]; do
  echo COUNTER $COUNTER
#  python -c 'import math; print math.sqrt(3)'
  perl -e 'print sqrt(3), "\n"'
  let COUNTER-=1
done
echo "square root loop - end"
```
And ran it with:```
time sqrt_loop
```
On my 10.10 server it took 3.129 seconds (would have been 4.34 hours for 5 million loops).
On my good 12.04 server it took 2.287 seconds.
I realize I am not comparing properly because the hardware is different between the two, but that difference is very approximately what I would expected based on those hardware differences.

---

### Post by iridium191 on 2012-05-21
Hi Doug,

Thanks for the reply. I've attached the script and as you can see it's pretty simple, a single process, no forks etc. The sync and write just add a little disk load but can significantly increase the execution time. 2000000 iterations takes an hour or so and the longer the tests run the bigger the difference between the 10.10 and 12.04 servers. The stock virtual kernels appear marginally faster than the generic/server kernel but nothing worth writing home about.

For our application there probably wouldn't be any noticeable difference between the 10.10 & 12.04 results but it would be good to know if the difference is specific to this test, our installation, the position of Venus or phase of the the moon.

Your Linux load averages site is great, you certainly put some work into it and it seems to explain our load averages. What were the trends created with?

---

### Post by Doug S on 2012-05-21
Results from your script on my Ubuntu 10.10 server:```
Started at  Sun May 20 23:49:56 PDT 2012
2000000       -  23:49:56
1800000       -  23:55:25
1600000       -  00:00:49
1400000       -  00:06:02
1200000       -  00:11:16
1000000       -  00:16:29
800000       -  00:21:43
600000       -  00:26:57
400000       -  00:32:11
200000       -  00:37:25
Finished at  Mon May 21 00:42:40 PDT 2012
Completed in 52 minutes
doug@doug-64:~/scripts$ cat /proc/version
Linux version 2.6.35-32-server (buildd@crested) (gcc version 4.4.5 (Ubuntu/Linaro 4.4.4-14ubuntu5) ) #67-Ubuntu SMP Mon Mar 5 21:13:25 UTC 2012
```
It will be about 10 hours before I can run your script on my good 12.04 server, as it has that long left on a 52.5 hour reported load average data aquisition experiment.
 
By the way, these scripts (either yours or mine (with a much larger initial loop counter)) are good examples of the reported load averages issues. On my 10.10 server the reported load average during script execution was always 0.0, but was really about 1. The reported load average will be much better on my 12.04 server.
 
Thanks for the comment about my reported load averages web notes. They need some updating, and I am trying to get to it. I wrote a program specifically for reported load average work, and I use it to aquire the trend data. When I update my notes, I will write up my experiments and post all the data and programs and scripts used.

---

### Post by LHammonds on 2012-05-21
> **Doug S said:**
> I made a file, sqrt_loop with this:```
#!/bin/bash
echo "square root loop - begin"
echo
COUNTER=1000
until [ $COUNTER -lt 1 ]; do
  echo COUNTER $COUNTER
#  python -c 'import math; print math.sqrt(3)'
  perl -e 'print sqrt(3), "\n"'
  let COUNTER-=1
done
echo "square root loop - end"
```And ran it with:```
time sqrt_loop
```On my 10.10 server it took 3.129 seconds (would have been 4.34 hours for 5 million loops).
On my good 12.04 server it took 2.287 seconds.
I realize I am not comparing properly because the hardware is different between the two, but that difference is very approximately what I would expected based on those hardware differences.

----------------------------------------------

**Linux srv-wiki 3.2.0-24-generic #37-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 25 08:43:22 UTC 2012 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux**
On my 12.04 LTS 64-bit server running on top of ESXi 4.1, I got these results:

```
real    0m1.371s
user    0m0.056s
sys     0m0.088s
``````
real    0m1.379s
user    0m0.052s
sys     0m0.092s
``````
real    0m1.384s
user    0m0.056s
sys     0m0.092s
```

----------------------------------------------

**Linux srv-mail 2.6.32-41-server #89-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 27 22:33:31 UTC 2012 x86_64 GNU/Linux**
On my 10.04.4 LTS 64-bit server running on top of ESXi 4.1, I got these results:

```
real    0m1.717s
user    0m9.410s
sys     0m0.730s
``````
real    0m1.748s
user    0m9.430s
sys     0m0.720s
``````
real    0m1.737s
user    0m9.340s
sys     0m0.810s
```Both are running on the same kind of hardware under similar load...but different hardware.

----------------------------------------------

EDIT #1: I ran another test on my offsite ESXi server in which both VMs are on the exact same hardware (same blade)

----------------------------------------------------

**Linux srv-mc 3.2.0-24-generic #37-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 25 08:43:22 UTC 2012 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux**

```
real    0m1.599s
user    0m0.060s
sys     0m0.064s
``````
real    0m1.574s
user    0m0.052s
sys     0m0.076s
``````
real    0m1.547s
user    0m0.048s
sys     0m0.076s
```

----------------------------------------------------

**Linux srv-mailtest 2.6.32-40-server #87-Ubuntu SMP Tue Mar 6 02:10:02 UTC 2012 x86_64 GNU/Linux**

```
real    0m2.674s
user    0m9.470s
sys     0m0.670s
```

```
real    0m1.561s
user    0m9.370s
sys     0m0.770s
```

```
real    0m1.572s
user    0m9.390s
sys     0m0.750s
```

EDIT #2: For this simplistic CPU test, I don't see where 12.04 has any kind of significant disadvantage.

--------------------------------------------------

EDIT #3: I installed hardinfo benchmark program by typing **aptitude install hardinfo** on both servers and ran this command to generate the reports:
**hardinfo --generate-report --report-format=html > /srv/samba/share/out.htm**

Here are the results for each VM:

**Linux srv-mc 3.2.0-24-generic #37-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 25 08:43:22 UTC 2012 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux**

CPU Blowfish 12.260
CPU CryptoHash 112.720
CPU Fibonacci 2.678
CPU N-Queens 8.532
FPU FFT 5.987
FPU Raytracing 6.046

**Linux srv-mailtest 2.6.32-40-server #87-Ubuntu SMP Tue Mar 6 02:10:02 UTC 2012 x86_64 GNU/Linux**

CPU Blowfish 10.374
CPU CryptoHash 130.532
CPU Fibonacci 2.205
CPU N-Queens 7.654
FPU FFT 5.205
FPU Raytracing 5.533

---

### Post by Doug S on 2012-05-21
The results for your script on my 12.04 server:```
Started at  Mon May 21 16:32:42 PDT 2012
2000000       -  16:32:42
1800000       -  16:38:32
1600000       -  16:44:21
1400000       -  16:50:11
1200000       -  16:56:01
1000000       -  17:01:50
800000       -  17:07:40
600000       -  17:13:29
400000       -  17:19:19
200000       -  17:25:08
Finished at  Mon May 21 17:30:57 PDT 2012
Completed in 58 minutes
doug@s15:~/scripts$ cat /proc/version
Linux version 3.2.0-24-generic (root@s15) (gcc version 4.6.3 (Ubuntu/Linaro 4.6.3-1ubuntu5) ) #37 SMP Mon May 7 07:24:21 PDT 2012
```While I have compiled the kernel myself, this one is unmodified from the stock kernel.
I think LHammonds results are interesting.

---

### Post by iridium191 on 2012-05-23
Hi guys,

Thanks for your replies. The time command is a revelation and certainly speeds testing up. Also interesting was how much slower python is compared to perl when used in Dougs script- something I'll have to keep in mind for other applications.
I installed hardinfo and also found sysbench which can test CPU, memory, I/O among others and for all cpu tests my 10.10 2.6.35-32 kernel is outperforming the 12.04 3.2.0-24 kernel. 

As all my 12.04 VM's were created from the same template I've decided to build a new set of VM's from scratch and try again......

---

