---
title: "8.10 host, XP PRO, VirtualBox 2.1.4"
date: 2009-04-02
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by bigdaddyweed on 2009-04-02
Ok folks I have searched and read nearly every entry on getting USB to work and have tried all the settings over and over and checked my work over and over and can't get it going.

All of my USB devices show up under devices but are greyed out.

Here are the results of a few things that I have checked.

mount | grep usb

   "none on /proc/bus/usb type usbfs (rw,devgid=20001,devmode=644)"

cat /etc/group | grep vboxusers

   "vboxusers:x:134:erlis

cat /etc/fstab

   # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
   #
   # <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
   proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
   # /dev/sda1
   UUID=05c3762d-341a-445a-aaa7-88930a2beeb5 /               ext3   relatime,errors=remount-ro,usrquota,grpquota 0       1
   # /dev/sda5
   UUID=45c1bfa0-0581-4b93-9a50-a5536d3ea5ec none            swap    sw              0       0
   none /proc/bus/usb usbfs devgid=20001,devmode=644 0 0

Any ideas?

---

### Post by bigdaddyweed on 2009-04-03
poke

---

### Post by Perryg on 2009-04-03
> **bigdaddyweed said:**
> poke

Are you using the OSE version of VBox?  It does not support USB.  You need to install the PUEL version.

---

### Post by bigdaddyweed on 2009-04-04
PerryG,

I am using the PUEL version as I was aware of this. 

And I have gotten usb to work since my last post BUT on a little rant here the Virtual Box howto here on Ubuntu is worthless. I undid everything that it instructed and then followed [this]("http://www.davidgrant.ca/virtualbox_usb_windows_xp_guest_ubuntu_hardy") and everything worked perfectly fine. 

It detects my printer and my external USB hard drive. I have not yet been able to get it to read anything from the hard drive and when its plugged in it at least recognizes it in the client and makes it a "clickable" device.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-04-08
Hi bigdaddyweed,

> **bigdaddyweed said:**
> [...]on a little rant here the Virtual Box howto here on Ubuntu is worthless. I undid everything that it instructed and then followed [this]("http://www.davidgrant.ca/virtualbox_usb_windows_xp_guest_ubuntu_hardy") and everything worked perfectly fine. 

In all seriousness now that you have managed to accomplish your goal why don't you write it all up (ideally for a Jaunty platform) and publish it here on the forums? That way everybody will benefit from your experience and the process of writing such a guide and answering queries will be an enhanced learning experience for you as well.

All the very best,

Andrew

---

