---
title: "KVM, avahi/zeroconfig, and printing from KDE"
date: 2021-02-03
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by squinky86 on 2021-02-03
Problem: I am unable to see avahi configurations from my KVM guests.

Requirements: The device I'm trying to set up is a printer using the program "driverless" which runs "ippfind" to get the ipp address. For the examples below, I'm using "Andre" as it doesn't reveal any unique IDs of what I'm trying to set up. The client VMs are set to "bridge" mode and have static IPs on the local network.

Setup: My VM host server is running and can see all of my devices fine:
```
$ avahi-browse -la | grep "Andre the Giant TV"
+   eno1 IPv6 Andre the Giant TV                            _androidtvremote._tcp local
+   eno1 IPv4 Andre the Giant TV                            _androidtvremote._tcp local
```

**Issue 1 (resolved):** nothing was returned from when I would run avahi-browse on the client VM. This was resolved when I added "allow-interfaces=ens3" (where ens3 is my network adapter in the VM) to /etc/avahi/avahi-daemon.conf.

**Issue 2 (partially resolved by workaround):** The KVM client can only see IPV6 hosts; none of the IPV4 addresses are showing up!
```
$ avahi-browse -la | grep Andre
+   ens3 IPv6 Andre the Giant TV                            _androidtvremote._tcp local
```
As my printer only supports IPV4, this is causing driverless to complain. Note that ippfind (and by extension driverless) works on the host server.
```
$ driverless
ERROR: ippfind (PID 2002) stopped with status 1!
$ ippfind 
$
```

So far, my attempts to fix Issue 2 have included adding "trustGuestRxFilters='yes'" to the <interface> section of the libvirt config, but without success:
```
<interface type='direct' trustGuestRxFilters='yes'>
<mac address='IM:NO:TT:EL:LI:NG'/>
<source dev='eno1' mode='bridge'/>
<model type='virtio'/>
<address type='pci' domain='0x0000' bus='0x00' slot='0x03' function='0x0'/>
</interface>
```

I'm at a loss on why it's not working.

EDIT 2/4/2021: I got lucky. Logging into the completely unsecured Brother printer web interface, there was a networking option to enable IPv6. I turned this on, and the VM client is able to see the IPv6 address. This immediately duplicated the printer on all my other machines, but is a side-effect I'm willing to live with. So, IPv4 multicast and avahi-daemon do not work in the bridged VM client, but IPv6 does. I marked it as a partially resolution, as some of us are stuck with pre-IPv6 equipment, and my workaround is very YMMV.

**Issue 3 (partially resolved by workaround):** I took a working driverless PPD from a non-VM machine I had running Ubuntu 20.04 and copied it to the KVM client running KUbuntu 20.10, then manually added the printer with the ipp address (changing the mDNS name to the IP address). The client can now print; however, I'm trying to print a borderless document/picture. Okular and even evince on the KUbuntu VM all print a small border around everything. When I go back to the Ubuntu 20.04 client and print from evince using the same settings, it correctly prints borderless. Should evince print the same way from KDE vs. from Ubuntu's default window manager? Is this a regression from Ubuntu 20.04 -> 20.10? Shouldn't the same driverless PPD on one machine print the same on another? Is there a way to get Okular to print borderless so I don't have to install all these gtk libraries? Am I sneaking too many questions into Issue 3 for it to be a useful question? ;)

EDIT 2/4/2021: I installed gwenview and kipi-plugins and started using the SVG version of the file I needed to print. The print image plugin in kipi-plugins allowed me to set up a properly borderless print to my not-so-shiny-and-new, autodiscovered, driverless IPv6 printer. Borderless legal documents can now be printed! Yay! NOTE: Installing the official Brother drivers will not permit borderless legal printing. Brother's drivers only support borderless printing on a small subset of their supported page sizes. This is resolved by using the (IMHO superior) driverless PPD generated by driverless+cups in your latest Ubuntu distro. I did notice that the Brother driver included settings for several fonts that could optimize your print, so if you're doing something with fairly common fonts, the Brother driver might give you better performance. Editing the Brother PPD to support custom dimensions resulted in erroneous prints for me. I marked this as partially resolved because I still can't do borderless printing with the default Qt Printing interface or with Okular, and I haven't tried evince since the new printer is updated. The main print interface in gwenview is grayed out, but the plugin print interface just works!


Thanks in advance for any recommendations you can give me. I'm trying to move my publishing Ubuntu 20.04 VM from VMWare Player on my slow laptop to my VM server on the network running KUbuntu 20.10. I can keep using vmware player for now as a workaround, but thought that I should post my woes here in case someone else has encountered them, will encounter them, and is looking for answers like I am.

---

