---
title: "Virtualbox ubuntu minimal networking issues"
date: 2015-04-26
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by mastrsushi on 2015-04-26
So I have a virtualbox ubuntu setup that I'm trying to set with a static ip and connect through ssh
I have a vboxnet set to defaults
Here is my 
```

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
    address 192.168.56.101
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    network 192.168.56.0
    broadcast 192.168.56.255

```
When i hit ifconfig only lo shows, unless I hit the command to startup eth0, and still the ip address wont show.
I was wondering what I should be setting in this file to get this to work.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-26
The the network adapter configured for bridged networking inside vbox for that VM and that specific network interface?
Also - I'd use a simpler config.  For a network in my lab:
```
 
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
   address 10.1.3.250
   gateway 10.1.0.1
   netmask 255.255.252.0
   dns-nameservers 10.1.0.1
```
DNS settings must be added to this file since 12.04.
You are missing the gateway too, I think.

---

### Post by mastrsushi on 2015-04-26
> **TheFu said:**
> The the network adapter configured for bridged networking inside vbox for that VM and that specific network interface?
Also - I'd use a simpler config.  For a network in my lab:
```
 
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
   address 10.1.3.250
   gateway 10.1.0.1
   netmask 255.255.252.0
   dns-nameservers 10.1.0.1
```
DNS settings must be added to this file since 12.04.
You are missing the gateway too, I think.
This file is in the host if that helps, i don't see it'd be configured to bridge. I wasn't sure if I needed a gateway, or any of the things I have added lol.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-26
It won't work without a gateway and you won't be able to access any systems that aren't in /etc/hosts without the dns-nameservers line.  These will need to be in both the clientOS and hostOS ... if I understand what you are saying.

So - is it working?

---

### Post by mastrsushi on 2015-04-26
No it's not working. How should I go about setting up the gateway?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-26
So help with that, I need lots of information.
a) router IP, netmask, any *unusual* settings
b) hostOS IP, netmask, routes, DNS settings
c) virtual machine settings - bridge or NAT mode? Specific NIC model being virtualized?
d) clientOS IP, netmask, routes, DNS settings

It would be best to copy/paste the output from cmds, not type them in - that leads to mistakes.

Oh - and post the network settings file /etc/network/interfaces for both the hostOS and the clientOS.

---

### Post by mastrsushi on 2015-04-26
I'm pretty sure this is my gateway
```

root@debian:/home/tim# route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 wlan0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 wlan0
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 wlan0
192.168.56.0    0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 vboxnet0
root@debian:/home/tim#

```

My /etc/network/interfaces for host is practically blank because i used NetworkManager to connect

My guest
```

[COLOR=#000000]auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
    address 192.168.56.101
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    network 192.168.56.0
    broadcast 192.168.56.255

[/COLOR]

```

/etc/rc.conf of guest
```

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain hr.cox.net
search hr.cox.net
nameserver 68.105.28.12
nameserver 68.105.29.12
nameserver 68.105.28.11

```

Guest one is blank.

VirtualBox network settings:
Attached to Host Only adapter
vboxnet0
ipv4 192.168.56.1
netmask 255.255.255.0
disabled dhcp server

I'm running debian, so I can't do a cmd output. Can I enter anything else?

---

### Post by mastrsushi on 2015-04-27
Ok so I set my gateway and can now ssh, but still can't access internet because I'm not sure what to enter in the dns nameservers

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-27
dns-nameservers 68.105.28.12

---

