---
title: "10.04, grub2, and virtual box woes."
date: 2010-09-06
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by paul.drover on 2010-09-06
Hi all. I need some help, I'm trying to virtualize windows XP hosted by ubuntu 10.04.

I have this older box that has windows XP running on a 160Gb sata disk. I have just acquired another 160Gb sata disk. I installed the second disk and load 10.4 on without a hitch.

So I'm running ubuntu, and I can see the windows disk. I can browse the files, no problem. I can probably dual boot, though I haven't tried to do so yet. So now I want to use virtual box to create a virtual XP machine, within 10.4, using the old XP disk.

I've tried to follow the how-to in this forum, but they are old. I've tried to adapt them, but I get bogged down almost immediately with the grub vs grub2 issue. I have succeeded in making a bootable CD, but I don't understand the grub.cfg changes that are necessary... or even the necessity of the CD (though I'm sure that it is necessary).

So has anyone out there succeeded in doing something similar? I'd like to know how. I'd even be willing to write a how-to specifically for this endeavor, if I can get it to work.

Cheers,
Paul.

---

### Post by paul.drover on 2010-09-13
Well, I'm disappointed. I was trying to do something really cool, but I'm going to have to settle for just dual booting.

Cheers,
Paul.

---

### Post by david.macquigg on 2010-09-14
This is exactly what I am trying to do also (or I should say, what my computer store is trying to do to fix a long standing problem I have had with Windows XP).  I've been able to move most of my stuff to Mac and Ubuntu, but I still have a few programs that only run on Windows.  The problem is that Windows is crashing my machine so frequently, that I can't get any work done.  The system is still under warranty, and they have run every test they can think of.  All we can conclude is that my installation of XP has accumulated some problems, and because of Microsoft's "bundling" strategy, we can't just refresh the OS without re-installing all these old programs.

The plan now is to make Ubuntu the host system, and move Windows to a virtual machine, where it can crash all it wants. I'll let you know how this works out.  I hope we don't have to go to dual boot.  I may end up with three machines, just to avoid that arrangement.

---

### Post by paul.drover on 2010-09-16
Cheers David. I'm keen to know how you get on with it.
Paul.

---

### Post by david.macquigg on 2010-09-16
Hi Paul.  So far, it is working well.  I've got Ubuntu as my host system, and VirtualBox running both Windows 7 and my flaky old Windows XP system.  I am just getting started setting up networking, printers, etc., and transferring everything off the old system.  One snag so far.  File sharing between Ubuntu and Mac OS X is flaky.  Since we are still using the previously-installed Windows SMB protocol for this connection, that may not be the best setup.

Other than that, I am really pleased with both Ubuntu and VirtualBox.  It's amazing how so much can be made to just work out of the box.  More later.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-09-16
I always use a ISO to load Vbox, extract the XP cd to a iso and install.

---

### Post by paul.drover on 2010-09-17
> **david.macquigg said:**
> Hi Paul.  So far, it is working well.  I've got Ubuntu as my host system, and VirtualBox running both Windows 7 and my flaky old Windows XP system.  I am just getting started setting up networking, printers, etc., and transferring everything off the old system.  One snag so far.  File sharing between Ubuntu and Mac OS X is flaky.  Since we are still using the previously-installed Windows SMB protocol for this connection, that may not be the best setup.

Other than that, I am really pleased with both Ubuntu and VirtualBox.  It's amazing how so much can be made to just work out of the box.  More later.

Hey Dave, how did you get VirtualBox to use your existing windows XP disk/partition? The how-to here indicated a need to create a CD for VirtualBox to use, but the how-to predates Grub2 and I wasn't able to figure out how to achieve the same result using Grub2 (I really don't want to revert to Grub). So this is my initial stumbling block. If you've been able to clear it, I'd love to know how you did it.

Paul.

---

### Post by david.macquigg on 2010-09-17
Hi Paul,
I am not an expert, and I didn't do the install myself, but what I can say is that have two VMs (Windows 7 and Windows XP) running in VirtualBox 3.2.8 under Ubuntu 10.04.  Windows 7 is in a .vdi file, currently 8.9GB, set up to appear as a 50GB virtual disk.  Windows XP (my old disk image) is in a .vmdk file, currently 94.7 GB, set up to appear as a 298GB virtual disk.

Windows 7 is working smoothly, launched from the VirtualBox main window.  Windows XP is still not working, but I think it is a Microsoft licensing problem.  When I try to launch XP, it goes through the familiar startup and login screens, indicating no problem with VirtualBox or Ubuntu.  Then I get a warning "the hardware on your computer has changed significantly.  Due to these changes, Windows must be reactivated within 1 days.  Do you want to reactivate Windows now?"  Clicking YES freezes XP, and I have to kill it with a Virtual Power OFF.  Clicking NO allows me to continue, but this may be good for one day only.  I think I may have exhausted my allowable reactivations with all the problems and re-installs I've gone through.

Someone with the right expertise needs to write a new install procedure using virtual machines, and make it at least an alternative to the current recommended procedure at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MactelSupportTeam/AppleIntelInstallation](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MactelSupportTeam/AppleIntelInstallation).  This is the setup I have always wanted - a reliable Unix OS as the host, leaving behind all the problems of Windows, while still being able to run Windows programs.

---

### Post by david.macquigg on 2010-09-17
Hi Paul,
I forgot to answer your question.  Forget about GRUB.  Follow the instructions at [http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch02.html#id2649309](http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch02.html#id2649309) "Installing on Linux hosts".  VirtualBox has it's own loader and doesn't need GRUB.

---

### Post by paul.drover on 2010-09-17
> **david.macquigg said:**
> 
Windows XP (my old disk image) is in a .vmdk file 

How did you do that? Right now I have a hard disk, not a file.

Thanks for all the other info, btw.

Cheers,
Paul.

---

### Post by david.macquigg on 2010-09-17
Sorry, I can't help with making vmdk files.  I never heard of this format until now.  I would have to start with a Google search.  I see there is a Wikipedia article at [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VMDK](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VMDK).  That is usually a good start.  You might also try the VirtualBox documentation.  It is quite thorough.

There must be someone on this forum that has done this.  My guy is $85 per hour, so unless I really need to know, I'll just be happy that it works.

---

### Post by paul.drover on 2010-09-20
Thanks Dave. Did some googling about, and it seems that vmware-rawdiskCreator can make a virtual image from a physical HD. I think I'm going to head down that route. 

Anyone else out there ever tried using vmware-rawdiskCreator and applying the result to Vbox?

Cheers,
Paul.

---

### Post by paul.drover on 2010-09-23
The good news: I was able to achieve what I set out to do by following the instruction here: [http://mesbalivernes.blogspot.com/2008/01/virtual-box-booting-from-existing.html](http://mesbalivernes.blogspot.com/2008/01/virtual-box-booting-from-existing.html)

It's a bit old, but still works. I found it through the mega-thread.

The bad news: My machine is much too old and slow to make virtualization effective. I was able to see my XP desktop, but gave up waiting for the icons to populate. I need *way* more that then 1Mb ram that I have to share.

So I'm marking this thread "Solved" with an implied overtone of disappointment.

Thanks all,
Paul.

---

### Post by david.macquigg on 2010-09-23
HI Paul,  Yes I can appreciate your problem with obsolete computers.  I have several that have perfectly good hardware, but just won't handle todays large disks and memory arrays.  My current choice for something that I hope will last at least five years, including adding more memory and disk is a generic PC with an Intel motherboard, a Core 2 Duo processor, 2GB main memory, and a Seagate 320GB disk.  Total cost about $500 including Windows XP.  I've recently added another GB of memory ($40) and another 500GB drive for backup images ($89).  Now I can comfortably run Ubuntu as a host, VirtualBox, and both Windows XP and Windows 7 as guests.

The setup went smoothly following the install instructions at [http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/UserManual.html](http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/UserManual.html).  I wonder if your snag has to do with your limited or obsolete hardware.  The only snag I had was a licensing problem with the recently-purchased Windows XP.  I had to call Microsoft tech support because their re-activate procedure had a conflict with Internet Explorer 8.  Removing that (going back to IE 6) allowed re-activation under the old license key.

---

