---
title: "Where is the NFS client id stored?"
date: 2011-12-13
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by acpuck1 on 2011-12-13
I work at a college campus. We have an NFS/NIS ubuntu server with clients in a lab. I made a VirtualBox image of Ubuntu that mounts the NFS share and uses NIS to login.

The VBox image was made on my computer, exported and put on the website for download. The VirtualBox uses NAT so all the ip addresses are the same as far as the Ubuntu client image is concerned. Since the nfs client id is made using the IP address and the timestamp it was first connected and that time was when I made the image they are all the same. This is a problem for the NFS server.

I would like to know where the NFS client stores the NFS client id so I can delete it and force the client to create a new one when a student logs in for the first time.

Thanks in advanced.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2011-12-13
Check "man nfs" for the details. Apparently it's stored in the /etc/fstab file on the client machine, and the option is "clientaddr=" followed by the IP address, which since you're using NAT would have to be the address of the actual host machine rather than that of the client itself. I have no idea how to make that change in your script, however...

Just deleting it would NOT force proper creation; instead, it would make the NFS server inaccessible from the client. Your install script needs to actually change the address when it's installed.

---

### Post by acpuck1 on 2011-12-13
First off, thanks for the quick reply!

We don't have the clientaddr option set so it has been set automatically.

If we were to set the clientaddr, reboot, log in and let the server see the new clientaddr. Then restart with networking and delete that clientaddr option. Shouldn't it automatically generate a new one once the next person logs in?

So if I did that and uploaded it, the students would be generating their own once the download and install the image.

Do I grasp this correctly?

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2011-12-13
Honestly I don't know the answers to your questions, not having used NFS in that manner at all. I suspect the only way to find out for sure would be to try it and see what happens.

If the NFS server creates its client address automatically I would expect it to be correct in the first place, reflecting the actual IP address for the connection and not needing any changes. 

However if it's really being created at the client side and then sent to the server, it's probably showing the NATted IP, which is most likely the same for all of the clients since it's generated by vbox's NAT routines. If this is the case I would not expect your approach to make any changes.

---

