---
title: "VM Isolation"
date: 2019-02-16
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by mjwestkamper on 2019-02-16
I have been running UBUNTU bare metal on my servers for a long time. Most recently I installed it on an older laptop to see how it works with my daily desktop usage. So far so good.  Now I want to put it onto a new system only to find the system is tied to Windows 10. I do not want Windows 10 running my work for a variety of reasons. I attempted to install Linux (UBUBTU) on my new laptop only to find even when I swapped HDD I couldn't. That's another story.

My question here is:  If I install Oracle VM Box on my Windows 10 machine, Install UBUNTU as a VM Guest, what access does Windows 10 have to the information on the UBUNTU VM?

Any insight will be greatly appreciated.

Mike

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-02-17
There are multiple answers to this question.  There is the theory, the normal real-world and the being-hacked answer.  This applies to all hypervisors, not just windows-based solutions.

The hostOS controls everything about the guest.  With the right tools, it can read, modify, delete the storage and the contents inside, it can intercept traffic, modify traffic, or just silently listen to it all, dependent on the type of networking involved. If the hostOS is compromised, all bets are off.  The file access methods would likely lead to corruption inside a running VM.  vboxmanage has many commands which are worth looking at.

If you seek to allow access between the hostOS and the guests, then there are a few methods that are commonly used. For the host to access storage inside the guests in a "nice" manner, the guest would need to setup network file sharing or just use any of the network protocols that support transfers like rsync, sftp, scp, or the 500 others.

If you want to allow access to the hostOS from guests using virtualbox, then there is a file access extension that is part of virtualbox. Just enable it for each guest, setup the directory structure to be shared and install the guest additions inside each client.  Next storage access is configured inside the client, sorta like CIFS or NFS would be setup, but using the vboxsf driver in the mount command.  I haven't used it in a long time, because last time I tried, it had file locking problems that prevented safe use if multiple processes tried to modify the same file.  

Generally, I find it easier to treat VMs like physical machines. I use network sharing when I want it. The direction doesn't matter.  I'm confident in my understanding of the security aspects with this setup. Knowing the risks, so they can be mitigated (or accepted), is the first step.

Pretty much any computer can run Linux on the hardware.  Did you open a thread here seeking help?  The specific model is a key data item to provide.

---

### Post by mjwestkamper on 2019-02-18
Thanks!  I think I understand. One follow up ....

If I encrypt the HDD and all network traffic is over a VPN I should be able to restrict the snooping to just memory contents. However with memory access the host OS could subvert both.

Re the laptop, it was a Dell. When I replaced the HDD I got a message something like unsupported OS. Also when I tried to change the USB drive bootable it gave a message to the effect "restricted access not permitted".  These weren't the exact messages but something akin.  I believe I got tangled up with the UFEI boot process. I have another laptop coming that claims I can install Linux bare metal.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-02-19
Dell makes just about the most compatible Linux laptops.  Getting most Linuxen, including Ubuntu, installed probably just takes a few steps. These days almost every laptop will need some small tweak to the BIOS and perhaps one kernel boot option to get installed.

---

### Post by mjwestkamper on 2019-02-19
I have limited experience with the current desktop/laptop offerings. My main machine is an IBM Thinkpad that "just keeps on ticking". That last phrase, if you have heard it before, gives some indication of my tenure. I am familiar with the servers today and we run a lot of VM's in development environments and production. Fortunately most are VM hosted with Unix/Linux air-gapped and those that are not are externally firewalled. We cannot tolerate the constant fiddling and unknown traffic generated by the OS. 

And in retrospect the install problem may have been caused by my inability to hack the boot/install protections on the product.

In any case, thanks for your help and response.

Mike

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-02-19
With VirtualBox, the guest sees none of the host's filesystems.  However you can install the Extension Pack and designate particular folders on the host to be made available to the guest.  I believe that works in the other direction as well, though I've only used "shared folders" to access resources on the host from the guest.

Mostly I store things on a server and access that from both the host and guest rather than moving files between them.

---

### Post by mjwestkamper on 2019-02-19
We isolate some data to the guest for security and speed. We did a study with the same files on a network share on the host and locally on the guest - there was a 15% penalty going the nertwork share route. I hasten to add that was one specific case, mileage may vary. While far from a perfect solution, we are moving the VM Guests to an encrypted file system. Being paranoid doesn't mean there is nobody out to get you. Even air-gap is not perfect, ask the Iranians.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-02-19
I've worked in/on govt air gapped networks.  They are only as secure as the physical access controls and the update procedures.  Part of my job was bringing in new software to the environment for the project team I was on.  No MS products were allowed on that network without an approved variance signed by the head of the facility.  Everything brought into our facility was scanned and archived. It took at least 24 hours to accomplish as different responsible people performed their distinct steps of the process.  End-users had no way to get any new software into the network. There weren't any physical ports they could reach without a key to access the systems.  No RF worked inside the building either - not even pagers worked, much less cell phones.  

Also worked in more secure environments where we didn't bring coats, paper, or any equipment in.  I was just an end-programmer in that one.

That is where many air-gapped setups mess up, weak processes.  There are examples of US facilities having viruses introduced by the techs working there as well, being air-gapped didn't help.

When it comes to performance tuning, it is all local after the rules of thumb. The HW matters. The drivers matter. The links used matter. The logical config matters. The protocol used matters.  Any encryption matters, but if you stick with ciphers that are supported in HW, it is usually line-speed. Each part has to be tuned, but if the disks are only pushing 20Mbps, then tuning networking isn't useful.

BTW, if air-gapped had been mentioned networking initially, I would have responded differently. People doing air-gapped networking are more serious about security.

---

### Post by mjwestkamper on 2019-02-19
I do appreciate you taking the time to reply.

When I started this I was trying to stay out of the weeds, and just understand what the VM host could be up to. As I should have known there are a lot of smart people out there it ended up getting fairly deep. And I am pleased. I love this stuff.

We are not making nukes or any new meds and we're not doing anything nefarious, but we are reasonably concerned about keeping our stuff ours. Too we are guarded because some of our customers promised really heinous things if we don't keep their stuff confidential. In the end if there is no face to the Internet no need to update anything, no OS patches, no security stuff, nothing. No wasted time.  For a small business with not too many people managing two networks is fairly easy. (we color code the wire and routers too). 

The problem I was having was a VM guest was causing host IP traffic that didn't make sense. To test it I simply ran the VM guest traffic through a VPN to another machine and the host stopped sending encrypted traffic that seemed to be questionable. If I had the time and knowledge I'd love to chase this to ground. Unfortunately I can't make a living doing the fun stuff.

Being paranoia doesn't necessarily mean that nobody is out to get you.

Thanks again,

Mike

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-02-19
Well, if you need performance, then don't use virtualbox.

---

