---
title: "Different between running Ubuntu in VirtualBox and real laptop"
date: 2019-06-19
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by j2ee on 2019-06-19
I have a desktop with 16gb ram and a super old laptop t60 with 2gb ram and 128mb 1400x display. What would be the different if I run latest Ubuntu LTS in desktop with VirtualBox and directly install it in the old laptop? Thx for your sharing!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-06-19
Impossible to say from the provided data.  Try it. See how it works.  Be certain to tune the virtualbox setup. The defaults are less than optimal for performance.
```
inxi -Fz
```
on each would provide a minimal amount of data about each system for a guess.
I wouldn't consider using virtualization on a system with 2G of RAM unless it was NOT for a desktop.  A little email server would easily work in 384MB of RAM.
When using virtualization, it is about sharing all the system resources, but splitting off some for exclusive use by the host or the VMs.  The hostOS really needs about 1G of RAM to manage itself and the VMs.  On a 2GB system, that leaves 1G total for everything the VM needs, so you can't allocate 1G RAM to it, more like 768MB, since you'll need to allocate some RAM for video use, disk buffers, network buffers, etc. Those VM allocations aren't shared.  Also, all displayed graphics is generated by the CPU, not the GPU, so using a light GUI, if any GUI is used at all, works best for all hypervisors.  Gnome3 should **always** be avoided inside any VM unless you take advanced steps. I don't believe virtualbox supports any of those advanced steps.

Google "tuning virtualbox guests" for some other important considerations.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2019-06-21
Hello,

in the old laptop I would not advice you to use ubuntu, since the resources are limited. Lubuntu for example might be a better option. As far as VB is concerned then testing it would show you how it would behave. I guess that since you have such resources in your desktop computer then it should be better there, yet cpu is also an important aspect apart from memory that should be taken into account.

One more aspect that I can think of as different is how you can access ubuntu either as standalone or inside VB. The former is easier.

Regards!

---

### Post by pascua28 on 2019-07-22
There might be some performance degradation. Also, are you trying to run Ubuntu on a Windows guest or running Windows on a Linux guest? From my experience, running windows on a linux guest is faster since linux uses virtualization on a kernel level + if your cpu has virtualization feature

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-07-22
You don't say which operating system is running on the laptop, but if it's Windows 7 or later, I doubt you could allocate enough memory to the virtual machine to run pretty much any flavor of Ubuntu effectively other than Ubuntu Server which has no graphical interface.  I usually consider 4 GB the minimum for this situation, with 2.5 GB for Windows and 1.5 GB for Ubuntu.

If it runs Windows XP I wouldn't let it connect to the Internet.

---

### Post by lammert-nijhof on 2019-07-23
I had an old desktop a Pentium 4 HT (3.0 GHz) with 2 GB of DDR. I had two 40 GB IDE disks and I installed Peppermint 9 using BTRFS file systems and the disk in Raid-0. BTRFS is a modern file system with a effective memory cache for the disks and good LZO compression to effectively almost half the number of disk IOs. That system booted in 45 seconds and had good response times running largely from memory cache.  Normally a boot with Windows XP on a Pentium from an IDE disk would take minutes.

It all depends how you set up your system, but in all cases I would go for a modern file system to store the virtual machines. Unfortunately if you use Windows, you are stuck to NTFS from the 20th century, but you could try to compress the Virtual Machine folders to reduce of the number of disk IOs. Now on all my Linux installs I use ZFS or BTRFS. The best file system is ZFS, but the easiest to use during e.g. the install is BTRFS, at least till the release of Ubuntu 19.10 in October.

I would suggest to install Ubuntu Mate, Peppermint or Xubuntu on the old laptop, select BTRFS during the install and google how to defrag-compress the disk after the install and just try it out.

---

