---
title: "Packets dropped on tap interfaces"
date: 2012-06-11
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by smarathe on 2012-06-11
Hi everyone,

I have an issue with the tap interfaces in QEMU.

**Setup Description:**
Here is the long issue description to give you some background:
I have a Ubuntu 11.04 host running QEMU emulator (qemu-system-x86_64. Qemu version 0.14.0) 

The VM running on this host machine has an internal VM running a second Linux operating system. This is a VM inside a VM architecture, it being so for a reason.

Now, consider two such virtual machines running on this Ubuntu host. 
Both these VMs talk to each other via bridged interfaces.

brctl show on Ubuntu host:

brctl show
bridge name     bridge id                   STP enabled     interfaces
base_br6                8000.12b225a87738       no          btap_6_3  
                                                                               btap_6_7
The VMs running on this Ubuntu Host are:
**1) VM_A**  

    **brctl show** on VM_A
   bridge name     bridge id                STP enabled     interfaces
   base_br0        8000.001cae060703       no              btap1
                                                                              btap2
                                                                              eth3      
**VM_A is also running QEMU emulator **to host another VM ( alias internal guest or VM_A_Internal ) 
   tipc-config -l -netid -addr -n issued on VM_A_Internal
   Links:
   broadcast link: up 
   current network id: 7777
   node address: <6.1.7>
   [COLOR=#FF0000]Neighbors:[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#FF0000]   No nodes found.[/COLOR]
   
**eth0 on VM_A_Internal is configured as the bearer interface **that sends out 
TIPC neighbor discovery packets to detect its neighbor and locate VM_B_Internal as its neighbor.    

Similar settings applicable to VM_B.
2) **VM_B - running QEMU emulator to host VM_B_Internal**
**    brctl show **on VM_B
    bridge name     bridge id                STP enabled     interfaces
    base_br0        8000.001cae060300       no              btap1
                                                                               btap2
                                                                                eth3      
    tipc-config -l -netid -addr -n issued on VM_B_Internal
    Links:
    broadcast link: up 
    current network id: 7777
    node address: <6.1.3>
[COLOR=#FF0000]    Neighbors:[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#FF0000]    No nodes found.[/COLOR]

    eth0 on VM_B_Internal is configured as the bearer interface that sends out TIPC 
    neighbor discovery packets to detect its neighbor and locate VM_A_Internal as its 
    neighbor.    

**ISSUE**:
Now the issue is that all these packets ( TIPC control packets ) generated by the inner guest VMs are being **dropped by the tap interfaces **on VM_A and VM_B ( confirmed by the Rx drop count and Tx drop count shown by netstat -i command) The host Ubuntu system also reports a drop of Rx & Tx packets at the base_br6 bridge.

How do we avoid the packet drops at the tap interfaces created by QEMU ? Am I missing something here ?

Note: The two inner guest VMs can see each other. Pinging the IP Addresses configured on the btap<x> interface works. However the neighborhood detection does not, indicating that these packets are being dropped. Firewall on the host has been configured to FORWARD incoming and not REJECT/DROP any packet.

Appreciate any thoughts/inputs that will help me proceed further.

Thanks,
SM

---

### Post by TheGrave on 2012-08-06
Got a similar story. Did you manage to fix the issue?

At certain point the tap interface simply stops sending and receiving packets, ARP included.

---

