---
title: "9.10 inside VMware. Visual effects : Kubuntu OK; Ubuntu NOT"
date: 2009-11-15
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by rlsx on 2009-11-15
I have tried both Ubuntu and Kubuntu 9.10, 64bit, as guest OS under VMware Workstation 7.0. (Windows 7 x64  is the host)

In Kubuntu, to enable visual effects, one is given the choice between "OpenGL" and "XRender". The OpenGL option doesn't work, but the **XRender option works**.

In Ubuntu, it has been impossible to enable visual effects.

As I understand it, OpenGL is not (yet?) available for Linux guests in Vmware. Only for Windows guests.

Does Ubuntu absolutely need OpenGL to enable visual effects?

I don't know what "XRender" is. But, can't Ubuntu use that same technique/api that Kubuntu does, to implement visual effects?

Any other solutions?

---

### Post by rlsx on 2009-11-21
Any solutions? Anyone?

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2009-11-21
No solution from me. I had the same issues with OpenSUSE, not able to install the Tools. In this case the gcc compliler was not part of the install, so I simply left the whole think aline. Kbuntu works great in Player 3.0!

---

### Post by CorvisRex on 2009-11-30
Found the same thing in VirtualBox with Ubuntu/Kubuntu guests.  What I figured out (rememeber this is virtualbox not VMWare)

Ubuntu(gnome) uses Compiz for its effects. Compiz just frags in my Guest OSs, under gnome or KDE. 

In KDE (Kubuntu 9.10) switching to xrender did in fact help alot.  also, making sure you use KWin and not compiz for compasiting (Kwin, i think is the default for KDE now) This will also give you basic effects.

As for gnome (Ubuntu), to get compositing (for transparencies et al) you can install Metacity instead of Compiz.  And turn on Metacity as the compasiting manager using GConf-editor.    This does NOT get you a nice cude, or desktop effects, but at least it give you transpencies, better graghics etc.  Better than nothing.

---

