---
title: "10.04.1 + LXC + Centos guests - sanity check"
date: 2010-09-08
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by Nighthog on 2010-09-08
Hello all, 

first post here so immediate apologies if it's in the wrong place!  

I'm trying to achieve on one shiny new laptop (i7 processor, 8Ggb RAM, 500Gb) what I used to achieve across several machines a year or two ago.  I used to use Centos/Openvz on a couple of office boxes and my own Win Xp laptop, but now I'm trying to do it all in one place and without recourse to Windoze, so I can work with Linux and the products I need while on the train or whatever.  

I considered using Proxmox but it couldn't see eth0 (!) and considered Centos/Openvz with Lucid desktop as a guest but Centos 5.5 couldn't see eth0 either (hardware too new?).  My linux isn't strong (mainframe & Windows background, some AIX, Solaris, RedHat etc.) so having read around a bit and concluded that Openvz, good as it is/was, has no future, I reckon this is the way for me to go.  I'd welcome any comments, pointers to hurdles, etc:

Lucid 10.04.1 desktop (installed :o)) to give me the desktop I need.  This will also give me a client platform to run Eclipse tools against the IBM stuff running on LXC guests. DHCP with IP supplied from my home router.

LXC to give near-native guest performance.  A few Centos 5.5 guests to run the IBM integration products I use.  Each guest to have a fixed IP address but be able to talk to the outside world (bridged?).

If I ever get forced to use Windows then I'll run it under VMWare/VirtualBox or similar.

Sounds simple when it's written like this, but I'm rusty with Linux, new to Ubuntu, and a complete beginner with LXC.  Note that this is all on a private laptop so I don't have many/any security concerns.

What do you think, folks?

Thanks -
Cliff

---

### Post by standingfire on 2010-09-10
Not sure exactly what you are asking, but it sounds like there may be an issue with the network card declaration when you create or edit the VM. You would need to link the card in the virtual machine to the card in the physical machine. I have a ubuntu host and centos guests. The other question to answer is are you running 64 bit vms or 32 bit vms.

---

