---
title: "18.04 VM no longer allows screen resize"
date: 2019-06-28
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by unicav on 2019-06-28
After a recent update I had several issues with my 18.04 VM. First got the freeze on the splash screen. Setting nomodeset in Grub fixed that.
But I cpi;dn't resize the screen anymore.  I uninstalled and reinstalled open-vm-tools and open-vm-tools-desktop, and found another post here [https://github.com/vmware/open-vm-tools/issues/303](https://github.com/vmware/open-vm-tools/issues/303) and added the Requires and After tags to the open-vm-tools.service file.  Afterward it will let me resize but only a little bit.
In the system config I only get the option to use up to 1176x885. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-06-30
I would call VMware for support.

---

### Post by unicav on 2019-07-18
Apparently this is a new issue with open-vm-tools and something that's changed in the last few updates in Ubuntu. Since my original post, I did the upgrade to 18.10, at which point the issue still exists, and then upgraded to 19.04, and still the same issue persists. I have added modes using xrandr for 1440x900 and 1920x1080. It shows that it's using those modes but the screen size still doesn't stretch fully ... my monitor is 1920x1080 and it's not filling it.  
Before this happened I could always open it in VMRC and stretch it to any size I wanted in one of my monitors. Now it's just refusing to do so.
Hopefully something open-vm-tools devs will fix soon.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-18
Have you tried to edit,"/lib/systemd/system/open-vm-tools.service"
```
sudoedit /lib/systemd/system/open-vm-tools.service
``` 
 
Add just under **[Unit] **the following line:
```

After=display-manager.service
```
Example of mine:
```
[Unit]
After=display-manager.service
Description=Service for virtual machines hosted on VMware
Documentation=http://open-vm-tools.sourceforge.net/about.php
ConditionVirtualization=vmware
DefaultDependencies=no
Before=cloud-init-local.service
After=vgauth.service
After=apparmor.service
RequiresMountsFor=/tmp
After=systemd-remount-fs.service systemd-tmpfiles-setup.service systemd-modules$

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/vmtoolsd
TimeoutStopSec=5

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target

```

Save the file and reboot. The screen should be able to fit as needed."

---

### Post by unicav on 2019-07-24
Yes, I have done that. It will resize, but only up to a certain point. It stops around 1176 or something. Won't go anywhere near 1440, 1600 or 1920 resolutions.

---

