---
title: "Win 98"
date: 2009-09-27
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by HalfCrackedTech on 2009-09-27
How do i get an internet connection in win 98?  I cannot find my wireless card and i can not get it to work.

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2009-09-27
win98 is full of security holes, sure you want to go there?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-09-27
I'm assuming this install of Win98 is in a VM; correct?  I seem to remember that win98 is less well supported in VirtualBox than newer windows versions, so if you are using VB that could have some bearing on things.

However,the network in windows should be up and running, as far as I remember, if it was connected in the host system, ie Jaunty in your case.  I haven't used a VM for quite a while now, so my memory may be playing tricks, so wait for more answers before you do too much, and thus possibly upset things.

---

### Post by skatinjj on 2009-09-27
> **HalfCrackedTech said:**
> How do i get an internet connection in win 98?  I cannot find my wireless card and i can not get it to work.

I have never virtutalized win98.

Since I have nothing better to do right now, let me attempt to find my win98 disc and try to virtualize it.

---

### Post by skatinjj on 2009-09-27
Started the installation now so it won't be too much longer now.

---

### Post by HalfCrackedTech on 2009-09-27
Well thank you all!! 

I am doing this so that I can run Dungeon keeper 2 on it.

Keep me posted about your trip threw the process>

---

### Post by skatinjj on 2009-09-27
Lol forgot about user input and work is trying to drag me into replacing a server HDD somewhere.

NVM I get to stay right here lol

Started copying the files so it will probably be another 35 minutes.

That is why ubuntu is great, I just installed today on my laptop jaunty and it took like 15 minutes and MS old software can't do it.

---

### Post by skatinjj on 2009-09-27
finally got it virtualized.  So are you virtualizing win98 cuz if you are then it should automatically bridge the connection from the host OS.

If you are not virtulaizing you most likely have to install a driver.

windows 9x family PnP = plug and pray

NVM it is attempting to update system settings and is taking a long time *sigh*

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2009-09-27
A virtual "guest" normally connects through the "host's" network setup. It depends on the host operating system whether or not you get direct access to the host hardware (wireless in your case).
Have you installed the Guest Additions (or VMWare Tools if you are using VMWare) on your Win98 guest?
Setup the host pc's internet access first then configure your virtual machine settings (using the virtualization app's settings/options menu) for NAT (or host-only) networking. In the Win98 guest make sure you set Internet Options to connect to the internet through a local network (lan).

---

### Post by et_tu_brute on 2009-09-28
> **HalfCrackedTech said:**
> How do i get an internet connection in win 98?  I cannot find my wireless card and i can not get it to work.

I've had no problems running Win 98SE in MS Virtual PC 2007 and accessing the web via a lan connection. However via Sun VirtualBox either inside Windows Vista or Ubuntu... no such luck and life is too short. Far too many security issues to spend life trying to sort them out... 

:popcorn:

---

