---
title: "16.04 screen flicker remmina and vmware workstation"
date: 2017-05-10
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by scojopa on 2017-05-10
Screen flickers when I move away from a remote session both remmina and vmware workstation 12.5.
Dual monitor setup. When working in the remote session, mouse/keyboard -> everything is fine. 
When I move mouse/keyboard back to me 16.04 host machine (other monitor) the remote session screen starts flickering. Sometimes keyboard strokes can trigger the flickering. 
If I minimize the remote session (remmina or workstation) there are still artifacts of the remote screen on the monitor. I have to click the desktop on that monitor to clean things up. 

Lenovo T460s
4.8.0-51-generic x64
remmina - Version 1.2

*-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: Sky Lake Integrated Graphics
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 07
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pciexpress msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
       resources: irq:126 memory:f0000000-f0ffffff memory:e0000000-efffffff ioport:e000(size=64) memory:c0000-dffff

Any help would be appreciated. Thank you,

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-05-10
Thread moved to the "*Virtualisation*" forum.

---

### Post by scojopa on 2017-05-12
does anyone have any idea to address this?

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2017-05-12
Have you monitored  the resources when this happens? Do you see any unusual spikes?
How much of the resources have you allocated to the VM? What is your guest OS? Have you installed guest additions? What version of VMWare are you using? Have you enabled hardware acceleration?
Are you using one external monitor and one from laptop?
How does reminna factor into VMWare set-up?
I have your set-up but I don't experience the issue.

---

### Post by scojopa on 2017-05-12
for Vmware -> guest is windows 10x64 4GB ram allocated, 3D graphics disabled. Hardware acceleration is disabled.
Yes external monitors no laptop monitor
experiencing the flicker on remminna  and vmware12.5 Sorry thought that was clear in OP

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2017-05-12
Can you enable 3D graphics?
And just to eliminate, can you try with one external monitor and one laptop screen?
Also, What about any spikes in resource usage?
How many cores assigned to the VM?

---

### Post by scojopa on 2017-05-12
Enabled 3D Graphics
Single core
I do not think it is vmware but rather an issue on ubuntu side, since it happens in remmina as well. 
I do not have the issue running mint 18, only ubuntu 16.04.2

Same thing happens for remmina 
It occurs on screen when Vmware is launched but guest is powered down as well.

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2017-05-13
In that case it might be your video drivers. But I would think that Mint and Ubuntu use same drivers. I might be wrong there though.

@Howiefield
May be this is not the correct section for this issue.

---

### Post by scojopa on 2017-05-17
I agree but the forum admin moved it here.

---

