---
title: "16.04.1 with hwe-16.04-edge Kernel with VirtualBox (Latest)?"
date: 2017-01-20
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by robstrube on 2017-01-20
Hi Guys,

Pretty new to Ubuntu, so please forgive me if the question is obvious.

I really need the hardware support of the 4.8 kernel for Ubuntu 16.04.1 I've done some googling and research, and it appears that it's really as simple as:

```
sudo apt-get install linux-generic-hwe-16.04-edge
```

I also rely on VirtualBox for my livelihood as I do .NET development. To clarify I Ubuntu 16.04.1 will be the host OS, and I will run Windows 10 as a guest OS on occasion.

So here's my question.  I know that VirtualBox has kernel modules.  I was wondering if I install the 4.8 kernel (which would also install the kernel headers) and then I follow the instructions here: [https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads) to get the latest version, will the Virtual Box kernel modules be rebuilt for the new 4.8 kernel?  My understanding is that they should be rebuilt without problem.

I suppose this becomes moot when Ubuntu 16.04.2 hits, as I believe with 16.04.2 the 4.8 kernel is the default.  VirtualBox should then support it.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-01-20
*Thread moved to **Virtualisation**.*

If you install Ubuntu in virtualbox you can upgrade the kernel just like it was installed on your actual hardware, you just need to find the kernel you want and follow the directions.

You will need to install the kernel headers and build-essentials yourself if you plan ti compile from source.

I do not know anything about that particular kernel myself, I was speaking in general terms for all kernels that I know of can be installed.

---

### Post by robstrube on 2017-01-20
Hello,

Thank you very much for the quick reply.  I was actually referring to running Ubuntu as the host, and running Windows in VirtualBox as a guest.  I suppose my question was to vague, but it was referring to the impact of updating the kernel on the ability to run Virtual Box as a host on Ubuntu.

Rob

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-01-20
Any time there is an upgrade or update to the kernel on the host virtualbox is supposed to rebuild the the kernel modules automatically having said that in the past there was a bug and I had to rebuild them by running one command but it is not hard.

You have to have DKMS and kernel headers installed in the host since is it Ubuntu, also to install virtualbox from there site and DKMS you will have to disable secure boot in your bios if you have it enabled to be able to run virtualbox or you have to sign the key which is much harder to do.

To turn off secure boot you can also use these commands:
```
sudo apt install mokutil
sudo mokutil --disable-validation

```

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by robstrube on 2017-01-20
Thank you very much! I'm going to move forward with the kernel upgrade and then a VirtualBox installation using the latest version.  I'll report back with the results.

---

### Post by robstrube on 2017-01-21
Just wanted to update everyone, that after updating the kernel VirtualBox  (host) runs fine on Ubuntu 16.04.1.  I didn't have to do anything specific,  it appears that installing the new kernel caused VirtualBox to  automatically build it's kernel models.

So my setup is now:

Host OS: Ubuntu 16.04.1 (Linux 4.8)
Guest OS: Windows 10

Before I had both the Host and the Guest as Windows 10, but Windows 10 as a host OS is very greedy resource wise.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-01-21
I am glad everything went smoothly!
Enjoy!

---

