---
title: "Mount point randomly changes on Hyper-v"
date: 2022-08-25
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by ozarif2006 on 2022-08-25
I installed ubuntu ver. 22 on Hyper-V 2019. The basic installation is fine, however when I add the disk it changes mount point.

For example:
After clean install the root partition is on disk /dev/sda
When I another disk it detects new disk on /dev/sdb, so I created partition, formatted and mounted on /data. Everything works fine.
After reboot, the root partition changes to /dev/sdb and additional disk changes to /dev/sda.
We want to use different disks for images and mysql, but this random mount point does not look right. I have another ubuntu 14.04 VM on the same server and no issue at all.
Please see the attached screenshot of filesystem before and after adding disk.

How can i fix this random mounting point?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-08-25
Moved to Virtualisation which is more appropriate.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2022-08-25
Try mounting with UUIDs in /etc/fstab rather than /dev/sdX. UUIDs are immutable.

[https://linuxhint.com/mount_partition_uuid_label_linux/](https://linuxhint.com/mount_partition_uuid_label_linux/)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-08-25
Device names like sda1, sdb1, sdc2 aren't guaranteed and haven't been for 20 yrs.  Device names are generated by discovery order, which can change from boot to boot.

There are multiple methods that can be used, including UUIDs, partition LABELs, by-path (controller, port, disk, slice), by WWN, and a few others if the system has a volume manager.  All those alternate names are really symbolic links to the current device and are guaranteed to be correct after a boot/reboot. The "mapper" process handles creating those links.  To get a feel for the options, use:
```
$ find /dev/disk    -type l    | less -X
```
to see all the possible answers.

blkid will show the UUIDs for a current partition.  Again, this command needs to be re-run after each boot, but the UUID for a partition will not change, unless you specifically request that through a CLI command. It isn't a command you'll accidentally run.

For portable devices, using a LABEL on the partition/file system can be much more convenient.

For devices with a volume manager, like LVM, then the path to the logical volume in the form of /dev/{vg-name}/{lv-name} is much more convenient and actually useful.  

UUIDs aren't exactly human friendly. We can all agree on that.

---

### Post by ozarif2006 on 2022-08-25
Thanks everyone for your help. I am able to mount both disk using UUID. It was much easier doing to through disk management.

---

