---
title: "17.10 Bridge network for KVM Virtual Machine"
date: 2017-11-21
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by ubname on 2017-11-21
I'm using the new 17.10 Ubuntu interface, i find it nice (snappier than Unity?) but it seems to lack some
tools/settings available in Unity (maybe they will be added) one i miss:

Network management, i cannot find a way to create a bridge, do i overlooked something or am i right?
If it is actually missing, how do i create a bridge in 17.10, i guess command line, should i disable network
manager and use "netplan"?

found this doc but it is not much:
[h=3]Network configuration[/h] **ifupdown** has been deprecated in favor of **netplan** and is no longer present on new installs. The installer will generate a configuration file for netplan in */etc/netplan*, which will set up the system to configure the network via systemd-networkd or [NetworkManager]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NetworkManager"). Desktop users will see their system fully managed via [NetworkManager]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NetworkManager")  as it has been the case in previous releases, but Server users now have  their network devices managed via systemd-networkd on new installs.  This only applies to new installations. 

Given that ifupdown is no longer installed by default, its commands will not be present: *ifup* and *ifdown* are thus unavailable, replaced by ip link set $device up and ip link set $device down. 
The networkctl command is also available for users to see a summary of the network devices. networkctl status will display the current global state of IP addresses on the system; and networkctl status $device can display the details specific to a network device. 

For more information about netplan, please refer to the manual page using the man 5 netplan command.

Thanks!

---

### Post by philhughes on 2017-11-22
As you noted, the new settings interface can no longer create bridged connections, but the old interface is still available with:

```
nm-connection-editor
```

---

### Post by ubname on 2017-11-22
> **philhughes said:**
> As you noted, the new settings interface can no longer create bridged connections, but the old interface is still available with:

```
nm-connection-editor
```

Ok Thanks! 

Hope it will be integrated in the system settings :)

---

