---
title: "12.04 Black Screen on Shutdown"
date: 2012-12-29
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by Acer8888 on 2012-12-29
Hello i have Server 2012 with a Ubuntu 12.04 Virtual Server using Hyper-V. I am using the virtual as a MythTV Backend Server. Everything seems to be working just great besides when i want to shutdown the virtual. When i issue shutdown in the terminal or through the GUI, ubuntu acts like its shutting down but then i get a black screen and it shows the virtual is still running. I dn if ubuntu has shutdown and Hyper-V is just stuck or if something is causing Ubuntu to not shutdown properly. This is my first experience with Ubuntu in a Virtual environment. I have multiple over VM's i use for testing purposes so i dont really want to change from using Hyper-V if all possible.

I renamed the old Syslog file and restarted the virtual. When i hard shut it off then turned it back on, there was no information in the syslog about the time of the shutdown. I dont know if that is normal or not.

Thank you in advanced for your help, as i am a ubuntu newb and very stuck! :)

Here is a lspci -v if that helps

 myth@MYTHSERVER:~$ lspci -v
  00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 440BX/ZX/DX - 82443BX/ZX/DX Host bridge (AGP disabled) (rev 03)
                  Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 0
   
  00:07.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ISA (rev 01)
                  Subsystem: Microsoft Corporation Device 0000
                  Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 0
   
  00:07.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 IDE (rev 01) (prog-if 80 [Master])
                  Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 0
                  [virtual] Memory at 000001f0 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=8]
                  [virtual] Memory at 000003f0 (type 3, non-prefetchable) [size=1]
                  [virtual] Memory at 00000170 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=8]
                  [virtual] Memory at 00000370 (type 3, non-prefetchable) [size=1]
                  I/O ports at ffa0 [size=16]
                  Kernel driver in use: ata_piix
   
  00:07.3 Bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ACPI (rev 02)
                  Flags: medium devsel, IRQ 9
                  Kernel modules: i2c-piix4
   
  00:08.0 VGA compatible controller: Microsoft Corporation Hyper-V virtual VGA (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
                  Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 11
                  Memory at f8000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64M]
                  Expansion ROM at <unassigned> [disabled]

---

### Post by balizeiro on 2013-05-10
Have you come to any fix, or conclusion, about this problem?
Because I recently installed Ubuntu 12.04 on a Windows Server 2012 Hyper-V and got the same problem.

---

### Post by balizeiro on 2013-05-14
Anyone? :sad:

---

### Post by Sudrien on 2013-05-15
I'm on 13.04 x64 and Microsoft Hyper-V Server 2008 (R2, I think) with a similar issue.

On an hyper-v issued shutdown, I'm currently getting a 'BUG: scheduling while atomic' followed by several I/O errors, and high activity on the virtualized CPU.

Looking into this.

---

### Post by Sudrien on 2013-05-15
relating to one of my messages...

nano /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
*at the end, add*
blacklist i2c_piix4


[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/752064](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/752064) is looking like the other issue.

---

### Post by Sudrien on 2013-05-15
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1180419](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1180419) filed - i2c_piix4 was showing up in the errors, but blacklisting wasn't enough.

you may want to temporary configure nosplash in grub to get any error messages.

---

