---
title: "virtual box 1280x800"
date: 2007-08-20
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by jdrodrig on 2007-08-20
Hi,
So far I managed to install VirtualBox and a  Virtualmachine of WinXPPro_SP2 with the Guest Additions, but I have not managed to get exactly 1280x800 resolution...both 1152x864 and 1280x960 appear but the one I need...what should I do?

Thanks,
D.

---

### Post by Orbital75 on 2007-08-20
Hi, I can help you with that......  What you will need to do is edit the xorg.conf
I use Virtual Box as well.  Pretty nice program that works well with linux.

**1st**. Before you edit, make a backup of your current xorg.conf
Open a Command Prompt and type the following.

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

**2nd.** We are going to open your xorg.conf file and add
the resolution you want.  If you monitor can do 1280x800 then
that is what you will add.

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

**3rd.** Scroll down until you see all your resolutions.
[IMG]http://img106.imageshack.us/img106/3303/resolutionshotwq2.png[/IMG]

**4th.** On the last line where it says Depth 24, the last one there near the bottom add "1280x800", then save it. 

**5th.** Hit ctrl+alt+backspace to restart your xserver.

Your all done.......

---

### Post by jdrodrig on 2007-08-20
Hi Thanks for the quick answer, my current xorg.conf looks like:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Nov  9 17:55:20 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver	   "mouse"
    Option	   "CorePointer"
    Option	   "Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
    Option	   "Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "Buttons"            "7"
    Option         "ButtonMapping"      "1 2 3 6 7"      
    Option	   "ZAxisMapping"        "4 5"
    Option	   "Emulate3Buttons"	"false"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 64.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
#   DisplaySize    270    203    # 1024x768 96dpi
#   DisplaySize    338    212    # 1280x800 96dpi
#   DisplaySize    338    254    # 1280x960 96dpi
#   DisplaySize    338    270    # 1280x1024 96dpi
#   DisplaySize    370    277    # 1400x1050 96dpi
#   DisplaySize    423    370    # 1600x1400 96dpi
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200 64M]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200 64M]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "RenderAccel" "True"
    Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x800"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection



I think I already have the 1280x800 listed there, isn't? I am confused.... is it the same xorg.conf for ubuntu than for all the virtualmachines running on top of ubuntu?

---

### Post by Orbital75 on 2007-08-20
Not sure what you mean...... Where you wanting Windows to display at
that resolution inside Virtual Box? What I did was show you how to add 1280 X 800
to your Linux xorg.conf file.  After you do this, when you go to Resolutions under
System ---- preferences you will have the option to choose 1280 by 800.
I was thinking that you couldn't achieve this on your Linux ( Host ) box.

Yep that is the correct file you opened.
you just need to add 1280 X 800 at the beginning of
it.

As you said, you do have 1280 X 800 listed there.
you should be able to go into Resolutions under
System ---- preferences you will have the option to choose 1280 by 800.

You can always change it back by deleting your entry
if you wish to get rid of that setting.

---

### Post by jdrodrig on 2007-08-21
Hi,

I wanted to get 1280x800 inside VirtualBox, I use that resolution for my host OS (ubuntu 7.04)....

In the WinXP running virtual, I can slide the resolution setting but it gives me no 1280x800 it gives me 1152x864 and 1280x960...but both of them, obviously, do not work that well...

I noticed that if I swtich full screen and non-full screen a few times after a while the screen by itself adjust to 1280x800..but I would like to have it since I start the virtual machine....

Any ideas?

---

### Post by DO55 on 2008-01-24
> **jdrodrig said:**
> Hi,

I wanted to get 1280x800 inside VirtualBox, I use that resolution for my host OS (ubuntu 7.04)....

In the WinXP running virtual, I can slide the resolution setting but it gives me no 1280x800 it gives me 1152x864 and 1280x960...but both of them, obviously, do not work that well...

I noticed that if I swtich full screen and non-full screen a few times after a while the screen by itself adjust to 1280x800..but I would like to have it since I start the virtual machine....

Any ideas?

same problem

---

### Post by DO55 on 2008-03-18
help

---

### Post by Hero of Time on 2008-03-18
First, make sure that the auto resize is disabled. Then go to full screen and select the 1280x800 resolution. Switch back from full screen and you should keep the 1280x800 resolution now. If it's about the ability to use 1280x800 when on full screen, that should work automatically. Why would you want to use 1280x800 in a windows VM anyway? You won't see the whole machine and you have to scroll up and down and left and right to get the whole view. Personally, I hate that.
Also, if you took the time to view the 'List all modes'-list of the VBox Adapter, you could have seen it's not listed as an option, and therefor not available for selection. You could search for a tweak or something to make it available. I think the biggest problem is that the virtual monitor doesn't support widescreen as we have it (16:10 ratio).

---

### Post by dark_harmonics on 2008-03-20
I had this same problem. I have found that this command should fix the problem (in full screen mode):

vboxmanage controlvm "name_of_your_vm" setvideomodehint 1280 800 32

btw my virtual windows run on multiple widescreen configurations with no problem. This makes my XP take up one side of my desktop cube perfectly.

---

### Post by Quartlow on 2008-12-21
> **dark_harmonics said:**
> 

vboxmanage controlvm "name_of_your_vm" setvideomodehint 1280 800 32



That just broke it,  :confused:

---

### Post by bluebirdsolutions on 2009-06-04
I am not an expert, but I've been struggling with this issue myselft for quite some time, and I think it's about time I give back to all of you helping me out.

I found that in Ubuntu 9.04 the standard installation of Virtual box (OSE) does not support this, but by downloading the latest version from Sun (built for Ubuntu) and using the latest version of Guest additions, this issue is solved.

[Download Virtual Box here (deb)]("http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads")
I use the 2.2.4 (i386) version on my HP 530 Notebook.

If you have a previous installation of Virtual box you want to remove that first.

> sudo apt-get remove virtualbox

It may also be a good idea to clean up, by running
> 
sudo apt-get autoremove

When you're done, install the .deb you downloaded (Virtual Box) and set up your vm. After starting your vm go to Devices menu, select Install Guest Additions...

If the ISO is not yet downloaded you should be prompted to download it. If you had a previous install of Virtual Box OSE (the one in Jaunty by default) you may have an old version of Guest Additions on your system, but it should be removed by the apt-get autoremove. The Guest Additions you want to install are version 2.2.4, and displays as "VBoxGuestAdditions.iso". You may also notice the size 27.42 Mb (the OSE version is 2.1.4, 18.49 Mb). Be sure to chose the right one!

Maybe I made this complicated? Well, here it is in short.

1. Unistall any previos versions of Virtual Box (the OSE version)
2. Clean up by running apt-get autoremove
3. Download .deb file (see instructions above)
4. Install the non-free version you just downloaded (it's still free to use for home users)
5. Install the correct version of Guest Additions (2.2.4)
6. Use Host + G (key combination) to enable "Auto-resize guest display". 

This will not give you any new options in Windows settings for resolution, but as you now resize your window, the resolution will automatically change. So, if your Ubuntu resolution is set to 1280x800 and you use full screen in Virtual box the issue is solved.

Hope this helps. Again, I am no expert, but a beginner to Linux and to Ubuntu.

Best regards,

J Andersson

---

### Post by sjefenole on 2009-12-09
Hey everyone, have been proudly running ubuntu for a month and a half now and two days ago completely rid my computer of Windows :)
Well until I installed it on a VM :rolleyes:

Had been beating my head on this resolution problem as well.
**Host + G solved it.**
HOST: Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic x64
GUEST: Windows 7 Professional x64

---

