---
title: "M.2 NVMe vs SSD"
date: 2022-09-13
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by aljames2 on 2022-09-13
I haven’t taken the m.2 plunge yet but with some newer hardware coming I am considering how to make use of it from a best practice standpoint.  The new board & cpu will replace my current KVM host hardware which currently uses an SSD for the host OS.  Thinking if the m.2 is best used to run the OS on, or better for storage?  I could live without it, but just thinking how to leverage that additional component.

When I say “new”, it will be a asus prime board with a 1Gb Intel nic & a i5 12500 w/onboard video.

Edit:  I am totally open to the spinning HDDs as well.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2022-09-13
NVMe drives have come down in price.

With my 2016 build, I had one M.2 slot. Learned about NVMe but very expensive back then. M.2 SATA was a bit more than standard SATA, but decided to use the M.2 SATA. Surprised it was the size of a flash drive & easy to install.

Recently wanted to upgrade that system with larger drive, so added NVMe drive & moved M.2 SATA to SATA to USB adapter. NVMe drive not really that noticeably faster, because SSD was so much faster than HDD. But old M.2 as USB drive was so much better than all my flash drives, I may not buy any more flash drives, since I have many already.
Drive speed is more for booting & loading larger apps. But now with lots of RAM, apps I use the most are just about always cached in RAM, so drive not used that much for reading.

I would suggest the NVMe drive(s). Some still suggest one larger HDD just for backup.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2022-09-13
I dual boot with an NVMe and a mechanical sata drive. As you can guess the NVMe is much faster, but both get the job done. The MOBO has an Intel Optane memory slot if I want to speed up the HDD. SSD prices are down so I sometimes wish had one instead of the mechanical drive,but HDD's have a long established reliability history.

---

### Post by aljames2 on 2022-09-13
I’ve read that NVMe sometimes runs hot, maybe not in newer ones. When I think heat, I think power draw for an always on system.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2022-09-13
> **aljames2 said:**
> I&#8217;ve read that NVMe sometimes runs hot, maybe not in newer ones. When I think heat, I think power draw for an always on system.

That has not been my experience:
Idle: NVMe temp is about 34 degrees C; Processor is about 36 degrees; Processor about 1.4watts; Mains about 37 watts.
Compiling kernel: NVMe temp varies between  35 and 39 degrees C; Processor is about 74-75 degrees; Processor about 110 watts; Mains about 164 watts.

Computer is my main Ubuntu 20.04 test server:
Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-10600K CPU @ 4.10GHz
Disk /dev/nvme0n1: 931.53 GiB, 1000204886016 bytes, 1953525168 sectors
Disk model: KINGSTON SKC2000M81000G
Board Vendor:        ASUSTeK COMPUTER INC.
Board Name:          PRIME Z490-A

EDIT: I wrote a 50gig random file, that did not heat it much during the ~400 megabytes per second write. Then I launched 50 tasks doing random sector reads on the file, and it got to 51 degrees C after 7 minutes.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-09-13
I have the same report to give as Doug S
Very smooth and remarkably cool:
```
inxi -SzDz
System:
  Kernel: 5.19.8-zen1-1-zen arch: x86_64 bits: 64 Desktop: Xfce v: 4.16.1
    Distro: Arch Linux
Drives:
  Local Storage: total: 10.02 TiB used: 57.32 GiB (0.6%)
  ID-1: /dev/nvme0n1 vendor: Samsung model: MZVLB256HBHQ-000L2
    size: 238.47 GiB
  ID-2: /dev/sda type: USB vendor: Western Digital model: PC S N730
    SDBQNTY-256 size: 238.47 GiB
  ID-3: /dev/sdb type: USB model: 00-1EJ162 size: 465.76 GiB
  ID-4: /dev/sdc type: USB vendor: Seagate model: ST500LM000-1EJ162
    size: 931.51 GiB
  ID-5: /dev/sdd type: USB vendor: Western Digital model: WD My Passport
    2627 size: 4.55 TiB
  ID-6: /dev/sdg type: USB vendor: Western Digital model: WD My Passport
    2626 size: 3.64 TiB
###
And
sensors | grep Tctl
Tctl:         +38.0°C 
```
My running KVM
```
 inxi -SzDz 
System:
  Kernel: 5.19.0-kaisen1-amd64 arch: x86_64 bits: 64 Desktop: Xfce v: 4.16.1
    Distro: Kaisen GNU/Linux 2.1 (rolling)
Drives:
  Local Storage: total: 20 GiB used: 14.98 GiB (74.9%)
  ID-1: /dev/vda model: N/A size: 20 GiB

```
EDIT: hard drive temp with a load:
```
sudo nvme smart-log /dev/nvme0 | grep -i '^temperature'
temperature				: 39°C (312 Kelvin)
Temperature Sensor 1           : 39°C (312 Kelvin)
Temperature Sensor 2           : 38°C (311 Kelvin)

```
LAST EDIT: FTR I also have a fan control to help with temps.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2022-09-13
You see from screen-shot that the NVMe is only slightly hotter than the HDD and the system has been up all day. I did purchase a heatsink with it.

---

### Post by aljames2 on 2022-09-13
I see, good numbers by all.  Encouraging & thanks all. 

I think my mobo that is coming has a nvme heatsink onboard so perhaps some help there.

@1fallen - I notice you use some large WD My Passports.  How do you like those?  About 5 years ago I had a WD Easystore drive that I tried to repurpose but I couldn't get rid of the WD software that was embedded in the drive firmware.  Is there any of that in the Passports?  I may get a couple of those but I would hope to wipe the WD crap off of it to start clean.

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2022-09-14
> **aljames2 said:**
> Edit:  I am totally open to the spinning HDDs as well.
I  prefer the chip-based storage than spinning HDD. Its obviously because  the speed matters. Though the HDD now has already reduces the prices  more than times 2 of the price before but I think this is good enough  for your back-up now.
The hdd create more heat to my hardware than  the ssd. specially doing the defrag which the ssd / chip-based storage  don't need it anymore. In my opinion the SSD / chip-based storage to me  is more safe than using hdd. Regards and cheers.

---

### Post by QIII on 2022-09-14
I am not convinced that the state of the art in solid state storage has eliminated the charge leak-down issues that might subject data to corruption over time.

For long term storage, in rust I trust.  Mechanical drives have been empirically shown to provide high fidelity storage for periods up to decades.  A number of large mechanical drives on a server on my local network offer that.

Otherwise, I use solid state.  The machine I am typing from now sports 3 NVMe devices, which run nice and cool.  I also have several 2.5" SSDs attached to house VMs.

NVMe is substantially faster than basic SATA SSDs.  NVMes don't require the same controller interfaces used in SATA SSDs, so the NVMe can communicate directly with the CPU -- limited, of course, by the PCIe interface available on your motherboard.

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2022-09-15
I don't think that hdd can cause some data corruptions or something else  it just that for me, it creates more heat to my motherboard/processors  and causes the heat sink fan to operate irregularly that it destroyed  then after when I perform defragmentation. I don't make any story just  to ruin the image of hdd because I use hdd for more than a decade now  and it seems very useful to me. It just that it happen to me that time. I  do have lot of hdd here for my data back-up. I think it matters with  the brand maybe.  Regards and cheers.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2022-09-17
Do not defrag silicon storage. That is old practice thinking is no longer recommended for that type of storage. And if you did, you will not notice and difference in speed.

My brother works for a corporation that provides video streaming for a television network. 2 years ago, they had their computer room with racks full of 2U boxes with 70 SSD's each. He told me that with the technology then, that they no longer worried about rewrite limits. 

I have M.2 NVMe storage. I love it. My slowest is M.2 NVMe SATA B & M key (6g/s) that is also spec'ed for SRT... I used that as my boot drive for my Rasp Pi4 (which also does KVM). It's in a USB3.2 enclosure (and I think Pi4 is only USB 3.0) so that is it's limit.

With M.2 NVMe M key storage, it is very fast. I don't see a hit until I am writing Terabytes of data. It seems like when the cache gets full, then it the write speed throttles down (to just a bit more that B key). What I was told, was that if I spent more for Enterprise silicon drives, that their caches are better and don't do that.

EDIT: I also use heat sinks.

---

