---
title: "16.04 Virtual Machine Manager wont install VM"
date: 2017-05-11
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by michaelrempel on 2017-05-11
When I use Virtual Machine Manager on 16.04 attempting to install a 12.04 distribution with the defaults, I get a halted black screen with pegged CPU usage but no activity.

My groups settings are proper for libvirtd and kvm, though the installer only gave me libvirtd.

I can install from the command line to a local image file in my home directory no problem. The installer runs properly from there, but does not show up in the VM List of Virtual Machine Manager. (No surprises there)

virsh list --allgives a proper empty list.

it looks to me as though libvirtd may not have proper permissions assigned to the folder it is setup in. I am not sure what the setup should be. 

I used apt-get to install it.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-05-12
Welcome to the forums.

12.04 support ended last month, unless you are have paid Canonical support. We really aren't supposed to help with non-supported versions.  [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases) - note how 12.04 is in the EoL list?

The only trick to using virt-manager is that on the host KVM/libvirt box, your userid (the one you connect to using ssh+qemu) needs to be in the libvirtd group.  From that point on, there isn't any need to use root to create or manage VMs.

Sounds like you may have the wrong display/VGA settings. There are 2 places which need to work together.  I think 16.04 defaults to Spice, but in 12.04, spice didn't really work.  Back out to Cirrus and VNC - see how that works.  BTW, it will be slow and suck in many other ways.  I don't use virt-manager to access VMs unless I **must have** console access. All other access is through ssh or, if it is a desktop, ssh -X, or x2go.

---

