---
title: "8.10 in VirtualBox on Vista 64-bit"
date: 2009-02-23
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by BavarianBuilt on 2009-02-23
Hey guys.  I just wanted to start by saying that I've searched around Google for the past hour trying to dig into this problem and figured I try my luck here.  I'm having some troubles getting VirtualBox to work the way I want it to.

I'm running Windows Vista 64-bit on my host machine with dual monitors.  I have each monitor set at 1440x900.  I have Ubuntu 8.10 set up in VirtualBox.  I've allocated 1GB RAM and 32 MB of video memory to my Ubuntu VM.  What I want is to have Ubuntu run at full screen on one of my monitors and Vista on the other and have the mouse seamlessly go back and forth between the OS without having to "click" into the Ubuntu OS to use it.  In the "machine" tab I notice there is an option for "Seamless Mode", however it is not available to me.  When I click "Devices" and then "Install guest additions" I get an error stating that "the autorun program could not be found", this is an error in Ubuntu.  Through my searches it sounds like the features I want need to be installed through this process.  Any ideas on to how to get this to work?

Here is the irritating part of all of this.  For what ever reason, when I booted Ubuntu in the VM it worked just the way as I described above, only once though.  Ubuntu had a resolution of 1440x900 and my mouse was able to seamlessly go back and forth between my two monitors.  Next time I booted up the VM it didn't work and I haven't been able to get it working since.

TIA :D

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2009-02-23
You can manually download and install the guest additions iso image in ubuntu.  For whatever reason I also could not get any Linux guest os to install the additions by itself.

_[http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/](http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/)_

Just click the folder that corresponds to the virtual-box version you're using, and download the 'VBoxGuestAdditions_$VERSION.iso' file.

---

### Post by BavarianBuilt on 2009-02-23
Thanks for the advice.  I went ahead and downloaded the ISO.  Is there a way to run the ISO in Ubuntu without having to burn the image and run it back on Ubuntu?

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-02-23
Before you start your vm, go into the Virtualbox settings and set your cd to iso image.

Once your vm has booted, select install guest additions once more from the vm window, and the install window should pop up.

---

### Post by BavarianBuilt on 2009-02-23
> **howefield said:**
> Before you start your vm, go into the Virtualbox settings and set your cd to iso image.

Once your vm has booted, select install guest additions once more from the vm window, and the install window should pop up.

I did this and the ISO image was already selected.  When I click "Install Guest Additions", nothing happens.

I was also able to mount my ISO as a CDROM, however when I try and run it I get the same message I was getting before.  Any other ways to get into the ISO to get what I need?

EDIT:  I think I'm making some progress.  Now it says I need administrator privileges to run the VBoxLinuxAdditionsx86.run file.  How can I either, run this file from the CDROM at the command line using sudo, or run this file by "clicking" into the disk and run it with Admin privileges?

---

### Post by BavarianBuilt on 2009-02-23
Got it working!  Thanks for everyone's help.  I love linux :D

For anyone searching this thread at a later date.  My steps are as follows:

[LIST]
[*]Open browser in Ubuntu and navigate to the VirtualBox website posted above.
[*]Download 'VBoxGuestAdditions_$VERSION.iso', as stated above.
[*]Mount the ISO somewhere in your filesystem, I used my default "Documents" directory.
[*]Go to the directory where you mounted your ISO. 
[*]Run VBoxLinuxAdditions[whatever version you need].run with root priviledges (begin line with "sudo")
[*]When the installation is complete, restart the VM.
[*]After the VM has booted fully, select "Machine" from the VM window, then select "Auto-Resize Guest Display"
[*]Done. You should be able to move the mouse between the two OS without having to click into Ubuntu to use it.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by david_lynch on 2009-02-24
> **BavarianBuilt said:**
> Got it working!  Thanks for everyone's help.  I love linux :D 

Cool - why not try it sometime? I mean, not just as a windoze guest?

---

