---
title: "8.10 in VirtualBox: partition errors"
date: 2009-04-20
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by QueenPeach on 2009-04-20
I'm using my Dell laptop to run Ubuntu 8.10 in VirtualBox 2.2. When I attempt to install Ubuntu, I always get a "The ext3 system creation in partition #1 of SCSI2 [or 1; I've seen both] (0,0,0) (sda) failed" error. It then kicks me back to the 'Prepare disk space' window, where it appears as though it wants to reformat my entire 320GB external hard drive for its purposes. 

I absolutely do not want to do this, but when I instead select the much, much smaller VirtualBox drive, I get the error, if I get past the 'Prepare disk space' page at all. I do not know if this is a VirtualBox issue or an Ubuntu issue, and/or at what point of the setup process I screwed up. 

In past tries, I attempted to use my external hard drive to host my ISO and VirtualBox's disk use in order to reduce strain and maintain some space on my main drive, but it's only because I moved my ISO back to my main drive that I have been able to get as far as I have - for some reason attempting to load the ISO from the external drive would make the external drive behave strangely, disconnecting and reconnecting randomly. It has made me scared that my real problem might be hardware failure.

I'm really new to this, so if you respond to this message, please proceed slowly and use small(er) words. Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by camnor on 2009-04-25
Hey!
Are you using the virtual box Virtual Machine Setup Wizard to create the virtual hard drive on which to install Ubuntu?  If you are, what size are you setting the drive to?  Can you boot the live image properly?

---

