---
title: "20.04, xen, netboot images, new setup methodology?"
date: 2021-07-26
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by sysnet-ucsd on 2021-07-26
Hello, all.  I've been running a xen hypervisor on Ubuntu for a number of years now (started in 12.04 ubuntu, I think)? Anyway I am finally catching up after this crazy year and a half, and while I have finally located the netboot images for 20.04, I have also of course run into the fact that Ubuntu appears to be kicking netboot to the curb as a legacy thing. Which, whatever. I'm not going to rehash into the whyfores and wherefores of that. 

But I **do** have a question and that is, is there anything that walks someone through whatever the netboot replacement thing is going to be here on out? I've seen offhand references to "use the cloud images" and so on and so forth, but I'm looking for something much more practical and step by step, like what do I set up in my *.cfg files when creating a new xen vm image (that is going to be a 20.04 image running on my, for now, 18.04 xen 4.9 hypervisor). Snagging the vmlinuz/initrd from the netboot directories made it super easy setting up a new VM distro and I'm not sure what the new process is now.

Any directions?  They would be muchly appreciated, I've been going around in circles trying to find things, and it didn't help that I initially landed in the Discourse section of ubuntu.com >.<

I'm more than happy to provide more info on my setup but I basically set up the initial vm (and clone the rest from it)  using
#kernel = "/var/lib/xen/images/ubuntu-netboot/xenial/vmlinuz"
#ramdisk = "/var/lib/xen/images/ubuntu-netboot/xenial/initrd.gz"

and then switching over to the bootloader = pygrub so each image can update itself as the user wishes.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2021-07-27
The last time I answered and supported Xen was about 4 years ago, so I stopped using Xen myself.

You are right on NetBoot.. The Ubuntu Wiki is dated and the last time is was updated was 2014.

Here's some links for you... 

The NetBoot images are at: [https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/](https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/netboot/)

Canonical now maintains the instructions for NetBoot here at: [https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/install/netboot-amd64](https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/install/netboot-amd64)

If you need those instructions for Arm64: [https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/install/netboot-arm64](https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/install/netboot-arm64)

I hope that helps with what you were asking about...

---

