---
title: "virtualbox, ubuntu and X"
date: 2009-04-11
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by iprolonged on 2009-04-11
Hi all,

Running 8.04 on virtualbox 2.2.0, on a Dell D630 Latitude.

Everything went well with the set-up, except my screen resolution: Ubuntu is offering me 800x600 or something even smaller.

Had a quick search, and it looked like adding "vboxvideo" to my xorg.conf would do the trick - that didn't work, and I saw a suggestion elsewhere that I could just add the required resolutions manually into the conf file.

Trouble is, my xorg.conf is looking a little bare...see below

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Everything seems to be running fine on the Guest machine, but I want to make sure X is set up correctly before I go hacking to my screen resolutions right :)

Appreciate any and all suggestions.

Dave

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-04-11
You need to install they VirtualBox Additions. Install them in yoru ubuntu guest not on the host.

---

### Post by zenithdave on 2009-04-11
^^^ search really works ! i was just about to start a new thread, thanks :cool:

---

### Post by iprolonged on 2009-04-12
Thanks for the reply bodhi.zazen - I have already installed the Additions (I think - the Guest automatically "sees" the mouse pointer when it moves across the screen, so I presume they're installed?)

Anyway, I'm afraid that still leaves me at a loss - thanks anyway! :)

Dave

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-04-12
What version of Virtualbox are you running ?

With the newer PUEL versions you do not change xorg at all, or touch the settings in the guest at all.

Once the additions are installed, simply resize the window on the host and the resolution should change to match.

---

### Post by iprolonged on 2009-04-14
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> What version of Virtualbox are you running ?

With the newer PUEL versions you do not change xorg at all, or touch the settings in the guest at all.

Once the additions are installed, simply resize the window on the host and the resolution should change to match.

I'm running version 2.2.0 of Virtualbox - still no joy when I resize the window, the Guest "screen" still stays at the same resolution.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-04-14
I would upgrade your version of Virtual box, you are now two versions out of date.

---

### Post by iprolonged on 2009-04-14
From looking at [http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads](http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) I appear to be up-to-date?

Where else can I get my hands on the updated version?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-04-14
My mistake , sorry

You may wish to post on the virtualbox forums.

---

### Post by iprolonged on 2009-04-14
Will do, thanks for your responses :)

---

