---
title: "15.10 Server + VBox + pfSense - virtual networking trouble"
date: 2016-02-21
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by maddog39 on 2016-02-21
Not too sure if this is more appropriate in Networking or not but I'll give it a shot here first since it primarily relates to trying to virtualize an appliance using Ubuntu Server 15.10.

**The background**: basically I'm extremely space limited and am trying to virtualize my pfSense gateway with virtualbox on my home network so I can combine all my network services into one machine. Unfortunately the CPU and mortherboard I am using are very budget oriented and do not support IOMMU / Intel VT-d for PCIe passthrough of my Intel gigabit NICs. So naturally I am using bridged adapters and virtio for network access to the pfSense VM.

**The problem**: I've setup and configured the VM and the host exactly how I intend to run them in production and are working appropriately. When I connect the pfSense VM's WAN adapter to my existing network, it's able to get an IP address from DHCP as expected and I'm able to get internet access from the VM's LAN interface no problem. However, when I plug the VM's WAN interface into my cable modem, I am unable to get any IP address from the modems DHCP what-so-ever. 

I ensured that both NICs are 'up' in manual mode on the host, but still no dice when attempting to get an IP address from the modem using the VM. I also attempted to spoof the MAC address in pfSense to mimic the acutal MAC of the hardware NIC thinking that was the issue but still no luck.

Anyway, I'm not sure what I'm missing. If any one has any input, it would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2016-02-22
So what are you trying to do?

In labs Using VirtualBox as the hypervisor, with a VM of pfSense or a VM of wrt-dd (both are router images), I configure the VM's with multiple virtual NIC's. > set the first of the NIC's to "Bridged" (depending on what we are doing), then set the other nic's to internal > allow access to other VM's.

I go into the http interface of the router and set it up. I don't have to  doing anything else to get those setup.

That assumes that your have already configured a bridge to the host network before trying that. Have you checked your bridge from a test VM to your host network to make sure that works first?

So is your host Ubuntu 15.10 and your vm's are pfsense and what?

The problem with using a VM as your gateway for your local network... is that is really needs two bridges. So the host needs two to three NIC's. One static and two manual. The static first nic is your host machine, cabled to your switch. Then on the second NIC (first manual), you set the bridge mapped to that second physical NIC... and that NIC has a network cable to your modem. The third is from your VM network to your host's local network, mapped to the third NIC, cabled to your switch.

<interfaces file>
```

[FONT=arial]auto eth0
iface eht0 inet dhcp
[/FONT][FONT=arial]
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet manual
[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]auto eth2
iface eth2 inet manual
[/FONT][FONT=arial]
auto br0[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]iface br0 inet dhcp
   bridge_ports eth1 vbox0

[/FONT][FONT=arial]auto br1[/FONT]
[FONT=arial]iface br1 inet dhcp
   bridge_ports eth2 vbox1
[/FONT][FONT=arial]
# The loopback network interface
auto lo 
[/FONT][FONT=arial]iface lo inet loopback
[/FONT]
```
But as an upstream gateway, not sure if you set the outside port as either manual or as dhcp, depends on theISP... It goes to your isp and gets it's settings from them. But when you set that up in Hyper-V, I set as un-managed...

---

### Post by maddog39 on 2016-02-22
Thanks for the response Elffen and I'll try to be as clear as I can be.

> **MAFoElffen]So is your host Ubuntu 15.10 and your vm's are pfsense and what?[/QUOTE]
Yup, precisely.  Also, pfSense is currently the only VM on the system.

[QUOTE=MAFoElffen]The problem with using a VM as your gateway for your local network... is that is really needs two bridges. So the host needs two to three NIC's. One static and two manual. The static first nic is your host machine, cabled to your switch. Then on the second NIC (first manual), you set the bridge mapped to that second physical NIC... and that NIC has a network cable to your modem. The third is from your VM network to your host's local network, mapped to the third NIC, cabled to your switch.[/QUOTE]
Yup, so the host system has 3x Intel Gigabit NICs installed and the VM is configured with 2 bridge adapters to 2 of those NICs. In my case, eth0 is bridged to vtnet0 for the WAN and eth1 is bridged to vtnet1 for LAN said:**
> That assumes that your have already configured a  bridge to the host network before trying that. Have you checked your  bridge from a test VM to your host network to make sure that works  first?
Yeah, so when I tested the pfSense VM by plugging it's WAN connection into my existing network (read: the old pfSense installation running on real hardware), it works appropriately and it is able to use DHCP to obtain an IP address from the old router. However, when I plug the VM's WAN connection into the cable modem, it's completely unable to obtain an IP address. I went into the pfSense web interface and released/renewed its DHCP lease only for it to hang for 1-2 minutes and come back unable to obtain an IP from the modem.

[QUOTE=MAFoElffen]But as an upstream gateway, not sure if you set the  outside port as either manual or as dhcp, depends on theISP... It goes  to your isp and gets it's settings from them. But when you set that up  in Hyper-V, I set as un-managed...[/QUOTE]
I do know for sure that the modem assigns the public IP address with DHCP.

[QUOTE=MAFoElffen]So what are you trying to do?[/QUOTE]
So I guess I'm really trying to determine why the pfSense VM is not able to get an IP address from the modem and then how I might go about solving that problem. I mean, should eth0 on the host (which is vtnet0 / WAN in the pfSense VM) be brought up in manual mode, or should I have *it* ask for the IP address? Does the MAC address of the VM's WAN network interface matter? I mean I'm not sure what could cause this kind of problem, considering that the VM works as expected when connected to an existing network for testing. Hopefully I've made it more clear what I'm trying to accomplish and thanks for the input thus far.

[Ninja edit]
If its at all helpful I can post screenshots / configs, just let me know what would be helpful.

---

