---
title: "12.04.2 in VirtualBox 4.2.12 Low-Graphics Mode on Live Cd (Mac host)"
date: 2013-05-24
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by TRPrecht on 2013-05-24
I'm trying to get some things going in a Virtualbox testbay on my iMac before deploying on some other machines, but I keep running into an issue.  First I would start off saying that I've used this version of virtualbox on this iMac for a long while and everything ran nice until recently.  I created a new virtual machine, gave it better specs than I've used previously and I boot up 12.04.2 64bit. I install it and it works fine. I installed chromium and restarted. Then it kept geting the error "The System is running in low-graphics mode."  Then I assumed that I just boogered the install, so I deleted the virtual disk, created another and rebooted.  It loads to the Try Ubuntu or Install Ubuntu options. If I choose try ubuntu, I get the error. If I choose install, it lets me install and then on reboot, the error comes back. 

I deleted the new virtualbox, created another, same thing. Try my old virtual box that has worked countless times before and I get the same issue again.  I've tried 12.04.2 both 32-bit and 64-bit with all the same issues. 


My iMac is Mid 2010 21.5" with 3.06 GHz i3, 12GB 1333, ATI Radeon HD 4670 256MB, On OS X Lion 10.7.5.

I'm not certain if this is should go under Virtualisation or Apple, so I apologize if I put it in the wrong one.  I would greatly appreciate any input and suggestions. :-)

-TRP

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2013-05-25
Did you install the VirtualBox guest additions in the Ubuntu guest?

---

### Post by TRPrecht on 2013-05-25
No, I've not heard of that before. Since then I have been able to get other distros to work.  Some are based off of 12.04, some Fedora and openSUSE. I've even been able to get 12.04.1 to work.  I've almost got a fully customized set up now, but am afraid to do updates, just incase I break it.

---

### Post by Koubak on 2013-05-25
Here is everything you need to learn about VirtualBox Guest Additions.
[http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch04.html](http://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch04.html)

I would tell you a step-by-step, but I figured you'd benefit more from doing it yourself.

---

