---
title: "22.04 and Virtualbox: Screen cutoff after OS and guest additions installed"
date: 2022-05-13
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by schwim-dandy on 2022-05-13
Anyone know how to resolve this issue?

A fresh install of 22.04,  guest additions installed via the Virtualbox app.  The bar across the  top and down the left side works as it should, For instance, I can right  click an app to exit on the left bar and power down via the flyout menu  on the far right side of the top bar.  I can not, however, use that  space on the desktop itself.

The OS on startup:
[IMG]https://i.imgur.com/i436XNRm.png?1[/IMG]

Opening an app like Firefox:
[IMG]https://i.imgur.com/x7rRmpxm.png?1[/IMG]

This  host setup and GA works well with Bunsenlabs, mint(all three flavors),  etc.  So far, this is the only OS install I've had an issue with like  this.  Anyone know what I can do to resolve it?

Thanks for your time!

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2022-05-13
Please do not post large images into your posts. Many of our users have slow internet connections and data limits. Large images can take a long time to load -- and may even cost a user extra money. Use the attachment functionality provided by the paperclip button above the text entry box.

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2022-05-13
*Thread moved to **Virtualisation**.*

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2022-05-13
What version of VirtualBox?
What is the host OS?
How have you configured Display settings of the VM in VirtualBox?

---

### Post by schwim-dandy on 2022-05-13
Thanks for the help!

> **halogen2 said:**
> What version of VirtualBox?
Version 6.1.34 r150636 (Qt5.6.2) > **halogen2 said:**
> What is the host OS?
Windows 11 Home 21H2

> **halogen2 said:**
>  How have you configured Display settings of the VM in VirtualBox?
[https://i.imgur.com/L394Bj9l.png?1](https://i.imgur.com/L394Bj9l.png?1)

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2022-05-13
Any difference if you check "Enable 3D Acceleration"?
If not, any difference if you reduce the video memory?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-05-13
Have you also tried all the other ***Graphics Controller*** settings?

I don't use Window any more even as a VM but if I remember correctly, that setting can make a big difference to the way the VM shows on screen.

---

### Post by schwim-dandy on 2022-05-13
> **halogen2 said:**
> Any difference if you check "Enable 3D Acceleration"?
If not, any difference if you reduce the video memory?

Hi there halogen and thanks for the help.

Enabled 3d and dropped the vid memory to 12mb(minimum allowed) however the issue persists.

> **ajgreeny said:**
> Have you also tried all the other ***Graphics Controller*** settings?

Hello there, aj, thanks for the help!  I tried all other controllers, the issue persists.

---

### Post by schwim-dandy on 2022-05-13
I thought maybe I was having a conflict with 22.04 but that doesn't seem to be the case.  Both Xubu and Lubu work as expected in fullscreen after GA is installed:

[https://imgur.com/wn4wOmo](https://imgur.com/wn4wOmo)

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2022-05-13
Sometimes resizing the VM window just a small amount (then wait a second for the VM screen to adjust) has helped me in similar situations.

Are you able to access GNOME display settings?  Does what's set there have any correlation with what portion of the screen is visible?

One other thought, is there any chance [restarting GNOME]("https://www.tomordonez.com/restart-gnome-shell/") might have some effect on the issue?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-05-13
I don't use virtualbox any more but as you're using Ubuntu as the guest I just wonder if this might be a wayland problem, Ubuntu using wayland by default.

See if it's solved by logging in to an X11 session at the login screen.

---

### Post by schwim-dandy on 2022-05-14
> **ajgreeny said:**
> I don't use virtualbox any more but as you're using Ubuntu as the guest I just wonder if this might be a wayland problem, Ubuntu using wayland by default.

See if it's solved by logging in to an X11 session at the login screen.

I'm not sure I can get to a vconsole to startx.  It seems disabled by default and I'm not sure I can make any changes to the OS due to the fact that I can't do anything in the desktop space.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-05-14
You choose X11 or wayland at the login screen which I think is gdm3 for Ubuntu.  

You need to choose your user, enter the password, but before hitting Enter to login, look for the cog-wheel configuration icon where you can make the choice of the default **Ubuntu** (wayland) or **X11/xorg**.

I'm not sure of the wording used as I don't use Ubuntu so have never seen it.

---

### Post by schwim-dandy on 2022-05-17
Well, I figured out a workaround: If I use the right power dropdown and choose to logout, the OS tries to logout, fails and then the reappearance of the desktop finds it working properly. 

Totally goofball and not-at-all confidence inspiring in running vanilla Ubu but luckily I'm only using it to help someone else figure out running it as their first OS so other than that, it never runs.  I'd be a sad camper if I had to use that desktop regularly.

Thanks for the help everyone, until next time!

---

