---
title: "10.04 (as Guest) and VMware Tools"
date: 2010-08-26
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by STARDOUSER on 2010-08-26
To install VMware Tools on a Ubuntu 10.04 Guest, from a Windows 7 Host (running VMware server 2.0.2) [this documentation article](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VMware/Tools) ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VMware/Tools](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VMware/Tools)) instructs you to use the following commands:```
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-`uname -r` psmisc
```
then later```
sudo ./vmware-install.pl
```

However, like others have posted before, this results in compilation errors:
[[IMG]http://a.imageshack.us/img716/9117/vmwaretools.th.png[/IMG]](http://img716.imageshack.us/i/vmwaretools.png)

> you can install the driver by running vmware-config-tools.pl again after making sure that gcc, binutils, make and the kernel sources for your running kernel are installed on your machine.

a) are there instructions available that will allow me to fulfill these requirements?
b) can said instructions be added to the documentation?

There are numerous threads regarding similar issues with VMware Tools. But many of them are unclearly stated, I hope that I have avoided that pitfall.

---

### Post by jaya28inside on 2010-08-26
so how is it then?

I also encounter trouble after apt-get install the header...
seems after that Ubuntu DIdnt recognize the correct (valid) path
of that header...

I also encounter it,
look...

> 
Searching for a valid kernel header path...
The path "" is not valid.
Would you like to change it? [yes] yes

What is the location of the directory of C header files that match your running
kernel? /usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.32-23/include

The path "/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.32-23/include" is not valid.


anyone could suggest for our probs? 
Mine was Ubuntu Server

---

### Post by lamixer on 2011-11-01
/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.32-34-generic-pae/include

worked as a path for me (not sure if I had a trailing / or not, and naturally your kernel source version may be different).

---

