---
title: "12.10 Hangs every time"
date: 2012-12-14
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by Kopkins on 2012-12-14
So I want to give 12.10 a try, but I can't get it installed in virtualbox. I've tried dozens of Linux Distros in Vbox and I don't know what the issue is. When I click continue to install it hangs. The little circle sits there spinning. Also, sometimes Virtualbox starts running my processors full blast. And I haven't found a way to stop it except for restarting. Does anyone have a work-around or a suggestion. The .iso is fresh straight from ubuntu.com. I've tried the download and torrent. 

Thanks,

Kopkins

---

### Post by Abhinav Kumar on 2012-12-14
Hi Kopkins,
Make a live usb from your Windows using Universal USB Installer.

Boot from usb and choose try ubuntu without installing. If you like it then go for the installation. 

Running OS using vbox causes a lot of processor use. So, you can go for a clean separate install.

Regards,
Abhinav

---

### Post by Kopkins on 2012-12-14
I don't have a windows. I could do it from Mac or Ubuntu. Like I said I have run OS's in Vbox before without issues, and that is what I want to do. I have two OSes that I can run from vbox now that are already installed. Windows 8 and another Linux. Oses from the past include Ubuntu 11.10 Window  7 and Windows 8. My computer can handle those fine as long as I don't try to overload it. I will try the alternate installer and see if that works better. 

EDIT: it seems that I can't find an alternate installer for 12.10. Does anyone know of one or a way to do text only?

Edit2: That's sad to see that they discontinued the Text based installer. I guess unless anyone else has some suggestions this is solved. I'll leave the header unsolved for now though.

Thank you,
Kopkins

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-12-15
Did you check your 12.10 iso to make sure that it wasn't a corrupt download?

I've had no problems installing 12.10 under VirtualBox on several machines now, although there is a serious performance issue you should be aware of.

[http://useranswer.com/answer/why-does-an-ubuntu-12-10-guest-in-virtualbox-run-very-very-slowly/](http://useranswer.com/answer/why-does-an-ubuntu-12-10-guest-in-virtualbox-run-very-very-slowly/)

---

### Post by Kopkins on 2012-12-15
I've downloaded 5+ times and all with the same issue. Maybe my virtualbox is broken somehow?

I will let you know how things turn out.

Kopkins

---

