---
title: "VM 18.04 beta2 fail when I install guest additions under 16.04"
date: 2018-04-07
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by jamzen on 2018-04-07
When I install Ubuntu 18.04 beta2, it works fine -- until I reboot after installing the guest additions.
The boot behavior seems normal at first, but then it cycles rapidly between littlewindow and fullscreenwindow a couple of times; then it halts without ever arriving at a desktop display. I've attached the last screenful of boot messages.

---

### Post by sr712 on 2018-04-10
For me it does not even boot after the initial isntalltion. Until I change the boot defintion and remove the "quiet splash".
Did you install "sudo apt-get -y install linux-headers-$(uname -r) build-essential gcc make  dkms" before you installed the guest addition ( I guess "gcc make" is included in build-essential), but I do this usually this way before installing the guest additions.

---

### Post by jamzen on 2018-04-10
I'll try that, thanks, and report my results.

---

### Post by jamzen on 2018-04-11
No improvement.

I reinstalled 18.04, and installed all of the packages you suggested.  Then I installed the guest additions.

When I rebooted, I saw the same behavior as before.

Earlier, I had even installed the VDI -- temporarily -- as second HDD in another one of my VMs, so as to access grub.cfg to remove the "quiet-splash" as you had suggested.

---

### Post by Vince N on 2018-04-19
Just wanted to chime in and state I am having similar issues.

---

### Post by Vince N on 2018-04-19
So hey, I did some further research and this is what got me around this issue.

Open a terminal and run the following commands.

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install virtualbox-guest-x11-hwe

Once this is done reboot the VM.  Should get full functionality back.

---

