---
title: "11.10 kvm bridging - help please?"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by elsalvador on 2011-10-19
Hi Guys,

Fresh 11.10 install, pretty good results - as per the global help everywhere...
One glitch which is bothering me is trying (and er, failing) to use KVM bridged to the local network eth0...

I've found a bunch of docs (including the sticky) which show how to do it in /etc/network/interfaces   but my 11.10 doesn't seem to be using that config.
If i try it, the eth0 stops working and all the connections go out via br0

By default there seems to be a connection manager in the top right menu, which allows configuration of eth0, but can't seem to make br0 wrk...

Any suggestions gratefully received!
Thanks
elsalvador (no relation)

---

### Post by elsalvador on 2011-10-19
Been doing more digging...as you do...
Looks like there's a thing about "Network Manager" and bridged interfaces not playing nice together.

Anyone come across any workarounds?

I've found a bucketful of configs (all basically the same) for /etc/network/interfaces which actually don't work on my setup, strangely, but I can't help thinking that it *ought* to work.
This method also completely disables Network Manager managing the network interfaces...not ideal.

Perhaps this is one of those steps too far? 
There are so many examples of "you can't do X with Y, do it another way", maybe this is one of them. Sadly neither X nor Y work in this case.

Still open to suggestions!
I'm sure someone out there knows....
Ta
Elsalvador (no relation)

---

### Post by iburry on 2011-10-20
What does your interfaces file look like? Do you have both eth0 and br0 defined? Your bridge def should look something like this:

```
auto br0
iface br0 inet dhcp
        bridge_ports eth0 
        bridge_fd 9
        bridge_hello 2
        bridge_maxage 12
        bridge_stp on
```For a static IP, something like this:

```
auto br0 iface br0 inet static
       address 192.168.2.4
       netmask 255.255.255.0
       network 192.168.2.0
       broadcast 192.168.2.255
       gateway 192.168.2.2 
       bridge_ports eth0
       bridge_stp on
       bridge_maxwait 0
```If you have eth0 defined in addition to this, it's not gonna work. Comment it out, bring down eth0 (if you haven't already), and bring up br0.

---

### Post by iburry on 2011-10-20
Oops! Shoulda read a bit more carefully. The suggestions I made work for 11.04 server, not certain they'll work in 11.10.  Ubuntu server does not seem to use Network manager. If you're using the desktop version, you may have to disable it.

---

### Post by Kamzi on 2011-10-21
> **iburry said:**
> Oops! Shoulda read a bit more carefully. The suggestions I made work for 11.04 server, not certain they'll work in 11.10.  Ubuntu server does not seem to use Network manager. If you're using the desktop version, you may have to disable it.

I have similar configuration in 11.10 server edition and it seems to be working like this. Maybe its confusing because ifconfig shows that eth0 doesn't have ip when it really does.

---

### Post by elsalvador on 2011-10-22
Hi Guys,

I've given up on it. Just couldn't get it right.
BUT.....I did find an alternative approach...
Virtualbox installed without errors and takes control over the bridged connection to eth0, that'll do.

I guess there's always an answer!
Thanks for the info about server not having Network Manager, I guess I should pick my platform more carefully...
Silly me thought there wasn't much difference apart from gnome! clearly wrong.

Thanks for the suggestions.

---

