---
title: "Virtual Box - Screen Res on Guest O\S"
date: 2008-10-25
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by Lamez on 2008-10-25
I am trying to change my screen res to 1440x900 on my guest host. I have looked this up, and it told me to change the config file in /etc/X11/xorg.conf

So I add this:
> 
Section "Screen"
        Identifier     "Default Screen"
        Device         "VirtualBox graphics card"
        Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth 24
        SubSection "Display"
                 Depth         24
                 Modes         "1440x900" "2048x800" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection


I found that in the manual, and then I try booting up the guest o\s (which is windows xp pro), and nothing, I cannot change the res. to 1440x900. I am completely new to VirtualBox, can someone please explain on how I can accomplish such a task?

My whole config file, if it helps!
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier     "Default Screen"
        Device         "VirtualBox graphics card"
        Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth 24
        SubSection "Display"
                 Depth         24
                 Modes         "1440x900" "2048x800" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


-Thank You So Much!

---

### Post by Pom2122 on 2008-10-25
First, it sounds like your Host is Ubuntu and Guest is XP?

Do NOT make any changes in your hosts xorg.conf.
Install the GuestAdditions in your XP guest (it is quite well explained in the manual).
Now you will be able to set your XP resolution.

:)

---

### Post by Lamez on 2008-10-25
lol, oh man! So I need to fix what I added in the xorg.conf?

Do you know what chapter it is in? example: 4.3.2

---

### Post by Pom2122 on 2008-10-25
4.2
:)

---

### Post by Lamez on 2008-10-25
Oh, thank you so much!

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-10-25
You set the resolution on the guest not the host. Sometimes , depending on the resolution you desire, you need to also install the virtualbox additions on the guest (do not install the additions on the host).

---

