---
title: "13.04 upgrade, what happened to virtualbox-ose?"
date: 2013-06-24
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by ladasky on 2013-06-24
Hello everyone,

I'm upgrading from Ubuntu 12.04.  I had a Windows Vista virtual machine running inside my 12.04 system.  The _[Virtual Box installation instructions at help.ubuntu.com]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VirtualBox/Installation")_ refer to a package called *virtualbox-ose*, which I remember downloading and installing once before.  However, the 13.04 repositories do not include a package with that name.  There's a package called *virtualbox-source*, which might be the same thing, and then it might not be.  Does anyone know where to find current instructions for Virtual Box installation?  Thanks!

EDIT: Digging deeper into the Internet and my memory... I may have actually installed the package from the _[Linux downloads page]("https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads")_ at virtualbox.org.  That web page looks familiar... when you don't do a task for a year, you can forget the details.  I'll try it.  Is there any reason that one should favor a package from the Ubuntu repository?

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2013-06-24
To answer your final line, NO. It's best, in this case, to use the Linux downloads page at virtualbox.org. It's much more up to date.

As for the absence of the OSE version these days, VBox had some major changes when it went from version 3.2 to 4.0 (now it's at 4.2) and the older dichotomy between OSE and PUEL versions no longer exists. 

When you download from the Linux download page, be sure to also download the separate Extension Pack. It's necessary to enable USB and the Guest Additions!

---

### Post by ladasky on 2013-06-24
> **JKyleOKC said:**
> To answer your final line, NO. It's best, in this case, to use the Linux downloads page at virtualbox.org. It's much more up to date.

Thanks, Jim, I did in fact download and install the package directly from virtualbox.org.  I've got my original VM running, though I have a problem to chase down, see below.

> **JKyleOKC said:**
> As for the absence of the OSE version these days, VBox had some major changes when it went from version 3.2 to 4.0 (now it's at 4.2) and the older dichotomy between OSE and PUEL versions no longer exists.

OK, so it's just an issue of software that got forked, and then un-forked?

> **JKyleOKC said:**
> When you download from the Linux download page, be sure to also download the separate Extension Pack. It's necessary to enable USB and the Guest Additions!

I don't think that I needed the Extension Pack last time, but I'm not sure.  I didn't download it for now.  I actually didn't like the idea of my guest OS having access to USB -- because it's Windows, after all.  When the need arose, I just transferred files into a shared folder.

Anyway, right now I don't have a network connection from within my guest OS.  I don't think that the Extension Pack should have anything to do with that.  I've moved since the last time I used the guest.  In my old location, I had a wired network connection (vastly superior, IMO), and now I have to use wireless.  I have a PCI wireless-N card.  I'm trying to figure out the card's designation, and whether the guest OS is actually talking to it.  Since I just booted my old virtual machine, as-is, I suspect it's probably still trying to talk to my wired connection.

EDIT: I was right, I didn't need the Extension Pack.  I had to change my network configuration from "bridged" to "NAT" in the virtual machine settings, and my connection started up.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2013-06-24
I usually use the NAT setup on new VMs; the bridged can be tricky to get working!

---

