---
title: "v10.10 as guest in VirtualBox freezes"
date: 2010-11-30
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by shlape on 2010-11-30
I have Ubuntu 10.10 installed natively on my laptop and have also created an Ubuntu 10.10 guest in VirtualBox. This was done to 'sandbox' an opensource project I'm working on at the moment.

The problem I have found is, after some time the VirtualBox guest slows until it completely freezes up. Natively I have observed 1 of the 2 cores is running at almost 100%. Running 'top' shows VirtualBox running at approx. 100% as well.

The opensource project is a client-server app which uses mysql. At first I thought it may be a bug in this project, and I created a 10.04 guest to see if the problem is isolated to 10.10. I have been developing in 10.04 for a while now and have seen no recurrence of the problem, however there is a lag in VirtualBox which I have not seen in earlier native installations of Ubuntu.

It's possible that 10.10 may have problems and I would like to open this discussion to the forum to make sure I have not overlooked something. Basically I have installed everything as I have done with earlier versions of Ubuntu, which lately I have had little or no problems with.

I have considered downgrading back to 10.04 in my native installation of Ubuntu (to 10.04) to see if things improve again. Also, I am aware that Oracle released v3.2.10r66523 of VirtualBox after Ubuntu 10.10 was released.

Before going down this path, I would like to hear from others as I do not want to go through another installation (back to 10.04) unnecessarily.

---

### Post by shlape on 2010-12-03
*bump*

---

### Post by soldier1st on 2010-12-04
did you give virtual ubuntu enough memory?

---

### Post by shlape on 2010-12-05
> **soldier1st said:**
> did you give virtual ubuntu enough memory?

As much as VirtualBox would let me which is just short of 2GB.
I used the same settings for the Lucid Lynx guest and no problems to date.

EDIT: I also have GKrellm on both my main and virtual systems and neither
show the memory maxing out.

---

