---
title: "10.04/KVM - Terrible performance in guests since upgrading from 9.10"
date: 2010-06-16
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by technicalsquash on 2010-06-16
Hi All,

I recently upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04, and my KVM guests went from being relatively speedy to being downright unusable. I"m running several XP guests, managed via virt-manager, not using virtio drivers.

When I installed 10.04, I moved my images from a slow IDE disk to a striped pair of SATA disks, and to ext4 instead of ext3, no other real changes. I've tried installing a new XP guest and get the same terrible performance.

When the guests are running, the hard drive light never turns off. iostat shows significant disk io, and the guest shows the CPU pegged in task manager. I've installed 'process explorer' which lists Interrupts as the #1 user, but it quickly becomes unresponsive. Oddly, I get a few seconds here and there of reasonable performance, so I'm guessing its disk i/o related.

My next step is to install the virtio drivers and see if that changes anything, but that will take a few hours to accomplish. Is anyone else having these kinds of issues, or have any advice?

---

### Post by technicalsquash on 2010-06-18
Update - a new windows XP guest doesn't exhibit this problem. I'm at a loss as to why the existing guests don't play nice?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2010-06-18
I found that running VirtualBox on a host system with a GUI was unstable after about 4 days with GUI clients running too.  For a little better performance, the guests should use the SATA disk driver, not IDE. I saw WinXP boot times improve

[LIST]
[*]IDE  0m27.380s
[*]SATA  0m18.882s
[/LIST]
 Obviously, that is just 1 test.

The guests should have GigE virtual network adapters. This will allow the physical NIC on the host to be the true bottleneck, not some virtual NIC.  Also, I always select the Intel PRO/1000 MT adapter in the Network "advanced" tab. Highly compatible NIC with the best performance for the price on physical hardware.  650Mbps from a client is not unusual on a GigE connected host.

I've never installed the virtio drivers - perhaps they will provided better performance?

---

