---
title: "[16.04] domfsfreeze not working"
date: 2016-04-29
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by Swiftjay on 2016-04-29
I'm setting up Ubuntu 16.04 as a host server.  I've installed qemu-guest-agent onto the server and configured the channel however when I try to do domfsfreeze on the server I get: 

error: Unable to freeze filesystems
error: Guest agent is not responding: Guest agent not available for now



To explain the situation, we're trying out qcow images and trying to do snapshot backups by freezing the os and then doing a snapshot of the image.  If you have any solutions or alternative ways of freezing the OS any help would be great, thanks.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2016-05-01
Is the qga socket in your guest?

If you look in your guest xml file using qemu edit, and add this section to it:
```

<channel type='unix'>
   <source mode='bind' path='/var/lib/libvirt/qemu/f16x86_64.agent'/>
   <target type='virtio' name='org.qemu.guest_agent.0'/>
</channel>

```
When you start your VM Guest, confirm that it is working by looking for the virtio-serial device at /dev/virtio-ports/org.qemu.guest_agent.0 (the default).
That Unix port needs to exist on your guest before you install qemu-guest-agent onto that guest... That is what the RedHat doc's confirm as a prerequisite for that utility.

---

### Post by Swiftjay on 2016-05-03
I didn't see this before, I'll add this socket and get back to you, when I looked at the red hat docs it only told me of that plugin.  I'll update this thread after.

---

### Post by Swiftjay on 2016-05-03
@MAFoElffen thanks for your information I didn't realise qemu-guest-agent also needed to be installed on the guest OS also freezing now works as expected.  Thank you for your input and help on this I'll mark this thread as resolved.

---

