---
title: "amd64"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-05-05
What do I use for 64-bit Virtual Machines?

---

### Post by JohnH on 2010-05-06
Hi there,

Your question lacks some details that will help get a reply. 

The simple answer Iif I get your questions correctly) is a 64 bit iso will work probably best on a 64 bit host, but a 32 bit will run in most situations as well on a 64 bit host. (I think).

I've used VMware in the old days, Virtual Box and now I'm a convert to KVM's virt-manager.

Regards
John

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-05-06
> **ubunterooster said:**
> What do I use for 64-bit Virtual Machines?

Virtualbox.

It is in the repository, although the version downloadable from virtualbox.org is a PUEL edition, (Personal Use and Evaluation License) which includes USB support that you won't get from the repository version.

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-05-06
I have virtualization enabled in the BIOS yet Virtual Box (using the PPA) says 64 bit emulation is not enabled. I'm using 64 bit Lucid to run it.

---

### Post by crossy on 2010-05-06
> **ubunterooster said:**
> What do I use for 64-bit Virtual Machines?

Make sure your processor is 64bit enabled (IntelVT or AMD-V) and that this has been _switched on_ in the BIOS. Most machines I've come across ship with this switched _off_ by default. I'm using an eBay'd Dell D620 laptop with 2.16GHz T7400 Core2Duo and 4GB RAM as my main VM host.

That done, install a 64-bit version of Ubuntu. I used to use 8.04LTS "Hardy Heron" but I recently moved to 10.04LTS "Lucid Lynx". I'd recommend the LTS versions because the longer support is comforting for a VM host - stability=good, "cutting edge"=bad.

Next get some virtualization software. Depending on what you want to do there's plenty of options - the main free ones for non-Linux guest support are either VMware Server (VMware Workstation is payware) or VirtualBox, (I'm using both - because Solaris9 seems to have some 'issues' on VMware).

VMware Server is free (*Yay!*) but there's a patch needed to get it working on LL. It's pretty well thought of, but some folks don't like it because it's a bit unwieldy (and there's the suspicion that a later version might require very expensive VMware tools - got to say that if they do this then EMC are a bunch of idiots). At last count I had over a dozen VM's on my VMware Server 2.02 install.

VirtualBox is available in the repo's, but I've had some real problems with that version in the past. I'm currently using the Ubuntu 9.04 Karmic version from [http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads]("http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads") and that seems to work fine. The file itself is called *virtualbox-3.1_3.1.6-59338_Ubuntu_karmic_amd64.deb*. Certainly it works well enough that I provisioned up a CentOS54 64bit image a couple of minutes ago and, apart from a slow startup, it seemed to work fine. I don't use VirtualBox much - apart from that CentOS install, I've only got a Solaris9 VM that had to go there because it barfed badly on VMware.

A lot of the guys at work (very big computer company) use VirtualBox and get on well with it. I mainly use VMware for work purposes (software development) and haven't had any major issues.

Hope this helps.

Bob.

---

### Post by crossy on 2010-05-06
> **ubunterooster said:**
> I have virtualization enabled in the BIOS yet Virtual Box (using the PPA) says 64 bit emulation is not enabled. I'm using 64 bit Lucid to run it.

Where does it say this - on install or when you create a VM?

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-05-06
When creating a VM

---

### Post by keithweddell on 2010-05-06
See [this link]("http://forums.virtualbox.org/viewtopic.php?f=1&t=19420").  It describes what is most likely to be the issue you are having.

Keith

---

### Post by crossy on 2010-05-06
> **crossy said:**
> Make sure your processor is 64bit enabled (IntelVT or AMD-V) and that this has been _switched on_ in the BIOS. Most machines I've come across ship with this switched _off_ by default. 

I forgot to mention that it's relatively easy to check if your _processor_ has the virtualization support, (*which I incorrectly called "64bit enabled" above*). Merely do:```
egrep 'vmx|svm' /proc/cpuinfo
```
(no need for sudo). If it comes back with one (or more if you've got multicore) "flags" entries with vmx or svm highlighted then you've got a 'good' processor. BIOS checks unfortunately aren't so straightforward... you have to go diving around in the BIOS to check it. :(

Bob

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-05-06
```
flags		: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ht syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt pdpe1gb rdtscp lm 3dnowext 3dnow constant_tsc rep_good nonstop_tsc extd_apicid pni monitor cx16 popcnt lahf_lm cmp_legacy svm extapic cr8_legacy abm sse4a misalignsse 3dnowprefetch osvw ibs skinit wdt
flags		: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ht syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt pdpe1gb rdtscp lm 3dnowext 3dnow constant_tsc rep_good nonstop_tsc extd_apicid pni monitor cx16 popcnt lahf_lm cmp_legacy svm extapic cr8_legacy abm sse4a misalignsse 3dnowprefetch osvw ibs skinit wdt

```SVM is highlighted so I'll do some diving...

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-05-06
Bios has a Virtualization function but no mention of 64bit. :(

I suppose I will dual-boot when trying out new distros.

---

### Post by crossy on 2010-05-10
> **ubunterooster said:**
> Bios has a Virtualization function but no mention of 64bit. :(

I suppose I will dual-boot when trying out new distros.

I just checked another system I've got access to and - surprise, surprise - it's also got this "Virtualization" function which seems to be to turn on the (required) Intel-VT instruction support. 

In which case, if "Virtualization" if off on your box then I'd try the obvious option of turning it on. 

Like I said before, the FAQ's all say to check: processor, BIOS and OS - in that order.

Interestingly enough - as an aside - the release notes for this VMware Server release I'm swearing at presently seems to suggest that it can run a 64bit guest on a 32bit host OS - good trick if it's true! (The note does say that you need the virtualization support enabled in the hardware though).

Bob

---

### Post by ubunterooster on 2010-05-10
"virtualization" was enabled before I started the thread.  CPU pased the test, and I'm using 64-bit Lucid now, so I assume the "virtualisation" is 32-bit only.

---

