---
title: "10.04 VMware Player host"
date: 2010-04-06
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-04-06
I got tired of trying to find how to get VMware Server running on my 10.04 test system, so I installed the VMware Player Beta (free for non-commercial users) that is now 10.04 host and VM compatible and I have to admit that I am impressed.

Much easier to install than VMware Server, and it has the option to use 3D graphics on the client VMs!

The main impost was reinstalling VMware Tools on all my VMs, but they all seem to run well and the 3D graphics works in the VMs (also the sound actually works ok now).

If you want your old VMs to use the full capabilities of Player 3, you need to edit the .vmx file and set the following:
```
virtualHW.version = "7"
```

If you just want an easy to use VM environment to access on your host setup, this seems a good way to go.

BTW, the install process automatically uninstalled VMware Server, so you don't need to manually uninstall it if you want to change.

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2010-04-06
dcstar...
Since you are running Player have you used this site yet?
[http://www.easyvmx.com/](http://www.easyvmx.com/)
You can also run the .vmdk files with VBox.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-04-07
> **Shazaam said:**
> dcstar...
Since you are running Player have you used this site yet?
[http://www.easyvmx.com/](http://www.easyvmx.com/)
You can also run the .vmdk files with VBox.

I don't see the point of downloading big VM files when Player can create/install them from an .iso or CD.

I have found one issue with the VMware Player 3 beta so far - I created a 10.04 VM and the keyboard does not work at the logon screen (you have to use the mouse keyboard). This also apparently happens with some other VMware products, so it will hopefully be fixed up soon.

All existing my VMs previously installed with VMware Server work fine (including a 10.04 VM).

I do like the "Unity" feature - but it looks weird having XP apps on my Linux desktop.

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2010-04-07
"Player can create/install them"
Cool! The older version(s) didn't have that feature.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2010-04-07
Yes, Player 3.0 onward has all the abilities one needs, except it can't access VMs down the LAN. It's real cool the way it handles kernel updates!

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-04-08
Beware using Player 3 beta to install VMs using the "Easy Install" feature.

I did a 10.04 install this way and it basically didn't work correctly because (I believe) that it assumes that things like HAL are still in use and tries to use it - but since HAL is no longer in 10.04 things get broken in the VM.

If you use the "I will install the operating system later" option then things will work ok as the standard Ubuntu install process is followed.

As well, "Easy Install" never prompts for location info and did not pick it up correctly from my host 10.04 system, so I ended up with a VM configured for a US location - very annoying!

---

### Post by jukka_t on 2010-04-09
> **dcstar said:**
> I got tired of trying to find how to get VMware Server running on my 10.04 test system, so I installed the VMware Player Beta (free for non-commercial users) that is now 10.04 host and VM compatible and I have to admit that I am impressed.


Where did you find the 10.4 compatible beta version? I could only find the Player 3.0.1 which is only compatible with Ubuntu 9.10.

---

### Post by jukka_t on 2010-04-09
Replying to myself: The VMware Player 3.1 Beta, which is supported on Ubuntu 10.4, is available [here]("http://www.vmware.com/downloads/download.do?downloadGroup=Player-310-LX-BETA").
[]("http://www.vmware.com/downloads/download.do?downloadGroup=Player-310-LX-BETA")

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2010-04-09
> **jukka_t said:**
> Where did you find the 10.4 compatible beta version? I could only find the Player 3.0.1 which is only compatible with Ubuntu 9.10.

Say, 3.0.1 is compatible with 10.4 Beta 2, and as been since 9.04.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-04-09
For those installing 10.04 VM desktop clients in VMware Player: **do not subsequently install the "Virtual" kernel packages**.

The sound works fine with the default Generic kernel, but does not work with the kernel packages that are "supposed" to exist for VM clients. I have reported the bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/559705](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/559705)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-04-10
Found a solution for the keyboard not working at the login screen:

[http://spininfo.homelinux.com/news/VMware_VI3_v3.5_New_Features:_ESX_3i,_ESX_3.5,_VirtualCenter_2.5/2010/04/06/Problem_with_VMware_s_Easy_Install_with_Ubuntu_10.04_%28Lucid%29_-_keyboard_broken](http://spininfo.homelinux.com/news/VMware_VI3_v3.5_New_Features:_ESX_3i,_ESX_3.5,_VirtualCenter_2.5/2010/04/06/Problem_with_VMware_s_Easy_Install_with_Ubuntu_10.04_%28Lucid%29_-_keyboard_broken)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-04-17
Another very handy feature of VMware Player is the method of updating kernel modules whenever you install a new kernel.

No more manual running of scripts as with VMware Server, just a nice GUI prompt when you start Player and then a progress screen as the modules are rebuilt and Player is started.

Being able to run multiple sessions of Player simultaneously also makes things easy as you can have them in different panels as basically stand-alone systems.

---

### Post by jelabarre on 2010-05-11
Anyone encountered an inability to install 2.5.x player?  I have tried different versions, and all of them hang up as soon as they start trying to compile modules.  3.0.x installed, but the hardware is too old to support anything newer than 2.5.x (no PAE/VT in the CPU).
 
Ubuntu 10.04 (32bit), Thinkpad T42, 2G memory

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-05-15
The updated 3.1.0 RC version still has issues installing 10.04 VMs, just don't use the "Easy install" option until VMware get this sorted out.

The Unity mode is handy allowing VM apps to appear on your host desktop like native apps, and the ability to Cut and Paste files directly from a VM to the host is also convenient.

Nice product VMware Player 3.1.0 and well worth the price - free!

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-05-25
Don't use the **ubuntu-tweak** feature that turns off Recent Documents - it breaks your list of VMs in VMware Player by changing the ~.recently-used.xbel file into a folder.

---

### Post by EnlistedSquire on 2010-06-11
Hi,

I'm trying to make the switch from VirtualBox to VMWare. I really like the features of VMWare Player - it's come on loads in the few years since I looked at it last.

I keep getting BSODs (usually different errors every time) on a Windows XP VM (tried reinstalling several times).

Although it's not 100% reproducible, it seems to be when there's lots of disk activity e.g. running a defrag, installing the OS, installing a big batch of updates, that kind of thing.

Does anyone else experience similar problems that might help me diagnose it?

At the moment I'm trying a new install and this time I've gone for splitting the disk file.

The other thing I was wondering was whether it might be connected to the VM being in my home directory which is encrypted with ecryptfs - although this kind of setup on VBox didn't cause a problem.

Thanks.

Ubuntu 10.04
Pentium 4 3.6GHz Hyper-threading
2 GB Ram
Nvidia 7800 GTX 256 MB

---

### Post by snarf77 on 2010-08-30
Hi,

I just installed VMWare player on a fresh install of ubuntu 10/04 64bits and I wanted to replay a previously created winXP VM.

Everything seems to be working except that the keyboard CAPS key is locked. I consequently can't enter the correct password which is in lower case.

I read some posts concerning some bad statement of XKBMODEL set to SKIP but I just can't make it work.

Has someone succeeded in making this work ?

thanks in advance

---

