---
title: "8.04 - Virtual PC 2007 &amp; Resolution problem"
date: 2008-05-16
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by nanda_justgames on 2008-05-16
Hi guys!

I have an Windows Vista 64 and I'm really wanna try to use Ubuntu.

So I've decided to install a VM. After some reserch I installed Ubuntu 8.04 on Virtual PC 2007.

When I was installing I had to change the comand line (F6 on installation window) and put vga=771. Otherwise I would receive the following message: "isapnp: checksum for device 1 is not valid (0X89)"

So I've change these setings on the terminal after installed.. otherwise this error would continue showing up on boot.


Thats ok for now....
But if I wanna to put the Virtual Machine in FULL SCREEN mode, it tells me that I can't because the resolution is too big.

The maximun resolution that I can set in my monitor is 800X600 (because is a TV-monitor).

What should I change to make the system adjust to my monitor so I could work on it with Full screen on my pc?

Tks!
PS: I already try changing the vga for 771, 791, 785.

---

### Post by twright on 2008-05-16
i do not recommend linux under virtual PC as that is designed just for running old versions of windows

you will have better luck with virtualbox or vmware

---

### Post by nanda_justgames on 2008-05-16
Yeah I try to install Ubuntu on my pc... but as I'm a noob I had several problems with drivers install and stuff...

I could installed on my notebook... but I don't use it so much as I use this one.

I'll try another VM then....

Tks!

---

### Post by VistablogAT on 2008-05-17
Hi!

It's in german, but maybe you can translate it, or you click on the given sources at the end of the article:

[http://blogs.technet.com/austria/archive/2008/05/13/ubuntu-8-04-unter-virtual-pc-2007.aspx](http://blogs.technet.com/austria/archive/2008/05/13/ubuntu-8-04-unter-virtual-pc-2007.aspx)

I managed to create all resolutions with this manual I wanted to have (configuration set in /etc/X11/xorg.conf)

---

### Post by twright on 2008-05-19
translated courtesy of google:
[http://www.google.com/translate?u=http%3A%2F%2Fblogs.technet.com%2Faustria%2Farchive%2F2008%2F05%2F13%2Fubuntu-8-04-unter-virtual-pc-2007.aspx&hl=en&ie=UTF8&sl=de&tl=en](http://www.google.com/translate?u=http%3A%2F%2Fblogs.technet.com%2Faustria%2Farchive%2F2008%2F05%2F13%2Fubuntu-8-04-unter-virtual-pc-2007.aspx&hl=en&ie=UTF8&sl=de&tl=en)

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-05-19
Moved to Virtualization. 

I second twright's suggestion VirtualBox or VMWare. Not only are they the leaders in this area, the fact that people here use these systems means that you're likely to get better support for them.

---

