---
title: "14.04 photoshop does not fit virtualbox"
date: 2015-01-26
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by Stevenukas on 2015-01-26
Hi, first I'm new to ubuntu and really dont know much on how things work, trying to learn though. Here goes my story. I have 22" minitor connected true VDI cable, witch im using to isolate virtualbox. Installed guest addition and extension pack. Using nvida 820 with X.org drivers. If I use other drivers from "Additional Drivers" , it's starting to lag heavily on the monitor. Issue is, once using photoshop and file>save for web> bottom of the screen is cut out, can't click on any of the buttons, nor I can shrink the size of it. From what I have found, I can't install drivers on the vbox, as this sounded most logical fix. Screen size is 4:3. Window in general is cut off. [ATTACH=CONFIG]259514[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-01-26
What OS is the host running?  What OS is the VM guest running?  Since Photoshop doesn't run natively on Linux, is it running on a Windows guest on a Linux host?

You might consider switching to GIMP unless there are significant features of Photoshop that you need.  Usually these are things like CMYK colorspaces and professional printing features like PANTONE® colors.  For graphics that you are going to post the web, I bet you can do all you need in GIMP.

---

### Post by Stevenukas on 2015-01-26
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> What OS is the host running?  What OS is the VM guest running?  Since Photoshop doesn't run natively on Linux, is it running on a Windows guest on a Linux host?

You might consider switching to GIMP unless there are significant features of Photoshop that you need.  Usually these are things like CMYK colorspaces and professional printing features like PANTONE® colors.  For graphics that you are going to post the web, I bet you can do all you need in GIMP.

I am using 14.04 Desktop 64bit version as host and windows 7 64 bit as guest. I don't really want to start learning and adjusting to GIMP, I know GIMP recognizes PSD files, they just have to be in RGB color, witch means, mosts stuff that I can download as PSD wont work in GIMP re-create everything will take lots of time. Also, Im using AI, which is only can be used by windows, therefore windows is a must have for me, hope I don't have to go back to natively installing windows.

---

### Post by coldraven on 2015-01-26
Can you get the Windows task bar to Auto-hide? (Right click > properties)
Edit: Try giving the VM more memory, Photoshop was always a memory hog!

---

### Post by Stevenukas on 2015-01-27
> **coldraven said:**
> Can you get the Windows task bar to Auto-hide? (Right click > properties)
Edit: Try giving the VM more memory, Photoshop was always a memory hog!

It wasn't like that when I first started using, for some reason it changed, without me editing anything. Misterious thing. BTW its cuts nearly half the screen, from what I remember, at least using on windows, if the screen does not fit, the scroll bar appears, it should have happen it this case also :(

Giving more memory doesn't fix it

---

### Post by Stevenukas on 2015-01-28
Anyone ?

---

