---
title: "12.04 dropping packets on static but NOT on dhcp"
date: 2013-11-19
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by gimecoffee on 2013-11-19
I've got 12.04 installed as a guest on KVM bridged (Proxmox VE 3.0).  If the guest network is setup as DHCP there's no dropped packets.  As soon as I changed to static address the guest starts dropping packets. 5% to 10%.  I understand some dropped packets are not generally a problem and on our local network there's no noticeable impact.  However, we do have some routed traffic coming in from the Internet (HTTP/HTTPS) that accesses this guest and those browsers and equipment have substantial difficulties making the connection.  I don't understand what the difference could possibly be between static and DHCP but there is definitely something.

interfaces:
----------------------------------------------------
# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
# The primary network interface
#auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.87
netmask 255.255.255.0
#network 192.168.1.0
#broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
#dns-search coosbay.cardinal-services.com cardinal-services.com
dns-nameservers 192.168.1.4
----------------------------------------------------

Any thoughts or direction would be greatly appreciated.
Rois Cannon

---

### Post by alanpuccinelli on 2013-12-19
I've noticed the exact same behavior. Any clue to the cause? Network chatter? I tried using ntop to diagnose but all it's telling me is that it's Other Non-TCP traffic. Need to dig deeper on the packet analysis.

---

### Post by gimecoffee on 2013-12-19
I'd love to say yes but alas . . . still no clue.  At this point I've worked around it by having our network administrator add the mac addresses in the dhcp server.  I'm not great at debugging technical network issues.  The last virtual environment I built 3 years ago just worked with no issues and this particular machine actually was working fine for a while until I ran an update that messed something up.  I think it's probably in the network driver when being run on a bridged KVM interface but that's just a guess.

After a year of searching I just had to get the machine going however I can so will just keep searching as time allows or hope that some future update will correct the problem.

---

