---
title: "13.10 KVM / Ubuntu improvements"
date: 2013-11-12
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by jhickey on 2013-11-12
Found the following in a web article about improvements made to KVM.  I'm specifically interested in the part in bold.

Does anyone know what automated command line tool they are talking about?


Ubuntu now also comes with a much faster installer, designed for rapidly provisioning nodes in a cloud environment. Again using the example of an OpenStack node, Baker said the installation time had been slashed from around 10-11 minutes to just 2.5 minutes.

LXC Linux containers can now be cloned in less than a second — “We want to continue very much to appeal to the devop” — **and there’s also a new automated command line for starting a KVM image of Ubuntu, updates and all.**

Full article is here:
[http://gigaom.com/2013/10/10/canonical-wants-to-make-openstack-less-of-a-pain-to-deploy-with-ubuntu-server-13-10/](http://gigaom.com/2013/10/10/canonical-wants-to-make-openstack-less-of-a-pain-to-deploy-with-ubuntu-server-13-10/)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-11-12
Interesting ...  don't know ... to me KVM is a server thing and servers get LTS releases ... period.

I know that zfs supports copy-on-write operations, so if their storage is ZFS, cloning an entire VM should take milliseconds - just change the MAC, hostname, IP and it is done. Put that ZFS storage on RAID10 SSDs - and WOW!  Fast.  They don't say what sort of storage is being used.

I know a company that puts all their VMs on SSDs that way ... they use sparse allocations for everything and never look back.  With spinning disks, if you want performance, sparse is the enemy.

I've only used raw and LVM-based vHDDs the last few years. QCOW2 performance used to suck ... perhaps it is good now?

I've been happy with the performance of virsh and ansible, but we don't need hundreds of VMs spun up/down daily, so openstack is a complete unknown (too much overhead for small shops to bother).

Before anyone gets too excited about 13.10 KVM ... carefully check the support dates.  Most organizations will not have it deployed before the support ends.  Use it for labs and deployment testing, but wait for 14.04/LTS to deploy. The article says this stuff is being ported to 12.04.

the last paragraph says the tools used.  MAAS and Juju. I'm not versed in Ubuntu's Cloud stuff enough to know if that makes any sense or not.

---

### Post by davea42 on 2013-11-12
Moreover, the default slirp networking seems much must faster than in 12.xx.
 I just said that in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2187608](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2187608)

---

