---
title: "14.04 How to delete kvm snapshot"
date: 2015-12-26
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by MORA99 on 2015-12-26
Hi,

I installed a new kvm setup this week based on ubuntu 14.04, just like my old setup, so the general setup worked fine and I could migrate the hosts over.
I never played with the snapshot feature before though, so I wanted to give it a shot... that didnt go quite as well.

The snapshot was created like this
virsh snapshot-create-as domain --disk-only --atomic --diskspec vda,file=/mnt/storage/snap --no-metadata
So now I have a snapshot at /mnt/storage/snap which I want to delete and commit back to the main file.

However the snapshot is not in "virsh snapshot-list domain"
I can run blockpull and until I upgraded libvirt to the one in ubuntu-cloud I could also start a commit
But I cant figure out how to actually delete the snapshot.

I tried to edit the xml file to just point to the original files, but that didnt work (claimed the ds file was not a qcow format).
I am ok with reverting the snapshot or merging it, theres not really any changes to be lost on the guest.

Any ideas is most welcome,
Thanks

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2015-12-27
Example syntax:
```

# virsh snapshot-delete --domain f17vm --snapshotname snap6

[OR]

# virsh snapshot-delete f17vm snap6
```
From Ubuntu man [virsh]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/natty/man1/virsh.1.html"):
> 
       snapshot-delete domain snapshot --children
           
Delete the snapshot for the domain named snapshot.  If this
           snapshot has child snapshots, changes from this snapshot will be
           merged into the children.  If --children is passed, then delete
           this snapshot and any children of this snapshot.




---

### Post by MORA99 on 2015-12-28
I didnt give the snapshot a name when making it.
```
virsh snapshot-create-as Minecraft --diskspec vda,file=/mnt/storage/snap --disk-only --atomic --no-metadata
```

I solved the original problem by reinstalling the guest and copy over the files, but I would still like to find the correct way to do it, if snapsnots are surposed to work in 14.04.

So I just tried on a test guest instead.
> 
root@master ~ # aa-complain /etc/apparmor.d/libvirt/libvirt-ffb86149-d506-41d1-9ad0-07700bd6f6d8
Setting /etc/apparmor.d/libvirt/libvirt-ffb86149-d506-41d1-9ad0-07700bd6f6d8 to complain mode.
root@master ~ # virsh snapshot-create-as Tester --name snap1 --diskspec vda,file=/mnt/storage/snap --disk-only --atomic --no-metadata
Domain snapshot snap1 created
root@master ~ # virsh snapshot-list Tester
 Name                 Creation Time             State
------------------------------------------------------------


root@master ~ # virsh snapshot-delete Tester snap1
error: Domain snapshot not found: no domain snapshot with matching name 'snap1'

root@master ~ # virsh domblklist Tester
Target     Source
------------------------------------------------
vda        /mnt/storage/snap
vdb        /var/lib/uvtool/libvirt/images/Tester-ds.snap1


Wonder if its the no-metadata thats the cause of the snapsnot not being visible ?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2015-12-28
From what I can see, you are setting up a temporary child up for failure as becoming an orphan. As soon as you run once without that mount mounted, then it may become an orphaned child and have problems being deleted. I think it might be different it it was created to normal default or configured storage.

For some more detail on that:
[http://wiki.libvirt.org/page/I_created_an_external_snapshot,_but_libvirt_won't_let_me_delete_or_revert_to_it](http://wiki.libvirt.org/page/I_created_an_external_snapshot,_but_libvirt_won't_let_me_delete_or_revert_to_it)
[http://kashyapc.com/2012/09/14/externaland-live-snapshots-with-libvirt/](http://kashyapc.com/2012/09/14/externaland-live-snapshots-with-libvirt/)

---

### Post by MORA99 on 2015-12-30
Thanks fo rthe wiki link, seems external snapshots just arent quite working yet.

/mnt/storage is just a mount point for a local raid, and I havent rebooted since making those snapshots.
Internal snapshots work as long as the disks are qcow(2).

---

