---
title: "9.10 screeen resolution"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by metzy85 on 2009-10-30
Hello I just got Done install 9.10 into virtual box no installation problems at all everything is working wonderfully. The only problem is the screen resolution I can't change it from 800x600 is there any way to do this besides going through display.

---

### Post by halsboss2 on 2009-10-30
I have 9.10 installed in Microsoft Virtual PC 2007 under XP, with the same problem, it won't let me use anything greater than 800x600 as display size (it only shows resolutions less <= 800x600).

Nothing special selected during installation, stock standard defaults from the downloaded ISO.  How can I find out the graphics card Microsoft Virtual PC 2007 is emulating, to report here, if that would help ?

Is there something that can be done to get a larger resolution ?

Oh, and audio doesn't seem to work; suggestions welcome.

---

### Post by masque7 on 2009-10-30
> **metzy85 said:**
> Hello I just got Done install 9.10 into virtual box no installation problems at all everything is working wonderfully. The only problem is the screen resolution I can't change it from 800x600 is there any way to do this besides going through display.
start up the vm, install guest additions from the menu

---

### Post by MoebusNet on 2009-11-01
Heads Up!

Checkbox killed my VBox custom resolution from Guest Additions. Happened when I used System Testing.

Avoid System Testing if you want to keep your full-screen capability in VBox.

Ubuntu 9.10 (guest) in VBox 8.04.3 on Ubuntu 8.04.3 9(host).

---

### Post by vernonlyon on 2009-11-09
> **halsboss2 said:**
> I have 9.10 installed in Microsoft Virtual PC 2007 under XP, with the same problem, it won't let me use anything greater than 800x600 as display size (it only shows resolutions less <= 800x600).

Nothing special selected during installation, stock standard defaults from the downloaded ISO.  How can I find out the graphics card Microsoft Virtual PC 2007 is emulating, to report here, if that would help ?

Is there something that can be done to get a larger resolution ?

Oh, and audio doesn't seem to work; suggestions welcome.

Virtual PC is emulting an S3 Trio gfx card.
To use Ubuntu 9.10 in Virtual PC you need to add 2 options to the grub config.
You need to add **[FONT=Courier New]s3fb.mode_option=1024x768-16[/FONT]** to set the resolution, but this wont work if the gfx card is not initialized from the VGA BIOS, so you also need to add [FONT=Courier New]**vga=791**[/FONT] or similar.
So edit [FONT=Courier New]**/etc/default/grub**[/FONT] with this line:
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="vga=791 s3fb.mode_option=1024x768-16"
```Then do [FONT=Courier New]**sudo update-grub**[/FONT] and reboot.

---

### Post by halsboss2 on 2009-11-10
Hey that very nearly worked !  

Now it boots with a larger black window and then immediately shrinks to a smaller 800x600 window as it auto logs in.  The display list of resolutions still only goes up to 800x600...  Tried installing the S3 Trio64 driver from the package manager but it appeared to do nothing.  The Hardware Drivers manager continues to say that no proprietary drivers are in use on this system (and does not list the S3 or anything else in its window).

---

### Post by MichealH on 2009-11-11
Can you goto the Machine Menu and Click resize gusest display (only if you have additions.)

---

### Post by ShadowedH on 2009-12-30
> **halsboss2 said:**
> Hey that very nearly worked !  

Now it boots with a larger black window and then immediately shrinks to a smaller 800x600 window as it auto logs in.  The display list of resolutions still only goes up to 800x600...  Tried installing the S3 Trio64 driver from the package manager but it appeared to do nothing.  The Hardware Drivers manager continues to say that no proprietary drivers are in use on this system (and does not list the S3 or anything else in its window).

This has happened for me too, but then I just get the normal sizes again! has anyone found a solid answer to this problem yet?

---

