---
title: "ubuntu host does not release usb to XP guest!"
date: 2009-06-28
forum: Virtualisation
---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-06-28
running latest vmware server on jaunty.
I can tell because, I unmount it in ubuntu, connect it in xp guest, and xp guest says connected when it is not, and ubuntu remounts the flash drive!
so what to do, I can not be the only one with this issue.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-06-28
as you can see they are UNKNOWN DEVICE
even though vmware knows what they are and ubuntu knows what they are.
in the XP VM, they are unknown. Ubuntu seems to grab then back, so it will say connected in the console of VM, but it pops up a window in ubunut showing the drives. And the drives are accessible in ubunut when they should not be accessible at all.

It actually worked for me two times in the last 20 VM boots, so it is flaky. I really dont expect any fix as on the web when you search for this issue, it either works for some people and others it just does not. I suppose I am one of the it does not work crowd.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2009-06-28
Try putting this line in your /etc/fstab file:

```
usbfs /proc/bus/usb usbfs auto 0 0
```

Let us know how things go.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-06-28
yes, I found that on a website and tried several variations, did not help
is my commented line an issue?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-936094.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-936094.html)

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=d6269386-1a91-432d-9014-cce8e93eb891 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro,relatime 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=f0c3f9d6-39e2-4bf4-8d9c-03e28e2b8ad3 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
/dev/sda1 /media/disk ntfs defaults,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
#added by me
usbfs /proc/bus/usb usbfs auto 0 0
none /proc/bus/usb usbfs devgid=46,devmode=664 0 0
```

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-06-28
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VMware/Server](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VMware/Server)
I installed with this patch according to community doc the latest vmware server.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-06-28
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=642107&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=642107&page=2)

I dont even have a mkdir line in that file. Things have changed with jaunty.

That really is not my problem as VMWARE sees the usb just fine. just the xp guest can not connect to any usb device even if connected. I tried installing vmtools, and when it runs it always says no usb devices attached even when they were 2 times.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2009-06-28
Many have yet to get VMware 2.n to work for them.

I would suggest using 1.09, or even 1.06.

You are going to install VMware server in Ubuntu, eh?

And in your guest VM tab you do go to Removeable Devics and then to USB Devices to note the USBs attached?

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-06-28
I have vmware server 2.2 or whatever the most current is. I downloaded the tar from them today.
Installed it just fine as far as I can tell.

And yes, I am running it and can click devices and see the usb devices. they just dont work, even though they say connected and the little red x in their icon ges away, they are not working at all. They continue to work in ubuntu, they should stop working in ubuntu and start working in the guest..

I just got a new error when trying to connect the usb device.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2009-06-28
Well, many have gone through what you are going through with v2.n. Try 1.09, that's all I can think of.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-06-28
[http://www.tuxmachines.org/node/31802](http://www.tuxmachines.org/node/31802)
well versions 2.x give usb 2.0 support.

If you leave that line in fstab, when you run Virtualbox, the usb devices are greyed out, unavailable.

USB works good in virtualbox, however, there is an issue with the networking. 
What I am tryng to do is run magicjack. If you run virtualbox and do a voip netwoprk test you get terrible jitter and dropped packets. Run the same test in VMWARE and you get very good results. 
this does have a big effect on voip quality. magicjack actually runs in virtualbox, BUT breakes up badly. The ONE time i had it working in vmware server, it was PERFECT.

[http://www.testyourvoip.com/](http://www.testyourvoip.com/) proves what I just said.
it is too bad for vmware.

Do you really think an old version is better? with no usb 2.0 support.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-06-29
well guess what works! run the virtual machine in vmware PLAYER and the usb works.

HOWEVER! when you install the player it UNINSTALLS the server.
so if i wish to make another machine, i must reinstall vmware server, will that then uninstall the player??

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2009-06-29
I can't remember... the two try to connect directly to the kernel so I guess you can't do that.

I've never had an issue with USBs and VMware server over the years... but I've never used v2.x as so many have said to forget it, too buggie.

Best of luck!

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-06-29
which version should I use? 1.9?
will a 1.x version give me usb 2.0?
do you download it from vmware?
does it have a web browser interface?

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2009-06-30
Use v1.09 from the vmware.com site. No, only a GUI one.

---

