---
title: "11.10 Onerous Ocelot"
date: 2011-11-23
forum: Any Other OS
---

### Post by crong on 2011-11-23
The latest changes have forced me to switch to Linux Mint.

Updates to 11.04 caused suspend on my Dell Insprion 6400 to stop working properly: It would wake up after a while (with the lid still down) and run very hot. Opening the lid caused it to go back to sleep.

Upgrading to 11.10 (which I hoped might fix the problem) made this problem worse and introduced the new problem of no mouse pointer - it's there but not visible.

A clean install of 11.10 was the last straw when if failed to detect my wireless adapter correctly.

There are other small annoyances too although I did actually quite like Unity.

Anyone else have so much trouble?

---

### Post by cortman on 2011-11-23
Extra points for the title. :)

I upgraded 11.04 to 11.10 on my Toshiba Satellite without any real hitches.
I do notice that sometimes suspend doesn't seem to work, or that it'll just dim the screen and remain on in the lock screen. This is a small annoyance, but one that I can deal with. Other than that the upgrade and the OS are functioning flawlessly.
I'm quite surprised to hear it didn't get your wireless driver. That's the main reason I decided to stick with ubuntu in the first place, was the excellent hardware support, out of the box. 
Since you've tried a fresh install already, I suppose stick with your mint! I kind of liked Mint although found it a little heavy.

---

### Post by hal8000 on 2011-11-23
No problems with Oneric here, but I use a desktop so don't use suspend and wireless.

However when you upgrade Ubuntu, it will always take longer than a clean install, because each file, program and any dependencies have to be checked and upgraded.

By contrast there is less work in a clean install, most hardware will be recognized and configured by the kernel and as there's no files or dependencies to sort the install will generally be faster. A clean install was inder 20 minutes on my system with Intel Core i5. Hope that helps.

---

### Post by pierreyy on 2011-11-23
well we all realize that the bugs in the system will always be there ( no matter what OS you're running) i personally was having a massive problem with 11.10 but  a fresh install fixed that one... did you attempt to fix these problems by yourself? i know for a fact that the community is an amazing way to solve your problems anw its a shame that you had to let go of a system you liked over the bugs.... on that note... is mint better? ive tried it before and it seemed lacking direction... anw thats what i think...

---

### Post by cortman on 2011-11-23
Oh also, have a look at the Dell Support forum here. They may be able to help you out with the wireless, etc.

---

### Post by oldtimer7777 on 2011-11-23
> **cortman said:**
> Oh also, have a look at the Dell Support forum here. They may be able to help you out with the wireless, etc.

I'm not going anywhere near 11.10 until they get the bugs out of that mess. 

I'm still here at 10.10, and I am fine.  If it can't detect your drivers upgrade from Mainline to the latest Kernel and see if it can detect it then.  Otherwise, Mint Linux will have to be it.

---

### Post by crong on 2011-11-23
I've got 11.10 running OK on a Dell desktop so I'm not completely abandoning Ubuntu, but the laptop was a disaster area...

I've so far found no solution for the suspend issue.

The invisible pointer issue can be fixed by logging out and logging back in again - mouse appears after logout - but what a pain.

The problem with the wireless adapter also occurred with Mint. The  proprietary driver doesn't work. The fix (for Mint) is to ignore the  driver and do this:

```
sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer b43-fwcutter
```It might work for Ubuntu but I haven't tried it.

Interestingly, the invisible pointer problem also arose when I tried Mint 11  LXDE (I'm using the LMDE version) but only at the login screen so it's  clear that there's some common code that's causing my problems.

Linux Mint 11 feels way more polished than Ubuntu ever has and it looks a lot nicer. Something could be learned here.

---

### Post by oldtimer7777 on 2011-11-23
Care to provide us some SPECs of your laptop? 

> **crong said:**
> I've got 11.10 running OK on a Dell desktop so I'm not completely abandoning Ubuntu, but the laptop was a disaster area...

I've so far found no solution for the suspend issue.

The invisible pointer issue can be fixed by logging out and logging back in again - mouse appears after logout - but what a pain.

The problem with the wireless adapter also occurred with Mint. The  proprietary driver doesn't work. The fix (for Mint) is to ignore the  driver and do this:

```
sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer b43-fwcutter
```It might work for Ubuntu but I haven't tried it.

Interestingly, the invisible pointer problem also arose when I tried Mint 11  LXDE (I'm using the LMDE version) but only at the login screen so it's  clear that there's some common code that's causing my problems.

Linux Mint 11 feels way more polished than Ubuntu ever has and it looks a lot nicer. Something could be learned here.

---

### Post by crong on 2011-11-23
It's a Dell Inspiron 6400 with 2GB RAM. Fairly standard. I added Bluetooth and upgraded the hard drive.

---

### Post by oldtimer7777 on 2011-11-23
> **crong said:**
> It's a Dell Inspiron 6400 with 2GB RAM. Fairly standard. I added Bluetooth and upgraded the hard drive.

Try it.

---

### Post by crong on 2011-11-23
er,... try what?

---

### Post by oldtimer7777 on 2011-11-23
> **crong said:**
> er,... try what?

```

sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer b43-fwcutter
```

---

### Post by crong on 2011-11-23
Ah, well, I've got Linux Mint installed now so no, I'm not going to try Onerous again while there are so many other problems.

The b43 stuff worked for Mint but I noticed that, while the proprietary drive was marked as available, it had not been automatically made active. The Ubuntu system showed the driver as already active (but not working) so I wouldn't be surprised if something needs to be uninstalled.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-11-23
Moved to Other Os/Distro talk.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-11-23
> **crong said:**
> 
Anyone else have so much trouble?

I've got 3 installs of 11.10, (desktop, laptop, netbook) and all are running perfectly.

---

### Post by crong on 2011-11-23
Really?

This thread is about problems with Ubuntu and moving it to Other  OS/Distro Talk simply ensures that my questions will never be answered.

Sorry I mentioned another OS. I'm dismayed that you are so sensitive.

Is that quote your sig or is it directed at me?

---

### Post by crong on 2011-11-23
Hey wolfen69, I have one installation that seems to be running perfectly. But that doesn't really compensate for the installation that isn't.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-11-23
> **crong said:**
> Hey wolfen69, I have one installation that seems to be running perfectly. But that doesn't really compensate for the installation that isn't.

Over the years, I've had windows installs, mac installs, and linux installs that were less than perfect. Meh, life goes on. But generally speaking, my linux installs were the best running out of everything I've ever run. Find out what *does* work good on your hardware, and go with it.

But I don't judge os's based on whether they work well on *my* computers. I realize there are way too many variables that the developers of any os have, that make it an impossibility for any os to run perfectly on every computer in the world. If one can accept this, one will be much happier and not waste time ranting, (not saying you did) and get on with life. :)

---

### Post by gesti on 2011-11-24
my 2cent to all this is: before doing a dist-upgrade make a backup of your system. Use something like [Clonezilla]("http://clonezilla.org/") or Norton Ghost. So if something won't work out you can always restore your old system...
This is what I do now, just saved the whole drive and will upgrade tonight.

---

### Post by crong on 2011-11-24
Good policy gesti and, wolfen69, I agree with your pragmatic approach. I keep my data separate from my OS so switching to a new setup is pretty quick & easy.

I think the suspend problem might be something to do with the lid on my laptop but I'm still looking into it.

There are other posts about the wireless driver and the disappearing mouse pointer so that's not just me.

As for the other niggles, well, I'm currently in trouble with the admins over this thread so I'm not going to post anymore until that gets resolved.

---

### Post by Honestiores on 2011-11-24
Romans and country folk,

I started on my Linux trip with distros of Mandrake , early versions Redha and Fedora, Oracle Enterprise Linux, and then there was the Ubuntu finally a distrib that would enable me to get rid of all the Msloath OS on all of my machines at home.

I was very proud to say that we were a Ubuntu only household - 7 machines on Ubuntu. I have convinced many of the consultants and architects to move to Ubuntu at work.
I always used my wife's machine to migrate first, don't laugh, just good practice.

I have VMware and Vbox for some clients who need IE to connect into their VPN.
We used  Ubuntu in ANGER and we were very happy.

As all things good things some little twerp has to change it.
Have you never heard of it ain't broke - don't fix it.

The interface is the pits.
It is the nail in Ubuntu's coffin as far as techy types are concerned.

Over 15 engineers now have abandoned Ubuntu because of 11.10 ONEIRIC

So we will now embark on Linux Mint.

I have really enjoyed it while it lasted.

Yes the kids don't care Big Fat icons for Firefox and Office.

My laptop is still 10.10 when i visit  a customers site the interface looks professional not a kiddies toy.

At least 11.04 had the classic option.

My son has now gone and bought a Mac.

Good bye
An old Vax 11/750 fanatic.
VMS was great and so was Ubuntu.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-11-24
> **Honestiores said:**
> 
VMS was great and *so was Ubuntu*.

It still is. Btw, what's wrong with xfce or kde? Both are traditional type DE's.

Another Btw: Mint's new MGSE is available for ubuntu. What's the big deal?

---

### Post by crong on 2011-11-25
It used to be part of my job to provide custom [re-]built machines and the reason for choosing Ubuntu was simple: It had the best hardware detection.

Most people agree that Ubuntu has always been ugly (it used to be brown) but between '08 and '10 I could put the Ubu CD in a fresh build and have a fully functional system in a few tens of minutes without having to search for drivers or spend hours updating updates. I had a tag-line for it:

"Ubuntu - it just works"

Now, I may be in the minority but I quite like Unity. I would go so far as to say that my productivity benefited from it. But it seems to have arrived, not only prematurely (that's another subject), but at the expense of what Ubuntu has always done best (for me at least)...

11.10 Live CD on one of my machines worked fine but once installed failed to detect the monitor. I remember this problem from way back - what's it doing showing up again?

11.10 Live CD on my laptop applied the wrong driver to my wireless adapter but once installed (using a wired connection) also lost the mouse pointer. Previous versions always picked up the wireless adapter correctly - it can probably be fixed easily, but the missing pointer makes it unusable.

---

### Post by BrokenKingpin on 2011-11-25
Xubuntu 11.10 is running great for me on two PCs, a laptop, and two netbooks.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-11-25
> **BrokenKingpin said:**
> Xubuntu 11.10 is running great for me on two PCs, a laptop, and two netbooks.

Yeah, xubuntu is pretty good, but I like a little bling with my os. ;) But I do use Lubuntu on my netbook, for which it's perfect.

I've actually been pretty impressed with the progress kde has made. I think I'm going to install kubuntu tonight on my main desktop. I'm currently using gmome shell and like it, but I'm just in the mood for something new. It's great to have a lot of choices. 
:guitar:

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2011-11-25
Xubuntu is pretty good, but with 11.10, it doesn't seem to be as lightweight as before. I compared Xubuntu 10.04 and Xubuntu 11.10 in Virtualbox. I found that Xubuntu 10.04 ran well on 512 MB of RAM (from the CD), but 11.10 was very sluggish (also from the CD). Increasing the RAM amount to 768 MB made a big difference with 11.10. After Installation of each one, I found that 10.04 used 92 MB, but 11.10 used 138 MB. Xubuntu 11.10 also takes longer to install and, strangely, uses more disk space when installed from the desktop CD than when installed using the Alternate CD (4.4GB vs. 2GB). Unfortanately, it appears that Xubuntu can no longer be considered "Lightweight". Lubuntu is now the best choice for low end computers (or Debian + LXDE).

---

### Post by mauvebic on 2011-11-27
> **wolfen69 said:**
> Yeah, xubuntu is pretty good, but I like a little bling with my os. ;) But I do use Lubuntu on my netbook, for which it's perfect.

I've actually been pretty impressed with the progress kde has made. I think I'm going to install kubuntu tonight on my main desktop. I'm currently using gmome shell and like it, but I'm just in the mood for something new. It's great to have a lot of choices. 
:guitar:

You can replace xfwm4 with Compiz if you want.

---

