---
title: "9.0 RC3 --&gt; 9.0 Stable"
date: 2011-12-14
forum: Any Other OS
---

### Post by Majorix on 2011-12-14
So, first of all, I want to let you know that I have been using Windows to run my chess apps, and various Linux distros to do other tasks. It's been like this for several years now.

Lately, while doing a CSE major, I decided to try out *BSD. Of course, FreeBSD came to my mind first. PC-BSD is bloated and it uses KDE so it is out of question.

I went to download FreeBSD from their site, and saw that they have 9.0 RC3, which is obviously not the stable 9.0 release.

The question is, if I download and install from this RC will I be able to update to the stable release? If so how? Or should I perhaps wait a few more weeks and let them release 9.0-stable, if the update task will be tedious?

PS: Does FreeBSD have LXDE? Or at least XFCE?

Thanks!

---

### Post by kk0sse54 on 2011-12-14
Yes you can upgrade from a release to one of the development branches. For instructions read this [http://www.freebsd.org/doc/handbook/current-stable.html](http://www.freebsd.org/doc/handbook/current-stable.html), essentially you just have to grab the sources for stable and rebuild both world and the kernel. 

And yes, freebsd has lxde and xfce (slightly crippled thanks to udev), if you ever want to check what software is available for freebsd just consult freshports.org

---

### Post by Majorix on 2011-12-14
Thanks a bunch! I guess I will install FreeBSD now but there is a little problem: I can't find the DVD1 for 9.0 RC3. There is the DVD edition for all older releases but not for 9.0. What does Disc1 not have that DVD1 does?

EDIT: Saw this:
[http://www.freebsd.org/doc/handbook/install-diff-media.html](http://www.freebsd.org/doc/handbook/install-diff-media.html)
Seems like I need the DVD? Or can I just install the base and then add packages after connecting to the web?

---

### Post by kk0sse54 on 2011-12-14
> **Majorix said:**
> Thanks a bunch! I guess I will install FreeBSD now but there is a little problem: I can't find the DVD1 for 9.0 RC3. There is the DVD edition for all older releases but not for 9.0. What does Disc1 not have that DVD1 does?

EDIT: Saw this:
[http://www.freebsd.org/doc/handbook/install-diff-media.html](http://www.freebsd.org/doc/handbook/install-diff-media.html)
Seems like I need the DVD? Or can I just install the base and then add packages after connecting to the web?

They probably won't release a DVD image until after 9.0 is officially released (should happen sometime this week). Personally I find the DVD to be a waste, I prefer doing a netinstall with the bootonly CD and adding the software I want afterwards. Either way it's just like Debian, the DVD just includes alongside the base system a bunch of readily available software that you would otherwise have to download if you were using one of the other images.

---

### Post by jjex22 on 2011-12-14
I would just point out that PC-BSD although shipping with KDE4, does support Gnome 2, LXDE and XFCE... there are quite a few others including icewm and openbox... though these are classified as unsupported. 

PC-BSD is also much simpler to install with the graphical installer and I like the package management system with .pbi files and /Programs ... it's not quite as pretty as OSX's applications - you run an installer similar to windows, but having it all tied up in /Programs suits my OCD and having everything "Neat und Tidy!"

That said free-bsd is a much more configurable set up for getting it how you want it as you complete the install at the minimal level. I always try free bsd when a new version comes out, as well as net bsd for my old PPC hardware... but I do usually choose to use PC-BSD full term (for the intel), just as how I choose Ubuntu or Open SUSE over my more "tailered" set ups, but that's just me!

Also maybe worth having a look at the debian kfreebsd port - it's not going to gain it's "stable" title until the release of weezy.. but it's not too limited by any sretch at the moment and does have the advantage of debian's package management which makes transition easier.. but of course check what's still to be ported!

---

### Post by Majorix on 2011-12-15
OK 2 questions about PC-BSD:
1. Can I still use all the commands and ports system that FreeBSD does?
2. How do I install LXDE on PC-BSD? Sorry I am very new to this and don't know much.

---

### Post by jjex22 on 2011-12-15
> **Majorix said:**
> OK 2 questions about PC-BSD:
1. Can I still use all the commands and ports system that FreeBSD does?
2. How do I install LXDE on PC-BSD? Sorry I am very new to this and don't know much.

Hi there, yes sorry PC-bsd does use freeBSD ports as well as the pbi format - if you wanted to install lxde on PC-BSD 8 you'd do it through ports.. gnome 2 is easiest just to get from pbidir.com.

However if you're thinking of using 9 (I would - a lot of good steps forward, especially if you're using wirless) then you can choose lxde in the installer, or if you only want lxde and a minimal system, you can download the 600mb "USBlite" image from the pc-bsd downloads page. 

P.S. The reason I'd recommend using 9 for either free or pc even though they're still pre release is it seems that the irritating wireless issue has been fixed... at least on my hardware, so YMMV, but my Broadcom laptop was worst hit by the drop out during 8, to the point where it didn't run either, but it seems to be okay under 9 :)

---

