---
title: "Windows xp icons won't open"
date: 2012-01-20
forum: Any Other OS
---

### Post by Virtueofselfishness on 2012-01-20
Recently I reformatted my friends old computer she was having problems with her icons not opening the program I figured it was spyware or a virus causing this so I reformat her computer wiped both her partitions so it was a clean windows xp install but after it was done it was having the same problem the icons would not open the program

---

### Post by Double.J on 2012-01-20
Afraid I know nothing about XP.. but if you completely re-install any OS and a fault that developed during a previous install is still there... it's hardware, unless you installed all the same updates?

areas to check would be
-mouse (fairly obviously)
-hard drive (it may be taking too long to load the program - how long is the boot time)
-graphics card (try using the mobo's graphics?)

Just some thoughts.. it's where I'd start in *buntu :)

---

### Post by drmrgd on 2012-01-20
When you say icons, do you mean desktop shortcut icons?  Also, is this for only 1 particular program or any program that you try to launch in this way? 

If this is not just 1 program misbehaving but rather a systemic issue, then I would have to concur it's probably not a Windows issue.  There's probably something hardware related giving you trouble. 

You also might be able to see if there's a error generated by running the program through the DOS command prompt like you would with Linux terminal.  The output is not always so verbose, but you might get lucky and see something relevant.

---

### Post by Virtueofselfishness on 2012-01-20
Thanks! Is there software or something i use to check what part of the computers hardware is failing?

---

