---
title: "10.04 64bit  hibernate.  CONFUSION!!!!"
date: 2012-09-11
forum: Any Other OS
---

### Post by 0xicl33n on 2012-09-11
Notebook:HP Probook 6540b  
dualboot:  Win7 32bit / BackTrack 5 R3 64bit

i know that ubuntu has had problems with hibernating, i know some things have been fixed, i know you can patch things and convince it to work. but i didnt do that. So here's what happened:

i did apt-get install hibernate.

it worked, i typed it in my terminal, it went into hibernate mode. when i went to turn on my pc. i was greeted to an HP logo, which would not go away, and my num/caps lock blinking. I did some quick research(i was at school) and pulled the battery for a few seconds, i was able to boot. But then there was a new problem...

I used it on the bus as normal, but when i plugged in to get more juice, the charge light did not appear in windows or linux, or on the laptop itself. I fooled with the charger, i changed outlets. i proclaimed it broken, and decided to take it in  to a repair shop the next day. I booted back up with the remaining 60% i had and removed hibernate, and cleared my browser history. I then did what HP calls a hard reset which is where you hold the power button on the laptop for about 45 seconds with no powersource whatsoever connected. Nothing could coax it to charge, so i left it plugged in,reset the bios in a futile attempt to see if it would work, and then i left it running a system diagnostic in the bios until it died..

The next morning... i saw the light still wasnt on..(ffs) so i took it with me as i was driven to school, i was told soon after that the repair guy had plugged it in and the light went right on, no problem, my mom took it home and plugged it in and let it charge all day(which it did) and now its like nothing ever happened, it detects the charger, if only after a few seconds..

i think it was because the hibernate file was still remembered UNTIL all power was completely killed, still doesnt explain why hibernate prevents the charger...


HAS THIS HAPPENED TO ANYONE??? Did linux do something to it?? What even..?

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-09-11
> dualboot: Win7 32bit / BackTrack 5 R3 64bit

Moved to Other OS/Distro Talk.

---

### Post by prshah on 2012-09-12
> **0xicl33n said:**
> i know that ubuntu has had problems with hibernating, 
..
i was greeted to an HP logo, which would not go away, and my num/caps lock blinking. 
..
the charge light did not appear in windows or linux, or on the laptop itself. 
..
 guy had plugged it in and the light went right on, no problem, 
..
HAS THIS HAPPENED TO ANYONE??? Did linux do something to it?? 

There are no problems with hibernate in Ubuntu. It works fine, out of the box, on laptops and desktops, provided ACPI support is implemented CORRECTLY by the motherboard in question. Problems with hibernate are usually in the category of swap problems (no swap, incorrect UUID, insufficient swap, etc).

num+caps lock blinking indicates a "Kernel Panic", ie, the kernel itself has crashed while loading. This can happen due to a variety of reasons, and usually is not reproducible, unless there is a component failure/incompatibility.

If the charge light does not appear in Windows / Linux, then try plugging the charger into the laptop while in the BIOS. The charging indicator should light up. If it doesn't, then it's a hardware fault, and it's probably pure co-incidence that it has shown up after you hibernated your machine. For example, a bad capacitor will often show symptoms as described by you (intermittent working, ultimately total failure).

To the best of my knowledge, there is nothing in Linux that can trigger such an hardware failure. I would suggest you send it in for a checkup if it is under warranty.

---

