---
title: "no /etc in in Debian/Mint?"
date: 2013-03-17
forum: Any Other OS
---

### Post by Aphexlog on 2013-03-17
I need to find my sshd_config path but it would typicaly be in the etc directory but i have mint which is off of Debian/Ubuntu and im told that these distros dont have that directory... so is there an equivalent? all i need right now is my sshd_config dir. Please help, Thanx

---

### Post by MG&amp;TL on 2013-03-17
I don't know what Mint does (if it really doesn't have /etc, I'd be a little worried about how much they're patching their packages to do that), but both Debian and Ubuntu have an /etc folder. Look under '/etc' in a terminal, or press the 'file system' button in a file manager, then look for 'etc'.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-03-17
I have Mint 13 in a VM on my Windows box and for sure it has /etc

```

$ cat /etc/lsb-release 
DISTRIB_ID=LinuxMint
DISTRIB_RELEASE=13
DISTRIB_CODENAME=maya
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Linux Mint 13 Maya"

```

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2013-03-17
Moved to Other OS/Distro Talk.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-03-17
Having run debian, it has the /etc.
Having run mint it too has /etc.
The only changes to file system layout I've heard of is from red hat developers wanting to merge all the /bins, /sbins, and et al into the /usr directory.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-03-17
SSH_CONFIG(5)                                                    BSD File Formats Manual                                                    SSH_CONFIG(5)

NAME
     ssh_config &#8212; OpenSSH SSH client configuration files

SYNOPSIS
     ~/.ssh/config
     /etc/ssh/ssh_config

---

### Post by ac5jw on 2013-03-17
Hi, I used to use Mint 14.1 and abandoned it because I could not set the DNS IPs in its Network Manager GUI.  Linux Mint has a backup hidden where it comes back to life and changes the locked settings.  But I could use the desktop connection tool and set my new DNS there.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-03-17
Mint 14 runs fine for me.  Perhaps you need to edit the DNS settings as follows:

tgalati4@Mint14-Extensa ~ $ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

# OpenDNS Fallback (configured by Linux Mint in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail).
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220
tgalati4@Mint14-Extensa ~ $ cat /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail

# OpenDNS Fallback (configured by Linux Mint in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail).
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

----------------------
Just put your desired DNS settings in the tail file.  When you are out and about, you will have both the DNS servers provided by the hotspot and a fallback configuration.

I don't use the Newwork Manager GUI.  I'm sure there is a reason for this complicated resolv.conf arrangement and it is probably the use case that I have described.

---

