---
title: "11.04 ubuntu one sharing question."
date: 2011-06-27
forum: Ubuntu One (CLOSED)
---

### Post by davidoloan on 2011-06-27
Hello,

I have two computers, a laptop and a desktop running 11.04. I would like to replicate the documents between the two exactly.

Does anyone know of a guide or know how to make the contents of the folders "Documents, Music, Pictures & Videos" appear in the these same folders on both computers and always keep in sync.

At present any file in these folders on computer 1 appears in an extra "Documents, Music, Pictures & Videos" folder which is contained inside the Ubuntu One folder on computer 2. I would like it to appear in the main "Documents, Music, Pictures & Videos" folders on computer 2 which are currently empty.

If I create a document on computer 2 I would like it to appear in the same place on computer 1 and not in computer 1's Ubuntu One folder.

I am sure it is simple but I would be grateful for any help.

David

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-06-27
For you is there a issue of timing. Would you perhaps update one file on one computer and then update the same file on the other before a sync took place. If so you need to automate the syncs so that are very frequent, but I do not know a automatic way. Someone else may.

I do this, but for me I am only copying the data to my laptop when I travel every few months & then copy back when I return. Also both users are UID = 1000.

I use NFS & rsync. I install NFS on both computers as server/clients. Configure /etc/exports. I just use a script to manually mount but you could add the mount to fstab to automate it everytime.

I believe in clean installs and have my data folders from /home in a /mnt/data partition and a /mnt/shared NTFS partition. Both laptop & desktop are set up the same way so I even get confused on which is which.:)

Part of one of my new install scripts:
```
#NFS setup
fname_exp=/etc/exports
nfs1="/mnt/data 192.168.1.0/24(rw,no_root_squash,async)"
nfs2="/mnt/shared    192.168.1.0/24(rw,no_root_squash,async)"
echo $nfs1 >> $fname_exp
echo $nfs2 >> $fname_exp

```Another new install script:
```
# For NFS /etc/exports already edited
apt-get install nfs-kernel-server nfs-common portmap
#
dpkg-reconfigure portmap
exportfs -a
service portmap restart

```My manual mount script:
```
#!/bin/bash

sudo mkdir /mnt/data_DT
sudo mkdir /mnt/shared_DT
sudo mount 192.168.1.20:/mnt/data /mnt/data_DT
sudo mount 192.168.1.20:/mnt/shared /mnt/shared_DT

```and my rsync:

```
#!/bin/bash
# run Mount_NFS.sh first
rsync -aruvP /mnt/data_DT/Documents /mnt/data
rsync -aruvP /mnt/data_DT/Projects /mnt/data
rsync -aruvP /mnt/data_DT/PDF /mnt/data
rsync -aruvP /mnt/data_DT/kmymoney /mnt/data
#
rsync -aruvP /mnt/shared_DT/OfficeFiles /mnt/shared
rsync -aruvP /mnt/shared_DT/mozilla /mnt/shared
rsync -aruvP /mnt/shared_DT/Photos/All2011 /mnt/shared/Photos

```I have two versions. Every place you see DT for desktop I have another version that is LT for laptop. But the names are somewhat reversed as on the laptop I mount the DT folders and on the desktop I mount the LT folders.

HOWTO: NFS Server/Client if no windows 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249889](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249889)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SettingUpNFSHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SettingUpNFSHowTo)
[http://mostlylinux.wordpress.com/network/nfshowto/](http://mostlylinux.wordpress.com/network/nfshowto/)
Autofs mount directories on an as-needed basis.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Autofs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Autofs)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-06-27
I just reread you question. Are you actually syncing with Ubuntuone? I do not know UbuntuOne but from my understanding:

If so you can just link the folders in your UbuntuOne folder to /home

This is how I link from my data partitions into /home:

You have to remove the empty /Music in /home first and run this from /home as the default to location.
ln -s /mnt/data/Music

---

### Post by davidoloan on 2011-06-28
Hello oldfred,

Thank You; I got it to work.

I deleted Documents, Music, Pictures and Videos from the Home folder of both computers.

Then I created Documents, Music, Pictures and Videos in the Ubuntu One folder in both computers.

Then I dragged Documents, Music, Pictures and Videos from the Ubuntu One folder into the navigation menu bar on the left hand side. So the path for Documents in the navigation bar is "home/username/UbuntuOne/Documents".

Now as soon as I create a document on either computer it appears within 5 seconds on the other in exactly the same place. Amazing!

This is going to mean no more lugging a laptop on an aeroplane twice a week for someone in my family. A computer at the far away office can also be set up this way.

Timing doesn't seem to be an issue but I will test it for problems like leaving for a meeting with a document amended from an earlier version which is missing earlier changes from amendments made on another computer. However it doesn't look like it will be a problem. I think to have any chance of wrongfooting the system you would have to be working on the same document on two computers at the same time.

Thanks Again, David

---

### Post by davidoloan on 2011-06-28
One problem I have noticed is that after restarting one of the computers it re-created "Documents" and "Music" and put them back in the navigation bar. These are not Ubuntu One folders and will lead to files being wrongly saved there and then not being synced to the other computer.

There were two documents and two music folder in the Navigation bar.

Anybody know how to prevent this?

EDIT : I merged the re-created "Documents" and "Music" folders into the Ubuntu One Folder and it seems to have solved the problem. What I should have done at the beginning was drag the folders into the Ubuntu One folder without deleting them from their original place and creating new ones with the same names in the Ubuntu One folder.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-06-28
You cannot have two identical folders. 

Was on Music and the other music? It will create the defaults if not there and sees music not as Music, so it will create Music. Case sensitivity is important.

---

### Post by davidoloan on 2011-06-28
Yes, after I deleted them and created them manually in the Ubuntu One folder it created them again. (the identically named files were in different folders; home and ubuntu one)

At this stage I already had files in the folders with exactly the same names within Ubuntu One.

Therefore I merged the originals with the same name files in the Ubuntu One folder. That worked 100%.

The correct way (from the start) is just to drag the original folders into the Ubuntu One folder.

---

