---
title: ".u1conflict"
date: 2009-09-18
forum: Ubuntu One (CLOSED)
---

### Post by RealG187 on 2009-09-18
Lots of my files have ".u1conflict" added to the end of their filename, why is this happening?

---

### Post by Findarato on 2009-09-19
Same here... It should normally mean that you have two computers and the file has been modified on both. Ubuntu One doesn't know which one it should use.
The problem however, is that it doesn't seem to work well at all. It adds .u1conflict to almost all my files, but I only synchronize from 1 computer (the second one is passif for the moment).

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2009-09-20
I am using Ubuntu One on only one computer, I was using if before I reinstalled so there might be a different UUID or something, but that should be resolved by now...

---

### Post by keithclark on 2009-09-23
> **Findarato said:**
> Same here... It should normally mean that you have two computers and the file has been modified on both. Ubuntu One doesn't know which one it should use.
The problem however, is that it doesn't seem to work well at all. It adds .u1conflict to almost all my files, but I only synchronize from 1 computer (the second one is passif for the moment).

I also have the same issue and it has made Ubuntu One basially useless now.  It seems very random when I have access to various files created and edited on various machines.  Making this service useless really.

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2009-09-23
I'll try renamig the file back and hope it doesn't keep adding it over and over again...

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-09-23
ubuntu one has this posted on there site about [u1conflict's]("https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntuone-client/+faq/677")

---

### Post by cbtengr on 2009-09-24
> **andrea000 said:**
> ubuntu one has this posted on there site about [u1conflict's]("https://answers.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntuone-client/+faq/677")

Thanks, but the answer at the link is confusing and doesn't address the cause.

---

### Post by joshuahoover on 2009-09-25
> **keithclark said:**
> I also have the same issue and it has made Ubuntu One basially useless now.  It seems very random when I have access to various files created and edited on various machines.  Making this service useless really.

Hi Keith and all those reporting here that they're having problems with Ubuntu One creating .u1conflict files. If you haven't already, please file a bug. You can do this by right-clicking on the Ubuntu One applet and selecting "Report a problem". We want to make this service work properly and appreciate all your patience and helping us to troubleshoot issues like these.

Thanks,

Joshua

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2009-09-25
> **joshuahoover said:**
> Hi Keith and all those reporting here that they're having problems with Ubuntu One creating .u1conflict files. If you haven't already, please file a bug. You can do this by right-clicking on the Ubuntu One applet and selecting "Report a problem". We want to make this service work properly and appreciate all your patience and helping us to troubleshoot issues like these.

Thanks,

JoshuaAre you part of the Ubuntu One programming team or something?

So if someone else files a bug should I still file my own even though they already did?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntuone-client/+bug/437019](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntuone-client/+bug/437019)

---

### Post by Extol11 on 2009-09-26
My whole folder has .u1conflict I had been using Ubuntuone for a long time, then my cable modem got fried by a thunder, when I got the new modem from my isp ubuntuone didn't want to sync. It did, however, update the ubuntuone client. I restarted and the ubuntuone app wasn't inside the internet applications. I reinstalled it and it didn't want to work. When I ran it on console it crashed, created a report and gave me a lot of error messages.

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2009-09-28
> **Extol11 said:**
> My whole folder has .u1conflict I had been using Ubuntuone for a long time, then my cable modem got fried by a thunder, when I got the new modem from my isp ubuntuone didn't want to sync. It did, however, update the ubuntuone client. I restarted and the ubuntuone app wasn't inside the internet applications. I reinstalled it and it didn't want to work. When I ran it on console it crashed, created a report and gave me a lot of error messages.I don't think that has anything to do with the .u1conflict error since that was happening before the lightning hit...

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2009-10-13
Is there a command I can type in the terminal to remove ".u1conflict" from my filenames? Like a bulk rename?

Would "mv -r *.u1conflict *" work?

---

### Post by mnoyes on 2009-10-16
All was well then, two days ago, first u1conflict appeared on a file, files stopped syncing, now files and folders have u1conflict. Have stopped using ubuntu one for the time being -- gone back to carrying files on usb stick. Reported bug. 

:(Anyone know if this will be resolved in Ubuntu 9.1?

---

### Post by TwistedNsanity on 2009-10-25
To resolve all of my conflicts I simply had to remove all colons ":" from my file names.

---

