---
title: "7.1 on xps m1330"
date: 2007-12-11
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by PookiePrancer on 2007-12-11
Hello everyone!  I'm new to this forum, though I've been searching it extensively over the last week looking for answers on installing Ubuntu 7.1 on an XPS M1330.  I apologize in advance for the long post, but I want to provide as much info as possible.

Most of what I've read seems way more technical than I think an installation should be.  I don't know if that's because of the specific needs of individuals who have posted their experiences (primary OS preference, HDD partitioning, etc), or if it's because Ubuntu installation is just necessarily difficult.  So I'm hoping someone can help me with what I want to do:

I have an XPS M1330 with Vista Home Premium, 200GB HDD, and Dell MediaDirect 3.3.  My HDD is partitioned as follows:

78MB ?
2.5GB for MediaDirect
10GB for Dell Recovery (D: )
174GB for Vista HP (C: )

I want to keep my 1330 exactly as is, except for wiping out the D:/Recovery partition and putting Ubuntu 7.1 on it.  Essentially, I want to keep Vista HP as my primary OS, keep the MediaDirect function, and have Ubuntu to play around with.

I've gotten as far into the Ubuntu installation as the manual selection of the partition to install to, but have never bitten the bullet and continued for fear of screwing up my system.  It seems that I should be able to simply select that D:/Recovery partition and reformat it for the Ubuntu installation (leaving the other partitions alone), and then I'll have exactly what I'm looking for.

Am I on the right track?

I've been using the Live CD, and except for the few glitches documented on these forums, it works very well.

---

### Post by PookiePrancer on 2007-12-13
Yikes!  No one?

Did I maybe post this in the wrong section of these forums?

---

### Post by zekopeko on 2007-12-13
do you have the vista install CD? if not i wouldn't delete that recovery partition.
why don't you defragment C: and then resize the partition. vista has that built in if i remember correctly. give ubuntu 10GB and enjoy.

---

### Post by cszikszoy on 2007-12-13
If you install ubuntu, it will "break" the media direct partition.  The partition won't actually be affected, but because GRUB will be installed, you won't be able to get to it anymore.  I have 7.10 on my xps m1210, and I couldn't get to media direct anymore after I installed ubuntu.

This isn't to say that it's impossible.  I've read guides on how to reinstall dell's boot loader so that you can access MD again, but I never really cared for MD anyways, so I just deleted it.  It's 3 gigs of wasted space in my opinion.  Ubuntu boots almost as fast as MD anyways, and I can play movies/music + more in ubuntu, so what's the use?

But in short: If you want to install 7.10 boot up with the iso, then when the temp OS loads, open a terminal, and type "sudo gparted".

This will load up gPartEd and will allow you to resize the windows drive.

Allow as much space as you need for ubuntu, (10 gigs is more than enough), and start the installation process after that finishes.

---

### Post by PookiePrancer on 2007-12-14
Ok, thanks!  I take it from your reply, though, that Ubuntu should pretty much be installed on my C (OS) partition and not D (Recovery)?

---

### Post by cszikszoy on 2007-12-14
Yes, When you boot up the install cd, and load gPartEd,

You'll see how the hard drives are broken up and partitioned.  The D: drive (recovery partition) isn't another physical drive, just a different partition on your main HD.  When you load up gparted, you'll see one big partition, that's labled with the ntfs filesystem.  This is your windows "C" drive.  Resize this to create the empty space.  After that, just load up the installer and when it gets to the partitioning part, tell it to install in the largest continuous unpartitioned space (It will be an option in the partitioner's menu).

---

### Post by PookiePrancer on 2007-12-14
Great.  Thanks for your time!  I can see why the other installation write-ups are so technical, since I guess most folks are getting rid of MediaDirect and their Recovery partitions.

So just to be sure I understand, once I break up the Windows partition to make room for Ubuntu, I'll lose MediaDirect, right?  If that's the case, I may just follow one of those more-technical guides, wipe the hard drive, and start over with just a fresh install of Vista and Ubuntu; no Recovery, no MediaDirect.

---

### Post by taylmeistr on 2008-01-13
PookiePrancer - I'm curious to know how this worked out for you - I am installing Gutsy (7.10) onto an XPS1330 as I write this - I resized my SDA3 (which is Windows "c:") and cut out 3071MB (30 Gigs) for Ubuntu. I formated 2GB of that 30GB as a Linux Swap partition and the remaining 27 Gigs Ext3 for the Ubuntu system. As I understand it, Mediadirect should work just fine with the bootloader installed by Ubuntu...... I'll let you know as soon as I reboot the fresh Ubuntu install.... - CT!

----- So yeah - I'm back after rebooting and all is well - Mediadirect is just fine and shows up in the bootloader as "Windows XP embedded" - Vista works just fine (I'm writing from the Vista side right now) - My Ubuntu install works flawlessly (so far). I've only used it long enough to grab all of the latest updates and change my desktop background but "so good so far".

I agree that it would be nice to use the Dell "Recovery Partition" space for something useful - for me it's too small for my Ubuntu install as I will likely use Linux more than I will Vista.

/CT!

---

### Post by darxoul on 2008-02-04
hi, i bought a new xps1330 and want to install ubuntu on it. but here is the problem: when I use Gparted (I have it in its own live CD by the way) it refuses to create another partition erring: "It is not possible to create more than 4 primary partitions". I don't think I touched the partitions (it has the windows, mediadirect, recovery and one more that I don't know -118MB EISA Configuration). I do not want to use the Vista's Disk Management utility since it doesn't allow shrinking more than the half (at least in my case) which doesn't help much. Any ideas about installing Ubuntu in this case? I want to give 40GB to Vista and install Ubuntu to the rest of the system.

---

