---
title: "530n"
date: 2007-12-22
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by brandon333 on 2007-12-22
Considering buying this Dell from their website it's the 530n tower but first want to be sure there are no issues and everything will work fine in ubuntu including advanced graphics (compiz), and the firwire will actually work unlike my mac mini,here are specs:

Intel®Pentium® dual-core processor E2160 (1MB L2,1.80GHz,800 FSB)...

	     Ubuntu Linux version 7.10 with DVD Playback

             1gb Dual Channel DDR2 SDRAMN at 667MHZ-2DIMMS

	      320GB Serial ATA Hard Drive (7200RPM) w/DataBurst Cache

             16x DVD+/-RW Drive

             Integrated 7.1 Channel Audio

             128MB NVIDIA GeForce 8300GS

              IEEE 1394a Adapter

Final cost=$450+tax+shipping



OR


This one a friend of mine is selling its a dell 530 (still in box) $350


windows vista basic
Intel Core2 Duo processor E4500 (2.20GHz ,800FSB) 
1GB DDR2 SDRAM at 667MHz 
320GB Serial ATA 2 Hard Drive (7200RPM) 
16X DVD+/-RW Drive 
Integrated 7.1 Channel Audio 
Integrated Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 3100 


they seem almost the same however the above graphics card say integrated does that mean it cannot be changed or upgraded like my current mac mini, part of the board?


$100 may not be a big difference but hey it is still a $100.

---

### Post by gbrainin on 2007-12-22
The only thing about your friend's system that might be a problem is the graphics.  Integrated means it is on the motherboard, but you could disable it and install your own video card.

You can download the Dell Gutsy DVD from their website, but the version for the 530 is only for nVidia video cards.  You could try the version for the laptop which has an Intel card, but then you'd be getting extra stuff (*e.g.*, wireless card driver) that you don't have hardware for, so don't know how that'd work.

Also, the downloaded DVD does ***not*** include DVD playback capability, so if you install Gutsy yourself you will not be able to play commercial DVDs legally in the US without purchasing the software separately.

---

### Post by brandon333 on 2007-12-22
hey I am thinking to go with the one at the site, everything is installed, etc,the whole reason I am going to get rid of mini is because of the grahics being integrated, even though it has a 1.83 processor it is only 5400 so slower than the dell and its not 800 fsb like the dell, plus no dvd burner, lol.  I bought this mac mini last week for $600 but no longer plan on using mac osx so I figure I will take it back take the $60 restock fee hit, buy the dell and still have $150 in my pocket to upgrade the video or put towards a monitor.

only thing i like about this mac mini is you dont ever hear it...at all, and a great space saver, other than that a paper weight

---

### Post by rfruth on 2007-12-22
The 530N (from Dell) looks good to me but I don't own 1 (yet)  not at all sure about ieee

---

### Post by bigfox on 2007-12-22
I have the 530n but it isn't quite as beefed as the one you are looking at.

It works beautifully under Gutsy.  64 bit, dual core, sleep mode works, blazing fast.

I got 3 GB of ram in it now.  The memory for the machine is dirt cheep now.

Only problem I have is that the headphone jack on the front of the machine doesn't work.  The speaker jack works fine though.  I think it has to be switched over by the driver when headphones are plugged in, but the Linux driver doesn't do it.

---

### Post by eolson on 2007-12-22
I have a 530n also.  Installed the 32 bit version of Gutsy.  Everything works fine (including the headphone jack).   Had one memory stick go bad on me so upgraded to 2 G.  Wasn't worth the hassle of messing with the warranty, given the cost of memory.  And oh yeah,  I ordered the processor upgrade too.  Think it was an extra 20 bucks.

---

### Post by brandon333 on 2007-12-22
> **bigfox said:**
> I have the 530n but it isn't quite as beefed as the one you are looking at.

It works beautifully under Gutsy.  64 bit, dual core, sleep mode works, blazing fast.

I got 3 GB of ram in it now.  The memory for the machine is dirt cheep now.

Only problem I have is that the headphone jack on the front of the machine doesn't work.  The speaker jack works fine though.  I think it has to be switched over by the driver when headphones are plugged in, but the Linux driver doesn't do it.

does the firewire port work, how about graphics like compiz, etc, does it run loud?

---

### Post by digga on 2007-12-23
i just ordered one a few days ago. should expect it in the mail. seems like a solid system. i upgraded the chip to the 2160 and threw in another gb of ram. left the hard drive and everything else at the basic.

only thing i did do was upgrade the monitor to a 19"WS for another 20 bucks.

---

