---
title: "7.10 + Dell 1501 = horrible boot time"
date: 2007-11-29
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by wickedninjalo on 2007-11-29
I have a Dell 1501.
2 Gb of Ram.
1.9 Ghz processor.
Dual boot Gutsy Gibbon and windows vista.

So my problem is when I select Ubuntu from the OS selection screen it takes about 5-6 minutes to just get to the login screen. Is there any way to fix this without going back to 7.04?

---

### Post by Dellfan on 2007-11-30
Something is horribly broken.... I have a 1505 with very similar specs. I am not dual booting, and total boot from power on to login prompt is way faster, I would guess under a minute (definitely way faster than a similar Dell I have running XP).  I usually just suspend and from the resume trigger to screen unlock prompt is 5ish seconds.

Does it appear to hang at any particular point in the boot process? One issue is that if you have a bunch of network interfaces  defined it will hang mid-boot trying to get reconnected. The first suggestion I would make is to turn off quick boot so that you can see what is happening during the boot process. Would also take a look at your logs, especially dmesg to see if you are getting errors during boot.

Last, totally wild guess, you are shutting down rather than just hard powering off right? If you don't shutdown cleanly you may trigger a disk repair during boot.

---

### Post by mrscript on 2007-11-30
i must agree with you. i also habe dell inspiron 1501 (spec in signature), and the boot time takes 
~3mins, and i don't see the boot screen only black window...

---

### Post by wickedninjalo on 2007-11-30
yea while its booting up theres only a black screen. and when i turn it off I shut it down the right way. Ive even tried reinstalling the system and that dosent even work.

---

### Post by wickedninjalo on 2007-11-30
ooh and by the way, when I select ubuntu, something flashes across the screen and i took a picture of it, and it says.
Starting up ...
[ 24.776488] MP-BIOS bug: 8254 Timer not connected to IO-APIC
[ 24.937545] PCI:BIOS BUG #81[49435000] Found
[ 24.959150] PCI:Cannot allocate resource region 7 of bridge 0000 :00 :05.0
[ 24.959190] PCI:Cannot allocate resource region 8 of bridge 0000 :00 :05.0

---

### Post by wickedninjalo on 2007-11-30
another by the way, I'm really new to Ubuntu. I dont know how to check logs, or how to turn off quick boot.

---

### Post by wickedninjalo on 2007-11-30
I found a solution to this on another page.

Originally written by: Orange2k


I found a solution that worked for me on kubuntuforums:

(before I did what follows, I used StartupManager to set the boot-splash resolution to 1024x768 16-bit)

edit /etc/initramfs-tools/modules
add the following

vga16fb
fbcon
vesafb

edit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffer
comment out the following (prefix with #)

blacklist vesafb
blacklist vga16fb

last but not least, run the following in a terminal

sudo update-initramfs -u

---

### Post by peco on 2008-01-06
this link should help you:

[http://www.ubuntu1501.com/2007/11/fix-for-gutst-taking-forever-to.html](http://www.ubuntu1501.com/2007/11/fix-for-gutst-taking-forever-to.html)

bye

---

