---
title: "8.04 loves Dell Vostro?"
date: 2008-03-25
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by captevo on 2008-03-25
Will 8.04 fully support Vostro (1400) ?
I'm currently running 7.10 but still have a lot of issues: ndwappers (yikes), hibernate/stanby, front headphone jack, mic...

---

### Post by StefAndrew on 2008-03-25
I've been having trouble with 8.04 on  my Vostro 1500.  It doesn't like my wireless and then when I tried to plug into my router with LAN cable it wouldn't find a connection either.  So not sure what's up with that.  I wonder if it's still the stupid IPv6 issues from 7.10?

---

### Post by apfejes on 2008-03-30
> **StefAndrew said:**
> I've been having trouble with 8.04 on  my Vostro 1500.  It doesn't like my wireless and then when I tried to plug into my router with LAN cable it wouldn't find a connection either.  So not sure what's up with that.  I wonder if it's still the stupid IPv6 issues from 7.10?

I've got 8.04 working beautifully with my Vostro 1000.  I had to uninstall xserver-xgl and enable "Composites" in the xorg.conf to get compiz working, and wireless is very easy, if you rollow the instructions and don't try to use ndiswrapper. (The B43 driver works better than the ndiswrapper version.)

[I made some comments about in on this page]("http://www.fejes.ca/2008/03/hardy-heron-ubuntu-804-beta.html")

---

### Post by ReddogOne on 2008-03-31
Seems to like my 1400. Found a couple of threads to get camera and wireless (dell cheapo card) working.

Can't get mic working! But haven't tried as wireless was much higher priority.

---

### Post by muadnu on 2008-03-31
Hardy 64 bit works almost flawlessly in my Vostro 1400. I didn't have trouble with my wireless since I have the Intel card. I upgraded from Gutsy and everything kept working as before.

I had the webcam working in Gutsy, but not the internal mic. Now I have the mic working, finally. I didn't do much, actually. I had some changes made to the audio settings from my Gutsy installation, but I think they were reset when I upgraded. In any case, to test it, be sure to open gnome-volume-control, go to preferences and click on the checkbox next to Digital, and set the volume of Digital on the Recording tab to max. Then on the Options tab set the digital input source to Digital Mic 1. This did the trick for me. As for an external mic, I haven't tested it (though I won't really need it).

---

### Post by Etrigan on 2008-03-31
i tested the 8.04 in my vostro 1400 and the mic and camera still dont work. i had a problem with sound but i read than alpha 6 solve this problem. The importan: my graphic integrate intel 965 work very well. 
the bad: the time to load operative system on start, is so much. 
I reinstalled 7.10 .. i wait for the stable version. 

Sorry my english ... !
From argentina

---

### Post by WeeWoh on 2008-03-31
I cant even get it installed on my vostro 1000. Stupid dell primary partitions. Any help?

---

### Post by apfejes on 2008-04-17
What's the problem WeeWoh?  I've had 8.04 running on my Vostro 1000 for a few weeks now, without serious issue.

---

### Post by captevo on 2008-04-17
> **WeeWoh said:**
> I cant even get it installed on my vostro 1000. Stupid dell primary partitions. Any help?

Try this:
dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sda
then resintall

---

### Post by captevo on 2008-04-17
> **muadnu said:**
> Hardy 64 bit works almost flawlessly in my Vostro 1400. I didn't have trouble with my wireless since I have the Intel card. I upgraded from Gutsy and everything kept working as before.

I had the webcam working in Gutsy, but not the internal mic. Now I have the mic working, finally. I didn't do much, actually. I had some changes made to the audio settings from my Gutsy installation, but I think they were reset when I upgraded. In any case, to test it, be sure to open gnome-volume-control, go to preferences and click on the checkbox next to Digital, and set the volume of Digital on the Recording tab to max. Then on the Options tab set the digital input source to Digital Mic 1. This did the trick for me. As for an external mic, I haven't tested it (though I won't really need it).

That's great to hear.
But, i'm not sure if I'm ready to go 64bit because the lack of support.
But if all works then why not, right?  I'm ginna wait for stable though since I use my laptop alot, can't afford downtime right now.

---

### Post by StefAndrew on 2008-04-18
I still seem to have sporadic function of my wireless.  Last night when I tried to connect to my home router, it wouldn't find it for some reason.  Even though I've used it already before.

I tried out 64-bit and it didn't find any drivers for my geforce 8600M GT.  So I switched back to normal.  I would love to really give 64-bit a try to see if I can tell the difference.

---

### Post by SOULRiDER on 2008-04-20
I have a Dell Vostro 1500. Everything worked out of the box!

3D Effects... Check
Wireless... Check
Bluetooth... Check
Sound.... Check
Multimedia Buttons... Check
Hibernation... Check

I didnt need to configure anything at all!!

I still havnt tested my webcam, does anyone know what I cna tets it woth?

---

### Post by toorima on 2008-04-20
You can test it with ekiga that comes default with hardy or install cheese and try it. 
Really happy with how well hardy works on the vostro 1500 but do you get a white screen when you resume from hibernate/suspend? I do, I just type in my password and it goes away so it works but not very pretty.

---

### Post by GoliathWest on 2008-04-20
I installed beta 8.04 for 64-bit onto a Vostro 1400 a few days ago. I used the guided installation and wiped off Vista to give lots of room for Linux and my data files. Worked well for this noobie until I needed to turn off the machine.

Major issues:
 1- the hibernate did not work. I notice from other forums that this is an issue with lots of laptops.
2- the NVIDIA graphics driver did not work initially then worked after fiddling around awhile. (don't have good notes on this-sorry).
3- reboot after 1st install gave me Grub error 17. I cannot get past the boot loader.
4- On booting with a liveCD, I ran fdisk and found out that I lack a root partition- where is the Linux kernel that was installed by the software?!!!

Anyone help with the grub error 17 or the root partition issue would be great.

---

### Post by toorima on 2008-04-20
1. What errors do you get with hibernate? does it resume at all?
2. nvidia drivers are normally installed by system - admin - hardware drivers
3. grub error 17 on dell laptops normally comes from pressing the dell media direct button, solved by pressing it again.
4. most likely based on the error above

---

### Post by Loranga on 2008-04-20
No sound on my Vostro 1700

---

### Post by TheKnudson on 2008-04-21
I tried alpha 6 (64bit version) booted the live cd, pretty much anything worked nicely. My screen resolution was not propperly detected, so it blinked like crazy. Nothing the right drivers wil fix!!

Realy looking forward to the final release!! All this on a Vostro 1000 with the ATI Radeon Xpress 1150

---

### Post by otakgod on 2008-04-26
Same proble here with vostro 1000, but the problem must be in another part because if you plug a secundary screen the image work smoothly.

---

### Post by pingnak on 2008-04-26
When I installed the 64 bit version fresh, the sound worked just fine.

When I upgraded the 32 bit version with the backport module fix for the sound, I get no sound.  So far I have removed the backport module and rebooted... no luck yet.

---

### Post by pingnak on 2008-04-26
After reading this...
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24/+bug/211644](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.24/+bug/211644)

I went into Synaptic Package Manager and installed 'linux-rt', then booted the rt kernel.

Sound started working right away.

---

### Post by x_O on 2008-04-27
I've notice strange issue with my Audio Card in my Vostro 1500

lspci tells: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family)

Sound card works fine when I'm using only one program with sound usage(like Rhythmbox), when I want to run Skype, browser sounds(YouTube,..), etc ... doesn't works. To run it, almost always I have to do restart. 

Any ideas? 
Thanks

---

### Post by ACGarib on 2008-04-27
x_O:

Try changing everything to pulse audio in system, preferences, sound.

It worked for me.

-----

I also can't get my wireless to work. I can connect to my network and get about 93 percent signal strength, but my wifi light on my vostro 1500 isn't lighting up like it used to on gusty and I can't load any web pages.

Wired works though.

Also I have an intel 3945 card so it should work but for some reason doesn't.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by x_O on 2008-04-29
Thanks ACGarib I've try to install Pulse after your words. Every thing works fine but not Skype and FF(there is some fix for ff). 

I've started to lose my patience but I've done one more thing. 
Remove pulseaudio config and ...

```

sudo apt-get install module-assistant
sudo m-a update
sudo m-a prepare
sudo m-a a-i alsa
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-hardy-generic
```  

Totally solved my problems with sound in my Vostro 1500 with Intel 82801H. 

x_O

---

### Post by 85fb on 2008-04-29
My wireless doesnt work. everything else works just fine. Any suggestions? im not really sure where to start.

---

### Post by tempest on 2008-04-29
Hardy loves my Vostro 1500. Everything works great. The key is to use the Nvidia graphics and Intel wireless.

---

### Post by x_O on 2008-04-30
Yo **85fb** for your wireless try

download
[http://blakecmartin.googlepages.com/bcm43xx-0.3.2-internet.tar.gz]("http://blakecmartin.googlepages.com/bcm43xx-0.3.2-internet.tar.gz")
```
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude upgrade
```

extract, run it by setup.py or install.py

x_O

---

### Post by Loranga on 2008-05-06
> **Loranga said:**
> No sound on my Vostro 1700

Works after I made a fresh reinstall, seems as my Vostro 1700 loves Hardy much more than Gutsy

---

### Post by Marzhall on 2008-05-06
Anyone else having trouble with the Nvidia drivers? I installed the "new" drivers from "Hardware Drivers", tried a few different fixes for the older versions of ubuntu, and various playing around with my xorg.conf, however the advanced drivers just seem to be flipping me the bird with that old white-screen with the gray bar in the middle junk. Having survived through an ATI experience with my previous computer, and having the new drivers running on my 7.10 instillation, I'm hoping I can get this running with the help of a few of you guys.
Here's my xorg.conf (I'm ed, if you get confused)
_____________________________________________________________
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
#added by ed

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"	"CoreKeyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nv"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"	"True"
	Option		"RenderAccel"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	#these three added for new driver by Ed
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"nvidia-auto-select"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection
___________________________________________________________

Thanks,
   marzhall

---

### Post by 85fb on 2008-05-07
thanks x_0 but it just added 802.1x protected wired network. i did everything right. fiddlemerumsticks.

---

### Post by Loranga on 2008-05-07
> **Marzhall said:**
> Anyone else having trouble with the Nvidia drivers? I installed the "new" drivers from "Hardware Drivers", tried a few different fixes for the older versions of ubuntu, and various playing around with my xorg.conf, however the advanced drivers just seem to be flipping me the bird with that old white-screen with the gray bar in the middle junk. Having survived through an ATI experience with my previous computer, and having the new drivers running on my 7.10 instillation, I'm hoping I can get this running with the help of a few of you guys.
Here's my xorg.conf (I'm ed, if you get confused)
____________________________________________________
Thanks,
   marzhall

Well, if it can help you, here is my xorg.conf
I have a Vostro 1700 with GeForce 8600M GT 256MB and 1920x1200 screen. I just chose to use the proprietary drivers, and everything worked.

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "se"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"      "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
        Option          "SHMConfig"             "on"
        Option          "MinSpeed"              "0.60"
        Option          "MaxSpeed"              "1.10"
        Option          "AccelFactor"           "0.030"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
        Inputdevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection

```

//Mats

---

### Post by Marzhall on 2008-05-07
> **Loranga said:**
> Well, if it can help you, here is my xorg.conf
I have a Vostro 1700 with GeForce 8600M GT 256MB and 1920x1200 screen. I just chose to use the proprietary drivers, and everything worked.

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "se"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"      "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
        Option          "SHMConfig"             "on"
        Option          "MinSpeed"              "0.60"
        Option          "MaxSpeed"              "1.10"
        Option          "AccelFactor"           "0.030"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
        Inputdevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection

```

//Mats

Hmm... I tried taking out the extra segments I added, and then tried doing a straight copy of your xorg.conf into mine, however neither option worked. Thanks, for the conf, though, I'll keep plugging away, and post my results if I hit a good streak.

---

### Post by jmr1948 on 2008-05-09
I thought I should return the help this thread gave me by recounting my own very positive experience with installing Ubuntu 8.04 on my brand new Vostro 1400.

The only customization of the default 1400 I made was to order the Intel wireless card, as others had said that would make wireless installation easier.  I stayed with the default Intel video.  BTW, I ordered my 1400 with Windows XP for dual boot.

First I ran Ubuntu from the CD and confirmed that video, wireless and sound worked perfectly.  After configuring XP, I defragged the hard drive and started the 8.04 install CD.  My last experience was with 7.10 on a Toshiba laptop, and things have improved a lot.  Setting up the partitions had definitely gotten easier.  After the installation, everything worked fine: sound (including earphone jack), video and wireless.  The biggest problem I encountered was figuring out that Firefox 3 no longer uses bookmarks.html so importing my bookmarks was a little more complicated.  The multiverse software source bank sure has made codec installation a lot easier.

I also installed Ext2 IFS on the Windows side so I could see the linux partition.  It makes it really easy to move software back and forth.  Needed to move over my widescreen wallpapers; I'm not crazy about that heron!

I decided to keep my installation simple this time.  The only software I've added so far is VLC Media Player and Nero Linux (since I already had a copy).  

As for the 1400, it seems like a great machine for the price (about 600 with the Intel wireless card) except for a somewhat unresponsive touchpad.  But Ubuntu works very well on it, at least for me.

---

### Post by manij on 2008-05-30
Help! I bought a dell vostro 1000

athlon 64X2 tk 57 chip
ATI Radeon® Xpress 1150 256MB HyperMemory™ (integrated)
broadcom 4310 rev 1 wireless card.

I was able to install feisty 64 and get every thing working no problem including wireless.

However, hardy live cd would not boot to a gui. when I try to run the live cd mode, it goes thro couple of boot scipts and just hangs. when I try install, I get CLI instead of GUI. Any help from  is greatly appreciated.

Mani

---

