---
title: "1152 x 864 resolution s/b 1440 x 900"
date: 2007-10-07
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by peterthebike on 2007-10-07
I have just purchased an Inspiron 530n with Ubuntu 7.04 pre-installed. It came with the SE198WFP flat panel monitor. The instructions say the monitor should be set to 1440 x 900 resolution.

As I did not have this resolution on the drop-down list, I used Automatix to update the nVidia drivers.

Now I can use 1152 x 864 resolution, but not any higher. 

Is possible to get a higher resolution?

---

### Post by prinknash on 2007-10-07
Peter,

I too have a 530N, with a SE198WFP monitor.  Do you have the GeForce 8300GS?

With that setup, I'm using 1440 x 900 quite happily. I couldn't get it to start with but used Envy to set things up and have been fine since then. I'm using the 100.14.19 driver.

I'm not familiar with Automatix, beyond having read not very good reports of it on here. Looks like you need to reverse whatever you did with Automatix and use Envy (Google Nvidia and Envy to find it.) I'm sure others will be able to tell you how to do that.

Best of luck.

p

---

### Post by pbcartwright on 2007-10-07
I also used envy yesterday when my NVIDIA card wouldn't work right after an update. check out envy here:
[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by peterthebike on 2007-10-07
I think I could probably have set the resolution to 1440 x 900 after I had tried to update the driver. I had not seen the Nvidia Settings in the Applications>System Tools! :cry:

Thanks for your help though.

---

### Post by puzzledinmn on 2008-01-15
Display: Dell SE198WFP
Graphics: NVidia 8400GS- originally integrated Intel G33
System: Dell Inspiron 530 

Are you able to run at 60Hz.?  I am using the default nv driver at 1440x900@75Hz. but my GNOME icons are slightly off the top edge of the screen.  I chose the Dell 207WFP as the display type.  For some reason when I tried the Nvidia restricted driver I would keep reverting back to 1024x768.  I changed settings so much that the kdm session manager screen was corrupted when I would log off.  I wasn't able to play around with KDE since the icons were off the left of my screen.

The best I was able to get with the Intel graphics was 1024x768@75Hz.  I couldn't even see the install icon with the install CD until I changed resolution.

---

### Post by prinknash on 2008-01-16
Yes, 1440 x 900 @60Hz. Since my earlier message I've moved up to Ubuntu 7.10, and the difference is that now I don't need Envy any more but have the 'restricted driver' ticked and running. (Still version 100.14.19.)

The 'Screens & Graphics' tool has the monitor recorded as Dell 198WFP and resolution at 1440x900 at 50Hz (sic) - although Nvidia Settings shows it as being 60Hz. The graphics card is shown as Nvidia GEForce 8 series. 

p

---

### Post by puzzledinmn on 2008-01-18
changed cable from analog VGA to digital DVI
card complete name: Leadtek Winfast PX8400 GS TDH

Using the sudo ddcprobe command I found out my display was not being detected because my cheapo graphics card either doesn't have the DDC pins connected to the VGA connector or some circuit isn't working.  That explains why the SE198WFP would go into diagnostic mode with colored bars when I turned off the PC I think.  Now that I am using the DVI cable, ddcprobe returns the monitor model and the monitor is blank when I turn off the PC.

I ran the command given near the top of xorg.conf .  System administration screens and graphics showed a Plug 'n' Play monitor with the choice of 60 or 75Hz. But the graphics was the open source nv driver.  There is no choice of a Dell 198WFP monitor in screens and graphics but DELL SE198WF is listed in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  I wonder if Dell installs that monitor driver with the 530N or perhaps you are running KDE instead of GNOME.

I next went to the restricted drivers manager and selected the nvidia 3D driver.  But now my refresh frequencies are limited to 50-57Hz.  I don't have anything called Nvidia Settings, perhaps Envy installed that.  I hope there is no limit to the number of times I can reboot this system.

---

### Post by prinknash on 2008-01-19
I'm running Gnome. At 1440x900 both 'Screen Resolution' and 'Screens & Graphics' utilities offer either 50, 51 or 56Hz - and they show that I'm running at 50Hz.

The Nvidia Settings tool I mentioned comes with the Nvidia graphics driver, so you should have it. Simply enter 'nvidia-settings' in a terminal window, and you should find a number of screens giving far more options than I think I need (or understand!) But the 'Xserver Display Configuration' screen shows resolution, with the choices of Auto, 60 or 75 - and mine shows 60. I work on the basis that the official Nvidia tool should be more accurate than the generic Ubuntu ones - but who knows? The display works fine for me, which is the main thing.

Actually, I run a small utility called "Sysinfo" (you can find it under "Add/Remove" in the System Tools section), and that contains a direct link to the Nvidia Settings tool, which saves having to use the terminal.

Hope this helps.

p

---

### Post by puzzledinmn on 2008-01-24
Thanks prinknash.  I really like Sysinfo and have decided to trust the NVidia tool like you did.  For the record when I was in KDE I was able to change the monitor to widescreen and then got 61Hz. as an option.  I found a thread that said the Dell SE198WFP was in the Fedora hardware table now, so it sounded like it should be in the next release of Ubuntu. By the way, I lived in Winchester for one year on a company assignment and thoroughly loved the experience.  I still have a Prinknash mug I bought that year.

---

### Post by prinknash on 2008-01-24
puzzledinmn,

Glad you like Sysinfo and have got the Nvidia Settings tool working.

The name 'prinknash' isn't directly connected with the place but I did visit Prinknash Abbey a few years ago and have a badge from the pottery there. No mug, though!

p

---

### Post by boyofford on 2008-01-24
> **prinknash said:**
> puzzledinmn,

Glad you like Sysinfo and have got the Nvidia Settings tool working.



cheers for Sysinfo, thought their must be a way of getting into nvidia settings!

---

