---
title: "7.10 DVD Iso download"
date: 2008-01-23
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by Antone on 2008-01-23
I have tried several downloads of the Dell Reinstallation 7.10 for my 530n desktop.  They all come as iso files in a winRAR file and none of them pass the md5sum test. 

I am using Windows XP and IE4.  Are there any tricks to the process or other sites where the image could be found or downloaded without problems?

---

### Post by drsaamah on 2008-01-23
are you saying you cant extract the files from the rar compression, or you cant even get the download to complete?

---

### Post by Antone on 2008-01-23
The download works fine and I get a file of about 212 mb which md5sum says does  not match.  I am unable to extract the iso file to run the md5sum check.

If I go ahead and burn the file as an image to the DVD and boot from it I get a terminal screen message "could not find kernel image". If I reboot leaving the DVD in the DVD drive the re-install iso (Dell Ubuntu Rein) appears on the Ubuntu screen, but not as an image, I can see all the folders.

I do not have Internet access to the computer concerned at this stage, I am using my wife's laptop.

---

### Post by bentheexo on 2008-01-23
its actually better if you use a download manager for downloading files over 150 meg. also if you want a cleaner download and burn i would suggest the main ubuntu iso because although the dell version should have the drivers it might prolly wouldnt have any thing different from the standard ubuntu install

---

### Post by jdelaros1 on 2008-01-23
The DVD ISO is more than 4.4 GB in size, so if you get a file that's about 212 MB, of course the md5sum will not match. Not sure why you're getting only 212 MB...what are you using to download? Works fine with Firefox...

---

### Post by Antone on 2008-01-24
I've got the standard install running, its the drivers I want for Bluetooth and HP1410 printer

---

### Post by Antone on 2008-01-24
I'm getting 212 mb because winRAR is zipping it up, the reinstall iso is 4.5, I was hoping to extract the iso from winrar somehow so I could do the md5sum check before burning the image to DVD

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-24
Where are you getting the ISO images from? The images at [http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.10](http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.10) are all .iso files.
 
As jdelaros1 said, 212MB really is too small - there's no way you'd squeeze 4.5GB into that unless it was full of virtually nothing. Hence, I suspect you're either not downloading the right file or it is incomplete - and for some reason (perhaps file extension) that incomplete file is being assumed to be a RAR archive.
 
Mathew

---

### Post by Antone on 2008-01-24
I downloaded from the site you mentioned, if you click on the file to be downloaded you are notified that the file will be in a winRAR file of 212 MB

---

### Post by Buffalo Soldier on 2008-01-24
Are you using Ubuntu to download this? I've downloaded ISO from that site and have never receive any window or message regarding WinRAR.

When you successfully downloaded it, you should be getting a file something like in the pic attached. The file type is **raw CD image** Mind that I downloaded the one for 1420n.

Usually to avoid problems downloading very large file, I use wget in the commandline. For example in your case it would be this:
```
wget http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/iso-images/ubuntu-dell-530n-nvidiavideo-reinstall.iso
```

And in case the download got interrupted, you can always continue using the **[COLOR="Red"]-c[/COLOR]**.

```
wget **[COLOR="Red"]-c[/COLOR]** http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/iso-images/ubuntu-dell-530n-nvidiavideo-reinstall.iso
```

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-25
Something does sound a bit odd here.

Show us the output of **ls -l** **<filename>** for the file your downloaded.

I suppose .iso images are packages of sorts so perhaps WinRAR can open them (hence the association) but it's the 212MB bit that's strange. If you're not doing all this at the command line can you show us a screenshot of what you're seeing?

Mathew.

---

### Post by Antone on 2008-01-26
No I am using windows on another computer; I have also had problems getting on line which I have just about sorted out I think

---

### Post by drsaamah on 2008-01-26
have you been able to dl the iso file alright on the windows computer?

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-26
> **Antone said:**
> No I am using windows on another computer; I have also had problems getting on line which I have just about sorted out I think

I think you really need a Windows forum - this isn't a Ubuntu issue. :)

Mathew

---

### Post by gbrainin on 2008-01-26
Have you tried telling your browser _not_ to process *.iso files using WinRAR?

---

### Post by Buffalo Soldier on 2008-01-26
> **Antone said:**
> No I am using windows on another computer; I have also had problems getting on line which I have just about sorted out I think

I think you should mention that fact a lot sooner :) What browser are you using? Hopefully not Internet Explorer. If I were using windows, what I would do is:

[list]
[*] Use FireFox and an approriate download manager plugin such as [DownThemAll]("http://www.downthemall.net/"). OR

[*] Use a [windows version of wget]("http://www.christopherlewis.com/WGet/WGetFiles.htm").
[/list]

Then use [InfraRecorder]("http://infrarecorder.sourceforge.net/") (it's FOSS) to burn the image.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2008-01-27
I downloaded the iso file from Dell using Firefox with no problem. It was about 4.5GB. It is an iso file. I used Ubunto 7.10 to brun the image with no problem.  

If you are using Ubuntu put a blank DVD into the recorder DVD slot and double click on the iso file. Ubuntu will burn the image directly to the DVD.

If you are using Windows you will have to use Roxio or Nero which can burn iso images to your DVd. You can also use Alcohol 120 which works very well also.

It sounds as if your download was interrupted or perhaps you do not have sufficient disk space.  

If bought your Dell with Linux pre-installed, Dell ships a copy of generic Ubuntu 7.10 with the machine, it should have been in your box. Use this to re-install Ubuntu, then try downloading from Dell your appropriate iso file. Burn it to a DVD. Then reinstall this new Dell version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by wickedslow on 2008-01-28
The iso link on the wiki page seems to be broken.  Has anyone had any luck downloading it today, Monday 1/28?

Dave

---

### Post by roszmoef on 2008-01-29
I confirm that when I try to download any of the ISO images on the Dell Ubuntu Wiki page, what I get are files of the size of 207 MB to 212 MB (depending upon which version of the Ubuntu 7.10 I download).  The md5 checksum of any of these files, does not match with that provided on the Dell Ubuntu Wiki page.  I do not know about zipping or unzipping these files with WINRAR though!

I am using Windows XP on my PC with the latest security patch and antivirus.

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-29
I appreciate it might be a chicken-and-egg situation but those having trouble downloading these ISO images really need to either a) use a download manager as opposed to Internet Explorer, b) use a different browser to Internet Explorer (e.g. Firefox), or c) use a different OS to Windows with a different download tools/browser.

This is a Windows/IE issue.

Mathew

---

### Post by gbrainin on 2008-01-29
Indeed.  I just checked the 530n image, and it read over 4,000 MB using Firefox under Ubuntu.

---

### Post by roszmoef on 2008-01-31
Today, I find that the Dell Ubuntu Wiki page has been reorganized and corrected.

For example, earlier the ISO image, meant for the Inspiron 1420 with nVidia graphics, was wrongly shown against what is to be downloaded for Inspiron 1420 with Intel Graphics, and vice-versa, That now stands corrected.

---

### Post by blacktri99 on 2008-01-31
Has anyone else had problems downloading the iso's from Dell sight? Whenever I try to download 1420n Intel I get "page cannot be found error"

Any help would be appriciated.

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-31
It works fine from here.

To clarify - this is the link you're having trouble with?

[http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/iso-images/ubuntu-dell-1420n-intelvideo-reinstall.iso](http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/iso-images/ubuntu-dell-1420n-intelvideo-reinstall.iso)

What OS/browser are you using? Presumably you're not having any other browsing problems (given you can get to the Dell wiki)?

Mathew

---

### Post by blacktri99 on 2008-01-31
That is correct, I have tried from both XP & Vista. and I am able to get to anyother website, so this is very strange,

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-31
Can you try a download manager? (or different browser)

Are you **sure** you're getting 'page not found'? Can you post a screenshot?

Mathew

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-31
Also try the parent directory:

[http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/iso-images/](http://linux.dell.com/files/ubuntu/iso-images/)

Do you see any files listed?

Mathew

---

### Post by blacktri99 on 2008-01-31
I am using IE 7, I do see the files, and I am able to click on them, both from the Wiki page and the parent directory, 

This is occuring on 2 different Networks, 2 different ISP and 3 machines.

Maybe it has to do with IE7?

---

### Post by MJN on 2008-01-31
As we keep saying throughout this thread - **don't use Internet Explorer**! Use a download manager, Firefox, anything - just not IE!

This doesn't explain a 'file not found' error though, which makes me wonder if that's really the error message you're getting?

Mathew

---

### Post by blacktri99 on 2008-01-31
Just an update I tried the link with Mozilla and was able to get in... Seems to be an ie7 issue.

---

