---
title: "7.10 and dell 513 power down issue"
date: 2007-11-20
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by Muahdib on 2007-11-20
so this is not a major problem but it is the only thing I can see that is not working properly. or maybe it is and Im just kinda old school

when I hit the power down or turn off machine button, everything shuts down as far as I can tell but the Ubunto splash screen remains and all the system fans are still on as well as all the led's for the power buttons on the system.. its kind of in a idle state not doing anyting. just waiting .. and waiting... next day.. still waiting. so I hit the power button to do a "final powerdown"

anyone have this problem to?

one other question.. is there a way to get rid of the ubunto splash screen that does as much good as the windows slpash screen? I would kind of like to know whats starting and working.. and on power down watch whats beeing terminated or stoped. 

thanks

Ron

---

### Post by saru411 on 2007-11-20
you are saying you hit the power button on the machine to turn it off instead of clicking the shutdown menu button? if so thats one of the worst things you can do to any computer, whether it be windoz or linux run. the power button should only be used to turn a pc on or to power down when it is locked up(this should only be done after all other options fail). maybe this is a hibernation/suspend function...but i do not use those and they are also accessable through the gui menu. powering down by hitting the button on the pc is the #1 reason my pc retarded friends need me to fix their broken rigs!

---

### Post by Muahdib on 2007-11-20
no.. i don't use the power button to turn off or log off the machine. I use the proper "shut down" method. 

what I am saying is that when I use the shut down button from within the OS, everything powers down but not all the way.. the system seems to sit in a idle state and it will sit there until I hit the actual power button. 

I hit shut down the other night before I went to bed and walked out of my office.. when I got back in the morning the system was sitting there with the ubuntu splash screen and the little progress bar below it showed that everything had been shut down or stoped but the machine was just not powered down like it should have been.

understand what I mean? maybe im not explaining it well?

---

