---
title: "Ubuntu running very slow on a fast dell m1330 machine"
date: 2007-12-25
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by Solid_Reign on 2007-12-25
Hi,
I've installed ubuntu on a dell m1330 machine with 2GB of RAM, a 64 GB SSD HD.  I created a partition with 10GB for Ubuntu and 513 MB for SWAP, however, it's running very slow, especially firefox, when I scroll it seems to be choppy and when I open a lot of windows it gets really slow.  I'm new to linux so I have no idea what to do next, or if it could be my video drivers or what.  My video card is an Nvidia GeForce  8400M GS.  The only things I've added to ubuntu is the ndiswrapper so I can use my wireless NIC.  
I have

---

### Post by overdrank on 2007-12-25
> **Solid_Reign said:**
> Hi,
I've installed ubuntu on a dell m1330 machine with 2GB of RAM, a 64 GB SSD HD.  I created a partition with 10GB for Ubuntu and 513 MB for SWAP, however, it's running very slow, especially firefox, when I scroll it seems to be choppy and when I open a lot of windows it gets really slow.  I'm new to linux so I have no idea what to do next, or if it could be my video drivers or what.  My video card is an Nvidia GeForce  8400M GS.  The only things I've added to ubuntu is the ndiswrapper so I can use my wireless NIC.  
I have

HI and welcome, it does sound like the graphics drivers. Have you tried to enable the restricted driver located under system, administration. I would also suggest Envy. 
[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

---

### Post by hardyn on 2007-12-25
suspend may be difficult if your swap does not match or exceed your physical ram.  something to point out.

---

### Post by Solid_Reign on 2007-12-25
thanks, 
I used envy but now my resolution's gone down to 640 and it won't let me use anything higher, not sure what the problem might be, the nvidia drivers are installed and when I try to modify the resolution from nvidia-settings or from ubuntu's screen resolution i can't go higher :S

the swap will only affect the suspension? it can't be the cause for the computer running slow, can it? it's only used for Virtual Memory, right?

---

### Post by Solid_Reign on 2007-12-25
hey, I fixed the problem with the video card, 
but it's still kind of choppy although I think it's better. 
the thing is, it just doesn't feel as fast as I think it should. 
Do you think it could be something else? :S
thanks

---

### Post by Zorael on 2007-12-25
Could you post the contents of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

If you're running Gnome, it will - from what I understand - start in a 'safe' mode if it can't load graphics drivers properly. I'm a Kubuntuling so I wouldn't know.

---

### Post by Solid_Reign on 2007-12-25
sure, here are the contents,
so, it is faster now, the thing is, vista's faster than this, and it shouldn't be, I think
thanks

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Dec 13 19:09:35 PST 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Horizsync	28.0	-	64.0
	Vertrefresh	43.0	-	60.0
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8400M GS]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8400M GS]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"1280x1280"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Zorael on 2007-12-25
The only thing I see in that xorg.conf that stands out is that you don't have any resolutions defined for 24 bit colors, while you have set that to be your default. I don't know if that could cause this, but you could try it out.

```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device "nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8400M GS]"
	Monitor "Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth 24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth 16
		Modes "1280x1280"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth 24
		Modes "1280x1280"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

