---
title: "Ubuntu touchpad woes"
date: 2008-01-23
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by 4wd22r on 2008-01-23
I'm having some problems with my touchpad on my dell E1505 recently installed Ubuntu 7.10 with KDE, when I boot up the tap to click is enabled even though I disabled tapping before reboot. I have to go under settings, enable tapping, click apply, then disable tapping and click apply. How do I get it to stay disabled? The tapping drives me nuts!

Also, when I drag my finger to the edge of the touchpad, the mouse doesn't stop moving, it will continue on in the direction it was moving until I pick up my finger. I assume it's got something to do with borders of the touchpad? Maybe synaptics thinking the pad is bigger than it is or something? Not sure where to go from here, any suggestions greatly appreciated.

Thanks!

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-01-23
I don't have that problem with Ubuntu Gnome.  Perhaps you need to specifically save your settings profile.

---

### Post by 4wd22r on 2008-01-23
Is there anywhere else in the settings menu to save the settings profile? It will work the way I want for the duration of my session, but as soon as I restart, we're back to square zero :(

---

### Post by 4wd22r on 2008-01-24
Found a workaround of sorts to the tap to click deal, just added "Option"  "MaxTapTime"  "0" to the xorg.conf. Works :)

However still searching for an answer about the second issue...thanks.

---

### Post by harold4 on 2008-01-25
> However still searching for an answer about the second issue...thanks.
Try adding
```
Option "CoastingSpeed"                  "0"
```

If you are in a single user environment, xorg.conf settings sould do the trick.  If you're in a multi-user environment you can look into tossing a bash script into ~/.kde/Autostart that will assign the values you want.

```
synclient -l
```

---

### Post by rosegarden78 on 2008-01-25
> **4wd22r said:**
> How do I get it to stay disabled? The tapping drives me nuts!

Also, when I drag my finger to the edge of the touchpad, the mouse doesn't stop moving, it will continue on in the direction it was moving until I pick up my finger. I assume it's got something to do with borders of the touchpad? Maybe synaptics thinking the pad is bigger than it is or something? Not sure where to go from here, any suggestions greatly appreciated.

Thanks!

My Dell laptop Inspiron 1200 responds the same but I rather enjoy the features.  You might consider leaving tap-to-click on.  It's quieter & when your mouse button fails like mine it's good to have a backup way to click.  You can probably make yours look cool like [mine]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=677959") by visiting [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=385981").

---

### Post by 565Customz on 2008-01-25
i couldnt get that code to do anything and im having the coasting problem as well.

---

### Post by rosegarden78 on 2008-01-26
I'll post the content of my /etc/X11/xorg.conf maybe it'll help:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by rosegarden78 on 2008-01-26
These three sections plus the one at the end seem to affect the Synaptic:

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "CoreKeyboard"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
Driver "synaptics"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
#InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
#InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2008-01-26
This has some useful links / info re: how to edit Touchpad settings:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3105368#post3105368](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3105368#post3105368)

This has the specific setting you are looking for:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3670031#post3670031](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=3670031#post3670031)

And if the problem is that you keep tapping when using the keyboard - try this instead:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3136787&postcount=8](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3136787&postcount=8)

If the problem is related to tapping when you meant to move mouse, you just need to change the TapTime settings.

---

### Post by harold4 on 2008-01-26
Option "SHMConfig" "on"

Otherwise a handful of options aren't going to apply.

---

