---
title: "Ubuntu and Dell Inspiron 1100 Screen size"
date: 2007-07-12
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by sk9 on 2007-07-12
I have installed Ubuntu 7.04 on a Dell Inspiron 1100 and the visible window is about half the size of the 15" screen; tried starting in VGA mode and it makes it slightly larger but not by much.  Any issues?  Any solutions?  Thanks.

---

### Post by lisje on 2007-07-12
> **sk9 said:**
> I have installed Ubuntu 7.04 on a Dell Inspiron 1100 and the visible window is about half the size of the 15" screen; tried starting in VGA mode and it makes it slightly larger but not by much.  Any issues?  Any solutions?  Thanks.

could you please provide us with the screen resolution you would like to achieve and the content of the file: /ect/X11/xorg.conf . Also it could be useful to tell us what grafics card is in your machine.

That would help us define the problem.

Thanks,

Lisje

---

### Post by Jagot on 2007-07-12
I believe that model has integrated Intel graphics, in which case you could try:

```
sudo aptitude update && sudo aptitude install 915resolution
```

Then restart X.

---

### Post by sk9 on 2007-07-12
here is the xorg.config:


# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

The screen size on the laptop is 15" diagonally but usable are for ubuntu measures 9" diagonally.  Screen resolution in the preferences only shows 640x480 and nothing else.  I have also installed 915resolution and restarted but no change!

---

### Post by coachmj on 2007-11-02
Hello, I have the same problem. I have a Dell Inspiron 1100 also. I tried following the instructions in the book "Beginning Ubuntu Linux" on how to go in to safe mode and manually change video settings. Either I haven't found the correct settings or it's not supported. 

Yes, it is an Intel 82845 G/Gl/GG/PE/Gv graphics card.

64 mB memory.

Under windows 2000 its setup as 1024x768 resolution.

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by mezcla on 2007-11-02
Hello.  There are several threads documenting the graphics problems of the inspiron 1100.  First thing you should do is ensure you are running the latest BIOS (A32).  Older versions keep you from running in any resolution beyond 640x480.  To do this, you either need to boot into Windows (I'm dual booting) or check the following website for instructions on how to update the BIOS from Ubuntu.

[http://www.geocities.com/randomnumbergenerator2001/](http://www.geocities.com/randomnumbergenerator2001/)

From there, you need to run setup, go into the BIOS and change VRAM from 1MB to 8MB.  To run setup, just hold F2 while your computer is booting up.

Finally, make sure you are using the "i810" driver.  It is the only one that I have been able to get to work on either Feisty or Gutsy on this laptop.  Good luck,

Now if someone could just tell me how to get my VGA out/dual monitors working...

---

### Post by mezcla on 2007-11-02
Also, if this helps, here is a working xorg.conf.  This is what I used once my BIOS was updated to get 1024x768.

```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
Driver "i810"
BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 28-80
VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Second Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 28-80
VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection



Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 1
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 4
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```

That was copied from another post by user sidlinux.  Hope that helps.

---

### Post by ussgeronimo on 2007-11-04
Hi 1100 users, I have been chasing this issue down for a week now.  I think I have all the pieces required to end the low resolution, slow or no boot and odd monitor flashes and crashes.  I'm a happy ubuntu user now!

1  upgrade the 1100 bios to A32

2  change the video shared mem in the bios from 1 to 8 meg

3  add the video card info found in this thread in xorg.conf

4  add the screen info found in this thread in xorg.conf

5 update aptitude and install 915resolution

I hope you have as much success as I...good luck

from tears to cheers.. Jud

---

