---
title: "Resolution at boot not set to xorg.conf"
date: 2008-03-06
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by hanoj53 on 2008-03-06
I have a problem that hopefully someone can help me with.  Dell Latitude D610 running Gutsy with the following display.  Hopefully not 2noob of a ? for you guys.

 00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 03)

At some point the display went whacko on me (attempting to use seconday display) and I used both sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg to return the display to 1400x1050.  Now no matter what I do, when the display restarts, it will only use 1024x800.  

I edited the xorg.conf to remove all modelines except the 1400x1050.  If I use System>Administration>Screen and Graphics GUI I can set the display to 1400x1050 successfully but on a restart it is back to 1024x800.

Here is my xorg.conf without the modelines but it seems to ignore it.  I know the display can go this high because I can set it with the GUI.  Any help would be appreciated.  Thanks in advance

[I]# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Boardname	"intel"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"intel"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1400x1050"
	Horizsync	31.5-65.5
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "1400x1050@60" 122.61 1400 1488 1640 1880 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1400	1050
		Modes		"1400x1050@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" #    
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"intel"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"intel"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" #    
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" #    
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection[/I]

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-03-06
Boot resolution is set elsewhere.  Resolution choices are more limited at boot because the Desktop window manager isn't running yet.  Boot options like resolution can be easily set in the "Startup-Manager" which you may need to install with Synaptic or one of the CLI package mangers.

---

### Post by hanoj53 on 2008-03-07
Hey Fragos,

Thanks for the response.  I did enable this feature but it still has the issue.  I think I should restate my problem.  It is after I login that the resolution is set to some mystery value that is not in the xorg.conf file.  I have a theory that this is somehow caused by the use of secondary screen but I cant confirm that.  Anyway if you have anymore thoughts to try that would be great.  Thanks again for the insight.

hanoj53

---

