---
title: "7.10 Live (from CD) on inspiron 8600"
date: 2007-10-28
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by BHEJU on 2007-10-28
Hi. I am new to this.. have started trying out Linux distros to run my notebooks from..I like Ubuntu. But I need to make sure my internet connection works before I install any distro.. I downloaded 7.10 and my Broadcom wireless and nic card are fine ( ubuntu recognized both cards fine) but I can not connect to any one of three wireless networks I have.. one of them has MAC protection but my MAC is already in configured to get access second is Access Point and third is wireless router (no security at all).. I can not connect to any of them either with Wire or Wireless.. Now... I do not want to install this before I know that my Internet will be working soon as I install Ubuntu..And I want to move to Ubuntu..
 Please help.
Thanks

---

### Post by bluedragon436 on 2007-10-28
There is some times a small issue with trying to connect to wireless LAN connections.  This usually can be remedied by uninstalling and re-installing the network manager after u install Ubuntu on your computer.  I was also concerned with this when I was converting over.  But that is all I had to do and after that had no issue with it.

---

### Post by CO-wahoo on 2007-10-29
the broadcom wireless card is a known issue. search the forums regarding broadcom 43xx or see the sticky note in the networking section of the forums. alternatively, in 7.10 go to system>administration>restricted drivers manager and click to enable broadcom 43xx firmare. hope this helps....

---

### Post by jpittack on 2007-10-29
Could you give the exact model of wireless that you are using?  I too have one, and used a ndiswrapper solution that worked well on a dell 1390 card.

---

### Post by BHEJU on 2007-10-29
Thanks JPittac and CoWahoo for your suggestion.. but I don't think it is driver issue.. I did plenty of home work since I have been trying different distros.. and I know that the Broadcom chipsets which Dell uses are trouble to almost all the distros. but 7.10 is working.. 
I think what BlueDragon suggets makes more sense.. Will try it soon..

Appriciate your time and suggestion..

Bheju Bawra

---

