---
title: "Upgrade To Gutsy - Now No Modem"
date: 2007-10-09
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by troy1of2 on 2007-10-09
I'm running a Dell E1505N which I bought in June with Ubuntu pre-installed. A great li'l machine all in all:

So, I decided to play around with the Gutsy Beta and everything seems to be working fine now after an initial problem with the tzdata package got resolved EXCEPT one thing. When I try to use the modem for a dial-up connection the modem is not found. I already had a copy of the .deb file from support.dell.com which I used to get the modem working initially after reinstalling Ubuntu 7.04 awhile back so I tried reinstalling it, running hsfconfig again and letting it recompile everything, rebooted and still nothing.

hsfconfig -i gives this:

Conexant HSF softmodem driver, version 7.60.00.06oem

If you need assistance or more information, please go to:
        [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hsfconfig --dumpdiag".

Note: HDA support not compiled in the driver (requires a 2.6.16 or later kernel)

Note: kernel module snd-via82xx-modem overridden by hsfmc97via
Note: kernel module snd-intel8x0m overridden by hsfmc97ich hsfmc97sis
Note: kernel module snd-atiixp-modem overridden by hsfmc97ati

Warning: no device detected by hsf driver - HDA modems may require reboot

Note: HDA support not compiled in the driver (requires a 2.6.16 or later kernel)

Note: kernel module snd-via82xx-modem overridden by hsfmc97via
Note: kernel module snd-intel8x0m overridden by hsfmc97ich hsfmc97sis
Note: kernel module snd-atiixp-modem overridden by hsfmc97ati



Any ideas? Do I need to wait til Dell releases another update or until the final release of Gutsy or is there something else I can do to get this thing going again?

---

### Post by troy1of2 on 2007-10-10
Anybody? Should I post more info?

:confused:

---

### Post by neptho on 2007-10-10
> Note: HDA support not compiled in the driver (requires a 2.6.16 or later kernel)

Goody.   Looks like they may have changed the reference again.  You may want to try to downgrade your kernel; it looks like it's not able to hook, or find the proper support.

What do you get if you do an 'lsmod | grep -i hda'?

---

### Post by troy1of2 on 2007-10-10
'lsmod | grep -i hda' Gives me this. Looks like just the sound related modules are loading?


snd_hda_intel         263712  1 
snd_pcm                80388  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm_oss
snd                    54660  12 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_seq_oss,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
snd_page_alloc         11400  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm

Anyway, I'll give downgrading the kernel a shot and see what happens as soon as I figure out how to do that. I know when I was running 6.06 the older kernel versions used to show up on my GRUB menu but I don't dual boot on this system so I haven't given much thought to trying to run on an older kernel version before.

In the meantime, is this something I should post a bug report on? If so, how and where do I go about doing that?

---

### Post by troy1of2 on 2007-10-10
Okay, I hit ESC and brought up my GRUB menu (duh, that turned out to be a no-brainer, like I said though, I hadn't given it much thought lately) and tried two previous kernel versions.

2.6.22-16-generic is what I was running with no modem support originally.
2.6.22-15-generic was worse, no sound and no modem.
2.6.22-13-generic is back to with sound but no modem again.


Still same results from hsfconfig and lsmod. Any thoughts?

---

### Post by troy1of2 on 2007-10-10
Okay, I just went in and reset the kernel back to 2.6.20-16-generic and now the modem and sound are both working fine. Don't ask me why it wasn't working before but all seems to be fine now.
:confused:

---

