---
title: "7.10- sound issues"
date: 2007-10-16
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by igggyc on 2007-10-16
Hello.

I'm running Gutsy on my Dell Inspiron notebook 1720. My sound card is a Sigmatel STAC9205.

At first, my ALSA version was 1.0.14.
The following occured:

If in the following file: "sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base", I had the line "options snd-hda-intel model=ref", I would get sound out of my laptop speakers, and no matter how hard I tried, nothing would work when I plugged things in to my headhone jack.

I then replaced "ref" with "stack3", and my headphone jack would suddenly work, except the laptop speakers would stop working completely!

So then I heard ALSA released a stable version of 1.0.15. I upgrade drivers, utils, and lib to the newest version. I looked in the new drivers file ("sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base"), and found out what I should set my model sound card to, and so I changed the line to:

options snd-hda-intel model=dell-m44
 
I rebooted, and the headphone jack responded, as well as my laptop speakers. They were both playing sound and I could not get my laptop speakers to mute when I inserted speakers into my headphone jack.

I messed around with all options and settings, I even changed the types in line: snd-hda-intel model=dell-m44

and tried out all of the following models:

dell-m43
dell-m-42
dell-laptop
ref
dell

and others which I can't even remember. On some my laptop speakers stopped playing completely, and all I got was sound from my headphone jack. I even got rid of this line completely. No difference, Sound out of both sources. 

I've now replaced it back to dell-m44 as per driver documentation.

I might add that I do not have the options for "headphone sense".

Could someone help me out.

---

### Post by chrishere01 on 2007-10-16
yeah im having the sam problem too
it doesnt recognize the volume thing
and its say gstreamer plugins not available or something

i was wonder too on what to do

---

### Post by Razzoo on 2007-10-16
Re Gutsy RC on a 1720: if you're an audiophile, and don't have a set-up that enables you to conveniently multi-boot + the time and patience to try the various options, remain with the fully updated Feisty and the alsa-driver-1.0.15rc1 or later. That combo works well enough for me, though I just play sounds -- don't record or anything.
In my experience, it doesn't matter whether or not you add a line to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base, e.g. the recommended:
> options snd-hda-intel model=dell-m44
except,  if you add:
> options snd-hda-intel model=ref
you lose headphone sound. 
With Gutsy 2.6.22 kernel, and the alsa-driver-1.0.15rc1 or later, the above still hold, with these qualifications:
(1): My Xubuntu Volume Control displays no volume sliders until I start to play an audio file.
(2): If I reboot with the headphone socket occupied, I lose the internal speakers -- otherwise, insertion of the headphone jack doesn't mute them.
With the above alsa-driver-1.0.15rc1 or later, and with Gutsy 2.6.23 kernel, (installed by following the _Sound Support_ section of)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=573330]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=573330")
something like "expected behaviour" returns, though my Xubuntu Volume Control sliders & switches still don't appear until I start to play an audio file -- and, compared to Feisty, they are different and fewer. 
Good luck!

---

### Post by Razzoo on 2007-10-17
As above: Gutsy with a 2.6.23 kernel on an Inspiron 1720.

Updating alsa-driver, alsa-lib, and alsa-utils to version 1.0.15, by following
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto")
has cleared up the remaining problems with the Xubuntu Volume Control sliders and switches -- just the PCM slider puts in a late appearance -- and then they are the same as in Feisty.
As far as I can see, there's now no difference in sound functionality between the latest Feisty and Gutsy.

Bouquets to those hardy souls, beavering away at the boundaries of knowledge, whose blood, sweat, and tears have produced such sweet, musical fruits!!!

---

### Post by dandanplan on 2007-10-17
Hello,
I have a Sigmatel STAC9205 and also tried different alsa versions but nothing worked untill yesterday.
I installed the linux-backports-modules (don't forget to restart) and now I have a full working sound (incl. headphone-jack-sense, etc.) with 7.10 Gutsy x64.
```
sudo aptitude install linux-backports-modules
```

I hope this will help also other people.
Dandanplan

---

### Post by igggyc on 2007-10-17
dandanplan, you absolute legend. Thankyou very much, my sound card now works as it is meant to. i was going to revert back to windows, the problem was annoying me so much! Thanks again.

-igggyc

---

