---
title: "(7.10): Dell e1505,ATI x1400: how to enable WSXGA+"
date: 2007-09-28
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by kanak123 on 2007-09-28
Hi everybody,

I've got a Dell e1505 laptop running Ubuntu 7.10. My graphics card is ATI x1400 and i used the restricted driver manager to get the ATI driver (the screen 'model' is currently 'Plug and Play') . At present, my resolution is limited to 1280X1024 which looks quite ugly on a wide screen monitor :(. I looked around, but couldn't find a way out. How can i change the resolution to 1680X1050?

Thanks

---

### Post by meuge on 2007-09-28
> **kanak123 said:**
> Hi everybody,

I've got a Dell e1505 laptop running Ubuntu 7.10. My graphics card is ATI x1400 and i used the restricted driver manager to get the ATI driver (the screen 'model' is currently 'Plug and Play') . At present, my resolution is limited to 1280X1024 which looks quite ugly on a wide screen monitor :(. I looked around, but couldn't find a way out. How can i change the resolution to 1680X1050?

Thanks
Go to console, type

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

... enter your password...

... scroll down to (Section "Screen")

... change the resolution for all modes to 1680x1050...

... save the file

... press Ctrl-Alt-Backspace to restart X.

---

### Post by kanak123 on 2007-09-28
Works like a charm. Thank you very much!

---

### Post by JoePits on 2007-09-29
worked for me too thanks :)

---

### Post by TheDukeNY on 2007-10-19
I tried this. I have the same computer. And it still only allows me to use 1400x1050. 

Any ideas...?

---

### Post by TheDukeNY on 2007-10-21
meuge 

Can I see a copy of your xorg.conf? I'm trying to see if something is wrong with mine that is causing me these problems.

---

### Post by morfeibg on 2007-10-21
Hello,

I have Dell E1505 with ATI X1300 and adding "1680x1050" worked for me. Here is my xorg.conf - [http://www.yourfilelink.com/get.php?fid=407813](http://www.yourfilelink.com/get.php?fid=407813)

Ventsi

---

### Post by TheDukeNY on 2007-10-21
thanks morfeibg, 

For some reason when I upgraded my xorg.conf got really messed up. It wourldn't allow me to use flgrx and I couldn't select it from the UI. The dual monitor support is also VERY beta. When I try to set up my HDTV from my VGA cable, it tries to configure my xorg.conf but only makes things much wrose.

---

