---
title: "Ubuntu 7.1 x86 and a second monitor on Dell Inspiron 6000"
date: 2007-11-18
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2007-11-18
Hi

I recently migrated from Windows XP to  Ubuntu 7.1 x86 on a Dell Inspiron 6000 and would like to hook up a second screen. In Windows, one simply changes the control panel to extend the desktop to a monitor, which is automatically recognized at start up etc. but in Ubuntu I am having more trouble. I have installed compiz and fiddled around with that, but so far to no avail. Any help would be much appreciated.
Thx,
C

---

### Post by Paul S on 2007-11-18
You don't say what video card you have.  If it's nvidia, you can use the "nvidia-settings" program to make changes, if it's ATI, you can use amdccc program.  For others, it should be possible to use the menu item for system configuration of screen and resolution.  Give one of these a try and report back if you have problems.

HTH

---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2007-11-18
Hi

Thanks, and yes, I should have mentioned the graphics card. It is
   Intel Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller.

I have already tried to change settings in Screen and Graphics. However, the first screen is my default screen and the resolution etc. is properly recognized. However, the second screen is disabled and can only be set to default - which I of course don't want - or to disabled. :-S

C

---

### Post by Paul S on 2007-11-18
I have nvidia, so can't confirm anything about your intel.  I had the impression that the screen and resolution settings tool would allow you to select both monitors or just the external or just the internal.  Are you saying you tried that and it failed?

---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2007-11-18
Hm, no, I am saying that in 'Screen and Graphics Preferences' I can only activate one screen. When  Screen1 is the 'default screen', then Screen2 is automatically 'disabled' and cannot be set to 'secondary screen', and when I go to Screen2, Screen1 automatically gets 'disabled'. I tried to set the second screen to the Dell 2001fp analog screen that I have but nothing happens. Maybe this experimental Intel 915 driver doesn't support this on Ubuntu ... I have no clue :-S

---

### Post by Paul S on 2007-11-19
I'm not sure if it will work either.  I just did "aptitude search i915" and get nothing.  So, is it not an ubuntu supplied driver?  If not, you may want to go to freedesktop.org and post on their mailing list.

HTH

---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2007-11-19
(i) It does not work. As a matter of fact, it killed all screen display so I had to reinstall the whole OS :-S

(ii) In the meantime, I saw some other postings re Intel 915GM drivers, it seems as if Ubuntu does in fact not support those. What a shame, I had hoped for a mass product such as a Dell Inspiron laptop, such issues would be unproblematic.

I played around with a Suse Live CD but it was also far from obvious how that would work. Strange that dual-screen support (with different resolutions) is something so tough in Linux ... Anyway, thx 4 ur help!

C

---

### Post by sciurus on 2007-11-19
See [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=617934") to get dual monitors working.

---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2007-11-19
Wow, this looks promising, I'll try and check that out. Thx so much!
C

---

### Post by salariua on 2007-11-30
One of the first things I learned about Linux is that it's rarely needed to have are reinstall. This word should be taken out from the Linux dictionary when talking with about the OS. I have tried the same thing with the graphics and when I have f--ed up my display resolution and couldn't go in to graphical login I used failsaife from GRUB and used "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" to reconfigure my display and after a restart or "sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start" to just start Gnome, the login window is there as well as my OS.

---

### Post by botbanky on 2008-05-09
I have the exact same machine and video card, and was experiencing the same frustration.  But I believe I've found the solution and now have extended display working myself. The only negative is that it seems like movement of items around the screen is a bit more choppy now (even worse in a Remote Desktop environment, though you may not care about that), and I haven't found a solution for that yet (tried to up the refresh rate from 60 to 70, but then I can't use my native resolution of 1680 x 1050).  Anyone else have some tips or tricks for alleviating the choppiness?

If you use the section I have marked in the xorg.conf file below it should put your monitors into an extend display state. Obviously you'll need to swap in your monitor's resolution values.


My xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"
Driver "synaptics"
Option "SendCoreEvents" "true"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Protocol" "auto-dev"
Option "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

# DUAL MONITOR, START USING HERE


Section "Device"
Identifier "Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
Driver "intel"
BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "VGA1"
Option "RightOf" "Generic Monitor"
Option "Position" "1680 0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
Modes "1680x1050"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
Modes "1680x1050"
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1680x1050"
Virtual 3360 1680
EndSubSection
EndSection

# DUAL MONITOR END HERE

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

