---
title: "Dell 700M and Gutsy: Xinerama possible?"
date: 2007-11-08
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by Oreo on 2007-11-08
I am repeating this thread from Installation and Upgrades, and also from Installation and Upgrades, hoping someone here will finally answer!

Does anyone using Gutsy with a Dell 700m laptop have xinerama working on a second monitor? If so please send me your xorg.conf!

I can get Xinerama working if I use the i810 driver and define the 700m display as a plug and play monitor (making that setting using Administration > Screens and Graphics). But I haven't found a setting that will allow the 700m screen to run with its best 1280 by 800 resolution. Also in this mode, it starts out looking fine, but eventually part of my laptop desktop stops being usable (no icons, not able to move windows there).

Or if I delete my xorg.conf and start over, the default xorg.conf that is created makes a good clone monitor setup, and graphics work better. But I fail in getting this changed into a Xinerama setup.

I have tried making a large Virtual screen in the xorg.conf, such as
Virtual 2048 2048
and to use xrandr.
I can't figure out how to use information gleaned with xrander to get xinerama to work. It looks like from the message boards that I do this using Screens and Graphics again.

BUT if I start the Screens and Graphics program after this, it zaps any somewhat-working xorg.conf, and what replaces it often won't work. The replaced xorg.conf also doesn't retain the virtual setting 2048x2048.

Also the message boards mention using the older i810 driver rather than the new intel driver. I assume this means that the i810 driver in Gutsy is still the old one, right?

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by Oreo on 2007-11-11
Trying to get a response, I posed this on three of the Ubuntu forums. _I received no answers._ :( But I will respond with what I have found in case this information will useful for other Dell 700m owners trying to run in xinerama mode with a second monitor.

After reading various threads and lots of experimentation, I found no way of getting xorg.conf options to work.
The System > Adminstration > Screens and Graphics setup program messes with the xorg.conf, and I found no way to make it work. 
I find it incredible that Gutsy would have been released with these problems. It would have been better to keep Feisty's graphics system until something that works could have been released.

BUT the simplest thing I have found is to use the most basic xorg.conf plus xrandr.
I think the xorg.conf I am using is basically the one that was automatically created when my system was booted without the extra monitor turned on.
Using xinerama requires just one change, (I think) and then the use of xrandr.

xrandr only seems to work with the "intel" driver, not the i810 or vesa drivers.

The important change is the Virtual line. My second monitor is 1280 x 1024 and the 700m internal monitor is 1280 x 800. I like to put my external monitor above my laptop monitor. So the necessary step is to create a virtual display of 1280 x 1824.

I note that I also defined the one monitor listed in xorg.conf to be a Dell 1907fp. In my experimenting, I changed the one screen that is defined to be my external monitor. I suspect that this has really done nothing. Anyway, here is what works for me now.

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL 1907FP"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"DELL 1907FP"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768"
	Virtual	1280	1824
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


Then the command to issue in a terminal is 
xrandr --output VGA --above LVDS

Here are two links that helped me:
[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2]("http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2")
[http://wiki.debian.org/XStrikeForce/HowToRandR12]("http://wiki.debian.org/XStrikeForce/HowToRandR12")

This gives me xinerama on two monitors, BUT I don't like it that my system bar is on my external monitor rather than on the laptop monitor. I may be able to fix that later.

Rather than having to enter the xrandr command in a terminal each time I start, I have created a launcher that does the trick. I could also include this as part of Start Up Programs in System > Preferences >Sessions.

And now that I have this working using xrandr, it may be possible to integrate the settings into xorg.conf.

---

