---
title: "7.10 upgrade woes"
date: 2007-12-03
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by teogearloose on 2007-12-03
My Inspiron 1420 came with Ubuntu 7.04 installed. When the wireless connection finally worked, I was invited to start the upgrade to 7.10.
After an eight-hour download and install, I reached the restart stage.

A command line prompt appears. What must I enter to start the GUI?

---

### Post by wormser on 2007-12-04
Sounds like something went wrong during the upgrade.  I had issues upgrading to Gusty and I finally did a clean install.  You might need to do the same.  The following command will get you to the GUI.

```
startx
```

---

### Post by teogearloose on 2007-12-04
startx!
thanks, I'll give it a try

---

### Post by gbrainin on 2007-12-04
> **teogearloose said:**
> My Inspiron 1420 came with Ubuntu 7.04 installed. When the wireless connection finally worked, I was invited to start the upgrade to 7.10.
After an eight-hour download and install, I reached the restart stage.

A command line prompt appears. What must I enter to start the GUI?

Ordinarily, the startx command will get you back to the GUI, but if something got honked up during the upgrade, that might not work.

There are several known issues with version 7.10 on the Inspiron 1420 (see [http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.10]("http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.10")), so some of the more conservative people have been waiting for the Dell patched version before upgrading.  If you can't wait, you might have more luck upgrading by downloading and burning a 7.10 live CD and installing from there.

If you want to get back to your working 7.04, you can try booting into the reinstallation partition.  WARNING: This will erase everything on your hard drive and replace it with an exact image of the way it came from the factory (including repartitioning).  If you have any user data from before your attempted upgrade, it will be lost.  With that warning, instructions for reinstalling are here: [http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.04/OS_Reinstallation]("http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.04/OS_Reinstallation").

If that doesn't work, your last option would be to reinstall from the 7.04 CD.  If there's any way you can download and burn the Dell modified version (NOT the same as the one that came with your computer!), then you should do that: It resolves most of the known compatibility problems with the "standard" CD.  Instructions and details regarding the remastered CD are at: [http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.04]("http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.04").

---

### Post by teogearloose on 2007-12-04
I'm not real eager to bring everything back to the initial state of delivery (I've already copied my video archive onto the laptop), and will keep that option as last resort.

The xstart failed, but offered a few clues:

(==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log"
(==) Using config file: "etc/X11/xorg.conf"
(II) Module already built-in
(WW) I810: No matching Device section for instance (BusID PCI:0:2:1) found
(EE) No devices detected

Fatal server error:
no screens found
XIO:  fatal IO error 104 (Connection reset by peer) on X server ":0.0"
      after 0 requests (0 known processed) with 0 events remaining.

Does recovery appear practical?

---

### Post by gbrainin on 2007-12-04
> **teogearloose said:**
> Does recovery appear practical?

I'm going to have to leave it to others with more experience on your particular equipment to work out the details, but the short answer is yes.  It sounds to me like your xorg.conf file is not set up properly and/or you do not have the correct video driver available.  You should be able to edit the file from the command line prompt, or after booting from a live CD, but I can't tell you what the file needs to look like in order to work.

---

### Post by teogearloose on 2007-12-04
Well, that's good news - that it's worth a try. Now with impetus to start, I've got plenty of background reading ahead. Thanks for your support.

---

### Post by gbrainin on 2007-12-05
Okay, I did think of a couple more things:

1) If your display worked under 7.04, then comparing the xorg.conf file from that version with the one you have now may give some clues as to how to repair it.

2) There might be some information on the Dell Linux Wiki specific to your hardware.

And, of course, there might be someone else with the same hardware who has successfully migrated to 7.10.  Such a person might be kind enough to post to this thread, but you might want to search a bit in case there's other information out there.

Good luck, and if you find a solution, post it here for the benefit of the next person in your situation.

---

### Post by natehall on 2007-12-05
I had the same problem on my 1420N . I had nothing worth saving so I just did a factory restall myself and I'm just waiting for the Dell version before upgrading. (I did put the newer version, Gutsy Gibbon,  on old computer just to check it out though.)  This link here might help : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588033](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588033)

---

### Post by teogearloose on 2007-12-06
Waiting for an external backup harddrive so I can save before reinstall. Meanwhile, I'll enjoy the repair challenge and poke around a bit.

---

### Post by rhewt on 2007-12-06
I wish I would have saved all the links I used to get 7.10 working on my inspiron 1420N. What you are ultimately going to need to do is find the new version of xorg and install it via apt-get. Once you have the new xorg installed, intel's integrated X3100 is natively supported and everything should be good to go. Good luck, it's a great learning experience and will work eventually, just read around (posts on these forums were very helpful).

---

### Post by timseal on 2007-12-07
In xorg.conf,find where it says 
```
Driver          "i810"
```
and replace it with
```
Driver          "intel"
```

Does it work now?

-tim

---

### Post by badidea on 2007-12-07
I too upgraded my 1420n to 7.10. And followed Dell's advice to remove backport modules. The Modem will not work. The sound is dead. ( no GStreamer found ) And worse of all the wifi is dead. No option in network, no blue led.

---

### Post by badidea on 2007-12-08
I should do a better job expaining this problem. Upgraded to 7.10 from 7.04, before the upgrade everything worked fine. After, all but the modem worked. I expected this and then installed the new drivers from Dell. The sound card quit at that time and would not restart. The modem still was not working. I then removed the back port modules as per Dell and that is when the wireless stopped. The wireless seems to not even load or even to be recognized. There is no wireless setup in the network manager. I have since reloaded the backport modules, with no help. Thanks.

---

### Post by natehall on 2007-12-09
> **badidea said:**
> I should do a better job expaining this problem. Upgraded to 7.10 from 7.04, before the upgrade everything worked fine. After, all but the modem worked.. If it was a preinstalled Ubuntu you can always do a reload of the system if nothing else. [http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.04/OS_Reinstallation](http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.04/OS_Reinstallation)

---

### Post by timseal on 2007-12-10
I had no wireless setup in the network manager too.
This seemed to fix it. 
Edit /etc/network/interfaces, comment out everything except the following:
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
address 127.0.0.1
netmask 255.0.0.0

```

(To comment out a line, put a # at the start of it.)

You probably need to logout and back in, in fact a reboot may be needed (well, easiest).

---

### Post by timseal on 2007-12-10
Did you change the wireless network module to iwl3945, as described by Dell at [http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.10/Issues/ipw3945_Wireless_Network_Module_Issues](http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_7.10/Issues/ipw3945_Wireless_Network_Module_Issues)

---

