---
title: "7.04 Boots to Black Screen"
date: 2007-06-10
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by xluryan on 2007-06-10
I'll start from the beginning...

I installed 7.04 on my Dell Inspiron 5100. Worked fine. I was dual-booting with XP Home and 7.04. Went for about two months with very few issues - none of which stayed unresolved.

Then came a kernel upgrade... I think. The package manager suggested some new packages with the word "kernel" in the long string of package names. So I did it, then rebooted and it worked fine again. I went on vacation to the Bahamas (very nice, by the way), and now that I have come back, ready to use my computer again, all I get when I boot into Ubuntu 7.04 is the splash screen, followed by a black screen at the end of the splash.

I hear no sound like it's ready to be logged in to, and there is nothing else at all. I can't press Ctrl+Alt+F1 or any other Fx combination; they just have no effect. Pressing Ctrl+Alt+Esc and Ctrl+Alt+Backspace repeatedly effectively reboot the machine, however those seem to be the only key combinations that have any effect at all.

It worked once after the upgrade, so I'm not sure if that's what's causing this or not. Any help AT ALL would be INFINITELY appreciated. Thanks ahead of time :)

Some more system specs:
Dell Insipron 5100
ATI Radeon Mobility 7500 - 32mb
Pentium IV 2.4Ghz
768mb RAM

No other peripherals plugged in besides USB mouse and power adapter. I *have* tried it with nothing plugged in at all... same outcome.

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2007-06-10
Did your updates update the kernel from 2.6.20.15 to 2.6.20.16?
If so choose 2.6.20.15 from Grub and see if it helps.
This kernel update caused problems on 2 PCs here.

---

### Post by xluryan on 2007-06-11
Yeah, it did upgrade to 2.6.20.16. The thing is, I tried selecting the older one from grub at boot, but I get the exact same thing no matter what option I choose. Either of the regular boot options, or either of the recovery mode boot options.

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2007-06-11
What happens when you boot a Live CD, such as the Ubuntu CD you installed from?

---

### Post by xluryan on 2007-06-11
I'll check tonight and post back with my findings. Thanks a TON for your help! Were you able to fix this issue? And if so, how did you do it?

---

### Post by xluryan on 2007-06-11
Ok, it does boot just fine with the install CD. What should I do to make it boot ok without the CD? Does this indicate an error in my xorg.conf on the HDD? If anyone knows please let me know :)

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2007-06-11
I think this means the hardware is OK and most likely the install or configuration is bad.
Two options:
1 - reinstall it
2 - trouble shoot it
Route 1 takes a finite amount of time, How long to install last time?
Route 2 takes an unknown amount of time, but you'll probably learn something in the process.
Route 2 could later lead to Route 1 after patience runs out.
I've taken both routes, even the loop from 2 to 1.

Take Route 2 first even if for a short while.
/etc/X11/xorg.conf could be the problem.
/boot/grub/menu.lst could be the problem.
/etc/fstab could be the problem.

xorg.conf
look in /etc/X11 for multiple versions like a xorg.conf.20070605 or something.  Compare for changes.

menu.lst
does it use UUID or /dev/sdax?  I prefer the /dev/sdax approach.

fstab.lst
also the question of UUID or /dev/sdax?

if/when you go route 1 another method to consider is turn off the update notifications.  Every six months is a new release of Ubuntu.  Let that take care of the updates.  Do a good backup before it though.

---

### Post by xluryan on 2007-06-12
I think I'm going to rename this thread "Why I love technology", LOL...

Here is what I did last night:

1. Tried one more time to boot up all different options in grub. Nothing had changed; same result as before for each option.

2. Inserted my original 7.04 CD and rebooted. This was when the good times started... First I got the screen below here. So I was like, "OK...". I then removed my CD and unplugged my netword car, pressed ESC, and rebooted. At that point I got the exact same screen. I was confused because I had no idea what else could be causing it. So I then unplugged my USB hub, which at that point had an external HDD, a USB mouse, and a DVD writer connected to it. Rebooted and got the same screen again. All I had left plugged in at this point was the power and the AUX jack that went into my stereo from the headphone output on my laptop. I proceeded to unplug both, then rebooted. Much to my surprise that fixed it! I could then boot to grub again.

[attach]35131[/attach]

3. At this point, I just put the CD back in and rebooted before trying any of the options in grub. The CD booted fine, all the way to gnome. I was able to do anything I could originally do with the CD. I browsed through my HDD with no problems. I even opened up xorg.conf and checked a few things out. Nothing was out of the ordinary, and in fact, most things matched that of the install CD. I left it on for maybe 10 minutes or so, and then rebooted to grub.

4. At this point I decided to take it one step at a time. I edited the grub boot line (the normal mode for the new kernel). All I did was remove "quiet splash" from the main line, and removed the line below that that read "quiet", and the one below that that read "saveddefault" or something like that. I then booted and it worked perfect! I was happy at that point.

5. I logged in to that session and all was ok. I decided to reboot again without editing any boot lines to see what happened. And guess what? It worked again!

Conclusion...

I have NO idea what happened. I've plugged everything back in that I had previously taken out, and it still works. And now at this point, I can't find a way to recreate the problem. So what caused it? Couldn't tell ya... What fixed it? Ha! You got me...

The only things I can think of are this:

Possibility 1: I just went through the Bahama airport. Maybe their x-ray equipment messed something up. Though they said it would be fine, and since it's working now, I'm assuming that's not what it is.

Possibility 2: That "saveddefault" option may have "saved" something misconfigured. How? I don't know. Why? I don't know? When? What? Who? Ha, no idea.

But it's working now, so I'm happy. Also, just wanted to say thanks to ridgeland for your help!

---

