---
title: "1420n vs 1525n"
date: 2008-03-09
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by Talon2 on 2008-03-09
I've configured both models with both coming out to prices that are nearly the same.

What are the pro's and con's of the two models?  It certainly isn't obvious to me.:confused:

---

### Post by derrick81787 on 2008-03-09
I have a 1420n, and I like the size.  It's smaller than the 1525, yet it's big enough to be easily usable.  I don't know to much about the 1525, but my 1420 works great. The only con that I can think of is that the Intel videocard isn't very good, and by default doesn't run compiz on gutsy. There are some hacks you can do to get around this, though. Also, I think you can get them with an Nvidia card now, but at the time that I got mine (it came with fiesty preinstalled), that wasn't available.

---

### Post by Luigi239 on 2008-03-09
I think the difference is only the size of the machine. Everything else, other than the choice for nvidia graphics is the same.

How did you configure yours? I put a 1.6ghz core2duo in the 1525, and it came out to be 50$ cheaper than the 1420. Honestly, I'd rather have the smaller 1420, but I don't know if I can afford it.

---

### Post by Talon2 on 2008-03-09
[QUOTE=Luigi239;4485003
How did you configure yours? I put a 1.6ghz core2duo in the 1525, and it came out to be 50$ cheaper than the 1420. Honestly, I'd rather have the smaller 1420, but I don't know if I can afford it.[/QUOTE]

I used a 2.2ghz in the 1420 and a 2.0ghz in the 1525.  I think the difference was around 50 usd.

I've got a birthday coming up in a few months so I am looking to use that as the excuse to get a new laptop.  One of my concerns is durability.  My current notebook is a Thinkpad T23.  I can't seem to kill it which is great.  The problem that the wife has adopted it.  I've been reading user reports and I seem to be seeing folks say that the 1420 is better built than the 1525.  That the 1420 is smaller is a bonus as well.

If all components in the 1420 were very ubuntu compatible and didn't require non-open binary blobs then it would be an easy call.

---

