---
title: ".EXEs?  Preinstalled on MY Dell?"
date: 2007-07-27
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by ghindo on 2007-07-27
I recently received a Dell Inspiron 1420n and have been loving it.  Today, however, I started looking around to see what was preinstalled onto my computer.  I found a directory labeled "DellUtility" and found, that several .EXEs, and a few other files in a format that I didn't recognize (.MDM).  (See attached screenshot.)  Why are these on here?

---

### Post by jrusso2 on 2007-07-27
I would say its some kind of scripted reinstall that can recopy the OS in the event of total loss

---

### Post by ghindo on 2007-07-27
I thought .EXEs only ran on Windows?

---

### Post by pofigster on 2007-07-27
That's kinda weird...maybe it's so they can run diagnostics via wine in the event that your computer has problems?  Or the corporate mandate states that you must have that software installed before shipping, but corporate didn't realize that it was linux based and .exe's don't really work?

---

### Post by aysiu on 2007-07-27
It looks like the standard recovery partition... to recover Windows. Maybe they forgot that partition is unnecessary for the Ubuntu computers?

---

### Post by zapcojake on 2007-07-27
Given that the *.mdm files are device and device manufacturer names I'd say they are device drivers.  Somebody probably puts that stuff on the drive 10 at a time before its ever in the computer.

---

### Post by jrusso2 on 2007-07-27
> **ghindo said:**
> I thought .EXEs only ran on Windows?  It would reboot and run in DOS.  I think they don't ship those with a ubuntu cd so they can recover from another partition.

---

### Post by merlyn on 2007-07-27
> **jrusso2 said:**
> It would reboot and run in DOS.  I think they don't ship those with a ubuntu cd so they can recover from another partition.

It would seem so, and what really gives it away is the presence of command.com, autoexec.bat & config.sys.

---

### Post by arsenic23 on 2007-07-27
It's a diagnostic partition, all Dells have them nowadays.

---

### Post by strabes on 2007-07-27
I deleted mine!! Do it!

---

### Post by gordy716 on 2007-07-27
Thats just dells diagnostic partion accesed from boot, doesn't realyy matter what os you have as it's run seperatly, or so i'm led to belive.

---

### Post by qsr.nrwn on 2007-07-28
Mine came with this partition and a M$-WinVista Home Premium. Through some installs [I was wondering to use another distros] of another linux distros (Mandrake and SuSE), I managed to delete it.. It doesn't seem to be a diagnostic partition, because my laptop [Inspiron 9400, MP061] boots perfectly without it (or, am I missing something about it?), seems to be more the Dell MediaDirect partition (If I recall, it says that you can access photos/presentations/media files and more on 20 seconds or less, there is the need for the command.com and autoexec... stuff) than the diagnostic partition. By the way there is too much time that I have seen a computer that stores it's BIOS settings on HDD, and as I remember Dell doesn't have this creepy, creepy feature

IMHO seems to be a DOS partition on steroids...

---

### Post by ihavenoname on 2007-07-28
Just a quick question, I have a dell, but it has windows, I really like the dell media direct thing. Does that work with the Ubuntu Dells?

---

### Post by conorkirk on 2007-07-28
You should keep them!

What if they have Windows? Free windows! Then burn it and sell it.

---

### Post by DerangedDingo on 2007-07-29
It's a recovery partition. I'd recommend not touching it in your case.
it contains all the basic windows tools, applications, and things needed to boot windows, such as (wow!) command.com, and that batch file that used to boot Windows 98 and lower

I had to move mine to a partition I made on my iPod :P

It's only a 30mb partition though, and it comes on every Dell. You can boot it by hitting F10 or whatever it says while you see the "Dell" screen loading immediately after you boot up. That takes you to a separate Dell bootloader where you can boot from "Dell Utility" "Hard Drive" "CD Drive", etcetera

EDIT: OH MY GOD!! Conorkirk!
hahaha :P
i din't notice till after i posted

---

### Post by happy-and-lost on 2007-07-29
*.EXEs aren't evil!

All your favourite Mono apps run from .EXEs, i.e. F-Spot, Beagle, Banshee, Tomboy...

---

### Post by Paulmd on 2007-07-29
> **strabes said:**
> I deleted mine!! Do it!

For chrissakes! It's the diagnostic program that can be run by the user  by pressing F12 during POST. All you've done is removed the ability of the dell computer to diagnose itself outside the OS!

Here's how to put it back. But the program can also be run by booting up the Dell driver CDS that come with Dells (or the windows versions of dells anyway).

[http://www.goodells.net/dellutility/recreate.htm](http://www.goodells.net/dellutility/recreate.htm)

---

### Post by tsg1zzn on 2007-07-29
> **happy-and-lost said:**
> *.EXEs aren't evil!

All your [COLOR="Plum"]favourite[/COLOR] laggy Mono apps run from .EXEs, i.e. F-Spot, Beagle, Banshee, Tomboy...That's why they are evil...

---

