---
title: "7.04 slow hard disk access, high cpu usage SAS/IR sas 1068 raid"
date: 2007-07-27
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by vmikalinis on 2007-07-27
I'm trying to get a Dell Poweredge sc440 set up with mirrored drives.  I mirrored them in the bios and ubuntu 7.04 server installed correctly from the cd-rom.  The system seems to have poor disk performance and I have no idea why.  I would appreciate any help, thanks.

---

### Post by vmikalinis on 2007-07-27
Ouch, looks like write caching is disabled on the drives when used in raid 1.  I'm going to enable it and take the risk of losing data.  Hopefully it will increase the performance dramatically.

---

### Post by vmikalinis on 2007-07-30
Well, there is no way to adjust this in either the machine bios or the card bios.  I am guessing that this is a driver problem.  Anyone had anything like this before?

---

### Post by vmikalinis on 2007-07-31
Alright,

I was able to turn caching on (WCE=1), on each drive by doing 

apt-get install sdparm
apt-get install lsscsi


sdparm -s WCE /dev/sg0
sdparm -s WCE /dev/sg1


Make sure it worked with :

sdparm /dev/sg0
[I]
Output:
[/I]
    /dev/sg0: ATA       ST3160812AS       J
Read write error recovery mode page:
  AWRE        1  [cha: n]
  ARRE        0  [cha: n]
  PER         0  [cha: n]
Caching (SBC) mode page:
  **WCE         1  [cha: y]**
  RCD         0  [cha: n]
Control mode page:
  SWP         0  [cha: n]
Informational exceptions control mode page:
  EWASC       0  [cha: n]
  DEXCPT      0  [cha: n]
  MRIE        6  [cha: n]



Performance will be much much better, but make sure you have it on a UPS or you could lose data.

---

### Post by vmikalinis on 2007-07-31
I rebooted and this change was lost, does anyone know how to make it permanent??

---

### Post by vmikalinis on 2007-08-02
Noone knows how to turn the write caches on permanently?  This must be basic for an advanced user.  Anyone?

---

### Post by Fjan on 2007-11-03
I think just enabling the write caching on the SAS 1068 should work for you:
[http://www.tomasek.cz/software/SAS5iRperf/index.html](http://www.tomasek.cz/software/SAS5iRperf/index.html)

---

