---
title: "Ack, new laptop having issues!"
date: 2007-06-10
forum: Dell  Ubuntu Support
---

### Post by blueb73 on 2007-06-10
So, I get my laptop the other day, and it seems to work.  i download the 50 updates, get the error 17, use the fix, it works.
 
then, i downloaded some new junk and now im having an issue
 
any screen that has a slider bar on the side goes nuts, with the screen scrolling from top to bottom on its own.  this is both with a mouse and the touchpad.
 
any clues what to do?
 
im a total linux newbie, so this stinks!
 
 
ps, any tips on what we can do to get dvds playign asap?
 
thanks!

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2007-06-10
Did your updates update the kernel from 2.6.20.15 to 2.6.20.16?  
If so choose 2.6.20.15 from Grub and see if it helps.
This kernel update caused problems on 2 PCs here.

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2007-06-10
just saw this link in another post
[http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/GRUB_error_17_after_kernel_update](http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/GRUB_error_17_after_kernel_update)

---

### Post by blueb73 on 2007-06-10
well, i fixed that

it worked fine for a while after that

it boots fine and looks fine

but if you click on anything that can scroll up or down, be it the sys menu, webpage, whatever, the scroll bar goees crazy, going up and down non stop.

---

### Post by issueperson on 2007-06-11
> **blueb73 said:**
>  
then, i downloaded some new junk and now im having an issue

 

What is the "new junk" you downloaded and installed?  Are you using beryl or compiz?

also, go to system > preferences > desktop effects.  Are those enabled?  If so, try disabling them to see what happens.



> ps, any tips on what we can do to get dvds playign asap?

try this:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/7.04/musicvideophotos/C/video.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/7.04/musicvideophotos/C/video.html)

Also, how are your mouse and touchpad configured?  Show us the output of your xorg.conf.  Open a terminal and type:

```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

and copy that file here.

---

### Post by blueb73 on 2007-06-11
ill give it a shot!

thanks  :)

and i dont know which junk

i just went thru and started grabbing stuff that looked neat!

---

### Post by blueb73 on 2007-06-12
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-72
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1440x900"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection




thats all greek to me.  i even re-installed everything tonight, and the issue still happens, although its intermittent.  grrrrrrrrr

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2007-06-13
Does this strange behaviour happen when you are using the LiveCD to install?
If not, boot the LiveCD (install CD) and view the xorg.conf it is using.
In "reinstall everything" did you install every update it found?
If so did it work before the updates?  You don't have to install updates.
I remember a laptop where in the BIOS I turned off the touchpad to get the mouse to work.
I'm not a fan of touchpads.

---

### Post by blueb73 on 2007-06-13
> **ridgeland said:**
> Does this strange behaviour happen when you are using the LiveCD to install?
If not, boot the LiveCD (install CD) and view the xorg.conf it is using.
In "reinstall everything" did you install every update it found?
If so did it work before the updates?  You don't have to install updates.
I remember a laptop where in the BIOS I turned off the touchpad to get the mouse to work.
I'm not a fan of touchpads.

i didnt notice it on the live cd, but i was just using it to re-install.  i didnt do any of the updates this time, so i dont think thats part of the problem.

and ive noticed sometimes, giving it a firm thump or two gives me control back.

grrrrrrrrr

---

### Post by ageer1 on 2007-06-13
I've had the “heeby-jeeby” windows (erratic scrolling behavior) problem occur a couple of times over the years. Although it looks like it should be, neither time did it turn out to be a software problem. The first time it was due to a defective keyboard and the second due to a defective mouse. Consider hardware as the potential boogy-man.

Joe

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2007-06-13
Hardware is likely.
But just to be sure try without the mouse, does the problem repeat.
Try without the touchpad (if BIOS allows, or comment out section in xorg.conf for touchpad) to test.
Before buying a new PC I would test some more on the LiveCD, surf some sites type and print some letters and see if it's still strange.  Use Knoppix or something to test it.
I hate to use the W word but do you dual boot and does it work fine in windows with both touchpad and mouse?

---

### Post by blueb73 on 2007-06-13
whats odd is it will be fine for hours

then, just go nuts

cant detect a pattern

and this seems to be the case whether is a regular mouse or the touchpad

i can usully get control back by tapping the touchpad a fe times hard, but not sure how good that is for the touchpad,

---

### Post by blueb73 on 2007-06-16
how can you determine if a problem is hardware or software?

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-06-17
Since this is a new laptop, (What was the brand and model?) there could be a break-in problems.  Sometimes electronic devices fail early in their life--these are called bathtube failures since you get devices that fail early in their life, most will work for a long period of life, then failures will increase due to old age.  You could have gotten a defective touchpad or a ribbon cable on the inside is loose causing erratic behavior.

Boot and run from the Live CD.  Watch the clock and see how long it takes for the weird behavior to show up.  Something could be heating up causing a poor connection which results in strange behavior. 

It it was a software problem, then lots of posts would show up with the same problem, since touchpads are all pretty much the same--Synaptic technology.

Good luck.

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-06-17
Hi,

I was just browsing around here and just wanted to add my $.02 worth on this subject.

I noticed the same behavior several times myself in the recent past on my Dell E310 desktop dual core processor running Dapper 6.06 LTS. I got this computer a few months ago with a Dell mouse. However it hasn't happened in some time now. It has stopped the erratic scrolling lately but every now and then to this day I notice the cursor will suddenly jump up to one corner of the screen or down to the bottom of the screen for no reason.

One other thing I remember it doing was sometimes it opened a page over and over and over. It was like it just kept going and going and I couldn't stop it. I would have many many instances of the same page open. Sometimes it seemed if I hit the mouse it would stop and other times it didn't.

I can't remember now if it happened in Windows since I don't use Windows that much at all anymore but I am suspecting the mouse itself. It's a Dell usb mouse and there is no connection for a different type of mouse on the computer. I was getting ready to buy a new mouse to see if that would fix the problem but like I said the only problem now is the cursor will make a jump now and then but that's it. It hasn't caused a real problem lately like it was before. Maybe I hit the mouse hard enough last time :-)

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-06-17
My point is Dell relies on customers for quality control.  In the drive to bring prices down, they do less testing of production machines and less oversight of manufacturers.  The result is consumers getting machines that act wonky.  

When running Windows, these random failures would be masked by software problems.  In Ubuntu, we don't have that luxury.  Hardware problems cause immediate and puzzling software behavior.  And we all scratch our head trying to figure out what is wrong with Ubuntu.

For the USB mouse above, it could be as simple as a bad solder joint in the mouse itself or a problem with the USB port (again a solder problem).  It could be a problem with the motherboard; the higher speeds of the duo-core processor can cause interference in other parts of the board or timing skew issues that manifest themselves as odd behavior.

As more Dell machines get shipped with Ubuntu, I think we will see more of these.

Has anyone with a System76 machine experienced these problems?

---

### Post by blueb73 on 2007-06-17
> **tgalati4 said:**
> Since this is a new laptop, (What was the brand and model?) there could be a break-in problems.  Sometimes electronic devices fail early in their life--these are called bathtube failures since you get devices that fail early in their life, most will work for a long period of life, then failures will increase due to old age.  You could have gotten a defective touchpad or a ribbon cable on the inside is loose causing erratic behavior.

Boot and run from the Live CD.  Watch the clock and see how long it takes for the weird behavior to show up.  Something could be heating up causing a poor connection which results in strange behavior. 

It it was a software problem, then lots of posts would show up with the same problem, since touchpads are all pretty much the same--Synaptic technology.

Good luck.

took just a few minutes for it to go crazy again.  grrrrrrrrrr

---

### Post by MAZDA on 2007-06-17
From my side of view this problem has nothing to do with the Hardware or the Dell PC/Notebook.
I have a acer notebook and have used now several Ubuntu Version (Hoary, Dapper, Feisty) on this Notebook.
In every version this Problem was existent however under Windows or other Distros like Gentoo this has never happened.
This problem exist in Ubuntu since Hoary (the first release 2004/2005).
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=19233](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=19233)

What now for me also happen in Feisty from time to time is that my Mouse Pointer diseapear.
Such Problems i dont have if i use Windows or other Distros like Gentoo on the same Mashine.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2735762&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2735762&postcount=2)

I will try now to disable auto acpi detection in Ubuntu now.
For the most people it has worked.

---

### Post by blueb73 on 2007-06-17
grrrr, the support guys have decided it must be a hardware issue, so there sending me a box to return the laptop and they'll send me another one

i hope the second one works, cause im loving it when it works!

---

### Post by lammer-heindel on 2007-07-08
I see this may have been resolved for you, but I had the same problem on an  HP Celeron (Coppermine) when I installed 7.04; so it doesn't seem unique to the Dell laptop models. My issue was as follows: when I would position the mouse over a window with a scroll bar, the page would scroll up and down in a chaotic manner. It was also quite difficult to click on things, because any movement of the mouse (e.g., moving it towards a link on a web page) would cause the page to scroll in the opposite direction.

I ended up reconfiguring the mouse settings (at command type: "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg"). When I installed the OS, I had set the configurations to my mouse specifications (PS/2 with scrollwheel). When reconfiguring, I changed the settings to plain-old PS/2. Everything works fine now.

By the way, if you've never reconfigured, when the blue screen pops up, you have to push ESC or ENTER to go through the screens until you get to the mouse settings.

---

### Post by cody50 on 2007-07-08
using the non-free codecs from [medibuntu]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu") i was able to get dvd's to play in VLC

---

