---
title: "Can NOT connect to internet!!!"
date: 2012-02-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by viktorjano on 2012-02-29
I can not connect to internet!!!
I've installed the Edubuntu 11.10 and I can not connect to internet?!
I pinged the gateway in the network, and there is no problem... But when I try to browse Firefox or download some package nothing happens...
In the System settings under Wired connection  it says **Unmanaged **. I can not figure out what is the problem!!!
Please help!

---

### Post by zeljkojagust on 2012-02-29
Check if /etc/resolv.conf file exist. And do you use Network Manager for interface management?

---

### Post by viktorjano on 2012-02-29
There is file /etc/resolv.conf. And here is the contents of it

#Generated by NetworkManager

About the Network Manager, Yes... I tried to configure the eth0 network interface through Network Manager, with static ip address but nothing. 
I am afraid if the problem is due to a missing driver... Since in the upper right corner there is NOT icon for the active network!!!
I am more confused because I made clean install, everything should be wright!

---

### Post by miegiel on 2012-02-29
If you can ping the gateway it's probably not a driver issue, since your network is working.

I'd suspect the gateway (configuration). Maybe you need to authenticate yourself when connecting or the gateway won't let you through to the internet. I'm not 100% sure, but I think *Unmanaged* is an open/unsecured wifi connection.

---

### Post by zeljkojagust on 2012-02-29
I do not think there is a driver problem. Try to disable NetworkManager and configure your interface manually.

First execute:
```
update-rc.d -f network-manager remove
```

Than edit /etc/network/interfaces with editor of your choice so that it looks something like this:

```
# The primary network interface
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
	address xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
	netmask xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
	network xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
	broadcast xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
	gateway xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
```

After that edit /etc/resolv.conf so that it contains following values:

```
search yourdomainname.com
nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
```

Also it would be good idea to edit /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules file and delete everything below this line: 
**# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.**

After you're done reboot the computer and there should be networking! Let me know if it worked.

---

### Post by viktorjano on 2012-03-01
Just one more question before I go configuring...
About the contents of the resolv.conf, what exactly should be yourdomainname.com, and nameserver, because I am not in a domain environment.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-03-01
If you can reach the gateway, then I don't understand why were are looking at the computers end of things, sounds to me like either the wan link is down, or not authenticating.

Use firefox, browse to the gateway and see what you can see, does it say it's wan link is up? Does it list it's public ip and it's dns servers? Can you ping said dns servers by ip?

---

### Post by zeljkojagust on 2012-03-01
> Just one more question before I go configuring...
About the contents of the resolv.conf, what exactly should be yourdomainname.com, and nameserver, because I am not in a domain environment.

Name server address is probably same as your gateway address (I presume the address of your Wireless access point or router you're using) and it should be enough to make a proper resolve. Domain name is optional, it's not a problem if you don't know it.

---

### Post by viktorjano on 2012-03-01
I've made everything as you said, with one small deference, in the  /etc/network/interfaces file I've entered only the ip address, the  subnet mask and the gateway. But as far as I know it should be enough.  Also in the resolv.config file I've entered 

nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx

So in other words there I've entered the DNS-s which I use on other  systems, and they work just fine. But on this machine nothing...

But, you know, one thing that concerns me is that in the upper right  corner the icon for the network connection (those two arrows one against  other) does not appear. So, earlier, to test I've booted the same PC  with the live DVD, and everything **is ok**. So, that tells me that the hardware is not the problem. 

One more thing. How can I activate the network manager again, since I've executed that command 
update-rc.d -f network-manager remove Ok thanks!

---

### Post by viktorjano on 2012-03-01
Still, it might be a hardware problem... When I tried to reinstall the system, it couldn't connect to internet at all. Sorry for your time!!!

---

### Post by winh8r on 2012-03-01
open a terminal and enter :


```
ifconfig
```

and post the result here .

---

### Post by viktorjano on 2012-03-19
Finally found out the culprit... In the installment process there is a step where one choses a network adapter to be used as a Terminal server... I am not quite sure what it is... So, if one choses the adapter to act as a terminal server, could not connect to internet over that same adapter...

---

### Post by leily on 2012-04-18
Hi friends

I have the same problem.
But I don't have any Wireless connection, it shows only wired and vpn connection. I installed edubuntu 11.10 in vmware.
I attached its photo.
Would you please help me?

---

