---
title: "Internet Connection Sharing Problem"
date: 2008-05-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by garysteinert on 2008-05-08
I have googled this to death, followed countless tutorials and not had any joy, so here goes:

I am trying to set up a router to provide internet access (among other things, just getting the internet to work for now) to a number of desktops and laptops.

I have followed a number of different tutorials, all of which seem to insist I need to:
[LIST]
[*]Set up a DHCP server
[*]Create firewall rules
[*]Some say I need to install ipmasq and dnsmasq
[/LIST]

I have set up a working DHCP server.

/etc/dhcp3/dhcpd.conf
```

ddns-update-style none;

default-lease-time 600;
max-lease-time 7200;
log-facility local7;

subnet 192.168.1.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
	authoritative;
	range 192.168.1.0 192.168.1.254;
	option routers 192.168.1.1;
	option domain-name-servers 192.168.2.1;
	}


```

I have also set up the firewall rules:

/etc/iptables.up.rules
```

# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Wed May  7 15:48:06 2008
*nat
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
-A POSTROUTING -o wlan0 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed May  7 15:48:06 2008
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Wed May  7 15:48:06 2008
*mangle
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [102:15465]
:INPUT ACCEPT [99:15345]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [75:11388]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [83:12602]
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed May  7 15:48:06 2008
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Wed May  7 15:48:06 2008
*filter
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
# Internal Network
-A INPUT -i eth0 -j ACCEPT
# Local Loopback
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
# Existing connections
-A INPUT -m state -i wlan0 --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed May  7 15:48:06 2008

```

The only line in that that does anything at the moment should be:

```

-A POSTROUTING -o wlan0 -j MASQUERADE

```

I have been using webmin to set these services up, so there should be no problem with the config files.

**The problem:**
The laptop I am using cannot connect to the internet

**Connections:**
Internet
-->
Virgin Cable Modem
-->
Belkin Wireless Router (basic config)
192.168.2.1
--> (Wireless)
192.168.2.2 (DHCP) (wlan0)
Ubuntu 8.04 Server
192.168.1.1 (eth0)
--> (Wired)
192.168.1.254 (DHCP) (eth0)
Laptop

**The situation:**
[LIST]
[*]Server and laptop both running Ubuntu 8.04 fully updated
[*]Laptop can reach wireless router through server (192.168.2.1)
[*]Server can reach the internet
[*]Laptop cannot reach internet (no ping, or web browsing)
[/LIST]

I currently do not have ipmasq or dnsmasq installed because when I do install them, the server can no longer browse the internet or the router.

Hope this is enough information for someone to see what I'm doing wrong.

Thank

Gary

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-05-09
I've not read all your post, but why can't you just directly hook everything up to the router?
 
It seems like you're going to a lot of hassle to provide router functionality in ubuntu when you already have one?

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2008-05-09
Firestarter is also another good tool.  I am using at my house and there is not much that you need to know.  It will work with a DHCP server, but will work with your router issuing DHCP also.  I have done it both ways and it works great!

The down side to this is that I still have no clue about how to configure it manually without Firestarter...

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2008-05-09
Oops.  Double-post

---

### Post by garysteinert on 2008-05-11
Basically it's more of a little project than anything. Just trying to learn a bit more about networking. I want to set up file server, web server etc on it later as well.

I've tried firestarter to no avail. I end up with the same situation.

Thanks for your help. Anyone got any more ideas?

Gary

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-05-12
There are specific distro for this such as m0n0wall, maybe take a look at them?
 
Also, doesn't your DHCP range need to start at 192.186.1.1 as opposed to zero as zero will be the gateway address?

---

### Post by SpaceTeddy on 2008-05-12
is ip_forwarding enabled on your server ? you can check that via:
```
cat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
```
this should return 1

That's all i can think of right now - everything else was already asked or answered by your post.
In general, your setup looks just fine.

As a sidenote - the dhcp-server configruation should never include the IP of the server itself. Since the dhcp starts at the highest IP first, this will most likely never be a problem, but in the end, the server will issue it's only IP if you don't start the range at 192.168.1.2

---

### Post by garysteinert on 2008-05-14
I'm pretty sure I've enabled IP forwarding. But I will check when I get home. I'll change the DHCP address range as well.

I know this is completely off topic, but why does the DHCP server start at the highest address, every other DHCP I've come up against starts at the lowest! To be fair, I haven't had much to do with linux DHCP servers.

Thanks for your help

---

### Post by Iowan on 2008-05-14
> **garysteinert said:**
> I'm pretty sure I've enabled IP forwarding. But I will check when I get home. I'll change the DHCP address range as well.

I know this is completely off topic, but why does the DHCP server start at the highest address, every other DHCP I've come up against starts at the lowest! To be fair, I haven't had much to do with linux DHCP servers.

Thanks for your help

Whilst you're changing the DHCP range... make sure any static addresses are OUTSIDE the range - it wouldn't do to have a client and the router with 192.168.1.1.
IIRC, my DHCP server (Ubuntu) issues from lowest address upwards.

Oops - guess SpaceTeddy already covered the range issue.

---

### Post by garysteinert on 2008-05-19
Okay, I've checked ip forwarding, and it is enabled, and I've changed my dhcp ranges but still no joy! Even worse, I cant get through to the router any more :(

Any more ideas!?

Thanks

---

### Post by Iowan on 2008-05-19
What's your new IP range?  Unfortunately, I'm not familiar w/ iptables to say if the new range runs afoul of a setting.

---

### Post by garysteinert on 2008-05-20
The new range is 192.168.2.2 to 192.168.2.254. The iptables config should be alright as I set it up through webmin.

Thanks

Gary

---

