---
title: "11.10 - No Ip adress port connection"
date: 2011-12-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wobymax on 2011-12-16
Hi,

I have in hands a work to do in C language that needs a connection to a especific IP adress and specific port, that is a server created by teacher.

I have windows 7 64 bits, and I use virtual box program to create a virtual machine of Ubuntu 11.10 64 bits.

When I do this on terminal: "telnet "xxx.xxx.xxx.xx port"

it just shows:  Trying to connect xxx.xxx.xxx.xx...

and nothing more happens. But my teacher says that if the connection its maded it should shows this:

 Trying [xxx.xxx.xxx.xx]("tel:193.137.179.82")...
  Connected to [xxx.xxx.xxx.xx]("tel:193.137.179.82").
  Escape character is '^]'.
  Connection closed by foreign host.

I have connection to internet (http ports)

I already tried to add exceptions to the firewall making this:


ufw allow port

but problem still there

regards,

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-12-16
Hello


If you can ping his machine then either his machine is not listening on port 22 or its blocked either on his machine or on the way to it.

Are there any other services on his machine you can check like regular telnet , ftp or web to ensure the ports re open?

---

### Post by wobymax on 2011-12-17
> **jonobr said:**
> Hello


If you can ping his machine then either his machine is not listening on port 22 or its blocked either on his machine or on the way to it.

Are there any other services on his machine you can check like regular telnet , ftp or web to ensure the ports re open?

Dont know why.. but after almost a "century" I found one thing in youtube. 

Something about enable Vbox guest additions... now it works :P:P

---

### Post by Iowan on 2011-12-17
[[SOLVED]?]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads")
Post a link - Virtualization is still on my To-Do list... :)

---

### Post by wobymax on 2011-12-18
yes, just forgot to put the Solved icon lol

---

