---
title: "Tried to share internet connection--I broke it."
date: 2008-03-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Grays on 2008-03-02
**My Setup:**

grays-server : my "gateway" computer that interfaces with the campus network so that I don't have to run their client on all my machines. It has two ethernet ports, eth0 and eth1. eth0 is connected to the network. (And is currently broken.)

I'm trying to get eth1 to connect to a router so that I can run my desktop and my laptop without dealing with the network filter. (It's just annoying, and the router can't connect to the network directly due to the network filter.) Also, I'm running Synergy on all the machines. Or, was, before I installed Ubuntu on grays-server.

**My Experience:**

I've fiddled with networking on all Windows platforms. I understand routers, gateways, etc. to the extent that I can set up a fairly complicated network using Windows systems. I am a complete newbie to Linux, and though I've tried Fedora before, I gave it up out of frustration. 

**My Problem:**

First, I broke my internet. I don't know what I did wrong, but I followed [these](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/sharing-internet-connection-in-ubuntu.html) steps to the letter, and everything seemed to go right. (That is, no error messages.) I barely understood a thing I was typing, but I decided that whoever wrote that new more than I did. :S

I restarted, and no internet. I can't ping google. It's like the cable isn't plugged in. Here's the output of ifconfig -a, route -n, and cat /etc/resolv.conf, which I saw in another thread was helpful:
> root@grays-server:~# ifconfig -a
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:11:D8:92:31:DA  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:4258 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:36 errors:0 dropped:2 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:402898 (393.4 KB)  TX bytes:4684 (4.5 KB)
          Interrupt:20 Base address:0xb800 

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:14:BF:5F:6C:E7  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:457 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:21 errors:8 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:16
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:42843 (41.8 KB)  TX bytes:2262 (2.2 KB)
          Interrupt:21 Base address:0xd400 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:42 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:42 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:3528 (3.4 KB)  TX bytes:3528 (3.4 KB)

root@grays-server:~# route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
root@grays-server:~# cat /etc/resolv.conf
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!

search resnet.txstate.edu


nameserver 147.26.8.11
nameserver 147.26.8.12
nameserver 72.18.160.12

So. Can anyone help me out? I'm lost. I don't understand the IP information here, as it's in a wildly different format from Windows ipconfig. And please, if you reply, keep in mind that I don't have any idea what the hell I'm doing in Ubuntu. ¬.¬

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Grays on 2008-03-05
Nevermind. >_> I reinstalled ubuntu, tried it again, still couldn't get it to work. So, I just reformatted with Win2k...sooo much easier to set up internet sharing.

---

### Post by SpaceTeddy on 2008-03-05
not that is is of any use now - but your network devices did not have any ip addresses, which means that you had an unconfigured network... 
assigning ip-addresses to your network cards or using a dhcp would have (most likely) solved the issue...

---

