---
title: "8.04 NFS problem"
date: 2008-10-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cynon83 on 2008-10-26
I should start this thread by saying that this used to work.  Even with 8.04.

Because I made a very simple mistake, I ended up having to rebuild the Linux OS on my dual boot machine.  Not fun.  In the process, I lost some of my config files, and one thing I really need to work is nfs mount.

I'm trying to nfs mount some directories from my linux server.  I can get the directories to mount, but for some reason, I can't actually write or execute the files some of the files.  Now, these files and directories are NOT set up so just anyone can write to them.  Only I have access.

The info in the export directory on the server is as follows:
mydirs 192.168.x.x(rw) 192.168.y.y

where x = the server machine, and y = the target machine ips

On the client machine, I've entered this line into my fstab:
servermachinename:/mydirs /mnt/myfiles nfs defaults 0 0

I also tried the following:
servermachinename:/mydirs /mnt/myfiles nfs rsize=8192,wsize=8192,timeo=14,intr


(The above is all on one line in the fstab -- even if it doesn't look like it here)

As I said, the nfs mount is working, and I can read and write to files with completely open permissions.  However, files that I was able to access before the client machine crashed, I can no longer access (except with Samba), and I have no idea why.

Could anyone give a hand?

Thanks!

---

### Post by nixscripter on 2008-10-26
I think it has to do with the owner of the files. Look into the root_squash, anonymous_squash, and similar options in the [exports manual page]("http://linux.die.net/man/5/exports"). Did you set one of those on the server?

---

### Post by cynon83 on 2008-10-27
I don't remember, but I don't think so.  Maybe.  Thing is, the server side should be good because that wasn't changed.  It's the client side that isn't working as it should.

---

### Post by nixscripter on 2008-10-28
In that case, is the user ID for the new client the same as the old one? That would mean files owned on the server by the old one wouldn't be recognized as the same user. The ```
id
``` command in terminal is one way to check.

---

