---
title: "7.10: Any wireless improvements?"
date: 2007-10-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Sasquatch2000 on 2007-10-16
Did wireless improve with the 7.10 release?


This is an updated poll, based on the post here:

[6.10 Any wireless improvements? ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=318397")


Thanks.

---

### Post by siodine on 2007-10-16
Does anyone know how I can remove the intel 4965 drivers loaded with gutsy so I can try ndiswrapper?

---

### Post by 00ber n00b on 2007-10-16
the led for my wireless button and wireless indicator flashes erratically, it didi nothing with feisy.  I fixed it by using the native drivers the last time.

---

### Post by Sasquatch2000 on 2007-10-18
So, some stats after 2 days:

93 views


[LIST]
[*]Wireless improved with 7.10  	   	0  	0%
[*]Wireless stayed the same with 7.10 	2 	50.00%
[*]Wireless got worse with 7.10 	 	2 	50.00%
[/LIST]


Looks like 7.10 is not good so far if you want wireless.

---

### Post by johnl on 2007-10-18
I know that I and a lot of other people have had problems with the wireless randomly 'hanging' under Gutsy, where the connection appears to be fine, but no data is transmitted or received.  I really didn't use wireless too much under Feisty, but I don't recall having this problem when I did.

---

### Post by Sasquatch2000 on 2007-10-19
Maybe this thread should be moved (or have a shortcut located at) some 7.10 forum category instead of the Networking & Wireless one. 

Moderators, feel free to move this if it makes sense to do so. 

Thanks, and TGIF!

---

### Post by dcroxton on 2007-10-19
Wireless improved for me, because now I can use WPA out of the box.  (There was some workaround under Feisty, but I couldn't get it to work.)

It's still not perfect, because my psk keeps getting reset every time I reboot.  I have to change it 4 or 5 times in the gui to get it to stay changed.

But at least it works!

Sincerely,
Derek

---

### Post by Whiffle on 2007-10-19
LEAP, WEP, WPA, etc all work out of the box for my ipw2200, I'm a happy camper.  MUCH improved over feisty.

---

### Post by MegaJim on 2007-10-19
Latest version of Network Manager doesn't seem to support roaming with ndiswrapper... means manual configuration on each boot.

---

### Post by Mazza558 on 2007-10-19
It seems they went too far trying to get wireless to be easier to use. Bcm43 users get an incredibly sub-par driver with the restricted drivers manager, meaning that they have to put MORE effort in to uninstall the restricted drivers and go with good old ndiswrapper. 

My laptop is currently updating the repositories, and the estimated time alternates between nearly 50,000 days and "unknown". Google takes rougly 20 seconds to load.

---

### Post by juniorsonny on 2007-10-19
In Feisty mine worked great but now in Gutsy it won't connect.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2007-10-28
> Voters: 30. You have already voted on this poll
I didn't vote already.
I just finished installing gusty. I have already witnessed a huge improvement in bcm4318 wireless. (worked right away)
I can connect to the internet from the other end of my house now. (I had to be within 5 feet of my AP when i first installed fiesty)
I can only seem to get 24Mbit, but fiesty's driver limited it to 11Mbit (woohoo...twice as fast)
I am having a problem with my touch pad freezing for a sec every now and then and i'm suspecting it has something to do with either the wireless or Ethernet not being hooked up.

but anyway kudos ubuntu and fw-cutter teams for getting this stubborn wifi card to work.

> It seems they went too far trying to get wireless to be easier to use. Bcm43 users get an incredibly sub-par driver with the restricted drivers manager, meaning that they have to put MORE effort in to uninstall the restricted drivers and go with good old ndiswrapper.

I wouldn't call it a sub-par driver. Yes it has been limited, But what would you expect to get out of reverse engineering...I think that pushing the bcm43 driver instead of the ndiswrapper is important for us bcm users otherwise no progress would be made to get away from having to keep windows drivers on our system.
And for those that are just starting out with linux, having to mess with ndiswrapper may just turn them back to windows.
Don't get me wrong, I will be switching to ndiswrapper...But I think that the progress that has been made is good.

---

### Post by st0rmforce on 2007-10-28
My laptop has an integrated wifi chip (Centrino) which Feisty couldn't see at all, and neither can winXP with the latest drivers (possibly needs vista, hahaha)
But gutsy sees it, configured it and uses it.woohoo!

The only problem I have is the connection seems to drop out occasionally, but I had exactly the same problem with feisty and a PCMCIA wifi card (hardware problems methinks).

---

### Post by WrathofthePenguin on 2007-10-28
I've experienced massive improvement. In 7.04 I had to configure ndiswrapper and wpa-supplicant and connecting to wireless networks was not reliable at all. I'd often have to attempt connection several times and sometimes could not connect at all. I installed Gutsy, enabled the restricted driver and allowed it to download the driver - it's worked almost flawlessly ever since. I connect on the first try every time, and the speed is not a problem at all. Nice work!

---

### Post by spier on 2007-10-28
I voted "Things got worse" after an upgrade, but maybe I should change to "stayed the same"?!
After upgrading from Feisty to Gutsy, NM lost the abillity to scan neighbour APs, letting me connect only through a manual config. But after reinstalling NM I got everything working like  Feisty.

---

### Post by bull8042 on 2007-10-28
It would be nice to see a poll of the group of users having problems after switching to Gutsy to see which wireless card they are using.
I have a Dell E1505 with an Intel ipw3945abg wireless card. In Feisty, it worked reliably on any network I could see, but didn't detect as many APs in my neighborhood as my Dell 9100 with an Intel 2915. Also, the wifi LED pulsed and blinked constantly.
In Gutsy, I can see some of the other APs now, but can't connect without killing Networkmanager and Knetworkmanager, then restarting them. Then, sometimes it connects and sometimes not. Reboot and try again. When it finally connects, the LED is steady and not blinking....usually. It may stay connected for hours or maybe only for a few minutes. If it disconnects, forget it. It will NOT re-connect with my AP without rebooting, regardless of what I try.
Really aggravating, to say the least......

---

### Post by lavinog on 2007-10-28
> **lavinog said:**
> 
I am having a problem with my touch pad freezing for a sec every now and then and i'm suspecting it has something to do with either the wireless or Ethernet not being hooked up.


Update:
Switched to ndiswrapper, and touchpad working fine now.
Guess I should see if a bug report has been filed.

---

### Post by Sasquatch2000 on 2008-04-14
Bump, before 8.04 comes out. By the way, any hints at if 8.04 is going to be any better?

---

