---
title: "9.04 + ndisgtk + Marvell W8300 = death"
date: 2009-06-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by malignor on 2009-06-23
So I install the .deb packages from the 9.04 CD (ndiswrapper common, ndiswrapper1.9, and ndisgtk), toss in my D-link CD and grab the .inf and .sys files. I use ndisgtk to install the driver, get the warning that it can't find the hardware (which means nothing), and then connect just fine to my wireless network.

So far so good, right?

Then I do some updates and restart my machine.
It loads up.
I log in.
Gnome freezes.

CTRL+ALT+F2, log in, hit "*top*". Nothing unusual. *sudo tail -f /var/log/messages* ... freeze up! Nothing happens. The HDD isn't active.

CTRL+ALT+F3, log in, hit "*top*". Still nothing unusual. Maybe I just need to uninstall the driver? *sudo ndiswrapper -r mrv8k51*. ... freeze up! Nothing happens. The HDD still isn't active!

So I reinstall Ubuntu. Kill the partition, start over.

Reinstall the .deb packages, reinstall the windows D-link driver with ndisgtk (this time I use the WinXP driver, not win2k). Same result.

So I reinstall Ubuntu. Kill the partition, start over...

Tried installing via typing *ndiswrapper -r [filename]* ... same result; freeze-up.

So I reinstall Ubuntu. Kill the partition, start over...

Reinstall the .deb packages, reinstall the windows D-link driver with ndisgtk (this time I use the WinXP driver, not win2k). [COLOR="Red"]If I **uninstall** the driver via ndisgtk, I can restart without gnome freezing up, just fine. Then when I start up, I need to open up ndisgtk and reinstall the driver again.[/COLOR]

What da heck is goin on here?!

=LSHW=```
  *-network:0             
       description: Wireless interface
       product: Marvell W8300 802.11 Adapter
       vendor: Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
       physical id: b
       bus info: pci@0000:00:0b.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 07
       serial: 00:0f:3d:51:c6:80
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ndiswrapper+mrv8k51 driverversion=1.53+D-Link,1/09/2004,2.3.0.1 ip=172.17.1.248 latency=34 module=ndiswrapper multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11b
```
=LSPCI=```
00:0b.0 Ethernet controller: Marvell Technology Group Ltd. Marvell W8300 802.11 Adapter (rev 07)
```
=NDISWRAPPER -L (when installed)=```
malignor@malignor-desktop:~$ ndiswrapper -l
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper, it will be ignored in a future release.
mrv8k51 : driver installed
	device (11AB:1FA6) present
```

Also note that once I install the driver, I just wait 10 seconds, connect, and then I can disable the driver again & still surf (it's obviously in memory).

Has anyone seen this problem before?

EDIT: When I first install 9.04, my wireless card is UNCLAIMED. There are never any "windows drivers" from jockey-gtk.

---

### Post by Nyken on 2009-06-29
Hope you're still there.

No idea myself, but I'm in the identical fix you're in. I tired installing the driver in recovery mode and got it to work once and was able to resume and get to the gnome desktop normally and surf and whatnot. However, this only worked as long as I didn't shut down the computer. Loging out was fine, but I had better not damn well shut it down or I was back to square one. 

Personally, I'm trying to figure out a script that doesn't run until the desktop is up. For the life of me I don't know where to place such a thing or how to make sure it gets the network up only after log in and desktop are done and up. Only automated workaround I can figure out right now. This has been happening for a good while, and I wish this problem was worked out  by now.

If you don't mind me asking... how did you get your antenna to stay on? Mine falls off once in a while and it's only been out of the box for six days. The little brass part that screws in the antenna looks like it should have been soldered on, but wasn't.

---

### Post by malignor on 2009-06-29
> **Nyken said:**
> Personally, I'm trying to figure out a script that doesn't run until the desktop is up. For the life of me I don't know where to place such a thing or how to make sure it gets the network up only after log in and desktop are done and up. Only automated workaround I can figure out right now. This has been happening for a good while, and I wish this problem was worked out  by now.I've made a script that runs after startup, but it doesn't work. It installs the driver, waits 10 seconds, then removes it (after it's uninstalled it still works) but for some reason the installation is done incompletely and effectively does nothing (for some reason it only works when I do it manually). So I stopped it.

... now that I think of it I should just remove NDISwrapper from the modules list, then have i manually added with the same script.

If I get it working I'll post how it pans out; subscribe to this thread and if you get an update, we can both rejoice.> If you don't mind me asking... how did you get your antenna to stay on? Mine falls off once in a while and it's only been out of the box for six days. The little brass part that screws in the antenna looks like it should have been soldered on, but wasn't.Looks like you got a faulty card. My threaded antenna mount is still on just fine. I don't use the original antenna, though. I use a [D-link directional antenna]("http://www.specialtech.co.uk/spshop/customer/product.php?productid=7185&cat=8&page=1") because it's the only way I can get a solid connection through 2 floors and 4 walls (my router is in my basement, my office on the 2nd floor).

---

### Post by Nyken on 2009-06-30
Yeah, was thinking of the homemade antenna route. Some friends made some nice ones out of coffee cans lol. 

Yep, going to subsribe to this thread. 

Did you update your kernel? I'm afraid to after reading all the wifi problems people are having. Writing this with a working wifi connection on Ubuntu ATM. Like I said, I just don't dare do a cold reboot of this thing, unless I want to reinstall again.

Thinking up looking up some Gnome forums and seeing what they say about wifi drivers colliding with Gnome.

---

### Post by Nyken on 2009-06-30
Tried setting Ubuntu to load only to the command line and started the internet connection after logging in with a script I put together from reading websites about starting wireless connections from linux command lines.

This is the script I named it load-wireless and saved it in /usr/bin:

sudo ifconfig wlan0 up
sudo iwconfig wlan0 essid KTLA (or rather your own wireless router's name)
sudo dhclient wlan0 

Works damn good. One of the things I like about moden linux terminal commands is that they are a lot more intellegent than the old DOS commands to get a net connection running. DHCP resolution is hella faster than anything Ubuntu was doing on it's own. I made a custom launcher for it on my top toolbar.

I also removed ndiswrapper from /etc/modules. This allows Gnome to completely boot up as normal. I think as long as the ndiswrapper is left in /etc/modprobe.d/ the kernal can call on it when you run the load-wireless script. 

Well, this is the workaround that I guess I'll have to just settle on for now, at least until I can find a better solution. I'm going to write this whole thing up as a how-to on the forums.

---

### Post by Smashbox on 2009-07-02
YES! DUDE! You nailed it EXACTLY what was going wrong with me as well. All applications freeze including gnome panel and anything you try to run, and you cannot run root commands in any of the terminals without them just locking up. In the past 5 days I have re installed maybe 20 times working on this problem. I am going to probably just buy a newer wireless card that works with Ubuntu's default drivers rather then go through this crap again. If you find a solution PLEASE post, I will be checking this every day.

---

### Post by Nyken on 2009-07-04
LOL I feel like this so many times.

Just do it from the angle I outlined up top and it will work. Gnome isn't going to play nice and it doesn't seem anyone capable is interested in making a software solution so this work around is about it for this situation. I actually really don't mind so much. Unless I'm actually using it, I don't see a reason for my internet connection to be on.

---

### Post by Nyken on 2009-07-16
&#65279;This is the ultimate solution to this problem. I originally posted a how-to on this on the forums, but have had to made changes as I learned new information. This is the final and best solution available - 

BEGIN PASTE 

Note: I'm making a edition to this as of July 16, 2009. It's my final revision and the summation of a lot of further research. This is the work around that WILL AUTOMATE your connection with this wifi card.  

It's my hope that an Open-Source programmer would create an installation routine/ .deb file to do this automatically.

-------

Okay, so it only took me a little over a week of research and trial and error to come up with this solution, which really is just a workaround IMHO, but it works. If it did not, then I couldn't be writing this, since I wouldn't have a working net connection.
 
The trouble with this card is that when the driver loads before or during the loading of GDM, the Gnome Desktop Manager, you'll have problems. The first symptom will be that you don't get that login screen tone you normally get. You will be able to login, but then your desktop will never finish loading. Annoying, yes.
 
This is how to save yourself all that grief.
 
Installing the mrv8k51 driver for your DWL-G510 wireless card:
 
Insert the driver CD that came with your card and navigate to the /Driver/Manual and drag and drop the Win98 folder to your Home directory.
 
Open a Terminal window and then type cd /Win98 to switch to that directory.
 
Type ndiswrapper -i mrv8k51.inf and hit enter. That should install the driver. If you didn't get any message of any kind, then you should be good.
 
Type ndiswrapper -m to add it to the /etc/modprobe.d/ directory with a wlan0 alias.
 
Type modprobe ndiswrapper to set up the proper final configurations.
 
So far, these are instructions you can find just about anywhere. Where I diverge from those, is that you should NOT add ndiswrapper to /etc/modules. You simply will not need to, since Ubuntu 9.04 does this for you. It's no longer in mine, and I'm online. I'm not an expert, so I'm surmising that once it's listed in the modprobe.d directory, modprobe will call it up when it's needed later.
 
Check the /etc/modprobe.d directory for an ndiswrapper entry to be sure.
 

Starting your network connection:
 
After figuring that the only way for the card and Gnome to live peacefully is for the card to let her in first, I looked up how to get a wireless connection going from the command line. This is the sequence that I use on this card:
 
sudo ifconfig wlan0 up (to bring the connection up)
 
sudo iwconfig wlan0 essid KTLA (replace KTLA with your router's name)
 
sudo dhclient wlan0 (to get make a DHCP request from your router)
 
I made a script with all these commands named load-wireless and made it executable by typing sudo chmod +x load-wireless and copied it to /usr/bin (sudo cp load-wireless /usr/bin).
 
** Here is where I make the meaningful change to this how-to -- **

In our last episode, I stated:

Then, I created a laucher that referrences that script by adding a panel by right-clicking on the top bar and selecting "Add to Panel." Chose "Custom Application Launcher" and added typed load-wireless into the Command field, naming the panel appropriately and adding a comment ("Yay!") and clicking "ok."
 
You will have to click on that launcher after logging in to get online. 

*** Don't bother with this part. You're never going to have to do this. Ever. ***

The REAL key is for your wireless connection to be up and running long before Gnome, KDE, or Xfre even gets out of bed for the day. To automatically be loaded each boot time, the wireless driver needs to be already at the street corner as Gnome or it's K and X counterparts are getting their morning papers off the lawn.

This means adding load-wireless to Ubuntu's init-scripts. This process I found @ [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBootupHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBootupHowto)

Slightly distilling the data there, this is what I did to get the much desired automated start up and shutdown of my connection with this card. 

In a Terminal:

1) type sudo cp load-wireless /etc/init.d
2) then type sudo chmod +x /etc/init.d/load-wireless
3) then, to make Bootup run it
    a) cd to /etc/init.d 
    b) type sudo update-rc.d load-wireless start 51 S .
       ** Make sure sudo update-rc.d load-wireless start 51 S . is typed EXACTLY like that - include the "." 
      Or just cut and paste that =) **
       ** I added the cd /etc/init.d part just to be safe. **

Shutdown your computer completely and turn it back on. I like to cold start changes like this becasue I'm a neat freak about things like this and don't want to risk something getting in the way.

You shouldn't have any trouble getting to your desktop now. Plus, notice your wireless gauge... looks good, huh?

This all works for me. I hope it does for you too.
END PASTE

It works, loading automatically and doesn't lock up the desktop one bit.

---

### Post by Smashbox on 2009-07-18
I would try it, but I already bought a new wireless cards and have zero problems with wrapping that driver. I am putting the old card in a diff comp so If I install Linux on it I will refer back to this thread and post results. Thank you for your time in coming up with a solution for this problem.

---

### Post by sloppyc on 2009-09-07
Awesome, thank you for this.  It was obvious that ndiswrapper was somehow preventing Gnome from loading, but I was at a loss as to what to do about it... that and I couldn't find another solution to get the wireless card working (I was having a hard enough time figuring out what chipset my G510 used).  Now I've got something concrete to try out.


EDIT:  Upon further inspection, it appears that this only works for unsecured networks?  I don't see how to enter my WPA info here.

---

### Post by sloppyc on 2009-09-09
Bumping this one more time in case there's another sucker like me with this card.

Thank you Nyken, your solution helped me to avoid the frozen Gnome problem perfectly.  I coupled that with information in [this thread ](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684495), and now my wifi is perfect.  Works better than it ever did in Windows, even.

---

### Post by Nyken on 2009-09-10
I posted how to do that on another thread about sharing internet connections with a Mac. I've cut and pasted the part important to you here: 

Additionally, some Ubuntu set-ups like mine need to have the wireless connection up before the login screen comes up or their
desktop never finishes loading and they get none of those really awesome bongo drums playing. Or maybe you'd like your wireless
up and roaring when you decide to boot into the command line. Well, next is an option that I detailed in another post of mine, 
but this one's modified since for various reasons decided to actually use some kind of encryption this time around.

If you'd like to or need to do this, open your favorite text editor as Root. All of these next steps will need to be done as 
Root, by the way.

1) In the text editor of your choice, we're going to make a small startup script named "won," which is short of "Wireless On."

        This is the script that I use:

        ifconfig wlan0 up
        iwconfig wlan0 essid <name of network>
        iwconfig wlan0 mode managed
        iwconfig wlan0 key <the hexadecimal password you chose without the "$">
        dhclient wlan0

2) Save this script as /etc/init.d/won and make it executable by typing sudo chmod +x /etc/init.d/won


Reboot your computer and all should be well in the world. :cool:


This idea here is the Holy Grail solution we Marvell W8300 users sought - > getting the net connection running as part of booting up well before GDM or KDM is even accessed. This idea will get you a internet connection even if you're only wanting to boot to the command line. Init.d holds all the startup programs and scripts, the list of the very first programs to load, so that's when the connection needs to be made. Gnome, KDE, etc., loads as part of the second-stage.

If this doesn't work for you, this other thread has a number of other great suggestions that I'm confident will.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=571188](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=571188)

Best of luck. Took me better part of a month to find the perfect streamline for this. I'm using that card as I type this, so these steps DO work.

---

### Post by Nyken on 2009-09-10
Oops! Glad to have helped then! :lolflag:

These forums have really helped my transition from Windows. There is only one thing I can't do here now, and I will find how sooner or later - how to get EverQuest to work!

*Brain still asleep*

---

