---
title: "13.04 Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 Wireless slow"
date: 2013-11-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by deathyr on 2013-11-30
Hello,
I'm running on 64 bit ubuntu 13.04. The last weeks my wireless connection is really really slow (sometimes it's hard also to load google), before it was just fine (even if i was still on the same 13.04 installation).
If i plug the laptop with an ethernet cable the speed is ok.
This is the output of *lspci -nn | grep 0280*
```
02:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY [14e4:4315] (rev 01)
```
I have tried to disable the ipv6 and to run this command: 
*sudo gedit /etc/nsswitch.conf*
to replace this line 
*hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4*
with this
*hosts:          files dns*
but seems like this is not the problem.
Can you help me? Thank you!

---

### Post by noemail-mailinator on 2013-12-01
I have had exactly this problem too using Lubuntu 13.04 - it was unbearably slow.  Using exactly the same chipset as you too - 4312 LP-PHY and the problems came out of the blue.

I resolved it by downloading 13.10 and installing the Broadcom STA drivers but there does seem to be a bug and a total reinstallation is a bit of a drastic step (it hasn't been plain sailing either).  Given these chipsets are now years old and how many people we have working on the communities it seems really annoying something as fundamental as this is still having problems when Windows users do not have the same issues on such a widely used chipset.

---

### Post by deathyr on 2013-12-01
I tried downloading the Broadcom STA drivers but when i try to run "make clean" on the extracted folder i get 
> KBUILD_NOPEDANTIC=1 make -C /lib/modules/`uname -r`/build M=`pwd` clean
make[1]: ingresso nella directory "/usr/src/linux-headers-3.8.0-33-generic"
CFG80211 API is prefered for this kernel version
/home/user/hybrid-v35_64-nodebug-pcoem-6_30_223_141/Makefile:85: Neither CFG80211 nor Wireless Extension is enabled in kernel
make[1]: exit from directory "/usr/src/linux-headers-3.8.0-33-generic"
Does this mean they don't work on 13.04?


Edit: I enabled this in additional drivers but still no improvement

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-12-01
The latest version of the sta driver is available in the default repositories, so you don't need to download its source and compile manually. But most of us wireless troubleshooters here believe that the native b43 driver is the best one for this card that you have. So I'd like to take a look at your overall wifi setup before suggesting anything.

Please follow the "Wireless Script" link in my signature, download and run the script as per instructions there, and post back the report it generates.

While posting the outputs, please use 'Code' tags, not the 'Quote' tags (see the "Using Code Tags" link in my signature to see how to use it in different modes).

---

