---
title: "8.04.1, RT2860 PCI card, WPA2-PSK, 80211G Network"
date: 2008-10-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by TBerk on 2008-10-23
I'm having trouble getting an AirLink101 PCI card to install in HH 8.04.1.  I can transfer/install from a USB drive (no wired access at the moment.)

My network has a wireless router running WPA2-PSK-TKIP at 80211G speeds. 

So far I've done an install of the build essentials from the 8.04.1 CD and I have 

2008_0918_RT2860_Linux_STA_v1.8.0.0.tar.bz2

and 

graphical frontend for ndiswrapper 0.8.3-1
ndiswrapper-common
ndiswrapper-utils-1.9

(I'd like to avoid wrapping the Win32 drivers if possible.)

Any help on a pared down, how-to, with the 11G & WPA2-PSK TKIP kept in mind?

Thx,
TBerk

(edited for typos)

---

### Post by DrMelon on 2008-10-23
Have a look at the "wicd" network manager.
You can get it by looking for it in the Synaptics Package Manager or by typing
"sudo apt-get install wicd" in a terminal window.

Wicd is very useful for setting up wireless communications; I can't quite remember, but I think it finds drivers for your wireless hardware too. I was able to use Windows drivers on my Fluxbuntu laptop's Wireless PCMCIA Card using it.

Wicd has support for WPA2-PSK TKIP.

---

### Post by TBerk on 2008-10-23
I'm going to haul the system to a wired connection and see what I can do.

Hopefully I'll report back with a [solved] I can relate.


TBerk

---

### Post by TBerk on 2008-10-27
I was able to connect the system to a wired network and download the latest updates as of 26Oct08. 

I installed the Wicd utility, it asked me if I wanted to install a driver and I pointed it at the WIN32 versions of the RealTech RT2860 drivers.  It took it but doesn't show any available network nor active wireless adapter.


TBerk

---

### Post by TBerk on 2009-03-13
I was able to get this config running by uninstalling Network Manager and going with wicd (currently ver 1.5.9). 

A search or wicd and/or RT2860 should turn up the fix.


TBerk

---

