---
title: "WG111v2"
date: 2009-11-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sbentjies on 2009-11-18
I'm a newb and am posting here as it's the network section. I have a WG111v2 Netgear wireless dongle. I want to know how to install it-from what I read I need ndiswrapper installed. Someone please steer me on this. I'm on 8.10

Thanks,

SB

---

### Post by bkratz on 2009-11-18
Here is one for you

[http://bimma.me.uk/2009/03/29/netgear-wg111v2-wireless-usb-adapter-on-ubuntu-810/](http://bimma.me.uk/2009/03/29/netgear-wg111v2-wireless-usb-adapter-on-ubuntu-810/)

---

### Post by sbentjies on 2009-11-18
This must be for a different release-I do not have those files in the correct folders (for example  sudo /etc/dbus-1/event.d/25NetworkManager is not there to stop. I get "command not found". I looked in gedit and found the directory not there-hidden?) Directories /etc/default/NetworkManager and /etc/default/NetworkManagerDispatcher do not exist to drop an "exit" in. Time to backup and punt?

---

### Post by gaming_guy on 2009-11-18
i use 8.10 and it didn't need any form of extra drivers. it was plug and play IIRC.

---

### Post by sbentjies on 2009-11-18
And what hardware are you on? I'm on an old PIII Dell GX-150. Now that I've followed part of the instructions above, Network Manager is OFF. I'm screwed.

---

### Post by sbentjies on 2009-11-18
How do I get my Network Manager applet restarted? It doesn't show up in the system tray. Did I kill it with that above procedure? No wonder we're noobs. Nobody has time to learn this.

---

### Post by sbentjies on 2009-11-18
Where do I copy the Win98 directory? How do I install ndiswrapper once there?


Thanks,

SB

---

### Post by williejones on 2009-11-18
To install Ndiswrapper:

Select System Administration, Software Sources.  Check the box  to add CDROM/DVD

Then go to System, Administration, Synaptic Manager

Search for ndiswrappre, mark the 3 packages to install, apply, install.

After they load to to System, Administration, Add Windows Wireless Drivers.

Add the .inf file for Windows XP

---

### Post by mrksem454 on 2010-05-06
> **bkratz said:**
> Here is one for you

[http://bimma.me.uk/2009/03/29/netgear-wg111v2-wireless-usb-adapter-on-ubuntu-810/](http://bimma.me.uk/2009/03/29/netgear-wg111v2-wireless-usb-adapter-on-ubuntu-810/)


Good one, And Also, If you are using ubuntu, you need build-essential from the install cd or live-cd. I have got it working, but I learned how to setup a WG111v2 by reading puppy linux tutorials.

---

### Post by kachkeis on 2010-05-09
Hi there,

Try this thread, it's for the WPN111 but i heard that it COULD be  helping for other Netgear adapters. Or  You just use it for inspiration to find a solution.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1477931](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1477931)

Cheers,
kachkeis :smile:

---

