---
title: "10.04 slow wifi :("
date: 2010-05-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mr_biglz0rth1985 on 2010-05-07
Okay....my wireless connection is not able to pull anything seemingly. I have a Dell inspiron 1501 with the wireless Broadcom 4311 in it. Broadcom! whoohoo!
but the thing that my roommate said to me the other day was Hey man why do you keeping logging in and out of yahoo?
Being that I incorporated Yahoo in with my Empathy chat client. So it tells me that Either I have a WEAK/Slow Connection or that my connection is continually reconnecting. And I'm literally 4 feet away from the wireless router. What do I do....?
Anyone feel free to

---

### Post by unmole on 2010-05-07
Are you using BCM4x drivers or STA. Using STA seemed to fix connectivity issues for me.

---

### Post by mr_biglz0rth1985 on 2010-05-07
> **unmole said:**
> Are you using BCM4x drivers or STA. Using STA seemed to fix connectivity issues for me.

yeah I think I'm using the drivers that Broadcom gives me. Don't I need to disable them before using the STA stuff?
I use Synaptics packet manager instead of terminal....so does that mean I will have to manually go in and disable the commands for the drivers or can I hang tight and not worry about it?

---

### Post by mr_biglz0rth1985 on 2010-05-07
> **mr_biglz0rth1985 said:**
> yeah I think I'm using the drivers that Broadcom gives me. Don't I need to disable them before using the STA stuff?
I use Synaptics packet manager instead of terminal....so does that mean I will have to manually go in and disable the commands for the drivers or can I hang tight and not worry about it?

You know what .....maybe pulling a newb move and reformatting and reinstalling helps me out a lot more....at least I am learning from what I need to do....just a bit of recommendation....I would NOT recommend the STA drivers. The FWcutter stuff is completely better for my machine. But to each their own. Thanks for the advice :D

---

