---
title: "How to connect with a Dell Wireless 5505 mobile Broadband (3G HSDPA) minicard modem"
date: 2007-02-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by njedwards on 2007-02-21
How to connect with a Dell Wireless 5505 mobile Broadband (3G HSDPA) minicard modem

And please go easy on me, because this is my forth day away from windows and using ubuntu.

I would realy be greatfull for any assistance.

Regards 
Norman

---

### Post by ionman on 2007-08-22
Okay. Time to give back to the community!

I have a Dell Wireless 5500 Mobile Broadband Card in my XPS M1210, but it should close enough to work. The process should be the same.

First of all, I must thank gmendoza for his incredibly helpful post found [here]("http://www.savvyadmin.com/2007/06/03/ubuntu-dell-5700-evdo/").

I have slightly adapted it for the AT&T network and card, and it works like a beauty. Here is my HSDPA in 10 easy steps tutorial:

**Step 1.**
Open a terminal and run 'lsusb'
You should see a list similar to the following:
```

Bus 005 Device 012: ID 046d:c222 Logitech, Inc. 
Bus 005 Device 011: ID 046d:c221 Logitech, Inc. 
Bus 005 Device 010: ID 046d:c223 Logitech, Inc. 
Bus 005 Device 009: ID 046d:c041 Logitech, Inc. 
Bus 005 Device 008: ID 0424:2504 Standard Microsystems Corp. 
Bus 005 Device 006: ID 046d:08c6 Logitech, Inc. 
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 003 Device 003: ID 413c:8115 Dell Computer Corp. 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 0000:0000
```

The one you are looking for is the **Bus 003 Device 003: ID 413c:8115 Dell Computer Corp. **. Your Bus number may be different, and this is what you want to check for.

**Step 2.**
Now run 'sudo lsusb -v | less' and you should see a really long list. Search through it until you find your card. It should read something like this:
```

Bus 004 Device 002: ID 413c:8115 Dell Computer Corp. 
Device Descriptor:
  bLength                18
  bDescriptorType         1
  bcdUSB               1.10
  bDeviceClass            0 (Defined at Interface level)
  bDeviceSubClass         0 
  bDeviceProtocol         0 
  bMaxPacketSize0        64
  idVendor           0x413c Dell Computer Corp.
  idProduct          0x8115 
  bcdDevice            0.00
  iManufacturer           1 Novatel Wireless
  iProduct                2 Novatel Wireless HSDPA Modem
  iSerial                 0
...
...
```

The two things you are looking for here are the ** idVendor           0x413c Dell Computer Corp.** and **idProduct          0x8115**. Write these two lines down, copy them to the clipboard, or somehow have them accessible for the next step.

**Step 3**
Run this command, but **replace the vendor and product id's with the information from step 2**.:
```
sudo modprobe usbserial vendor=0x413c product=0x8115
```

**Step 4**

Run this command:
```
grep tty /var/log/messages
```

You should see text at the bottom that says something like "usb 4-2: generic converter now attached to ttyUSB0"

ttyUSB0 is where the device is now connected, however it may be slightly different on your machine.

**Step 5**
The following will make sure that it gets activated at boot:
Run gedit
```
sudo gedit /etc/modules
```
and add the following to the end of the file:
```
echo usbserial vendor=0x413c product=0x8115
```
Again, make sure your id's are correct here. They may be different.

**Step 6**
Now you can use pppconfig to create a new modem connection:
```
sudo pppconfig
```

Select Create a connection
Provider Name: att
Select Dynamic DNS
Select PAP as the Authentication method
Username: [email]WAP@CINGULARGPRS.COM[/email]
Password: CINGULAR1
Speed: 115200
Select Tone
Phone Number: *99#
Define device as dev/ttyUSB0

When you are done here, you can close pppconfig

**Step 7**
The following two lines will make it so your connection does not randomly drop:
Open gedit again:
```
sudo gedit /etc/ppp/peers/att
```
Add the following lines to the end of the file:
```

echo lcp-echo-failure 0
echo lcp-echo-interval 0
```

Your final /etc/ppp/peers/att file should look like this:
```
# This optionfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.15. 
# 
#
hide-password 
noauth
connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/att"
debug
/dev/ttyUSB0
115200
defaultroute
noipdefault 
user "WAP@CINGULARGPRS.COM"
remotename att
ipparam att

usepeerdns
lcp-echo-failure 0
lcp-echo-interval 0
```

**Step 8**
Run gedit again to add this to your network interfaces list:
```
sudo gedit  /etc/network/interfaces
```
```

iface ppp0 inet ppp
provider att
```

**Step 9**
Restart your network manager:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/dbus restart
```

**Step 10**
Click your connection icon and connect to your new connection! The status icon won't change at all for me, and I have not figured this one out yet. If anyone knows why please advise. You should be able to launch your browser and surf though. Also, I have not been able to get Gaim to work over the air. I don't know why yet either. Enjoy! I hope this works for you!

---

### Post by ionman on 2007-08-23
Okay, I have changed the tutorial slightly, and it should work better now. Let me know if I have written something wrong. I don't think I can help you if it does not work, as I am pretty new at this as well. I will say that if the connection does not work, run ifconfig, and make sure ppp0 is listed. If it is not, the card is not setup right. If it is, and you still can't connect, you probably don't have signal, or you set up the connection info wrong. Check your /etc/ppp/peers/att file. Hope this helps someone out there!

- ionman

---

### Post by Liet_Kynes on 2008-02-03
Any Idea how to get an embedded 3G card to work?

---

