---
title: "Network not working in 10.04"
date: 2010-09-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Sailing_Nut on 2010-09-16
Hi all,

I'm a n00b to Linux & Ubuntu.

A while ago I downloaded a VMWare VM for 7.10. I then upgraded it to 8.10 and it was working just fine. I just did the upgrade to 10.04 and I'm having problems with my networking.

The really odd thing is that I can ping machines on my local network and out on the Internet by IP address but it will not resolve names using DNS.

I've got the network set up for DHCP. I also tried DHCP address only and manually entered my DNS server addresses but still no luck on resolving names with DNS.

At the end of the day, I don't really care if I get this fixed or just get a new VMWare VM. (I can't create one because I only have the player.)

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Sailing_Nut on 2010-09-16
So I did some Googling & found a VMWare image for 10.04 (Get better results when you use the proper terms)

I now have that image up and running BUT I have the exact same problem! I can get to things by IP address, but the system will NOT resolve any names using DNS. ](*,)

Please help!

I really want to start using Ubuntu and learning more, but it's a bit hard with it this way! (However what a great learning experience, painful problem right from the start! :p )

---

### Post by Sailing_Nut on 2010-09-16
Sorry to keep replying to my own post, but I keep looking around & reading & finding new stuff.

So it *looks* like it got the DNS servers properly because my /etc/resolv.conf looks like this:

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain wtbhome.net
search wtbhome.net
nameserver 192.168.0.2
nameserver 71.242.0.12
nameserver 71.252.0.12
```

And if it helps any here's the output of route -n

```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth1
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth1
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth1

```

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-09-16
Maybe I was just lucky (doesn't happen often), but my DNSMasq DHCP/DNS server lets me ping even DHCP clients by name - IF they've sent their hostname via the "send host-name" line in /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf

---

### Post by roccity1 on 2010-09-16
What happens if you comment out your router ip in /etc/resolv.conf? I'm just wondering if your router is not resolving host names. Also if you are running this in VMWare what are the settings for the network? NAT,bridge?

---

### Post by Sailing_Nut on 2010-09-16
> **roccity1 said:**
> What happens if you comment out your router ip in /etc/resolv.conf? I'm just wondering if your router is not resolving host names. Also if you are running this in VMWare what are the settings for the network? NAT,bridge?

THANKS for the reply!

The 192.168.0.2 is actually not my router. It is my Win 2K3 server that handles DNS. My router is 192.168.0.1.

In VMWare the network adapter is set to Bridge.

I want to use the Bridge setting because this is on a company laptop and I VPN in to my network. I don't want the traffic from the Ubuntu VM to go through the VPN.

Anything else I should try?

---

### Post by Sailing_Nut on 2010-09-16
Just tried the obvious (since I'm not on my VPN now) I set the VMWare networking to NAT and things work fine.

So, it seems it's not a problem with Ubuntu at all, rather a problem with VMWare or an unfortunate interaction between them.

I'm going to see if I can find anything on VMWare forums about this sort of problem

---

