---
title: "How to manually update my Ethernet driver for my Gigabyte 970A-D3 mobo?"
date: 2013-06-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by fllowers on 2013-06-04
I have Ubuntu 12.10 booted from a flash drive on a new custom build and I can't get online with my Ethernet wired connection. Ubuntu is registering that it is connected to Ethernet but is not online. Advice Please? Thanks greatly in advance.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-06-04
Please show these terminal outputs:
```

lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
lsmod
ifconfig -a
cat /etc/network/interfaces
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
How do you want to connect? Modem or Router?

---

### Post by fllowers on 2013-06-04
Thank you so much for your quick response.

lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
grep: net: No such file or directory

cat /etc/network/interfaces
#interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown (8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

cat /etc/resolv.conf
#Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#        DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN 


With lsmod and ifconfig -a is there a particular line that you're looking for or should I type out the whole set? 
I'm having to type all this out as I don't know a more efficient way to do it. I would be more than happy to type out both complete sets if necessary though.

I have a modem/router combo.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-06-04
Check

```
lspci -nnk | grep Ethernet
```

---

### Post by fllowers on 2013-06-04
lspci -nnk | grep Ethernet
04:00.0 Ethernet Controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168 B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller [10ec:8168] (rev 06)

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-06-05
Enter the router interface and add the login/PW of your ISP in "PPPoE"-settings, see manual.

---

### Post by fllowers on 2013-06-05
How do I go about doing that? Just a few more details so I can figure it out please.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-06-07
Add the IP address of your router into the URL line of firefox

---

