---
title: "Getting &quot;Available version: 6.20.155.1+bdcom-0ubuntu0.0.1&quot; to work"
date: 2013-04-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2013-04-02
I tried installing this driver and it messed up my wireless and had to downgrade.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]240904[/ATTACH]
What do I have to do to get it to work, will it work?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-04-04
>  it messed up my wireless In what way? Does your wireless no longer work? Does it try to connect and it never authenticates? Does it connect but it's slow? Does it cause green smoke to pour out of your keyboard? Please open a terminal and run and post:```
lspci -nn -d 14e4:
sudo dpkg -s linux-headers-`uname -r`
```Those tickmarks are on the left side of my US keyboard on the same key with ~.

Are you experiencing a problem that you hoped to solve by installing a later driver version? What, specifically, is it?

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2013-04-04
My mistake. By recollection, as the problem has been fixed by the downgrade, it would not connect to any networks; they were visible though.

```

default@default-laptop:~$ lspci -nn -d 14e4:
03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller [14e4:4727] (rev 01)
default@default-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg -s linux-headers-`uname -r`
[sudo] password for default: 
Package: linux-headers-3.2.0-39-generic
Status: install ok installed
Priority: optional
Section: devel
Installed-Size: 11008
Maintainer: Ubuntu Kernel Team <kernel-team@lists.ubuntu.com>
Architecture: amd64
Source: linux
Version: 3.2.0-39.62
Provides: linux-headers, linux-headers-3.0
Depends: linux-headers-3.2.0-39, libc6 (>= 2.14)
Description: Linux kernel headers for version 3.2.0 on 64 bit x86 SMP
 This package provides kernel header files for version 3.2.0 on
 64 bit x86 SMP.
 .
 This is for sites that want the latest kernel headers.  Please read
 /usr/share/doc/linux-headers-3.2.0-39/debian.README.gz for details.
default@default-laptop:~$ 

```

Will it work or should I just wait for the next update?

I'm just trying to make sure my computer is up to date. Trying to prevent problems.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-04-05
> **WaNaBePi said:**
> By recollection, as the problem has been fixed by the downgrade, it would not connect to any networks; they were visible though.If the problem was fixed by downgrading the bcmwl-kernel-source package, I'd leave well enough alone. If you are a tweak-it-till-it breaks kind of person and* MUST* get the later version to work, no matter what, I'll try to help. Tell me what you prefer.

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2013-04-06
I am a a "tweak-it-till-it breaks kind of person" however I'll leave it alone if you don't think the upgrade makes a big difference. I did notice at the end of the upgrade changes tab it reads
"**Version 5.100.82.38+bdcom-0ubuntu6.1:**

*debian/bcmwl-kernel-source.postinst:
-black list brcmfmac, brcmsmac and bcma so that they don't
conflict with the closed driver [(LP:#873117)]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bcmwl/+bug/873117")"


I Don't fully comprehend the directions here.

So it may just be a "simple" black list, only I'm too much of a newb to do that.

All that in mind what do you think. Should the upgrade be done/attempted?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-04-06
> So it may just be a "simple" black list, only I'm too much of a newb to do that.If that's all it is, I wouldn't waste my CPU cycles on it. Amending a blacklist file is quite easy. The bcmwl-kernel-source package automatically blacklists possibly conflicting drivers by adding a new file: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf. On my machine, its contents are:```
# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist brcm80211
blacklist brcmfmac
blacklist brcmsmac
blacklist bcma
```As you can see, the changes you listed above are already included. Check yours:```
cat /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf
```If those additions are not present, simply add them:```
gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf
```The text editor will open the file ready for changes; add them if not already present:```
# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist brcm80211
[COLOR="#FF0000"]blacklist brcmfmac
blacklist brcmsmac
blacklist bcma[/COLOR]
```Proofread, save and close the text editor.

Now, since your wireless works perfectly well, I doubt the blacklists are pertinent to your exact device; otherwise, you would have been complaining that your wireless was not working correctly. However, if you are, like me, a bit OCD, gedit and have fun!> All that in mind what do you think. Should the upgrade be done/attempted? If the intent is to make your wireless run a bit better, then no. If the intent is to learn and conquer a problem, then sure, let's go ahead.

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2013-04-06
Well that was easy. Works great. Had to restart to get it to run after the install though, but that's to be expected.

Thank you very much chili555.

SOLVED.

---

