---
title: "10.04 Wifi disconnects, and won't reconnect."
date: 2010-10-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by SirBlain on 2010-10-18
Ok I've been looking on all kinds of different forums for about 2 days and haven't found a solution.

I have a HP DV9000 laptop dual booting Ubuntu and Windows 7.

Everything's been great and I'm really impressed with the new version of Ubuntu. But I have this problem where I randomly get disconnected from the router, then it won't reconnect. I tried to delete the connection and reconfigure. Nothing. I tried using Wicd(?) forgot what it's called but it's never worked (just says connecting to DHCP for hours). 

I'm posting this on the access point I can't connect to with Ubuntu, but can perfectly fine on Windows.

This is driving me nuts and I'd hate to leave Ubuntu again..

---

### Post by leclerc65 on 2010-10-18
Hook the wired network cable, install Ndiswrapper with Synaptics and try it (sudo ndisgtk). You'll be prompted for the Windows driver, just direct the program to its location (do you have the Windows driver for your Wifi card ?).

---

### Post by SirBlain on 2010-10-18
I looked around but couldn't find where the driver would be located. Is it in my system32 folder or on the ubuntu drive? 

Oh and thanks for the quick response!

---

### Post by mruschmann on 2010-10-18
Try what i did on this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9992669#post9992669](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9992669#post9992669)

---

### Post by mruschmann on 2010-10-18
sorry about posting another one, but try the documentation, it always proves to be of some use ... I have found a far superior one than the one I originally used:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/)

---

### Post by SirBlain on 2010-10-18
Thanks mrusch. I gave everything a try and it didn't work at first, but after deleting the connection again and putting in the password it connected! Im not sure if this was the fix or not, if the problem persists I'll post but thanks for the help guys.

---

