---
title: "12.04 - Wireless card not reading as N - slow speeds"
date: 2012-10-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by NickoHall on 2012-10-15
Hi

I have recently installed Ubuntu 12.04 and noticed that my internet was going extremely slow compared to when i was on windows. My download speeds on Windows were roughly 1.6 mbps (bytes not bits) and now the max it reaches is roughly 400 kbps (bytes not bits). I have googled and googled and tried every solution i could find including turning off power management, some terminal commands, installing wicd, etc. and none of them worked. Then I typed iwconfig into the terminal to have a lil looksee and i noticed that my card is only reading and b/g adapter when it in fact has N capability. Im guessing this is the cause for the dramatic loss in speed. Im sorry i can't provide the model of adapter as there are no stickers or indications on my laptop to tell me and i could never find out what it exactly was in Windows either. It is, though, a HP Pavillion dv6 laptop. Is there a way I can make Ubuntu recognize my adapter as an N device? I never had this trouble with 11.10. I should also mention that in the network manager it shows that my connection is only at 54mbps.

- Update: I had a look at the stickies under this section and installed the firmware for the Broadcom adapter. Seeing as now iwconfig displays my adapter as b/g/n now instead of b/g only, im guessing my adapter is a broadcom. Alas, I thought this had fixed my problems but as i tested my internet speed with anticipation and i found that it is just the same. No speed increases. Although the network manager is saying my connection is at 65mbps instead of 54mbps but no changes to speed.

Any help would be appreciated

Thanks! :)

---

