---
title: "12.04, do I need to load another driver for Realtek USB dongle?"
date: 2012-07-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by yorkwils on 2012-07-03
Acer Aspire laptop with PCI wifi and Realtek USB wifi dongle. PCI wifi is fairly reliable but Realtek wifi will only connect very rarely. (Ubuntu 12.04 LTS)

I can't get data from the laptop until later but from memory I think the dongle is R8191(or 2)E chipset and the driver loaded is R**72U (sorry, memory not good).

I'm guessing I need another driver? If I do, how would I load it (absolute beginner).

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-07-03
That should be in there. You might need to go online with a cable with the dongle plugged in and do an update then check 'Additional Drivers'. I have a couple of those running without any problems.

Just a question: why aren't you using the internal wifi card if that is up and reliable? You might need to switch that off to get the other one going. You could plug in the dongle and post the result of this:

```
sudo lshw -C network
```

---

### Post by yorkwils on 2012-07-03
Thanks for that, good to know it should work. Will post the response to the code, probably tomorrow, as that is the first time I can get online reliably, and also try the update with a cable.

The PCI wifi is not a strong enough signal (I'm staying in temporary accommodation and can't install a repeater) so I want to use the Realtek dongle (has detachable aerial) with a directional aerial to boost the signal. Even with the dongle just plugged into the laptop it finds more wifi signals than the PCI wifi but, I can't connect except very occasionally. I've also done a test near a router, again the PCI wifi connects no problem but the dongle has only connected a couple of times in the last few days. When it does connect it works fine.

There is no BIOS setting to turn off the PCI wifi, just the wifi switch on the front of the laptop which turns off both wifis at the same time so no use.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-07-03
If it has worked with the internal card on, if only briefly, then that is a good sign. We'll know more with the result of that code.

---

### Post by yorkwils on 2012-07-03
Here's the response:

linux@linux-Aspire-5630:~$ sudo lshw -C network
[sudo] password for linux: 
Sorry, try again.
[sudo] password for linux: 
  *-network               
       description: Wireless interface
       product: PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:05:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:18:de:24:c4:4d
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwl3945 driverversion=3.2.0-23-generic-pae firmware=15.32.2.9 ip=10.89.209.234 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abg
       resources: irq:44 memory:d0100000-d0100fff
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 1
       bus info: pci@0000:06:01.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:16:d4:5f:0d:81
       size: 10Mbit/s
       capacity: 100Mbit/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list ethernet physical mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=b44 driverversion=2.0 duplex=half latency=64 link=no multicast=yes port=twisted pair speed=10Mbit/s
       resources: irq:21 memory:d0000000-d0001fff
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       physical id: 2
       bus info: usb@1:1
       logical name: wlan1
       serial: 00:0d:81:a0:81:0a
       capabilities: ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=r8712u multicast=yes wireless=unassociated
linux@linux-Aspire-5630:~$ 

I'm guessing the "wireless=unassociated" in the last line might be an issue as it differs from the same line for the PCI wifi?

I'm only part-way through the update process as it takes forever with the weak wifi signal, should be much better during the day when I can use Ethernet.

---

### Post by yorkwils on 2012-07-04
I forgot to mention: When I try and connect using the dongle, the NM icon at top right flashes to show it is connecting, then goes solid and give a message to say "connected" (but it isn't and Firefox can't load any pages). After about 30 seconds another message appears and says "disconnected" and then the whole procedure is repeated several times until it gives up.

On the occasions that the dongle connects, it is almost instantaneous with Firefox able to access pages at normal speed. The dongle remains connected for a reasonable time but then disconnects for no apparent reason.

---

### Post by yorkwils on 2012-07-04
Did the software update but no change...

---

