---
title: "connect to networks, but can't use http etc"
date: 2010-07-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by troglodyt on 2010-07-17
Hi all

I have a weird networking problem on my Ubuntu 10.04

I can connect to wired or wireless networks, but I can't connect to any host
using http pop3 etc., unless I use IP addresses instead of names.
i.e. if i  type google.com in firefox I can't connect, but if I first 
ping google.com, get its IP then type it in the browser, then it connects.

Looks like a DNS problem, but the ping gets the IP correctly.
This is browser independent and also affects my mozilla mail, etc.

Skype works fine, though!
Other computers on this network have no problems.

Also, this has first happened when I connected to some weird network in an airport, yesterday. I paid no attention then, but now that I have the same on my home net
I realize I'm in trouble (typing this from another machine :( ).

Any ideas what this may be?
Thanks!

---

### Post by troglodyt on 2010-07-18
I've got firefox working by disabling ipv6 in it. Also I think i managed to disable ipv6 globally, but it didn't help.  My thunderird and opera and some other things still don't work. Any ideas what this might be, anybody?? thanx

---

### Post by troglodyt on 2010-07-19
i tried installing ubuntu 10.04 on another machine that's running XP currently, 
and I get the same problem exactly.
It connects to the network, but internet doesn't work (e.g. updater doesn't work).
I did get firefox working by disabling ipv6 in it, but disabling ipv6 globally doesn't do the trick to other programs.

help?

---

### Post by brijeshbmehta on 2010-07-19
I have also the same problem!!!

Plz help if anyone have solution. :(

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-07-19
What is in */etc/resolv.conf*? If it's your normal nameserver, you might check [MTU]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1376506").

---

### Post by troglodyt on 2010-07-20
Thanks for replying! 

resolv.conf here:


 cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

192.168.1.1 is indeed my router.

ifconfig says that MTU is 1500, which is apparently what it's supposed to be for ethernet...

---

### Post by pearsdb on 2010-07-20
I just wiped and loaded to 10.04 and I have the same thing going on.  I had to run hardware drivers twice to get the broadcom wireless drivers.. I noticed no dns in connection info.  fine when using eth0.. 

what a pain.

is there a way to setup a local file with dns servers for now??

---

### Post by troglodyt on 2010-07-21
somehow i've got most of the applications working correctly, accept apt-get.

here's what it says when trying to download some package:

--2010-07-21 20:07:58--  (try: 3)  [http://archive.canonical.com/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/adobe-flashplugin_10.1.53.64.orig.tar.gz](http://archive.canonical.com/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/adobe-flashplugin_10.1.53.64.orig.tar.gz)
Connecting to archive.canonical.com|1.0.0.0|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
Retrying.

---

