---
title: "Huawei e272"
date: 2008-04-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by richard.billings1 on 2008-04-05
I'm a newbie to linux. Read loads of threads refering to Huawei  E220 and was wondering if any one knows if the same would apply to my newer E272 FamilyVodafone USB modem?

---

### Post by pseudo-random on 2008-04-29
I've successfully setup my HUAWEI E220 using the vodafone-mobile-connect software but am having real trouble with a friend's E272.
It won't work with the VMC software and debugging with wvdial and minicom reveals it can communicate but is getting "NO CARRIER" or ERROR 16 when attempting to dial *99***#.
I've been following the steps here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=302464](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=302464) amongst others and up to a point it works well with the E272 until it attempts to dial.
If anyone has got the pebble model E272 working on Ubuntu could they please post how they did it.
Thanks.

---

### Post by pseudo-random on 2008-05-01
SOLVED.
I used an old winblows box and some serial port monitoring software to show the initial modem 'chat'.
You will need to add these lines to your /etc/chatscripts/vodafone script after ''    ATZ:
```

OK	'AT&FE0V1X1&D2&C1 s0=0'
OK	'AT+CGDCONT=16,"IP","internet";'
OK	'ATS0=0'
```

Also, the phone number is different to all the other Hi-speed data tutorials out there: *99***16# instead of *99***1#. 
I had pppd exit code 2 errors with wvdial and gnome-ppp but got it working with pon.
A full Tut is on my site here: [http://wintolin.co.uk/content.php?c=tuts/e272](http://wintolin.co.uk/content.php?c=tuts/e272)

:)

---

### Post by mckie on 2008-05-31
I am confused by what I should enter in the "Network Settings" from the Daryna control centre. Using a Huawei E272 which is working on an existing computer what do I enter for DNS for instance and then the other options available ?

---

### Post by scottybowl on 2008-06-17
I have downloaded the software and it says

1) plug in your device now. Count to 3 then hit any key...

I hit a key and it outputs:

crw-rw---- 1 root dialout 188, 0 2008-06-17 20:57 /dev/ttyUSB0
crw-rw---- 1 root dialout 188, 1 2008-06-17 20:57 /dev/ttyUSB1
crw-rw---- 1 root dialout 188, 2 2008-06-17 20:57 /dev/ttyUSB2
crw-rw---- 1 root dialout 188, 3 2008-06-17 20:57 /dev/ttyUSB3
crw-rw---- 1 root dialout 188, 4 2008-06-17 20:57 /dev/ttyUSB4
crw-rw---- 1 root dialout 188, 5 2008-06-17 20:57 /dev/ttyUSB5
Do you have 3 devices listed: y or no?


Well - as you can probably see, I don't have 3 devices listed. If I say y it opens up the device and shows all the windows executables, if I say n it tells me to try again.

Any ideas on what I need to do?

---

### Post by pseudo-random on 2008-06-17
Hi Scotty.
That install script will first copy two files.
vodafone (PPP config file to /etc/ppp/peers)
vodafone_chatscript (additional parameters to /etc/chatscripts)
It will then run the command "pon vodafone" if you press yes.
This will make a PPP connection using the vodafone modem settings provided.
You can check its connected with 
```
ifconfig
``` 
Look for ppp0.

Here's the file contents:

vodafone:
> # This optionfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.17. 
# 
#
hide-password 
noauth
connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/vodafone_chatscript"
debug
/dev/ttyUSB0
460800
defaultroute
noipdefault 
user "web"
 
ipparam vodafone

usepeerdns

vodafone_chatscript:

> # This chatfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.17.
# Please do not delete any of the comments.  Pppconfig needs them.
# 
# ispauth CHAP
# abortstring
ABORT BUSY ABORT 'NO CARRIER' ABORT VOICE ABORT 'NO DIALTONE' ABORT 'NO DIAL TONE' ABORT 'NO ANSWER' ABORT DELAYED
# modeminit
'' ATZ
OK	'AT&FE0V1X1&D2&C1 s0=0'
OK	'AT+CGDCONT=16,"IP","internet";'
OK	'ATS0=0'
# ispnumber
OK-AT-OK "ATDT*99***16#"
# ispconnect
CONNECT \d\c
# prelogin

# ispname
# isppassword
# postlogin

# end of pppconfig stuff

---

### Post by scottybowl on 2008-06-17
Please excuse my ignorance but I'm new to Linux :)

How do I create an install script?

---

### Post by pseudo-random on 2008-06-18
You can find one in that package. 
You just need to make it executable (as per instructions).
Also, can you explain what you mean by:
> If I say y it opens up the device and shows all the windows executables
I take that to mean that it mounts the small drive on the device and shows you the windows setup.exe program and associated drivers?
If thats the case you don't want to be mounting this thing as a storage device. Right Click then unmount it, unplug it then run 
```
sudo rmmod usb-storage
```
Then plug it back in.
This will stop it getting mounted as a storage device.

---

### Post by jangone on 2008-06-25
Hi,
here is my problem: each time I shut down and restart my linux box, running the  vodafone-mobile-connect-card-driver-for-linux for my HUAWEI E272 the program is unable to start the driver and requires to re-recognize the device: the device is listed, but after selecting it the driver stalls and exits.
The only way to get the device working again is to re-install the program from scratch: in this case everything works fine for all users, up to the shut-down or restart.

I've just upgraded my box to Ubuntu 8.04, with no problems at all. The profile configuration I use is the default one for Italy (with correct static DNS addresses): 'vodafone' for both login and password, 'prefere G3' and 'default' for the connection. I only need to issue the PIN code just once after installation. Everything works fine (Firefox, Thunderbird, Skype, etc.) during the full session after installation, including log-out and log-in again.

After each restart, the failure.

Can someone help me understanding and correcting the problem? Thanks

P.S.
Vodafone Betavine forum already checked.

---

