---
title: "10.04 LTS - Connected, but no internet"
date: 2010-05-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
Hi Guys,

I have a very strange problem on my hands here. I found many topics alike (but not 100%) mine, but haven't found a solution and running out of options. The problem is that I cannot connect to any website using Firefox. I'm doing this on a brand spanking new Toshiba Qosmio Notebook.

We have 2 other systems in the house, a desktop running Vista x32 (wired internet) and a notebook running XP Pro x32 with wireless internet. 
The router is a Netgear WNDR3700 doing 2.4ghz B/G/N network.

The whole setup worked fine for a week, but then I got rid of the standard Win7 image after being fed up with it as I always do and installed 10.04 LTS.

The symptoms:

I cannot connect to any website. Firefox will tell me the page could not be reached bla bla. When I look at the connection settings, nothing is wrong. I've been assigned an IP address, am able to ping my gateway (router) and I can even ping to [www.google.com](www.google.com) with no apparent issues.

I cannot however reach any websites, not even using their IP address instead of the host name. 

When I connect my notebook via wired ethernet, nothing's the matter, everything working fine. Once I go back to wireless, the proverdial cow excrement hits the rotating metal blades again - no websites reacheable whatsoever.

I have tried:

Power cycling the router
Upgrading router firmware
Disabled use of IPv6 in my /etc/sysctl.conf (and reverted to original state again)
Enabled IPv6 specifically in 'edit connections' (and disabled it again)
Switched from IPv4 'auto dhcp' to 'dhcp, addresses only' (and back again)
FF Proxy on standard settings
FF Proxy on Auto
FF Proxy on 'no proxy'
Rebooting
Disconnecting/reconnecting Wireless connection

the other systems, even the wireless XP Pro notebook are having no issues at all. What am I not seeing here?

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
Little addon:

I can play world of warcraft via the wireless... it's just Firefox that won't work.

I'm completely puzzled here.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-30
Dunno why it would have changed, but have you checked MTU? Buried in [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1376506") thread is a way to check.

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
Well to start off with, some ping statistics while on wireless: (typing this post on wired though, only way i can have problem-free internet)

```
diango@Lightspeed:~$ iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     802.11bgn  ESSID:"Lightspeed Airnet"  Nickname:"rtl8191SEVA2"
          Mode:Managed  Frequency=2.412 GHz  Access Point: 00:24:B2:57:09:D3   
          Bit Rate=300 Mb/s   
          Retry:on   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=59/100  Signal level=-62 dBm  Noise level=-99 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

pan0      no wireless extensions.

diango@Lightspeed:~$ ping localhost
PING localhost (127.0.0.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
Warning: time of day goes back (-138us), taking countermeasures.
64 bytes from localhost (127.0.0.1): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.129 ms
64 bytes from localhost (127.0.0.1): icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.041 ms
64 bytes from localhost (127.0.0.1): icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.047 ms
^C
--- localhost ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 3 received, 0% packet loss, time 1998ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.041/0.072/0.129/0.040 ms
diango@Lightspeed:~$ ping 192.168.1.1
PING 192.168.1.1 (192.168.1.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=2.73 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=1.91 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=3.40 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=2.68 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.1.1: icmp_seq=5 ttl=64 time=2.31 ms
^C
--- 192.168.1.1 ping statistics ---
5 packets transmitted, 5 received, 0% packet loss, time 4007ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 1.916/2.612/3.406/0.497 ms
diango@Lightspeed:~$ ping www.google.com
PING www.l.google.com (209.85.227.147) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from wy-in-f147.1e100.net (209.85.227.147): icmp_seq=1 ttl=55 time=16.8 ms
64 bytes from wy-in-f147.1e100.net (209.85.227.147): icmp_seq=2 ttl=55 time=14.4 ms
64 bytes from wy-in-f147.1e100.net (209.85.227.147): icmp_seq=3 ttl=55 time=16.2 ms
64 bytes from wy-in-f147.1e100.net (209.85.227.147): icmp_seq=4 ttl=55 time=27.6 ms
64 bytes from wy-in-f147.1e100.net (209.85.227.147): icmp_seq=5 ttl=55 time=16.5 ms
^C
--- www.l.google.com ping statistics ---
5 packets transmitted, 5 received, 0% packet loss, time 4006ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 14.475/18.368/27.685/4.732 ms
diango@Lightspeed:~$ 

```

As you can see I pinged myself, the router and google.com, all were succesfull.

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
Now, I don't exactly know (yet, going to dive into it later) what MTU is, but I tried some examples from the topic you gave me, using a popular website here in the Netherlands which I frequently visit but was unable to reach or ping through wireless:

```
diango@Lightspeed:~$ ping www.fok.nl
PING www.fok.nl (87.233.27.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
^C
--- www.fok.nl ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 0 received, 100% packet loss, time 2003ms

diango@Lightspeed:~$ ping www.fok.nl -c 1 -s 1499 -M do
PING www.fok.nl (87.233.27.8) 1499(1527) bytes of data.
From Lightspeed.local (192.168.1.51) icmp_seq=1 Frag needed and DF set (mtu = 1500)

--- www.fok.nl ping statistics ---
0 packets transmitted, 0 received, +1 errors

diango@Lightspeed:~$ ping www.fok.nl -c 1 -s 1472 -M do
PING www.fok.nl (87.233.27.8) 1472(1500) bytes of data.

--- www.fok.nl ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 0 received, 100% packet loss, time 0ms

diango@Lightspeed:~$ ping www.fok.nl -c 1 -s 1500 -M do
PING www.fok.nl (87.233.27.8) 1500(1528) bytes of data.
From Lightspeed.local (192.168.1.51) icmp_seq=1 Frag needed and DF set (mtu = 1500)

--- www.fok.nl ping statistics ---
0 packets transmitted, 0 received, +1 errors

diango@Lightspeed:~$ ping www.fok.nl -c 1 -s 1450 -M do
PING www.fok.nl (87.233.27.8) 1450(1478) bytes of data.

--- www.fok.nl ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 0 received, 100% packet loss, time 0ms

diango@Lightspeed:~$ ping 87.233.27.8
PING 87.233.27.8 (87.233.27.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
^C
--- 87.233.27.8 ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 0 received, 100% packet loss, time 2008ms

diango@Lightspeed:~$
```

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
This might be an extra hint as to what is bugging me:

Before I installed Ubuntu, tried Kubuntu but decided I was gonna ditch it hours after installing because Phonon always gives me issues with Wine games. The issues described in this topic:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475006&highlight=wireless+ping](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475006&highlight=wireless+ping)

were happening to me too **while on Kubuntu.** 

Now that I am running Ubuntu, it seems to connect fine, with the exception of the problems leading to me starting this thread :P

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
Update:

Against better judgement I decided to try again. This time with Firefox' proxy settings back on 'auto'.

I managed to get google up and even do a search, but the whole process took up about 3 minutes before I had any sensible information on screen. I guess the whole MTU story checks out for me, but how do I solve this? Why is this even happening?

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
Changed MTU in my router to 1492 and disabled IPv6 in Ubuntu - no avail.

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
Ok this is getting weirder still...

I thought i'd install another web browser, so I pulled up the package manager and installed 'Chromium' web browser. Googling on wireless is lighting fast on wireless with this one, so thats a win over Firefox, which does nothing on wireless (and google is veeeeery slow, as in MINUTES untill you have something) but alas, even on this browser, google is all I get! No other websites to be reached.

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
Edited my connections DNS properties to use Google's DNS servers - I can browse via Wireless now, albeit a bit laggy while resolving. 

What happened here, why wouldn't this work normally ?

---

### Post by Julita on 2010-05-30
Maybe you would want to use
```
sudo chrootkit
``` to check if someone/something haven't messed with your system :)

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
> **Julita said:**
> Maybe you would want to use
```
sudo chrootkit
``` to check if someone/something haven't messed with your system :)

Command not found.

Someone told me to try and change my DNS servers. I did that, using Google's DNS servers 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4 . That helped... for a bit. I was able to browse wireless, but after roughly 2 minutes of watching youtube movies my browser would lose it again, unable to find any site whatsoever until a system reboot. Then again, 2 minutes of streaming and boom its gone again.

---

### Post by Julita on 2010-05-30
Maybe you have to check the drivers installed in your system.
```
lsmod
``` The conflicting drivers may cause the unstable connection. If it is possible, you may want to use ndiswrapper (you have to check, though, if they are available for your card.)

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-30
That doesn't make any sense at all. The connection itself is working perfectly - I can play Warcraft online for hours on end without so much as a glitch in the latency. 

It's only the browser itself which is giving me problems. Wired I can do whatever I want, Wireless the browser acts like it's connected to a 2400 baud modem.

I tried this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475036](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1475036)

But that totally breaks the browser for me.

---

### Post by Julita on 2010-05-30
I have never used Firefox. I prefer Opera. You have written that you have used Chromium and only Google opened up, albeit slowly. I am thinking that since Chromium is the product of Google, it is "trusted," so the browser recognizes it. It seems like a weird firewall to me... Try installing Opera. Does Google open up?

Actually, do
```
sudo apt-get install chrootkit
``` and run from terminal as a root ```
chrootkit
``` to check if there is any malware, just in case.

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-05-31
> **Julita said:**
> I have never used Firefox. I prefer Opera. You have written that you have used Chromium and only Google opened up, albeit slowly. I am thinking that since Chromium is the product of Google, it is "trusted," so the browser recognizes it. It seems like a weird firewall to me... Try installing Opera. Does Google open up?

Actually, do
```
sudo apt-get install chrootkit
``` and run from terminal as a root ```
chrootkit
``` to check if there is any malware, just in case.

Then why don't I have these problems while working on a wired connection? Firefox has no problems accessing those same sites that way. It's the combination http/wireless connection that is hosing up. Even when on wireless, other internet-apps like online games will work.

Couldn't find package 'chrootkit' btw.

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-06-03
I found another thread, although a bit old, which seems to have the exact same problem but he didn't go as far as trying pinging a site from terminal etc. 

[http://forums.macrumors.com/showthread.php?t=270247](http://forums.macrumors.com/showthread.php?t=270247)

This man also seems to have the exact same problem:

[http://techrepublic.com.com/5208-6230-0.html?forumID=101&threadID=214568&start=0](http://techrepublic.com.com/5208-6230-0.html?forumID=101&threadID=214568&start=0)

If I recap, I have been using Linux for almost a year now. First on my desktop, now on my notebook. I've never had this problem before, but it does not seem to be related to my new notebook at all: It's a Firefox + Wireless problem, maybe even a Firefox/Netgear problem (although I find that hard to believe). 

I tried setting custom DNS servers in my wireless settings again but that won't work anymore either. Lowering MTU value was useless as well. 

They only website that will work at this point through a wireless connection is google. I can search, but every given link or website other then google itself will 'not be found'.

---

### Post by htt-thalan on 2010-06-05
Solved....

after resetting the router to factory default (no luck there), reinstalling Ubuntu (nope, no fix either) and lots and lots of rants:

I had to lower the Wireless network speed in the router to 54mpbs. Although my card is perfectly capable of connecting to 130/300mpbs networks, it has troubles with the Combination Toshiba Qosmio/Netgear WNDR3700 router. It works now.

Really stupid fix and no logic to it at all, because there was a connection and I COULD get on google with it and ping everyone, etc. Anyhow, fixed :)

---

