---
title: "12.04LTS Wifi random occurance of disconnection (i know... i know just here me out)"
date: 2013-08-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by FenrirXIII on 2013-08-11
I know i know it has been ask but i just want to make sure its not a unique situation.
Okay, in the past, It never used to happen but recently... more specific this past 3 days, my wifi randomly disconnect... sometimes its within minutes... sometimes its within hours earlier today i expercienced both: after booting to ubuntu12.04LTS within 5 minutes the wifi disconnects. restarted the computer then it worked fine... for at least 5 hours no wifi drop... I turn the laptop off then after 4 hours i turned it on again and it 1 hour in (more or less) it disconnected....

when it disconnects... it automatically try to reconnect but i waited and waited still nothing... i waited some more and it asks me to prompt my wireless password... i entered it and it still wont connect... it just keepts looking like its trying to connect (scan animation).

the only solution that worked best is restarting the computer.

i tried a couple of remedies:
sudo rfkill unblock wifi--------------------------------nothing happens (still scan animation)
Fn+F2------------------------------------------------------disable my wifi but then it wouldnt let me reable them or at least it takes several try of Fn-ing and F2ing
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/ath9k.conf--------looked promising but after a day... it still happened.
sudo gedit /etc/rc.local------------------------------again looks promising but the results are the same.

windows7 home edition seem to work fine.

theory:
when i watch youtube... thats when i notice it happening...(or at least because the video stop to load) (this is the most noticeable one)
wireless router is within 15 inches raduis of my laptop (which when it was further a couple of days ago... i notice it happening but i cant leave out the possibility)
when the laptop isnt in use (i mean just idling) ... it doesnt occur

well right now as im typing this im about 15 minutes in and nothing is happening so far.. (cause i dont have any youtube.. (flash?) on?)

Using Dell Inspiron N5040 with dual boot (ubuntu 12.04LTS & Win7HE)

lspci
wireless is:
Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)

firmware-b43-installer & b43-fwcutter (is installed... dont know if thats relevant)

[SIZE=4][COLOR=#ff0000]
thanks in advance!
[/COLOR][/SIZE]
also do care to enlighten me with the g/b/n or whatever it means. i know youll probably throw me at wiki but i rather hear it here from you guys :D

ADDITIONAL DETAILS

wireless router is NETGEAR
driver is ath9k

also yes.. i did the: options ath9k nohwcrypt=1
on the ath9k.config.. as well as on the rc.local

another theory
when i prompt my password to login ubuntu12.04lts... i click on FIREFOX right away...(i dont remember if i always do that though) (maybe it was still loading driver?)
wireless network name is 'virus.exe' (yeah i name it that way so the neigbor may think twice on trying to use it. (maybe the .exe is interferring?... but i doubt it)

im a bit iffy on making some of those .conf... cause one) i dont know how they work.. two) i dont know what those command means nowcrypt...iwlwifi (or whatever)

i mean ill do em but i kinda want to know what those command means first so i can get a sense on what im doing...

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-08-11
Deactivate the hardware encryption of the driver:
```

echo "options ath9k nohwcrypt=1" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/ath9k.conf
sudo modprobe -rfv ath9k
sudo modprobe -v ath9k
```

---

### Post by FenrirXIII on 2013-08-14
> **praseodym said:**
> Deactivate the hardware encryption of the driver:
```

echo "options ath9k nohwcrypt=1" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/ath9k.conf
sudo modprobe -rfv ath9k
sudo modprobe -v ath9k
```



hello @praseodym this code work... but is there a way to make this permanent... so i can prevent it from happening? thanks in advance!

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-08-15
> **FenrirXIII said:**
> hello @praseodym this code work... but is there a way to make this permanent... so i can prevent it from happening? thanks in advance!

The first command already made it permanent. You can check it with -
```
cat /sys/module/ath9k/parameters/nohwcrypt
```
It should return "1" as the output. Without the "/etc/modprobe.d/ath9k.conf" file created/modified by the first command, the output would be "0".

So if you are still having the same problem after a reboot, there may be something else to be fixed. You may generate a detailed diagnostics report by running wireless_script which you can find in the "Wireless Script" link in my signature. Attach or copy-paste this report in your next post.

---

### Post by FenrirXIII on 2013-08-15
hello @verunenda,

thanks for replying... as i was reading this post... my wireless got disconnected... with that i got distracted to read further...

the fix that @praseodym gave, gave me hope that it was fix but just when i was getting comfortable again... it happened... i tried remedying it with his method again. (and yes i know, the echo and tee -a is a permanent script) but as i was -rfv then -v, my laptop frost.... well it was after i entered the modprobe -v ath9k, so i had to reset... and now im back to reading your post... but sadly as i said, it occurs randomly as it does so i have to wait for the wireless to fail again and post you the wireless script when it do so... for now, i thank you to keep watch.

---

### Post by FenrirXIII on 2013-08-15
hello @verunenda,

alright, for a while it was working and I had to keep watch til pass midnight... but i gave up and off to sleep.. the laptop manage to repeat the wifi-drop-and-cannot-connect-after-and-ask-for-my-wifi-password this afternoon after i turned it one before 11am. i followed you instruction on getting the wireless-info but for some reason... ubuntu forum wont allow me to attach a file for upload.... but [heres a link]("https://www.dropbox.com/s/3lxvd0tfy0nzrew/wireless-info.tar.gz") to my dropbox for you to download... and oh ubuntu community.. feel free to help me out as well. thanks in advance!

---

### Post by FenrirXIII on 2013-08-15
*bump*

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-08-16
> **FenrirXIII said:**
> ubuntu forum wont allow me to attach a file for upload.... but [heres a link]("https://www.dropbox.com/s/3lxvd0tfy0nzrew/wireless-info.tar.gz") to my dropbox for you to download...
[s]
The uploaded archive is corrupt, probably that's why the forum gave you error too.

Please re-run the script and replace the older result file with the fresh one. Double-click open to check it is okay this time. If you can open it, we can open it.[/s]

**EDIT :** Err... forget above, I was trying to right-click --> save it. Wrong method for the type of link you gave. Downloaded correctly this time, using the left-click > download. Taking a look now..

---

### Post by FenrirXIII on 2013-08-16
alright, thanks! just to let you know. not too long ago, the wifi dropped again... and i used the -rfv and -v method... it started working again. but you know its only temporary

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-08-16
Can you try changing the SSID to something with just alphanumeric characters? No spaces, no special characters, dots, underscore etc.
Also, delete all the connections currently saved in NM, and try connecting fresh, if that is not a problem.

Apart from those, please post the outputs of -
```
ls /etc/modprobe.d
cat /etc/rc.local
cat /etc/modprobe.d/ath9k.conf
grep -R [0-9] /sys/module/ath9k/parameters
```
and.... did you install compat wireless drivers at some point sometime? When and why did you need it?

---

### Post by FenrirXIII on 2013-08-16
hello, thanks for replying in haste...

heres a link to all those you mention... [click in the same fashion as the other link]("https://www.dropbox.com/s/aixa0z2629qgy0z/outputs-wireless.txt"). 

about renaming the SSID... i would do it but i would also tell you that that name has been the SSID since we first change it thats about 2 years ago and everyone in the house is getting connection... my android phone works as well too... this just happens about 1 month ago.... also my laptop is dual boot 12.04LTS/Wind7. window 7 wifi works charmingly.

a little background. I have this set up as soon as i bought the laptop and it work perfect in every way i love it (ok a few adjustments here and there or tweaks but nothing i couldnt resolve myself)... its just this past month that it happened... if i didnt reply quick enough im probably asleep... thanks in advance :D

also yes i did a compat wireless install... why i needed it because one of the ubuntuforums before i receive your help suggested to do so... when? about 2 days ago...


this is the version i dl in tarball2 compat-wireless-3.5.4-1-snp

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-08-16
> **FenrirXIII said:**
> about renaming the SSID... i would do it but i would also tell you that that name has been the SSID since we first change it thats about 2 years ago and everyone in the house is getting connection...
..I have this set up as soon as i bought the laptop and it work perfect in every way i love it
.. and I'd hate to change what has been already working so far, but with the ever-growing bugs in these drivers with newer updates, I have learnt to never rule out any possibility without testing it first, no matter how small it appears, and never take things for granted.

So.. the change in SSID was just for a test, and I myself believe it most probably won't change anything. But since the most common fix couldn't help, I think we should start ruling out other possibilities, hoping to narrow down the culprit that way.

This approach also includes disabling the N-channel in your router and setting it to b/g mode only if your router provides that option.

One of my other *blind* shots is replacing the Network Manager with '[Wicd]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WICD")', but I think I'd wait for praseodym's suggestion before going that way.

Oh, and deleting the saved connections then reconnecting has been a 'magical' fix many times for many users, so try that as well.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-08-16
Hi,

lets check:
```

dmesg | grep ath
sudo iwlist scan
iwlist chan
iwconfig
cat /etc/resolv.conf
ifconfig wlan0
```

---

### Post by FenrirXIII on 2013-08-16
heres an update... i try changing the SSID but it didnt work... it still disconnects randomly so i reverted it back..

heres the thing, I couldnt find how to disable n-wireless in my router so i did the following:

* forget all known network
*instead of WPA2 i switch to WPA on my router settings(i dont know if thats going to make my laptop less secure or not) (also ths made the connection speed to 65Mb/s to 54Mb/s... which i dont mind)
*reboot
*connect to my wireless (as if it were the first time)
*viola! it seem to work.

So far it hasn't disconnected yet.... but wont uncross my fingers just yet...

@[COLOR=#000000]praseodym[/COLOR] ill consider those commands when it start to do it again cause i dont want to break this hunch just yet. i maybe onto something... also, thanks for reply... i will give you guys result of it in a few days... since, of course, dealing with random... we cant always know when itll occur.

another thing, what is the difference between WPA and WPA2(AES) is that more secure over "Big Brother"?

---

### Post by Dan Wood on 2013-08-17
I don't know if this is helpful for you, but I had very similar symptoms on my Dell XPS 13 laptop, which uses an Atheros AR9462 card using Ubuntu 12.04 LTS.
To fix it, all I had to do was:
> sudo apt-get install linux-generic-lts-quantal

This updates the Kernel from 3.2 to 3.5, and since then my wifi has been perfect.

---

