---
title: "8.10 loses wireless connection"
date: 2008-12-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by unsungzeros on 2008-12-19
I'm running 8.10 and my wireless was working great until a few days ago. I ran the update manager and there was an update for the network manager. Downloaded it. Now my wireless connection won't stay on.

When I first log in, it automatically connects after taking about a full minute to do so. Then I have about 30-45 seconds of connectivity before it disconnects and never reconnects. It keeps attempting to reconnect and prompts me for the WEP key (I know WEP is insecure, but I'm at my parents' house for the holidays, so I don't have control over that). I give it the key, it attempts, it fails and then repeats. 

I tried to connect to an unsecured wireless network my neighbor has running to see if that would work, no such luck. I am able, however, to connect without any problem to my network when running on the Windows XP side of my notebook. The wired connection also works without any problem in both Windows and Ubuntu. 

So, does anybody know anything about this update that I ran recently killing wireless? Is there another update available to fix it? Is there a way I can undo the update? Other thoughts and suggestions? Is that even the problem? Thanks for any help in advance.

My computer is an HP Pavilion dv5000. Intel Pro/Wireless 3945 ABG Wireless adapter. Running Ubuntu 8.10.

---

### Post by xjcannonx on 2008-12-19
can you please post the output of ```
lshw -C network
```

---

### Post by psychoelf on 2008-12-19
I had a similar problem with Network Manager a few weeks ago after an update.  I switched to Wicd (found on sourceforge) and that fixed my problem until the update a few days ago, which again broke my wifi.  So today I switched back to Network Manager and all is well again.  I'm guessing that some updates are breaking the Wifi controller as hardwire ethernet still worked fine through all of this.

Hopefully somebody will see this and figure out what the problem is.

---

### Post by unsungzeros on 2008-12-20
*-network               
       description: Wireless interface
       product: PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:06:00.0
       logical name: wmaster0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:13:02:46:f9:fe
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwl3945 ip=192.168.1.7 latency=0 module=iwl3945 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abg
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: PRO/100 VE Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 8
       bus info: pci@0000:08:08.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 01
       serial: 00:16:d4:0b:67:0c
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=e100 driverversion=3.5.23-k4-NAPI firmware=N/A latency=66 maxlatency=56 mingnt=8 module=e100 multicast=yes
  *-network DISABLED
       description: Ethernet interface
       physical id: 1
       logical name: pan0
       serial: 2e:06:a3:fa:3b:f8
       capabilities: ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=bridge driverversion=2.3 firmware=N/A multicast=yes

---

### Post by xjcannonx on 2008-12-20
looks like this might be a bug:

[http://https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/291685]("http://https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/291685")

it does recommend to install the linux-backports-modules-intrepid package but doesn't seem to help

---

