---
title: "8.04 Netgear MA311"
date: 2008-10-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nae5 on 2008-10-14
I have recently upgraded from 7.10 to 8.04, and for the most part more things work without tweaking than before.  However one thing doesn't work that is important.  I have a Netgear MA311 wireless adapter, I know it's kind of old but it works well enough.  Anyway, I have had to edit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist with every version of Ubuntu that I have used.  The problem seems to be that depending on which kernel you are using, it loads different drivers.
    I don't know how to check which kernel I am using because I'm not all that good with Ubuntu but here is the lspci line for my wireless card, I'm hoping that someone can tell me what I have to do to get my wireless card working.
     02:0a.0 Network controller: Intersil Corporation Prism 2.5 Wavelan chipset (rev 01)

here is my blacklist file 
# This file lists those modules which we don't want to be loaded by
# alias expansion, usually so some other driver will be loaded for the
# device instead.

# evbug is a debug tool that should be loaded explicitly
blacklist evbug

# these drivers are very simple, the HID drivers are usually preferred
blacklist usbmouse
blacklist usbkbd

# replaced by e100
blacklist eepro100

# replaced by tulip
blacklist de4x5

# causes no end of confusion by creating unexpected network interfaces
blacklist eth1394

# snd_intel8x0m can interfere with snd_intel8x0, doesn't seem to support much
# hardware on its own (Ubuntu bug #2011, #6810)
blacklist snd_intel8x0m

# causes failure to suspend on HP compaq nc6000 (Ubuntu: #10306)
blacklist i2c_i801

# replaced by p54pci
blacklist prism54

# replaced by b43 and ssb.
blacklist bcm43xx

# most apps now use garmin usb driver directly (Ubuntu: #114565)
blacklist garmin_gps

# replaced by asus-laptop (Ubuntu: #184721)
blacklist asus_acpi

Thanks in advance and let me know if there is any other information that i need to post to get this fixed, I really like Ubuntu and use it for everything that I don't absolutely have to use windows for, thanks again.

---

