---
title: "ipw2200"
date: 2005-08-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bitfoo on 2005-08-28
How can I find out what version of ipw2200 hoary ships with? I've tried modprobing it and looking at dmesg but nothing shows up.  Nothing is listed in /proc/net/wireless either.  I want to make sure I'm using 1.06 or later, though 1.04 is a minimum.  Thanks.

 ](*,) 

bytefoo@junx:/$ sudo modprobe ipw2200
bytefoo@junx:/$ dmesg | grep ipw
bytefoo@junx:

---

### Post by circussideshow on 2005-08-28
All I know is that it definetly is lower than 1.05 because I am running 1.05 now (i remember installing a driver but didn't think to look at previous one).

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-08-28
Hoary shipped with a very early version: 0.19
Install 1.0.6. It is worth it. Follow the [HOWTO](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=26623)  and it should be pretty easy for you.

---

### Post by bitfoo on 2005-08-29
Thanks! I followed the instructions and it went great!  \\:D/ 
I also installed the new kismet, so everything is working fantastic!  =D>

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-08-29
You are welcome. :) Glad it worked!

---

### Post by bitfoo on 2005-08-29
Eh, something went wrong.  After I rebooted it reverted to version 0.19 for some reason.  ieee80211 is still running and being called upon by ipw2200. so i'm not sure what else to do.

---

### Post by luca_linux on 2005-08-29
Some old module has not probably been deleted. Follow the HowTo again, but before installing, make sure that all ipw2200.ko files have been deleted by searching /lib/modules/the_kernel_version_you_are_running.

---

### Post by bitfoo on 2005-08-30
I'm dumb.  I just realized I switched to kernel 686...so of course it wouldnt work :D

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-08-30
Don't feel too bad, it happens. I've done far sillier things.

---

### Post by vtec on 2005-08-30
If ipw2200 is upgraded how will this effect future system upgrades like moving up to breezy.

---

