---
title: "19.04 Bridge Networking"
date: 2019-09-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by michaels24082 on 2019-09-26
Hello,
I am trying to setup  bridge networking in Ubuntu. I have had some success by modifying the /etc/Network/inferfaces file as follows:

  # interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
  auto lo
  iface lo inet loopback

  auto enp6s0
  iface enp6s0 inet manual

  auto br10 
  iface br10 inet dhcp
  bridge_ports enp6s0
  bridge_stp off

/etc/netplan/01-network-manager-all.yaml:

# Let NetworkManager manage all devices on this system
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: NetworkManager
  

This creates a working bridge device that will let me grab multiple dhcp4 address from my router. 


Problem. I want to associate a openvpn client to this connection. I am not having any luck using the graphical tools for Ubuntu network setup and the openvpn certificate form the provider. I am suspecting I need to have a functioning netplan for this to work. The way I have this setup, Netplan, seems to be out of picture. When I go to wired settings, the wired connection setup section is completely missing. 
When I try to add data to the Netplan Yaml file, the entire connection becomes broken, but shows up in the network connection GUI. I have spent hours combing through forums and google searches. It appears that many people have had similar issues, however, the resolutions never match whats going on in Ubuntu 19.04 . 

If I add the following to the netplan yaml configuration as many websites say to do, including the docs at [https://netplan.io/examples:](https://netplan.io/examples:) side - I added the macaddress line cause netplan was griping about needing mapping. 

# Let NetworkManager manage all devices on this system
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: NetworkManager
     ethernets:
         enp6s0:
             macaddress: "0c:9d:92:84:d6:20"
             dhcp4: no
     bridges:
         br10:
             dhcp4: yes
             interfaces: 
                 - enp6s0 

pleased note, the forum editor is striping indents. I am using two space indents consistently for all child lines.

This completely breaks my wired connection. Changing back and restarting the networking interfaces with sudo netplan apply and/or sudo systemctl restart network-manager will not correct the problem and I have to do a reboot for the network to be functional again. 

Any help with correcting or understanding the process would be greatly appreciated. 

Hardware: Asus ROG Crosshair VII Hero W-Fi, AMD Ryzen 7 1700, 64g Corsair DDR4, two Samsung NVME 500g drives.

---

### Post by Tadaen_Sylvermane on 2019-09-27
First, post the stuff in code tags. maintains formatting. Second, from my experience most of what is online about netplan is wrong, or they were using the wrong spacing. Regardless, this is my netplan config for reference. Nothing else ever worked for me other than this format. Single spaces.

```

network:
 version: 2
 renderer: networkd
 ethernets:
  enp6s0:
   dhcp4: false
 bridges:
  br10:
   interfaces: [enp6s0]
   dhcp4: true
```

I actually use a static ip, i modded mine to fit yours above.

/etc/network/interfaces shouldn't even be used. netplan is the way it's being done now.

*EDIT* didn't notice you said gui. above is for a server. for a gui I believe the netplan config should be as follows.

```
network:
 version: 2
 renderer: NetworkManager
```

Rest of configuration should be done in the gui. Not in netplan or /etc/network/interfaces.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-09-27
I don't think bridges can be setup using any GUI.
Also, netplan is the default method since 17.10.  /etc/network/interfaces is deprecated and ignored since that release as Tadaen_Sylvermane says.

And using **code tags** isnt' hard. [https://blog.jdpfu.com/code_tags](https://blog.jdpfu.com/code_tags) will redirect to instructions here. It is one of those things which is trivial to do, but hard to explain in text.

---

### Post by Tadaen_Sylvermane on 2019-09-29
I'll be damned. Idk where I got using gui for a bridge. I could swear I've done it before but the options are not in the 18.04 + interface. My apologies. Netplan config will be the only option then.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-09-29
> **Tadaen_Sylvermane said:**
> I'll be damned. Idk where I got using gui for a bridge. I could swear I've done it before but the options are not in the 18.04 + interface. My apologies. Netplan config will be the only option then.

I run an openvpn server and have a few clients, but they are on 16.04 systems.  One of the key reasons I haven't moved to 18.04 is the lack of clear network configuration examples for non-trivial needs.
 
1.5 yrs after the 18.04 release and setting a static IP **still** doesn't work at install time. Tried to set this up a few weeks ago and it required a manual fix to the netplan file.  I don't recall exactly the changes, but it was just 2 lines.

---

### Post by michaels24082 on 2019-10-02
interfaces might be depreciated, but it IS the only way I have been able to setup bridging on this 19.04 system. My setup using code tags (practice)

netplan *.yaml:

```

# Let NetworkManager manage all devices on this system
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: NetworkManager

```



interfaces:

```

# interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto enp6s0
iface enp6s0 inet manual

auto br10 
iface br10 inet dhcp
bridge_ports enp6s0
bridge_stp off

```




So any recommendations on what exactly I should put in Netplans *.yaml file to make this work?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-10-02
Interface file would only be used if ifupdown packages are installed.  If so, then you should remove netplan and only use ifupdown methods.

I would assume.  There are how-to guides for doing just that. Google should find them.

---

### Post by michaels24082 on 2019-10-02
So just for more info the netplan *.yaml file looks like:
```

# Let NetworkManager manage all devices on this system
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: NetworkManager
  ethernets:
    enp6s0:
      dhcp4: no
      dhcp6: no
  bridges:
    br10:
      interfaces: [enp6s0]
      dhcp4: yes
      dhcp6: yes

```

the network comes up and br10 is created but not linked to the ethernet card enp6s0 as seen with brctl show:
```

michael@UbuntuDesktop:~$ brctl show
bridge name    bridge id        STP enabled    interfaces
br10        8000.000000000000    yes        
virbr0        8000.525400fc06e3    yes        virbr0-nic

```

and the enp6s0 device continues to grab the ip address even though I have dhcp4 set to false. 

```

br10: flags=4099<UP,BROADCAST,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        ether 2a:9b:35:45:41:ab  txqueuelen 1000  (Ethernet)
        RX packets 0  bytes 0 (0.0 B)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
        TX packets 0  bytes 0 (0.0 B)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

enp6s0: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
        inet 192.168.1.5  netmask 255.255.255.0  broadcast 192.168.1.255
        inet6 2601:900:4300:d294:b96e:b8e1:238b:6771  prefixlen 64  scopeid 0x0<

```

I have googled, read manuals, went to websites, and spent hours researching.

---

### Post by michaels24082 on 2019-10-03
Well, after so much work, research, time, effort, thought and questions... Its the Netplan package in Ubuntu 18.04. Very disappointed. In testing the 19.10 beta, the netplan package for bridging functions correctly.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-10-03
19.10 is alpha, not even beta yet.  If the newer netplan really is the solution, there ought to be a way to use 18.04 and a netplan PPA to get the latest version from that project team.  Perhaps better than swapping out an entire LTS OS over network configs.

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/netplan.io) shows they've gone from v0.36.1 to v0.98 in the last 17 hours.  Basically, the default 18.04 netplan.io package should be the same as in 19.10-alpha today.  Might take time for repo mirrors to get the update to your local mirror.  I'm encouraged by this.  Let me see if I get that update .... yep ... 
```
The following packages will be upgraded:
  apt apt-utils cloud-init dpkg grep landscape-common libapt-inst2.0
  libapt-pkg5.0 **netplan.io** nplan sosreport thermald
```
That's on an 18.04.3 box. Here's the installed version, as hoped.
```
$ dpkg -l|grep netplan
ii  netplan.io     0.98-0ubuntu1~18.04.1    amd64  YAML network configuration abstraction for various backends

```

---

### Post by dain-bramage on 2019-10-06
I am running Ubuntu 18.04 server.

My /etc/netplan/01-netcfg.yaml config is:

```
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  ethernets:
    eno1:
      dhcp4: false
  bridges:
    br0:
      interfaces: [eno1]
      dhcp4: true

```

When I run "brctl show" no bridges are shown.

Does anyone know what I am doing wrong?

---

### Post by michaels24082 on 2019-10-07
Well, Eoan Ermine reports:

```

michael@test:~$ dpkg -l|grep netplan
ii  netplan.io                                    0.98-0ubuntu1                        amd64        YAML network configuration abstraction for various backends

```

So it must be a library used to compile or another piece of the network package.

After installing a clean build of 19.04 in a VM, I found that a bridge setup was possible and worked like 19.10 until I updated all packages to the newest version.

---

