---
title: "14.04 wifi connects and then disconnects (but says its still connected) after a while"
date: 2016-01-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kittifriti on 2016-01-13
My laptop has serious issues with wireless connection.


I'm starting to think it's a hardware thing, since it's been happening for a little over a year now, but I'd like to rule out every possibility before taking it to a repair place because they're not trustworthy here.


It doesn't really make sense to me (it being a hardware problem). At home I can successfully connect to the internet via wifi, it takes several tries to connect, sometimes it doesn't even detect the network and I need to turn off the wifi several times for it to finally connect.


However, it doesn't last long connected, soon it stops loading pages, I get disconnected from IRC and Skype, etc, even though it says it's still connected. Waiting fixes things sometimes, but most of the times I have to turn off and on again the wifi for it to work.


If I connect my laptop to a cable, it works perfectly. If I use my phone as a modem (as I'm doing right now since it won't connect to the wifi) it works perfectly too.


I recently traveled to another country and used wifi there, it didn't disconnect. Not even once. It's like it hates my home's wifi, no matter where I move, it just keeps disconnecting after a few minutes.


I really love this laptop and I've had it for 4 years now, but it's a pain when it comes to wireless connection.


Some info about my laptop:


OS: Ubuntu 14.04
Brand and model: Dell Inspiron N5050

I attached that script thing from the "Before posting..." thread

edit: thought this might be useful: I usually connect to the "Demian 2" network, sometimes to "Demian", and I have trouble with those two. "ANA WIRELESS" is the one I connected to when I traveled and didn't disconnect.

Please help me, I'm desperate. :(

---

