---
title: "Eth0 disapears in VMware and Ubuntu Server"
date: 2007-05-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tuaris on 2007-05-27
I've reproduced this error many times:

1) Download VMWare Server, and Install
2) Download Ubuntu Server 7.04, and install in VMWare
3) Complete the OS installation
4) Networking is functional, eth0 is present
5) Shutdown
6) Copy the virtual machine or rename folder that it's in
7) Launch new copy, VMWare prompts to create a new ID
8) Networking is no longer functional, eth0 is gone

The problem occurs whether or not you install VMWare tools

---

### Post by Megabird on 2007-05-31
> 7) Launch new copy, VMWare prompts to create a new ID
Networking is no longer functional, eth0 is gone

When you create a new ID, you "physically" switch to a new network card (changes the MAC address, and some other serial numbers in the bios), so it may be the explanation for the disappearance of your eth0...  Choose "Keep" when VMWare asks you to change the ID, and the eth0 should stay.

You shouldn't have two of the same VMs running at once on the same network, that's why VMWare proposes to change the ID.

---

### Post by tuaris on 2007-06-21
Ok, VMware pretty much said the same thing:

[http://www.vmware.com/community/message.jspa?messageID=655026](http://www.vmware.com/community/message.jspa?messageID=655026)

This is however, want I want.  Instead of spending another 30 minutes installing another copy of Ubuntu, I want to clone it from a template and have it appear as if it's a completely new system.

VMware mentioned something about creating an "udev" rule, but I have no idea what that is.

---

### Post by waldemarsauer on 2008-01-02
The following helped me (hopefully it will help someone else):

/etc/init.d/udev restart
/etc/init.d/networking restart

---

### Post by Predator[23rd] on 2008-01-02
> **tuaris said:**
> VMware mentioned something about creating an "udev" rule, but I have no idea what that is.

you can still do that.

once your vm is up an running type **ifconfig** to see which name your ethernet car has and adjust your */etc/network/interfaces* file. that's all...

---

### Post by frankabel on 2008-01-08
I think that the best thing is delete the eth0 line from /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules and change eth1 to eth0 in the eth1's line

I mean, my file was
# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, probably run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single line.

# PCI device 0x1022:0x2000 (pcnet32)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:0c:29:b0:1a:59", NAME="eth0"

# PCI device 0x1022:0x2000 (pcnet32)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:0c:29:38:15:ba", NAME="eth1"


but now is

# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, probably run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single line.

# PCI device 0x1022:0x2000 (pcnet32)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:0c:29:38:15:ba", NAME="eth0"


Salute
Frank Abel

---

### Post by mneisen on 2008-01-11
Same problem over here ...

Is there some expert on this topic who might shed some light on it?

---

### Post by sqbaillie on 2008-02-18
The answers above works fine for me on a copied ubuntu server 7.10 guest running in vmware server.

Just follow frankabel's advice (above) and then restart the udev and networking services (as above also).

Violla, eth0 networking again.

---

### Post by xrxca on 2008-03-21
I ran into the same problem (tracked it down by searching /etc for any file containing the mac address as I've seem similar issues before.)

There are a couple of ways to handle this, the first and easiest is to move the two files **75-persistent-net-generator.rules** and **70-persistent-net.rules** out of the /etc/udev/rules.d directory. (The first file generates the rules in the second file, You could just delete them, but if you move them you can get them back if necessary)
This should result in your interfaces being assigned device names (eth?) in order whatever the mac address.

I've also noticed that alias entries created by vmware-config-tools.pl in /etc/modules.conf seem to be ignored, so if you need a device to be something other than eth0 for some reason, there is another alternative: 

You can change the rule(s) created in the 70-persistent-net.rules to use the pci bus id instead of the mac address to assign the interface name changing it from:
```
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:0c:29:24:34:44", NAME="eth0"
```
to:
```
SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", KERNELS=="0000:00:11.0", NAME="eth2"
```
Which in this case ties eth2 to the specific device rather than to the MAC address.  I got the entry for the KERNELS field by using:
```
# udevinfo -a -p /sys/class/net/eth0 | grep KERNEL
    KERNEL=="eth0"
    KERNELS=="0000:00:11.0"
    KERNELS=="pci0000:00"
```

Of course if you add another network card to the VM or make another change that would change the PCI slot number this may have to be changed again, but for me it got rid of the headaches created when I cloned the guests.

---

