---
title: "10.04 Wired Internet not working"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by souse on 2010-05-04
Hi,

I recently did a fresh install of 10.04 from 9.04 and since then I am unable to use Internet. However my ethernet connection is working fine, as I am able to login to modem and check configuration. 

I reinstalled twice, downloaded fresh 64-bit & 32-bit and also followed kernel update steps as in few forum posts, but no joy. 

The firefox is throwing an error "The connection has timed out". My internet connection is working fine as I am able to use my Windows Laptop to post this message. 

I checked system > administration > hardware drivers and couldn't find any unsupported hardwares.

I had similar issue when upgrading to 9.10, hence stayed on 9.04. When I looked at LTS image, I couldn't resist and cleaned up 9.04 :(

Desperately need help to stay with ubuntu

Rgds, V

---

### Post by |Porsche on 2010-05-04
I am confused. Your wired Internet is not working or your wireless?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-04
@|Porsche:
Sounds like wired works from Lucid, and Internet works... but not from Lucid.

There are threads around on how to disable IPv6, and [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1376506") one discusses checking MTU.

---

### Post by souse on 2010-05-04
Apologies, if I had caused confusion.

I haven't checked Wireless yet and all my problems are around Wired connection ONLY.

As Iowan said, my wired LAN is working as I was able to able connect to my modem setup using Firefox Web browser.

I am unable to browse internet using my wired connection either through web browser or another internet based application client like evolution email.

I used network tools and ping'ed yahoo.com successfully (this proves internet connection is working fine and also the wired connection plus DNS resolution).

However when I type yahoo.com in the firefox web-browser I am unable to connect, it says connection timed out

---

### Post by souse on 2010-05-04
hi, 

I tried changing the MTU settings between 1400 & 1492. It didn't help.

---

### Post by souse on 2010-05-04
It was the problem with nameserver. I have manually configured it and Internet works :)

Thanks Iowan, you made a good day for me :)

---

