---
title: "10.04 Connection Issue"
date: 2010-05-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Bone Crusher on 2010-05-27
Hey, I just installed xubuntu on my desktop. I am using a D-Link USB to connect to the internet wireless. It picks up all of the other Networks around me, but when I try to connect to my hidden network, It will not connect. I made sure the name and password is correct. I really need to connect it to the internet. Any suggestions?

---

### Post by sloterhouse5 on 2010-05-27
Are you able to connect to any of the other (non-hidden) networks or do they fail as well?  I am having a similar problem using Realtek 8192su chipset drivers and unhiding the SSID did not resolve. Everything appears functional but will not establish a connection.  Tried both WEP and WPA.

---

### Post by Bone Crusher on 2010-05-28
Same here. I think I tried to connect with one, but didn't work. Most of them are locked. I have the same exact issue. I know everything I put in is right because I did that on my windows machine and on iPod and it worked. I just will not work on my desktop. It worked on my old Laptop with ubuntu 9.10 (which i had on my desktop and switched to 10.04 hoping it will fix the issue).

---

### Post by Bone Crusher on 2010-05-29
Does xubuntu even support D-Link? I know it doesn't support certain USB Wireless adapters. But then agian, It picks up other networks. sloterhouse5, did you try connecting to an unprotected network?

---

### Post by Bone Crusher on 2010-05-29
I just tried to connect to a unhidden network with no password required. Still didn't work.

---

