---
title: "18.04 can't get ethernet share to work"
date: 2020-09-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rodbme on 2020-09-20
[SIZE=5][SIZE=4]Hello,
I can't get internet connection sharing to work in LUBUNTU 18.04. 
Does not work in LUBUNTU 20.04, either.
I use it to transfer large files or do big rsync on hardwired ethernet  LAN.
Works like a charm in LUBUNTU 16.04. Any ideas??
Thanks,
Rod

[/SIZE][/SIZE]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-09-20
What is "ethernet share?"

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-09-20
> **TheFu said:**
> What is "ethernet share?"

Probably a "bridge".
It was a long time ago but I remember Unity having an easy to use setting for that. The same is missing in any Gnome based releases but I'm sure the same can be done with commands.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-09-20
Thought it might be about setting up a samba server for file sharing?  
[https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/install-and-configure-samba#1-overview](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/install-and-configure-samba#1-overview)

We don't see *internet connection sharing* very often around here since everyone got home routers.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Internet/ConnectionSharing](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Internet/ConnectionSharing)

We'll need help from the OP to understand better. Hopefully, there isn't any wifi involved. That makes stuff like this harder.

---

### Post by rodbme on 2020-09-20
Fu,
Thank  you for the reply. I note the ....connectionSharing post  stops at 16.04, does not include 18.04
Rod

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-09-20
> **rodbme said:**
> Fu,
Thank  you for the reply. I note the ....connectionSharing post  stops at 16.04, does not include 18.04
Rod

Can you describe the topology? Maybe there is a different term that will click so we can help besides suggesting setting up the "server" as a router.

---

### Post by rodbme on 2020-09-21
In a desktop LUBUNTU 18.04, or 20.04: 
1. hardware topology: wifi to WAN, hard wired ethernet to  LAN
2. software: go to preferences, network connections, edit  ethernet connection, IPV4 settings, select "Shared to other computers"

Works on LUBUNTU 16.04, not on 18.04 nor 20.04

Maybe the subject should be changed to read "Is there any way to have ethernet LAN support on 18 .04"

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-09-21
LAN on 18.04 works. Use network manager or netplan to configure it.  But that's not the same as turning Ubuntu into a router.  
Routers have more different security requirements than a desktop.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Router](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Router)

---

### Post by rodbme on 2020-09-22
Fu, 
Thank you again for the reply.When I use the network manager, under the IPV4 settings, the choices offered are Automatic, Manual, Link-local, Shared, and Disabled.
Link-local appears not to work. What setting should I select for LAN? 
Regards,
Rod

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-09-22
Sorry, but I've not tried to use network manager in about a decade. I purge it from all my systems.  Does the *Ubuntu Desktop Guide* not have instructions?

---

