---
title: "10.4 x64 and Win7x64 Samba"
date: 2010-09-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by e.s.a. on 2010-09-07
Okay- admittedly, I've not used any nix distro in 10 years, and Ubuntu is my first venture back into the real world. That said, my problem and question might seem a bit more reasonable.

I've installed 10.4 and I managed to get samba up and running with no real issues. Windows 7 can see my samba shares just fine.

My question is this: Ubuntu is able to see my ***entire*** Windows 7 computer. Whether or not I've specifically enabled sharing for a particular folder. I'm not used to this behavior. Under a typical Windows environment, any folders or drives that I've not shared are not even visible over the network.

Is the aforementioned behavior normal?

---

### Post by luceerose on 2010-09-07
Sounds pretty normal to me.
On the other hand, pretty much the only reason Windows can't see all of your Linux drive is because windows can't read an ext3/ext4 file system.

---

### Post by e.s.a. on 2010-09-07
Huh- I'll be damned. For some reason I would have thought that samba wouldn't see a windows folder unless I'd previously shared that folder in Windows. 

Is there any way to change this behavior? Not that I really care, but I'd rather samba only see exactly what I want it to see.

---

### Post by luceerose on 2010-09-07
I couldn't tell ya.
I have almost no experience with smb
I use network protocols that are unused by windows.
I avoid all windows protocols like the plague.
I even format my usb-sticks to avoid using ntfs & fat32.

---

### Post by e.s.a. on 2010-09-07
Thanks for your thoughts. :D Might anyone else lurking around here have any thoughts?

---

