---
title: "10.10 disappearing wifi connection on custom laptop."
date: 2011-03-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by uveryames on 2011-03-28
Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 03)
        Subsystem: FIRST INTERNATIONAL Computer Inc Device 300b
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 44
        I/O ports at 4000 [size=256]
        Memory at f3100000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
        Memory at f8000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=16K]
        [virtual] Expansion ROM at f8020000 [disabled] [size=128K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: r8169
        Kernel modules: r8169
__________________

problem:  browsing internet last night w/ubuntu 10.10 and had no issues (like usual) .  i put the computer to 'hibernate'...turned it back on this morning and now the wifi is completely gone.  the only connection option was 'vpn'.  

note: i have dual boot with win7 x64.  i logged into windows and device manager doesnt even recognize my pci card anymore...like someone came into my house and stole my card outta my laptop lol.  

this was the first time i used "hibernate" with ubuntu..and the first ever problem i've had with wifi on ubuntu.  not sure if that means anything but its quite the coincidence.  

i plugged in my hawking usb wifi card and it works great with linux..duh.   im brand new to linux and im trying to make the complete switch over.  please be nice, lol.  any ideas?  let me know if u need more info...im sure you do. thanks in advance for any help/advice.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-03-28
> Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 03)This is not a wifi device; it's a wired ethernet device. Are you having trouble with this or wifi? Please run and post:```
lspci -nn
```Thanks.

---

### Post by uveryames on 2011-03-28
im having a wifi/wireless card issue.  the main issue being that the card doesnt seem to be read my the computer anymore.  in windows/ubuntu the card does not exist anymore.  last night the card worked perfectly as it always does.  

~$ lspci -nn
00:00.0 Host bridge [0600]: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Memory Controller Hub [8086:2a40] (rev 07)
00:01.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset PCI Express Graphics Port [8086:2a41] (rev 07)
00:1a.0 USB Controller [0c03]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 [8086:2937] (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller [0c03]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 [8086:2938] (rev 03)
00:1a.2 USB Controller [0c03]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 [8086:2939] (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller [0c03]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 [8086:293c] (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device [0403]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller [8086:293e] (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 [8086:2940] (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge [0604]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 2 [8086:2942] (rev 03)
00:1c.5 PCI bridge [0604]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 6 [8086:294a] (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller [0c03]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 [8086:2934] (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller [0c03]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 [8086:2935] (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller [0c03]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 [8086:2936] (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller [0c03]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 [8086:293a] (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge [0604]: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge [8086:2448] (rev 93)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge [0601]: Intel Corporation ICH9M LPC Interface Controller [8086:2919] (rev 03)
00:1f.2 SATA controller [0106]: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E SATA AHCI Controller [8086:2929] (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus [0c05]: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller [8086:2930] (rev 03)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: nVidia Corporation G96 [GeForce GT 130M] [10de:0652] (rev a1)
05:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller [10ec:8168] (rev 03)

thanks!

edit: ps, heres iwconfig.  its connected to 'wlan1'...shouldnt it be 'wlan0' .  i know before this issue started the wireless card was always connected to wlan0.  
~$ iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan1     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:"AndroidTether"  
          Mode:Ad-Hoc  Frequency:2.412 GHz  Cell: 26:AC:66:6C:C3:D3   
          Tx-Power=15 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:on

---

### Post by sammiev on 2011-03-28
Had this happen once and a reboot fixed it. Have you rebooted your computer since you had the problem? GL :)

sammiev <--- very stupid!

---

### Post by uveryames on 2011-03-28
I've had the issue once before and reboot fixed it as well.  This time I tried 6 times and it didn't work on ubuntu or win7.
Ty tho!

---

### Post by vuncaro on 2011-03-28
hi, happens me something like that yesterday!
Don't know why but when I make login my wireless software is off. 
I solve my problem this way, making a small scrip in the start up, forcing the wireless card to be on.
hope it helps.
PS: In win7 don't work yet.

---

### Post by nm_geo on 2011-03-29
> **uveryames said:**
> I've had the issue once before and reboot fixed it as well.  This time I tried 6 times and it didn't work on ubuntu or win7.
Ty tho!

You might try to power down all the way remove battery - push the start button with battery OUT. Then replace battery and try to reboot. Dunno but it is a shot..

---

### Post by uveryames on 2011-03-29
took the battery out and still nothing.  

im lost...

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-03-29
There is no sign whatever of a wireless card. Since it is also missing in Windows, I suspect it's either electrically defective or not seated correctly in its slot. Generally, you can find the maintenance manual on line. Often, the wireless card is accessible on the bottom behind a little door. You might carefully follow the instructions in the maintenance manual and try to reseat the card.

I suspect wlan1 is:> my hawking usb wifi card and it works great with linux..duh. That's entirely normal.

---

### Post by uveryames on 2011-03-29
Thanks for all of the suggestions I appreciate them.  I'm also suspecting that it has suddenly gone defective or has become unseated.  I will post back with results tonight or tomorrow.  This normally would have been the first thing I checked but I'm not familiar with laptops at all.  This is my first one.  I usually build my own desktops.  

And after briefly looking at the bottom of the laptop and unscrewing slots I suppose that my wifi card is integrated on the mobo. I will also check settings in bios.  

Good day all!

---

### Post by uveryames on 2011-03-30
SOLVED: boot into windows 7 and press fn1 (function) F1.  this brings up a window that is unaccessible anywhere else and simply allows u to enable "WLAN".  thanks given to the person who solved it here: [http://forum.novatech.co.uk/showthread.php?18859-X65-amp-Fedora-12](http://forum.novatech.co.uk/showthread.php?18859-X65-amp-Fedora-12)

its interesting to note that i have the EXACT same problems as this person does.  and we have the same bios...so the issues must be coming from there.  i cant flash my bios unless i pay 30 bucks wtf?...thanx phoenix technologies.  

also just for kicks here is lspci (compared to above reply where the wifi was not read by the computer) now:

04:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Ultimate N WiFi Link 5300

i was pulling my hair out...thanks for all the help.  now im off to fix my failing speakers (but not headset) and nvidia driver

---

### Post by uveryames on 2011-03-30
> **chili555 said:**
> There is no sign whatever of a wireless card. Since it is also missing in Windows, I suspect it's either electrically defective or not seated correctly in its slot. Generally, you can find the maintenance manual on line. Often, the wireless card is accessible on the bottom behind a little door. You might carefully follow the instructions in the maintenance manual and try to reseat the card.

I suspect wlan1 is:That's entirely normal.

this is what i was referring to.  my hawking is read as wlan1 because it was the second card connected to the laptop.  where the on board wifi card should read 'wlan0' as here:

iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11abg  ESSID:"uber home"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.437 GHz  Access Point: 00:18:E7:0B:CD:3F   
          Bit Rate=54 Mb/s   Tx-Power=15 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=51/70  Signal level=-59 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

---

### Post by geek.de.nz on 2011-03-30
For me this helped:

Edit /etc/rc.local (e.g. sudo nano /etc/rc.local):
```

iwconfig wlan0 power off

```which disables power management for the first wifi card (in my case a USB card) and voila it works like a charm.

---

### Post by uveryames on 2011-03-30
> **geek.de.nz said:**
> For me this helped:

Edit /etc/rc.local (e.g. sudo nano /etc/rc.local):
```

iwconfig wlan0 power off

```which disables power management for the first wifi card (in my case a USB card) and voila it works like a charm.

wow thats perfect , ty!

---

