---
title: "network manager openvpn"
date: 2008-03-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Tex-Twil on 2008-03-14
Hello,
I have Ubuntu Gusty and I want to try the network manager openvpn plugin. I installed it but somehow I cannot "finish" the configuration of a connection.

I entered:
Connection name
GW address
GW port
Connection Type : PSK
Shared key : /path/to/mykey

The "Forward" button is just disabled so I cant continue ....

What am I doing wrong ?

regards,
Tex

---

### Post by SpaceTeddy on 2008-03-14
back when i tried to import my openvpn configuratipons into network manager, it didn't understand half the stuff in there, and the other half was ignored. Maybe that has changed by now, but i would recommend against using nm to launch openvpn connections. I usually use a terminal, send it to the notification area and then launch my openvpn directly from the terminal. 

That way i can see what goes wrong, and i can be sure that nm does not get confused anywhere. 

I know this is not the kind of help you wanted...

---

### Post by Tex-Twil on 2008-03-14
> **SpaceTeddy said:**
> back when i tried to import my openvpn configuratipons into network manager, it didn't understand half the stuff in there, and the other half was ignored. Maybe that has changed by now, but i would recommend against using nm to launch openvpn connections. I usually use a terminal, send it to the notification area and then launch my openvpn directly from the terminal. 

That way i can see what goes wrong, and i can be sure that nm does not get confused anywhere. 

I know this is not the kind of help you wanted...
:) Well I think I will stick to the terminal as far as it works fine ;) I tried also KVPNC but I also have troubles with it.

Tex

---

### Post by jc15 on 2008-03-14
I have tried to config network manager openvpn.
I've got all the info from existing config file from my windows box. Copied certificates etc. 
But it gives me and error message "The VPN login failed because the VPN program could not connect to the VPN server."
It work when I launch openvpn from command prompt using sudo:
"sudo openvpn --config /home/jc/.openvpn/client4.ovpn"
For me it looks like it is some permission issue. 
Does anybody knows hot to fix it?

---

### Post by drachenstern on 2008-04-30
First:Bump

Second:Subscribe

Thirdly:I am experiencing the same issue.  For the record, to see if it was a tun error, I chmod'd /dev/net/tun but still get dynamic allocation error on TUN/TAP if not sudo.  Have not added anything to sudoers, as that would seem counterintuitive to me at this point.  Surely there's a userspace method of doing this, rather than something rootspace or kernelspace.

---

### Post by RoboJ1M on 2008-07-04
Hi,

Same problem here. You can see the errors with cat /var/log/syslog
For some bizarre reason, whoever wrote network-manager-openvpn decided no make it able to read openvpn configuration files. Fun.

sudo openvpn --config filename worked perfectly for me though. My config files and certificates were generated by eBox.

J1M.

---

