---
title: "HP g61; 10.04 studio; atheros 9k wireless not working!"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by hawzee on 2010-05-10
hi all,

  Hate to post another atheros not working, but I am spending hours and getting nowhere...

lspci gives this for my ethernet hardware:

  ```
02:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)

```kernel: 2.6.32-22-preempt (ubuntu studio)

I have tried installing[SIZE=1] "linux-backports-modules-wireless-2.6.32-22-preempt[/SIZE]" but I receive a notification that it failed to install properly upon rebooting...

I have also tried installing compat-wireless but it fails to make because it can't find the linux kernel header directory...(I do have the headers, but how do I get the makefile to see a non-default header dir?)

sudo modprobe ath9k runs, but running sudo ifconfig wlan0 up returns this error:

```
sudo ifconfig wlan0 up
SIOCSIFFLAGS: Unknown error 132
```

any help is much appreciated!

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-05-10
have a read at this post

[http://wwww.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8244101](http://wwww.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8244101)

post #1 said this

> SOLUTION:Using these commands fixed the issue...Just make sure you specify the drivers of your interface..
Code:

rmmod ath5k
rfkill block all
rfkill unblock all
modprobe ath5k
rfkill unblock all
ifconfig wlan0 up



your atheros uses ath9k I understand;

if you do any of these things, it is up to you

and another thread with rfkill

[http://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=87406](http://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=87406)

---

### Post by hawzee on 2010-05-10
awesome, thanks for that PDC.

I tried the first post, but to no avail. "ifconfig wlan0 up" still returns the "unknown error 132"...

and then "rfkill list" still returns:

```

1: phy1: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: yes

```

I then tried the 2nd post you mentioned, which led to a script that looks like it removes the "hardblocked yes" issue...but the script gives an error. First, this is the script:

```


   #! / Bin / sh
   for i in / sys / class / rfkill / rfkill * / type;
   do
      type = "` cat $ i `"
      if ["$ type" = "wlan"];
      then
         n = "` echo $ i | sed-r 's% / type $%%'`";
         echo 1> $ (n) / state;
      fi;
   done; 

```

making this script executable and then running it gave this error:

```

/usr/local/sbin/unlock-wlan.sh: line 9: syntax error near unexpected token `('
/usr/local/sbin/unlock-wlan.sh: line 9: `         echo 1> $ (n) / state;'


```

thanks!

---

### Post by hawzee on 2010-05-10
Okay... got it! thanks for the help --

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-05-10
thanks hawzee;

what extra magic trick did you do to get things working ..

---

### Post by hawzee on 2010-05-23
Sorry for the late reply PDC --

I found out a couple of things:

1. It looks like it takes a few seconds for the Atheros card to fire up on my HP...like maybe 4-5 seconds. So, if I just hit the button and wait, it does eventually come on, and WICD can then connect with no problems. I think what I was doing before was hitting the button, and then hitting it again before the wireless powered up, thus turning it off again... aaarrggh....

2. There might be a bug in turning things off after they after they are turned on...i.e. if I turn WIFI on, it works. If I turn it on, then turn it off, and then try to turn it on again, it doesn't come on, and I have to reboot...still need to completely confirm this though...

---

