---
title: "[SOLVED] forgets DNS upon reboot"
date: 2008-08-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Mud.Knee.Havoc on 2008-08-09
My problem is one that has been covered a number of times in these forums:  I have a laptop with Ubuntu 8.04 and it forgets DNS servers upon each reboot. 

I've already tried the various tricks to fix this bug, such as (from the instructions on the opendns.org site) adding the line

prepend domain-name-servers 208.67.222.222,208.67.220.220;

to my /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf

and I've even disabled the Network Manager applet from the list of programs to boot at startup, in a last ditch effort to fix this.

I'm about to go crazy.  Is there *anything* else that I can do to fix this?  Does Debian have this problem, too, or is it just Ubuntu-specific?

I've got a desktop with Ubuntu that does not have this problem at all.  I've disabled the laptop's wireless, in case that was somehow the cause, but no luck.

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-08-09
Have you configured your "/etc/resolv.conf" file?

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2008-08-09
try to disable Network Manager and add the DNS to the
/etc/resolv.conf file

```
sudo echo "nameserver 208.67.222.222" | tee -a /etc/resolv.conf
sudo echo "nameserver 208.67.220.220" | tee -a /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by Mud.Knee.Havoc on 2008-08-09
> **cdtech said:**
> Have you configured your "/etc/resolv.conf" file?

Yes, it is currently as follows:

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220


But when I reboot, it'll only have the first two # lines.  As far as I understand, I've done everything right and it should work.  The kicker is, it doesn't. :(

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2008-08-09
network-manager overwrites the file.
i've removed it:
```
sudo aptitude remove network-manager network-manager-gnome
```EDIT:
make sure your network is configured in the /etc/network/interfaces file
EDIT2:

befor you remove the packages download them:
```
sudo aptitude download network-manager network-manager-gnome
```
in order to be able to reinstall them without network connection.

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-08-09
Just thought I'd mention this in case you haven't all ready tried it, but if you use Network Manager to set up your connection, have you added the OpenDNS servers under the "DNS" tab? Whenever I do that I have no problem with the changes sticking between boots.

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-08-09
I don't use NM, I've found it a bad choice on my setup. I use "wicd" to connect my wireless (much better choice).

To use "wicd" just insert this line within your /etc/apt/sources.list:
```
deb http://apt.wicd.net hardy extras
```
Do a "sudo apt-get update" then "sudo apt-get install wicd"

Just in case you want to try it out.......

---

### Post by Mud.Knee.Havoc on 2008-08-09
I followed Sisco311's advice (and also installed wicd and will check that out) as well as created a /etc/dhclient-enter-hooks file with:

make_resolv_conf() {
echo "doing nothing to resolv.conf"
}

as its content.  I'm not sure exactly which of these did the trick, but I just rebooted, and (for the first time in months!) my DNS settings have stuck. :)  Thanks everybody!

---

