---
title: "(12.04 LTS) Laptop causing intermittent internet outage"
date: 2012-08-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cforput on 2012-08-14
We switched from Comcast to AT&T Uverse and ever since, we have had intermittent internet outages. You will be humming along and then the network will just stop. After a few minutes it will start back up again.We have replaced the router to make sure that wasn't the culprit. 

I think it may be the laptop running Ubuntu 12.04 LTS. I suspect this because one particular day it was REALLY bad. The trying different "things" I shutdown the Ubuntu laptop. I got busy with my work laptop that runs windows and for over an hour there wasn't a single issue. I then swung over to my Ubuntu laptop and powered it up. Very shortly after doing that, my network problems reappeared.

I'm no "network guy" by any stretch of the imagination. I have no idea where to look to try and trackt his down.

Anyone have any ideas to get me started?

---

### Post by Jboulden on 2012-08-14
Yes, I'm having the same issues.  Not quite sure how to go about solving it.  I dual boot my laptop.  Running Windows 7, ethernet connection works like a champ.  Running Ubuntu, it is very intermittent.  Wireless remains connected but ethernet cuts in and out.

---

### Post by cforput on 2012-08-15
Interesting. With me, it is the wireless that cuts out. I don't even use ethernet, just all wireless.

Hope someone can point us in the right direction.

---

### Post by Jboulden on 2012-08-20
Hey, this forum post worked for me.  It's certainly not perfect, but my wifi seems to stay connected now.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2042332](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2042332)

---

