---
title: "Can't open web sites but can ping...."
date: 2012-10-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by umfunix on 2012-10-27
I had a duplicate IRQ issue which caused my NIC not to work.  I managed to sort that (nou POST error of duplicate IRQ).

However, I stil can't open any web pages or do any apt-get update / install.  The funny thing is that I can ping a DNS site (196.36.199.229).  

Why would I not be able to open a web site or apt-get installs?

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-10-27
my guess is your dns is not configured correctly or dns isn't working. Try doing an nslookup and paste the response.

```
nslookup ubuntu.com
```

---

### Post by umfunix on 2012-10-27
dns lookupp results were
```
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
```

---

### Post by The Cog on 2012-10-27
So your DNS name resolution is broken. 

What version of *buntu are you using?
What is the content of /etc/resolv.conf
What is the output of:
```
nslookup ubuntu.com 8.8.8.8
```

---

### Post by umfunix on 2012-10-27
> **The Cog said:**
> 
What version of *buntu are you using?
```
Ubuntu 12.04.1.TLS
```> **The Cog said:**
> 
What is the content of /etc/resolv.conf
```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1

```> **The Cog said:**
> What is the output of:
nslookup ubuntu.com 8.8.8.8
```
; ; connection timed out; no servers could be reached 
```

---

### Post by The Cog on 2012-10-27
You say you can ping 196.36.199.229. Can you ping other addresses? 

The failure of nslookup ubuntu.com 8.8.8.8 is worrying. It should have asked 8.8.8.8 (a name server operated by google) to do the lookup. I wonder if your ISP is blocking DNS from servers other than their own. I do't know how to prove or disprove that. Can you ping 8.8.8.8?

It seems that your normal DNS server is dnsmasq runnung on your own PC. This is a new trick by Ubuntu, and I have never seen any documentation on how it works, or what to do when it doesn't.

---

### Post by umfunix on 2012-10-28
Thanks.  I took out the hard drive and run it in another similar Acer and everything worked perfectly in terms of ping, access web sites etc.  My assumptions is therefore that there must be something wrong with the hardware of the other Acer.  What baffles me however is that ping is working - I was under the impression if ping works, there is no way that "the hardware" is not working. 

After this exercise I've put the hard drive back in the original Acer - same response.  Can ping but nothing else.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2012-10-28
Well, if it is really a hardware fault, it's the most bizarre one I've ever heard of. 

Unless...
I wonder if it can't do large packets. Does "ping -s 1000 91.189.94.156" work? This sends 1000 byte pings.

---

### Post by umfunix on 2012-10-30
the cog, thanks for your help.  I agree, with my networking knowledge, that is the most bizarre problems ever.   It seems as if there is a hardware problem with the NIC, because now BIOS is reporting an IRQ issue with the NIC and no communications is possible.

But still, I thought that if ping replies, there is connectivity  In this case....there wasn't.

Thanks for the help.  Case closed.  Reinstalled Ubuntu and are now dependent on wireless.

---

