---
title: "T-Mobile (UK) E220"
date: 2008-05-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by styphon on 2008-05-26
Hi,

I have tried several posted solutions for getting my Huawei E220 HSDPA modem to work but I'm at a loss. I really need to get this working soon as it will be my only internet connection. The closest I have got to getting it working is using [this](http://wintolin.co.uk/content.php?c=tuts/e220) tutorial.

The problems I have with that is 1. I only get 2 USB devices, not 3 when I have it plugged in from boot.
2. If I unplug it and then plug it in again I get 6 USB devices.
3. If I run VMC with the modem plugged in from boot then it will connect to the device but will show only 1 bar signal strength. When I dial it says failed to connect after 3 attempts and then show 0 bars signal strength.
4. If i run VMC after unplugging and plugging the device back in it says it fails to connect to the device and then hangs on the loading screen.

This device works fine in Windows XP (I'm on a dual boot machine).

Please can someone help me with this device?

---

### Post by styphon on 2008-05-26
UPDATE - After some searching I finally found a working wvdial.conf file
```
[Dialer pin]
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
Baud = 460800
Init1 =AT+Cpin=12345


[Dialer tmob]
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
Baud = 460800
Init2 =AT
Init3 = AT&FE0V1X1&D2&C1S0=0
ISDN = 0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
Phone = *99***1#
Username = username
Password = password
Stupid Mode = 1
Dial Command = ATDT
```

Then using the command line "wvdial tmob" I can connect. Still got the same problem for getting VMC working. I would like this working as it shows usage stats and with a 3GB limit I would like to track it.

---

### Post by Mickdphones on 2008-12-05
Hi All

I was having the same problem with a T-mobile web n walk stick Huawei E220 HSDPA modem and tried lots of thing from various forums with no luck. It's working now see below.

from terminal type:-

lsusb

You should see the device.

then type:-

ls -al /dev/ttyU*

At this point I only see 2 devices
/dev/ttyUSB0
/dev/ttyUSB1
most of the forums say you will see 3.

If the above is correct go to this link.

[http://support.real-time.com/linux/dialup/wvdial.html](http://support.real-time.com/linux/dialup/wvdial.html)

The values I used in wvdiwl.conf for t-mobile were:-

Phone = *99#
Username = user
Password = Pass

It worked for me :-) Good Luck, hope it helps.

---

### Post by coffeecups on 2008-12-08
Hello all,
The Huawei E220 is not behaving well for me either, have looked at lots of the posts on subject and getting closer all the time wvdial conf looks different for me I get

Editing `/etc/wvdial.conf'.

Scanning your serial ports for a modem.

Modem Port Scan<*1>: S0 S1 S2 S3
WvModem<*1>: Cannot get information for serial port.
ttyUSB0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 Z -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: Modem Identifier: ATI -- Manufacturer: huawei
ttyUSB0<*1>: Speed 4800: AT -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: Speed 9600: AT -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: Speed 19200: AT -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: Speed 38400: AT -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: Speed 57600: AT -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: Speed 115200: AT -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: Speed 230400: AT -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: Speed 460800: AT -- OK
ttyUSB0<*1>: Max speed is 460800; that should be safe.
ttyUSB0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
ttyUSB1<Info>: Device or resource busy
Killed
sue@sue-desktop:~$
Message from syslogd@sue-desktop at Mon Dec 8 19:36:55 2008 ...
sue-desktop kernel: [ 3290.650583] Oops: 0002 [2] SMP

Message from syslogd@sue-desktop at Mon Dec 8 19:36:55 2008 ...
sue-desktop kernel: [ 3290.650803] CR2: 0000000000000030

not sure what this means? any help please!

I tried another solution from Andrew McKevitt and it seemed the best but it connected then disconnected straight away, got this on my dialler log

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L1DT*99#
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L1DT*99#
CONNECT
--> Carrier detected. Waiting for prompt.
--> Don't know what to do! Starting pppd and hoping for the best.
--> Starting pppd at Mon Dec 8 20:42:01 2008
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 6143
--> Using interface ppp0
--> Disconnecting at Mon Dec 8 20:42:04 2008
--> The PPP daemon has died: A modem hung up the phone (exit code = 16)
--> man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
--> Try again and look into /var/log/messages and the wvdial and pppd man pages for more information.


The pppd error codes didn't make me any the wiser, feel like i'm close but not quite there
thanks for any help
__________________

---

