---
title: "Belkin F5D7001 Wireless Desktop Card"
date: 2006-01-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by OBnascar on 2006-01-17
I have spent A LOT time on this searching the forums, looking at and trying info provided in my search for "Belkin". I wish I would have looked better before I purchased this. There were post after post that had problems. I tried some that did not work for me, one I tried and appeared like it did work. The best post I found [WAS THIS]("http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?t=386847&highlight=belkin"), but I never got connected with it, so here I am. 

I installed ndiswrapper, then:

[COLOR="Blue"]root@ubuntu:~/driver# ndiswrapper -i bcmwl5a.inf
Installing bcmwl5a
Forcing parameter IBSSGMode|0 to IBSSGMode|2

root@ubuntu:~/driver# cd
root@ubuntu:~# ndiswrapper -l
Installed ndis drivers:
bcmwl5a driver present, hardware present[/COLOR]

[COLOR="Black"]That was the only good news, it looked perfect, rebooted and nothing was detected at all. Below I am posting some commands I used. Can anyone see something that needs to be done to get me connected ? I really lack experience with wireless and am not real knowledgeable about it. If someone needs more info, please let me know.[/COLOR]
[COLOR="Blue"]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
root@ubuntu:~$ modprobe ndiswrapper
(no error, no nothing)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
root@ubuntu:~# dmesg
[4294725.825000] eth0: no IPv6 routers present
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
root@ubuntu:~# iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

sit0      no wireless extensions.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
root@ubuntu:~# ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:11:11:DE:02:CD
          inet6 addr: fe80::211:11ff:fede:2cd/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 b)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 b)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
root@ubuntu:~# cat /etc/resolv.conf
; generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!
; Use a local caching nameserver controlled by NetworkManager
nameserver 127.0.0.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
root@ubuntu:~# iwlist wlan0 scan
wlan0     Interface doesn't support scanning.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
root@ubuntu:~# ifup wlan0
/etc/network/interfaces:19: duplicate interface
ifup: couldn't read interfaces file "/etc/network/interfaces"
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/ect/network/interfaces:

# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# This is a list of hotpluggable network interfaces.
# They will be activated automatically by the hotplug subsystem.
mapping hotplug
	script grep
	map wlan0

# The primary network interface
iface wlan0 inet dhcp

iface wlan0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[/COLOR]

---

### Post by OBnascar on 2006-01-19
Any one ? HELP !

---

### Post by Lambert on 2006-01-19
If you run iwconfig and don't see the wlan0 interface, the driver is not working properly.

When you say you installed ndiswrapper, how did you do it?

Where did you get the driver from and did you include the .bin or .sys files in the same folder as the .inf file on your hard drive?

---

