---
title: "[SOLVED] Auto mount NAS fstab problem"
date: 2008-02-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by MacDuff on 2008-02-18
I recently installed a D-link DNS-323 Network Accessible Storage device on a network made up of Ubuntu and Windows machines.
The NAS has a static IP address 192.168.1.155.
Windows machines  mount and use the NAS perfectly.

I can manually mount the device on the Ubuntu machine using the command:
$ sudo mount //192.168.1.155/Volume_1 /RAID 

However I cannot auto-mount the device using a command line in fstab.  I have read many, many posts and I have tried every example that was given but nothing works.

Here is a list of the contents of my fstab:
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb2 :
UUID=814e801c-320a-4130-8d29-5787d967b7a9 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=ad7a3348-7766-44c7-9347-ed6a7891eb76 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
none /proc/bus/usb usbfs devgid=46,devmode=664 0 0 

//192.168.1.155/Volume_1 /RAID smbfs auto,uid=1000,gid=100   0  0

The last line should mount Volume_1 of  the NAS to "/RAID" but when I re-start the Ubuntu machine, the device is not mounted AND when I try to use a file manager to view the directories, the system takes a very long time to get to the root directory.   If the line is remarked out a file manager displays levels  quickly.

Can anyone see what I am missing and suggest how I can make this work?

Thanks

---

### Post by MacDuff on 2008-02-19
Progress has been made:

By moving the mount point from the root to /mnt, I am now able to mount the NAS using a line in fstab.

HOWEVER when I try to point Simple Backup to the NAS, it takes a veeerrry long time to display the NAS and the mount point is greyed out so I cannot map the NAS as a location for the backup target.

Fell free ANYONE to jump in here and make suggestions as to what is happening.  Why do things have to be so convoluted?

---

