---
title: "Trying to install winmodem drivers"
date: 2004-10-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tuco on 2004-10-25
Hi,
  I have a winmodem that I use the drivers from [http://www.linuxant.com](http://www.linuxant.com) and they have work fine using mandrake and knoppix. The problem when trying to use them with ubuntu is that I need the kernel source in order to install the drivers. Is there a way around this? If not, how can I download the kernel source from the ubuntu universe using either windows or mandrake?

thanks,
tuco

---

### Post by az on 2004-10-26
Install and use the kernel-headers.

The package is called linux-headers

The last time I used the Linuxant drivers, it was possible to compile the modules using just the kernel-headers (that is what they are for!)

---

### Post by tuco on 2004-10-27
[QUOTE=azz]Install and use the kernel-headers.

The package is called linux-headers

The last time I used the Linuxant drivers, it was possible to compile the modules using just the kernel-headers (that is what they are for!)[/QUOTE]

Ya, I tried that the other night and it didn't work. It would stall and say that it wasn't able to compile. I will probably try ubuntu later when I have more time to fiddle with getting my modem to work.

tuco

---

### Post by electroglas on 2004-10-30
I am also trying but am new to Linux. Can someone please guide me in the right direction?


Thanks


root@sanderslinuxpc:/home/dad # dpkg -i hcfpcimodem_1.01lnxt04082400full_i386.deb
Selecting previously deselected package hcfpcimodem.
(Reading database ... 63634 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking hcfpcimodem (from hcfpcimodem_1.01lnxt04082400full_i386.deb) ...
Setting up hcfpcimodem (1.01lnxt04082400full) ...
Conexant HCF controllerless PCI modem driver, version 1.01lnxt04082400full

If you need license keys, assistance or more information, please go to:
        [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)

When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "hcfpciconfig --dumpdiag".

No pre-built modules for: Debian-testing/unstable linux-2.6.8.1-3-386 i686

Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)
Please ensure that the kernel-headers or kernel-source package is installed.
On Debian, try "apt-get install kernel-headers-2.6.8.1-3-386"

Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/usr/src/linux] /usr

WARNING: missing file /lib/modules/2.6.8.1-3-386/misc/hcfpci*.ko
The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured
kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link).

However, proper /boot/config-2.6.8.1-3-386 was found.
Would you like to try using it (in a temporary kernel tree)? [yes] yes

Unable to prepare temporary kernel tree

First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages
from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed.

The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig"
under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux).

Verify that the proper options for your system are selected.

Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about
this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory),
reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "hcfpciconfig".
dpkg: error processing hcfpcimodem (--install):
 subprocess post-installation script returned error exit status 1
Errors were encountered while processing:
 hcfpcimodem
root@sanderslinuxpc:/home/dad #

---

### Post by NickR on 2004-11-22
Please see the [HSF/HCF Modems HowTo](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=22762&posted=1#post22762) for a solution.

cheers
Nick

---

