---
title: "AR242x on 9.04 ESSID stuck on &quot;&lt;hidden&gt;&quot;"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by porchrat on 2009-04-26
Just installed Jaunty Jackalope this morning and I'm having wireless issues. With the AR242X module.

Normally I would just save myself the heartache and move to the madwifi drivers, but the current drivers seem to be working as "iwconfig" does indeed show "wlan0" as a device.

Problem is the ESSID is jammed as "<hidden>". I moved the wicd as a network manager because I believed that the problem of not being able to connect was coming from the gnome Network Manager.

Seems like I was wrong, problem now is that whenever I set the ESSID to the correct value (using the command line and "iwconfig"), wicd sets it back to <hidden>. This is getting rather annoying and I don't really want to try installing the madwifi drivers as they have to be remade whenever a kernel update happens.

Anyone have any experience with this sort of problem?

EDIT:As additional interest I now suspect that the drivers may in fact not be working:
```
>iwlist wlan0 scan
>wlan0     No scan results

```

Although this could be a result of the ESSID being hidden, should it pick up an AP if the ESSID is hidden?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-04-26
> EDIT:As additional interest I now suspect that the drivers may in fact not be working:
Code:

>iwlist wlan0 scan
>wlan0     No scan resultsThis is from *man iwlist*:> Triggering  scanning  is  a privileged operation (root only) and  normal users can only read left-over scan results.That means if you did not *[COLOR="Red"]sudo[/COLOR] iwlist wlan0 scan*, that you can only see leftovers. If you just installed Jaunty, there are probably no leftovers to see. Try with *sudo* and let's see what happens.

---

### Post by porchrat on 2009-04-27
> **chili555 said:**
> This is from *man iwlist*:That means if you did not *[COLOR="Red"]sudo[/COLOR] iwlist wlan0 scan*, that you can only see leftovers. If you just installed Jaunty, there are probably no leftovers to see. Try with *sudo* and let's see what happens.

Thanks for the help, but it turns out it was a faulty install, tried it again and everything worked first time.

I am glad to see that I just needed sudo to be able to scan, I thought it was happening a little fast to actually be scanning.

---

