---
title: "10.4 not showing my wireless network"
date: 2010-05-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by obiwaynekenobi on 2010-05-22
Another Ubuntu install, another round of wireless problems.  I have a Dell Inspiron 530 Desktop that I used Wubi to install Ubuntu 10.4 on alongside Windows 7 Ultimate.  Everything installed perfectly but it's not detecting my wireless network so I therefore have no wireless access.

My wireless network icon is gray with a red "!" on it; when I click it I get:

Wired Network
  disconnected
Wireless Networks
  disconnected

My wireless network does not show up at all; it's not hidden.  When I try to enter it manually, I do so and when I click it I immediately get a popup that says 

Wireless network
Disconnected - you are now offline.

I only have a wireless connection since the router is in another part of the house, and this is really frustrating me that this stuff doesn't just work on install like OSX and Windows does.

---

### Post by obiwaynekenobi on 2010-05-22
Bump... any ideas?  This is really starting to frustrate me.

---

### Post by Tweep Cat on 2010-05-22
I think you need a driver. I have made a post [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1490573") asking how to do this, although there aren't any replies as of yet - I don't have  a clue how to work drivers!

---

### Post by obiwaynekenobi on 2010-05-22
Possibly.  See, this is what annoys the hell out of me about Ubuntu and really Linux in general.  Who wants to screw around with drivers for basic functionality??  This stuff should be included somehow, or made easily available.

---

### Post by chaos945 on 2010-05-22
I made a similar thread today for my Dell laptop...driver problem likely as well.. There is a possible solution using Ndiswrapper, but it looks like a pain in the ***..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1490591](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1490591)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper)

---

