---
title: "10.04 Is Very Slow on the Internet"
date: 2010-07-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Goveynetcom on 2010-07-16
Hello again.

I just upgraded to Ubuntu 10.04 (I did a clean install) and now the internet is incredibly slow. I was able to get insanely fast downloads and speed when I had 9.10 installed, up to 300 kb/s now I haven't even maxed past 20 kb/s. It's quite perplexing, I have tried Wireless and Wired, and Wireless is actually loading faster.

Anyone got any ideas on this one???

This is extremely troublesome when I need to download up to 200 MBs of updates.

Thank you for any help,

- Govey

---

### Post by Yarui on 2010-07-16
Are you sure it isn't just your connection?

I have been having issues with slow internet for a while and every time I think I have figured out what is causing it I'm wrong.  I have finally decided it must be my ISP.  They say everything is fine on their end, but they couldn't find anything wrong on my end either.  I would be inclined to believe it's an Ubuntu problem, but I'm having the same issues in OS X 10.4 and 10.5; Windows XP, Windows Vista and Windows 7; Arch Linux and Gentoo Linux.

Have you tested your connection on any other OSs since you started noticing the problem?  However unlikely it may seem it could just be a coincidence that the problem started when you upgraded.

---

### Post by smardi on 2010-07-16
is this speed only while downloading the updates or any other download as well ?

---

### Post by Goveynetcom on 2010-07-16
It turns out, I made a small mistake. I didn't realize that someone else in my house was downloading about 3 GBs of stuff while I was trying to update. It's working fine, and the updates downloaded fine. I'll just mark this as solved...

---

