---
title: "11.10 Dell Inspiron 2200 NO INTERNET"
date: 2012-02-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Ablizno on 2012-02-05
I have no internet at all on my Dell Inspiron 2200. I have tried everything that comes to mind.

PCI-ID: [14e4:4320 ]
Card/Model: BCM4306

I have tried following this guide:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)

Followed the information for: b43 - no internet access

everything seemed to be working until I go to "Additional Drivers" where i am presented with

"Downloading package indexes failed, please check your network status. Most drivers will not be available" and of course no drivers are listed.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-02-05
Hi, please give this a try:
Download the b43 zip file to a flash drive then drag and drop the file to your ubuntu desktop. Right-click it and select Extract Here. Open a terminal and do:
```
sudo mkdir /lib/firmware/b43
sudo cp Desktop/b43/* /lib/firmware/b43
sudo rmmod -f b43
sudo rmmod -f ssb
sudo modprobe b43
```
one line at a time and it should come on.
Thanks

---

### Post by Ablizno on 2012-02-06
omg thank you!! that worked. This was driving me crazy. Thank you so much!:popcorn:

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-02-06
Hi, I am glad it worked.
Enjoy

---

### Post by smiller90210 on 2012-08-28
hey sorry but im new here, where is the ubuntu desktop?

---

### Post by lexington on 2012-10-12
Wild Man - You're brilliant!! Been driving me mad for days trying to get that connected (both in XP and then in Ubuntu) - you solved it at a stroke!
Thanks v muchly indeed.

---

### Post by welshmike on 2012-12-23
> **Wild Man said:**
> Hi, please give this a try:
Download the b43 zip file to a flash drive then drag and drop the file to your ubuntu desktop. Right-click it and select Extract Here. Open a terminal and do:
```
sudo mkdir /lib/firmware/b43
sudo cp Desktop/b43/* /lib/firmware/b43
sudo rmmod -f b43
sudo rmmod -f ssb
sudo modprobe b43
```
one line at a time and it should come on.
Thanks

Many many thanks Wild Man. :guitar:

I'm typing this on my son-in-laws aged Dell desktop that had been running Windows XP like a dog and he'd moved it out of use into his loft. I did a Dell factory restore to create a clean XP and installed Ubuntu 10.04 dual boot.

I've been desperately struggling in getting a Broadcom BCM4306 rev 03 based wireless adapter card to provide wifi access on this Dell.
Somehow the zip file contents were in the right folder earlier but doing the modprobe listed in your message immediately got wifi access.

Now that I have wifi working on Ubuntu I would like to get wifi working on XP because I've not been able to persuade son-in-law to use Ubuntu :rolleyes:.  So I need the XP driver stuff and have not been able to find the driver on the web.

I guess that it is too much to ask on here to be sent the Broadcom BCM4306 rev 03 driver stuff.

---

