---
title: "11.04 unable to connect to wireless network (I tried everything found on the net!)"
date: 2011-07-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sorcio on 2011-07-16
I  installed 11.04 ubuntu 2 days ago.
I have had thousands issues trying to connect to my wireless network router dlink di524.

My wireless card is a dlink dwl g122 ver c1.

I can't connect to the network no matter what configuration I try.

- first time i tried to connect i had static ip settled on my router so I tried to configure Network manager from GUI. I couldn't connect; it kept trying to connect forever.
so I completely removed from terminal NM (using guides on internet) e installed wicd: same problem.
Tried to configure manually network/interfaces file. Didn't work.

Reset router and set dhcp . Tried everything again first with NM and then wicd. Didn't solve.

Reinstalled ubuntu, fearing I messed up with some configuration files and reset again router. No solution

Tried pinguy os, zorin e linux mint . Nope

Borrowed a network card from a friend after reading dlink dwl g122 could have some issues with linux.
Tried this realtek card : same problems as above.

Finally I tried again after the fifth reinstallation of ubuntu.
**Both NM and wicd keep saying wrong password.** Changed different password. Password is fine of course (i'm using it now with win)

So I Reset router password to none. Now it says: "acquiring ip address" and keep saying that forever.

So i tried the last attempt: I tried to connect from zorin5 live to the same wifi network.. and... IT WORKED!:confused:

Ok so I happily reinstalled everything again (zorin5). first access after installation: **same problems as above **:mad:

Now I'm using win7 on the same wifi network, router, and same card (cards) and everything works fine at first attempt.

Please give some hints or I'm gonna become one of bill gate$ fans!! 




-

---

### Post by Coder543 on 2011-07-16
What kind of encryption is on the network? WEP, WPA, WPA2, etc?

---

### Post by sorcio on 2011-07-16
> **Coder543 said:**
> What kind of encryption is on the network? WEP, WPA, WPA2, etc?

Wpa2 but I also tried wpa e wep: it didn't work with any of these

---

### Post by Coder543 on 2011-07-16
hmm.. this is a very strange issue. Have you tried connecting via ethernet, just to check that anything works? Also, once plugged in via ethernet, I'd recommend checking for additional driver via the "additional drivers" program. Another thing to do is to open up a terminal and post the output of "sudo lshw" (no quotes, and when you enter your password there will be no visual feedback, just type confidently). In the mean time, I'm gonna google some stuff. this is not normal.

---

### Post by Coder543 on 2011-07-16
ok, if you can get ndiswrapper installed, whether through ethernet or downloading it and all of its dependencies elsewhere and then installing it, you should be able to get this working. Apparently the product you mentioned is very old, so old its discontinued and had its last driver update in 2004. So, download the drivers for it and use ndiswrapper on them and the windows drivers might work for it. You said revision one, so i grabbed the first hardware revision's driver link.

[ftp://ftp.dlink.com/Wireless/dwlg122/Drivers/dwlg122_driver_113.zip](ftp://ftp.dlink.com/Wireless/dwlg122/Drivers/dwlg122_driver_113.zip)

once you get it onto that computer, open up a terminal, and use the command "cd" to change directory to wherever you put it. If you put it on the desktop and extracted it there

```
cd "Desktop/D-Link AirPlus G Utility(V3.2.0.40308) with G122-1.0.13/Drivers"
```

then you want to install the driver

```
sudo ndiswrapper -i ./PRISMA02.inf
```

then reboot, if the wireless isn't working try opening a terminal and typing

```
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
```

Tell me if you have any luck here. If not, you might try the other revisions of the hardware. [http://www.dlink.com/products/default.aspx?pid=DWL-G122&tab=3](http://www.dlink.com/products/default.aspx?pid=DWL-G122&tab=3)

---

### Post by sorcio on 2011-07-16
Hi Coder, Thanks.

Ndiswrapper looks to be installed by default  on Zorin.
I also had read about dwl g122 issues and tried to install several drivers via ndiswrapper but nothing : still no solution.
I'll try some more tomorrow. I also found out the vista's drivers don't work on linux for dwl g122 so I tried all the ones fo xp. Also the most recent but still nothing. My model is rev. c1. Now the card doesn't even show up in the network manager list;although it's stil listed if I type lsusb
By the way How to uninstall previous drivers installed with ndiswrapper?

---

### Post by sorcio on 2011-07-17
I tried some other windows drivers (practically all the ones that I found but didn't work

---

