---
title: "[SOLVED] Internet connection falls"
date: 2006-10-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by unconcrete on 2006-10-17
Hi all,
I have a 2 modem computer since the first comes with WinXP (Agere LT winmodem V92 on COM3). In order to use linux, first SuSE now Ubuntu, I've installed a Creative Modem Blaster 56K on COM1. Both the modems work in Windows. Unfortunately Ubuntu have some problem.  Particulary, I can log the Internet but only for a few minutes, then the connection closes. I've tried to solve by installing KPPP with gnome ppp. Kppp donesn't find any modem. I've tried to use the scanModem utility as suggested by newsgroups. This is the result. 
======================================================
			MODEM TESTING		 
This text is complemented by the Post-Install at [http://linmodems.technion.ac.il](http://linmodems.technion.ac.il)
Please so consult it if the following does not suffice.

The wvdial package provides for an automated hardware+driver test.
This utility searches through ports with syntax: /dev/ttyS*  (i.e. S0, S1, SL0 etc.) and also follows a symbolic link:
	/dev/modem --> /dev/ModemPort
If your modem port name does not satisfy these requirements already, do a console login as:
	su - root
Make the symbolic links as:	
	ln -sf /dev/ModemPort /dev/modem
	ln -sf /dev/ModemPort /dev/ttyS15
wherein /dev/ttyS15 is reserved for experimental usage.
 Should there be problems with wvdial version 1.54.1-1 , drop back to 1.54.0-1 

For recent RedHat and Fedora releases, wvdialconf is used by the Internet Wizard.
Within the pop-up menus find the Wizard. Its actions will write a configuration file:
	/etc/wvdial.conf
For other Linux distros, open a console and login with
	su - root
If necessary load the modem drivers:
	sudo modprobe DriverNames
Then run the test:
	wvdialconf /etc/wvdial.conf
Checks /dev/modem and ports /dev/ttyS*, a success at port /dev/ttySLT0 would be:
  ttySLT0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- OK
  ttySLT0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 Z -- OK
  ttySLT0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 -- OK
  ttySLT0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 -- OK
  ttySLT0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 -- OK
  ttySLT0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK 
    etc.
The /etc/wvdial.conf written looks like:
 
 [Dialer Defaults]
Modem = /dev/ttySLT0
Baud = 115200
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ISDN = 0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
; Phone = <Target Phone Number>
; Username = <Your Login Name>
; Password = <Your Password>

For systems using the SmartLink slmodem drivers,
the following line should be added to its /etc/wvdial.conf
  Carrier Check = no
So after editing in your personal information a functional file is like:
 
[Dialer Defaults]
# lines beginning with # are Comments, not read by wvdial
Modem = /dev/ttySLT0
Baud = 115200
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
## if there is problem with dial tone acquisition, add into the above line:
#    X3
#	 meaning "dial without waiting"
## for some Internet Provides, there may be problems with the new V92 mode codes.
# This can be suppresses with an:
# Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 +MS=90 
## Within Italy it is sometimes necessary to even force a slower mode
# ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 +MS=34
# This mode is also useful for PBX dialout lines.
ISDN = 0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
# edit in your IP's phone number below.
Phone = 3334445555
# Do not use - or spaceds in the Phone = line
# Introducing a pause with a , is sometimes necessary with hotel/company switchboards
# Phone = 8,3334445555 or 8,,,3334445555 for s 3 second pause
Username = Your_Login_Name
# for MSN.net, use instead
#  Username = MSN/Your_Login_Name   
Password = Your_Password
# if not using the SmartLink slmodemd, comment out with # the following line.
Carrier Check = no
[ Dialer 2nd_home ]
Phone = 7778889999

Then dialout with
$ sudo wvdial
or use the 2nd dialup number with:
$ sudo wvdial 2nd_home
******************************************************
 
The /etc/wvdial.conf generated by the RedHat/Fedora Internet Wizard 
has a different format, adapted to its own dialer.  This includes a line
	Stupid Mode = yes
More informative dialup feedback May be obtained if it is commented out:
#	Stupid Mode = yes 

 A dialout with wvdial will then display like:
# wvdial &
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.53
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 M1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 M1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATDT3019178111
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATDT3019178111
CONNECT 53333 V42bis
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
** APX1.LNH.MD.RCN.NET Terminal Server **
Login:
--> Looks like a login prompt.
--> Sending: LoginName
LoginName
Password:
--> Looks like a password prompt.
--> Sending: (password)
    Entering PPP Session.
    IP address is 66.44.1.6
    MTU is 1006.
--> Looks like a welcome message.
--> Starting pppd at Sat Jul 26 13:59:03 2003
--> pid of pppd: 2404
: pppd 2.4.1 started by root, uid 0
: Using interface ppp0
: Connect: ppp0 <--> /dev/tts/LT0
Jul 26 13:59:08 stodolsklap kernel: PPP BSD Compression module registered
Jul 26 13:59:08 stodolsklap kernel: PPP Deflate Compression module registered
: local  IP address 66.44.1.6
: remote IP address 208.59.89.132
: primary   DNS address 207.172.3.8

The & in "wvdial &" puts the process into the background, 
allowing further usage of the command prompt.  To stop a backgrounded process:
# fg wvdial
# Ctrl -C 
===============================================================================
Why does the only port recognized is /dev/tty0 unlike /dev/tty2 (COM1 - Creative) or /dev/tty4 (COM3 - agere)?
Pleease help...

Enrico

---

### Post by unconcrete on 2006-10-24
I've tried both Creative Labs and Ubuntu Wiky but no driver is provided for my serial modem. I've also tried to unplug the serial modem since the scanmodem utility seems to recognize it in /dev/ttS0. Anyway if I try to use gnome-ppp to autodetect a modem such as /dev/modem the result is no modem found. My problem remains how to make more stable the connection whatever is it. 
Thanks anyway,
Enrico

---

