---
title: "12.04 Network Manager Gone"
date: 2012-08-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nickTaylor1181 on 2012-08-01
I've had Ubuntu 12.04 running for about a week - all fine...

... then I tried to set up openvpn, which got harder and harder and harder...


... long-story -> short: I wound up trying to reinstall network manager...

sudo apt-get purge network-manager

And now (after about 6 hours of trying) I can't get it back.

To get a connection at all, I needed to install an earlier version (network-manager_0.9.4.0-0ubuntu3_amd64.deb)... which is connecting to the web on boot... but there's no applet in the systray, and I can't see how to run the GUI for the application manager - which I need to be able to get back to square 1, trying to get openvpn to work

So... Any ideas how I can get the applet visible, and the network-manager available?

I think I'll leave openvpn until another day.

---

### Post by levlaz on 2012-08-01
[Try this ]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkManager/")

As far as the openVPN are you trying to connect to an SSL VPN for your school or work? 

If so I can help you with that.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-08-01
I think it would probably be easier to configure a temporary connection via /etc/network/interfaces - if you have a wired connection with DHCP that should be a simple as adding

```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```and then run

```
sudo service networking restart
```(you may need to replace eth0 with the appropriate name for your wired connection - which you can get from ifconfig)

Then you can just reinstall the correct version of network-manager from the repository

---

### Post by nickTaylor1181 on 2012-08-01
Thanks for getting back so quickly.

This here "sudo apt-get install network-manager-gnome network-manager-openvpn network-manager-pptp network-manager-vpnc" (from reply #1)

appears to have installed it to its former glory.

I did try manually restoring with by way of dhclient eth0 - but had no end of grief, so wound up manually copying some .deb files to a fob.

As to the OpenVPN - this is just for me... the lines between home and work and education all now irrevocably blurred. I'm 47. It happens.




Ought I to start another thread for the Openvpn issue?

What happens is that when I go to 

VPN Connections -> Configure VPN... then try to import the VPN address list, it says 

"Connection add failed 
connection not visible or available"

There's nothing in any of the connections in any of the tabs... including wireless, which is odd, because I'm connected via wireless now.

---

