---
title: "3.5.0-22 upgdate on Dell N5110 / broadcomm"
date: 2013-02-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by uaebuntu on 2013-02-18
I'm currently using 64 bit Ubuntu on my Dell Inspiron with broadcomm wireless

Linux jim-Inspiron-N5110 3.5.0-17-generic #28-Ubuntu SMP Tue Oct 9 19:31:23 UTC 2012 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

This was a clean install on a new machine, the first Linux upgrade (3.5.0-19??) that was offered had a fault somewhere that wiped my broadcomm driver and for some reason would not let me install the new drivers. I believe it was an issue with the headers.

I found several posts of people with same or similar problems, tried the various solutions but nothing worked, so I had to reinstall 3.5.0-17. Not a difficult task but very microsoftish, if it goes wrong-reinstall.

Now the security updates are offering 3.5.0-23, but I don't know if it has the same problem, I have a "test box" but it is a deskside system and does not have wireless connection.

Has anybody done this upgrade on a similar system (64bit laptop with broadcomm)? Were there any issues?

---

### Post by uaebuntu on 2013-02-19
Now they are offering 3.5.0-24 in the software update, so is there anyone else out there with a Dell N5110 who has upgraded? The lack of response suggests that everyone who has done so is now cut off from wireless and can't respond.:lolflag:

Guess I'll just have to suck it and see....

---

### Post by uaebuntu on 2013-02-19
Well I wished I hadn't done that.... now on wired network! Did the upgrade and my wireless connection had gone again! Now a toss up of re installing and restoring backups or fixing this.

I did ```
sudo lshw -C network
``` and the result is shown in the attachment; I have a Broadcom BCM 4313

"Additional Drivers" say I have the STA driver which appears to be right for the 4313

Reality is that it is not working... this is where I got to on the -22 install and I finally gave up due to time pressure. Got more free time this time so I would like some ideas how to get this all corrected.

---

### Post by uaebuntu on 2013-02-19
Lots of other solutions (I've now discovered) all of which are slightly different, this however works for Dell Inspiron with Broadcom 4313 when upgrading from clean install of 3.5.0-17 to 3.5.0-24. x86_64

I went to the Broadcom website where I got most of this. Downloaded the STA 64 tar and the readme.txt

Installed the 3.5.0-24 Generic Linux kernal headers from Ubuntu Software Center

Installed build essentials from CLI
 
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-generic
```

This generated an automatic error report and dumped me into launchpad where I discovered loads of other similar error reports all slightly different, so just in case I logged the error. I then did

```
sudo apt-get build-dep linux
mkdir hybrid_wl
cd hybrid_wl
```

and moved the downloaded tarball into the new directory.

```
tar xzf hybrid-portsrc-x86_64.tar.gz
sudo make clean
```

wl.ko was in the high level directory as expected by the Broadcom instructions. Restart and everything now works.

---

### Post by ElectricBlake on 2013-05-01
Hi! That looks very similar to my problem, but I still can't solve it. You say you installed another package to install the driver. Is there a way I can get the correct package without internet? I mean - I have Internet on my Windows laptop (wireless) and my Linux laptop doesn't see this wireless anymore because of the issue with the driver - similar to what you've descried.
Thanks in advance. I'm an absolute beginner and only got Linux yesterday, so I really need your help!

---

### Post by uaebuntu on 2013-05-02
Hi,

I got round it by using a wired link from my laptop to the router, all you need is an Ethernet cable. If not I don't know what else to do.

---

### Post by uaebuntu on 2013-05-02
AHa, just reread the full post and I went to the Broadcomm website and downloaded the .tar file... so if worse comes to worse you should be able to download that on a windows machine and copy it across, stick it in your Home directory and by clicking on the .tar it will decompress it for you and you should be OK to follow the rest of the instructions.

If you are having problems I'll keep an eye on the site in case you respond with any other issues, keep it up it's worth it in the end, really having fun with the Dell compared to the very old lenovo it replaced. (which is still in good service BTW having passed it down to one of my nephews who does school and plays games on it)

---

