---
title: "20.04 ubuntu server will not connect to network"
date: 2020-05-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jlparsons on 2020-05-15
Hi folks, my ubuntu server 16.04 is reaching end of life so I upgraded to 18.04 and then 20.04.  Upgrade to 18.04 worked perfectly, then after upgrading to 20.04 the system would power on but not accept my incoming SSH connection and all services were down.  A quick check on the network showed the server wasn't connecting to the network at all.  Note the system has no wifi, purely ethernet.

I hooked up the server to a monitor and keyboard and booted it up.  It took a very long time to boot (usually it's instant - / is on an ssd) but eventually I was able to log in.
ifconfig shows only lo.
lshw -C network shows "network DISABLED" and then the details of my ethernet adapter (mobo built in realtek RTL811/8168/8411 PCIE Gigabit Ethernet Controller)

I'm now out of my depth - when I initially built/installed the system and later upgraded it the ethernet adapter needed no configuration.  Help!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-05-15
RTL811/8168/8411 ... seems your copy/paste lost some characters. Could be a NIC issue or just PEBKAC.

**Rather than trying to explain what you've seen. How about posting the commands with the output from those commands?**  We are used to reading those, provided they are wrapped in "code tags" so the output posted here looks the same as it would in a terminal.

That realtek NIC is well-known to have problems, depending on the specific revision.  You have a choice.  Spend 4+ hrs trying to get the current version working when there easily could be a fault that poor timing caused
 or 
spend $25 to get one of the many Intel GigE NICs and never worry about this again, for any update, plus having better, faster, more on-chip, network processing.  Any of the Intel PRO/1000 or a210/a211/a212 series would be fine.

There are 2 likely issues.
```
No correct, current, network config file
Bad driver
```

Due to the "network DISABLED" output, I'd assume the driver is bad.  **Without seeing the actual output - you know - post the _lshw_ output - hard to say.** Could be just that no config file was provided.

If it was me, I'd spend not more than 2 hrs trying to get the RTL8111 working.  If you can, determine the exact driver and version of that driver which was being used previously, then try to get that source, compile and install it for the 5.x kernels. In theory, that would make everything fine. Then prevent the OS from updating the driver by using apt-mark.

In 16.04, ifupdown was still used to configure networking. That was the last LTS using it.
With 18.04, "netplan" became the standard.  Netplan uses YAML config files, which are hierarchical and dependent on correct indentation. You'll need a netplan file.  Here's an example for a trivial static IP setup. It needs to be modified for your situation:
```
/etc/netplan$ more 01-network-manager-all.yaml 
network:
    version: 2
    renderer: networkd
    ethernets:
        ens3:
            addresses:
            - 172.22.22.3/24
            dhcp4: false
            dhcp6: false
            gateway4: 172.22.22.1
            nameservers:
                addresses: [ "172.22.22.80","172.22.22.81" ]
                search: [thefu.lan]
```
Change the device name and all IP/subnet/netmask/DNS stuff for your needs. Then run:
```
sudo netplan generate
sudo netplan apply --debug
```

BTW, those are "code tags" above. You need to use those when posting. The Adv Editor has a '#' that should be used or you can manually do it.

---

### Post by jlparsons on 2020-05-15
Thanks for your extensive reply!  I would normally post code but the only way into the server was by attaching keyboard and monitor so I couldn't copy and paste from there (no gui and no SSH).

I confess I assumed I would not get so swift a reply so I just did a fresh install of 20.04 on the ssd.  Bit of work to remount the existing raid arrays but everything now works fine - no issues with network at all.  I did read up on the realtek and its issues but this is the first time I've had them, and now that a fresh install has resolved the issue I'm hoping it was a config/upgrade issue rather than device specific.  It was a very old install (2012), perhaps bit rot had set in somewhere!  I've no space in the server to fit a better NIC sadly - there's only one expansion port and that's taken up with a sata card.  Short of a combined sata/NIC card there's not much I can do unfortuantely.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-05-15
A flash drive with redirection would have solved the "get data off non-networked system".
```
sudo lshw -c network | tee /media/path/to/flash-storage/log
```
There are 30+ other techniques.  File redirection is crazy useful, daily.

There's always a USB3-to-GigE adapter, though not ideal and the chips are almost always no-name-versions without out-of-the-package support.  I have a $20 one on a laptop ... Alix ... or something like that.  The driver mine uses is driver=ax88179_178a

You had a good thread title. Figured I could help in a been-there, done that, way.

---

