---
title: "17.04 iwlwifi: Microcode SW error detected. Restarting 0x2000000"
date: 2017-05-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sbdesign on 2017-05-09
My wifi isn't working (I can connect to my router but internet doesn't work), the logs are full of errors about lwlwifi and a microcode sw error.

I was using ubuntu gnome and stock ubuntu 16.4 and 16.10 and everything was ok. Upgrading to 17.04 seems to have caused this error. Or so I thought.

I reverted back to 16.10 and after an update the same problem occured.

Is there any way to fix this? Or hw can I reprt a bug? I don't know what info is required.

I have seen lots of peoople in google talking about wifi issues in 17.04 but none of the "fixes" fixed my problem. The only solution that works is install ubuntu 16.10 as installed by my laptop provider and turn off all updates - I doN't want to do this

---

### Post by sbdesign on 2017-05-09
Here is the wireless info [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2360242](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2360242)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-05-09
Please note: > Cell 01 - Address: <MAC 'mordor' [AC1]>
                    Channel:6
                    Frequency:2.437 GHz (Channel 6)
                    Quality=54/70  Signal level=-56 dBm  
                    Encryption key:on
                    ESSID:"mordor"
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s
                              9 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s
                    Bit Rates:24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s; 48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Mode:Master
                    Extra:tsf=0000001e59bc2da7
                    Extra: Last beacon: 588ms ago
                    IE: IEEE 802.11i/WPA2 Version 1
                        Group Cipher : [COLOR="#FF0000"]TKIP[/COLOR]
                        Pairwise Ciphers (2) : TKIP CCMP
                        Authentication Suites (1) : PSK
                    IE: WPA Version 1
                        Group Cipher : [COLOR="#FF0000"]TKIP[/COLOR]
                        Pairwise Ciphers (2) : TKIP CCMP
                        Authentication Suites (1) : PSKYour device and driver combination do not like TKIP at all and neither does ole Chili. I realize that router manufacturers suggest the lowest common denominator so that when Grandma shows up with her circa-2001 laptop, she can connect. Unfortunately, all the auto modes cause the driver to struggle to keep up with a frequently changing landscape.

Please, check the settings in the router. WPA2-AES is preferred; not any WPA and WPA2 mixed mode *and certainly not TKIP*. Second, if your router is capable of N speeds, you may have better connectivity with a channel width of 20 MHz in the 2.4 GHz band instead of automatic 20/40 MHz, although it is likely to affect N speeds. I also have better luck with a fixed channel, either 1, 6 or 11, rather than automatic channel selection. Also, be certain the router is not set to use N speeds only; auto B, G and N is preferred. After making these changes, reboot the router. 

Then set your regulatory domain explicitly. Check yours:```
sudo iw reg get
```If you get 00, that is a one-size-maybe-fits-all setting. Find yours here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) Then set it temporarily:```
sudo iw reg set IS
```Of course, substitute your country code if not Iceland. Set it permanently:```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/crda
```Use nano or kate or leafpad if you don't have the text editor gedit.

Change the last line to read:```
REGDOMAIN=IS
```Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor.

Next, I'd set IPv6 to Ignore in Network Manager: [http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png](http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png)  This example is for ethernet, but you want wireless.

If these changes do not help, please try:```
sudo modprobe -r iwlwifi
sudo modprobe iwlwifi 11n_disable=8
```If it helps, make it permanent:```
sudo -i
echo "options iwlwifi 11n_disable=8"  >>  /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
exit
```Any improvement?

---

### Post by sbdesign on 2017-05-09
OK, thanks for the reply. I shall look through what you said. My router comes from deutsche telekom and has security set to wpa/wpa2 (which I can change) and encryption to tkip/aea - the interactive help in the router admin says that this is unchangeable.

It was working fine with 15.04 through to 16.10 - same hardware. My laptop is not even 1 year old.  Some update happens... and it breaks - this happened to 16.04 too. I can install the factory version of ubuntu 16.10 that came with the laptop and it works fine - until I let some update through and then i have this problem. It definately seems to be a software problem. I'll report back when I have gone through the rest of your reply. Thanks again

---

### Post by sbdesign on 2017-05-09
ok... none of the things helped. I'll try a fedora live cd and see if it is the same. Otherwise I guess I shall need to go back to ubuntu 16.10 and turn off updates

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-05-09
I suggest that you try the live session of 16.10 and see what firmware version is loading:```
sudo lshw -C network
```Here is a sample from my machine:>  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: Wireless 7260
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: wlp3s0
       version: 83
       serial: xx:c5:d4:0e:64:xx
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwlwifi driverversion=4.10.0-20-generic [COLOR="#FF0000"]firmware=17.459231.0[/COLOR] ip=192.168.0.120 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11
       resources: irq:30 memory:f0400000-f0401fff
Then compare the same information for 17.04 and, if you wish, Fedora.

Perhaps the firmware file you have is corrupt.```
ls -al /lib/firmware | grep 8000
```From my 17.04 machine:```
-rw-r--r--  1 root root 1745176 Dec  1 16:24 iwlwifi-8000C-13.ucode
-rw-r--r--  1 root root 2351636 Dec  1 16:24 iwlwifi-8000C-16.ucode
-rw-r--r--  1 root root 2394060 Dec  9 16:17 iwlwifi-8000C-21.ucode
-rw-r--r--  1 root root 2120860 Mar 20 14:13 iwlwifi-8000C-22.ucode

```We wonder if the size of the files matches.

---

