---
title: "vpnc no response from target"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by JamesUser on 2009-11-07
I am trying to connect to a cisco vpn with vpnc. I built vpnc from source with ssl/openssl support. I converted my .pcf file with pcf2vpnc. The following is my vpnc.conf file.

## generated by pcf2vpnc
IPSec ID GroupId
IPSec gateway hostname.com
IPSec secret Ss3eCcRr3ETt

Xauth username abcxyz
IKE Authmode hybrid
NAT Traversal Mode cisco-udp

When I try to connect, vpnc fails with "No response from target".
I think it's because I haven't provided certificates in the CA-file directive. The problem in doing that is I don't have the certificates.

I have the cisco vpn client for linux also my pc. It works. Is there a way I can get vpnc to work with this cisco client's certificates?

Any help is appreciated. Thanks.

---

### Post by JamesUser on 2009-11-09
bump!

---

### Post by jmarks on 2009-12-19
I wish i could help, but you've done what I've been unable to do, which is to compile vpnc from source with openssl. Would you mind telling me how you did it?

This is what I did (ubuntu 9.10):
downloaded and unpacked vpnc 0.5.3
Installed openssl and openssl-dev 
made sure I had all the dependencies with sudo apt-get build-dep vpnc
uncommented the two lines in the Makefile

the problem comes with running dpkg-buildpackage
I get: 
```
dpkg-buildpackage: set CFLAGS to default value: -g -O2
dpkg-buildpackage: set CPPFLAGS to default value: 
dpkg-buildpackage: set LDFLAGS to default value: -Wl,-Bsymbolic-functions
dpkg-buildpackage: set FFLAGS to default value: -g -O2
dpkg-buildpackage: set CXXFLAGS to default value: -g -O2
tail: cannot open `debian/changelog' for reading: No such file or directory
dpkg-buildpackage: error: tail of debian/changelog gave error exit status 1
```did you have this problem? Any idea how to fix it?
I know you're looking for help rather than giving it, but I'd really appreciate the benefit of your experience.
thanks for any help you can provide!

---

### Post by onurkavci on 2011-12-08
Any solutions for this problem?

---

