---
title: "Ubuntu 11.04 PPPOE problem(Only google can be accesed)"
date: 2011-09-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-10
I am very new to Ubuntu or any Linux :) I just installed Ubuntu 11.04 using wubi because I liked it when I tried it on vmware. Unfortunately, I'm having problem with my internet. I'm using PPPOE and I can connect using my created connection. The problem is I can only go to google.com or search anything there. I can't go to any site....they just load forever..some sites show the title but still loads forever...even the Update manager,software center or synaptics doesn't work. i really hope someone here can help me 'coz I'm really excited exploring Ubuntu :D Thanks

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-09-10
Hi,

do you use a router/modem combination or a single modem?

Router/Modem: Add your Login/PW in the router interface.

Single Modem: Add your Login/PW to the network-manager applet in "DSL" and deactivate anything in "cable" like "connect automatically" or "available to other users". 

You may first add your username to the group "dip" via:

```
sudo adduser $USER dip
```
and login again first.

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-10
i'm using single modem..the modem itself my ISP gave me. Okay I'll try what you said.Thanks hope it works 'coz restarting to ubuntu and restarting again to windows 7 to search is super hassle :D

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-10
It didn't work.....what's more weird is that I can access youtube too and it's also owned by google.....is this some kind of virus google spread?  :D
I really want it to be fixed. Please help me :(

EDIT:i am able to load pocketgamer.co.uk but too slow or it stop to load after it loads the background image....I already set the MTu many times with different values

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-09-10
Did you add yourself to "dip"? If so, try this:

```
sudo service network-manager stop
sudo pppoeconf
```
There you can add your Login and password and answer all other questions with "Yes" or "OK". If it works, uncheck the network-manager in "Autostart".

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-10
unfortunately,I did that already...:(
My problem's so weird....at least I want to make update manager or software center to work coz I just want to update and install stuffs as of now.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-09-10
Please show:

```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
uname -a
cat /etc/network/interfaces
cat /etc/resolv.conf
lsmod
ifconfig -a
```

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-10
**uname -a**
Linux ubuntu 2.6.38-8-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Mon Apr 11 03:31:24 UTC 2011 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

**cat /etc/network/interfaces**
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


auto dsl-provider
iface dsl-provider inet ppp
pre-up /sbin/ifconfig eth0 up # line maintained by pppoeconf
provider dsl-provider

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet manual

**cat /etc/resolv.conf**
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 210.4.2.61
nameserver 202.78.97.41

**lsmod**
Module                  Size  Used by
xt_TCPMSS              12715  2 
xt_tcpmss              12501  2 
xt_tcpudp              12603  2 
iptable_mangle         12734  1 
ip_tables              27456  1 iptable_mangle
x_tables               29581  5 xt_TCPMSS,xt_tcpmss,xt_tcpudp,iptable_mangle,ip_tables
pppoe                  17830  4 
pppox                  13342  1 pppoe
binfmt_misc            17565  1 
snd_hda_codec_realtek   336693  1 
snd_hda_intel          33211  2 
snd_hda_codec         103804  2 snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_hda_intel
snd_hwdep              13604  1 snd_hda_codec
snd_pcm                96625  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec
snd_seq_midi           13324  0 
snd_rawmidi            30486  1 snd_seq_midi
ppdev                  17113  0 
snd_seq_midi_event     14899  1 snd_seq_midi
snd_seq                61621  2 snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event
snd_timer              29602  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq
parport_pc             36959  1 
snd_seq_device         14462  3 snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq
psmouse                73535  0 
snd                    67382  13 snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_hwdep,snd_pcm,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
serio_raw              13166  0 
soundcore              12680  1 snd
sis_agp                13327  1 
snd_page_alloc         18529  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm
shpchp                 37297  0 
lp                     17825  0 
parport                46458  3 ppdev,parport_pc,lp
floppy                 74120  0 
sis190                 23135  0 
sata_sis               12816  1 

**ifconfig -a**
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1c:25:8f:3a:17  
          inet6 addr: fe80::21c:25ff:fe8f:3a17/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1211 errors:132 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:132
          TX packets:1130 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:1237476 (1.2 MB)  TX bytes:125933 (125.9 KB)
          Interrupt:19 Base address:0xdead 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:16 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:16 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:960 (960.0 B)  TX bytes:960 (960.0 B)

ppp0      Link encap:Point-to-Point Protocol  
          inet addr:110.55.42.121  P-t-P:121.97.74.166  Mask:255.255.255.255
          UP POINTOPOINT RUNNING NOARP MULTICAST  MTU:1492  Metric:1
          RX packets:263 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:216 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:3 
          RX bytes:102398 (102.3 KB)  TX bytes:23177 (23.1 KB)

ppp1      Link encap:Point-to-Point Protocol  
          inet addr:110.55.42.226  P-t-P:121.97.74.166  Mask:255.255.255.255
          UP POINTOPOINT RUNNING NOARP MULTICAST  MTU:1492  Metric:1
          RX packets:904 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:840 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:3 
          RX bytes:1106588 (1.1 MB)  TX bytes:70681 (70.6 KB)

EDIT: i'm losing hope...:( my friend suggest to me that i shoudl just install 10.10 coz 11.04 is still buggy but I really want this to be solved

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-09-10
Networkmanager is deactivated? Try:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```

and change "manual" to "dhcp", save, exit and:

```
sudo ifconfig eth0 mtu 1492
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```
There is an IP adress and there are nameservers.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-09-10
Is there a firewall installed? Try it without it...

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-11
i already checked the status of the firewall,it's off....I tried the manual to dhcp but it still didn't worked though I didn't quite understand what you mean by "There is an IP adress and there are nameservers."
BTW, here's what I got from the hosts file


127.0.0.1	localhost
127.0.1.1	ubuntu.ubuntu-domain	ubuntu

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

maybe it can help...thanks :)

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-11
it's all working now! thanks for all the help although don't really know which step really fixed the issue :D

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-12
OMG! My problem is getting weirder and weirder!
My works perfect during daytime and the problem goes back during nighttime! I don't know the exact time but I can't access other site right now...even a restart doesn't work......I wonder what's the problem of my stupid ISP LOL

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-09-12
Do you have a flatrate connection that disconnects every 24 hours? Try to restart the network

```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```

and/or get a new IP address:

```
sudo dhclient
```

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-12
I'm not sure if I have a flatrate connection...but i'll try to restart the network...hope it works Thanks

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-14
it didn't worked....:(
What's more weird is the connection working good yesterday when I started afternoon till night but now when I started the connection the problem came sagain. I'm suspecting it has something to do when I boot first to windows 7 then boot to ubuntu. Although I can't verify it. I wonder what really is my problem. I'm already using opendns but doesn't really fix it.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-09-14
What about uninstalling the network-manager completely?

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge network-manager network-manager-gnome
sudo pppoeconf
```

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-14
if i do that....i'll only be able to use the terminal to connect isn't it? hmmmm.... maybe i'll try that..thanks :)

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-09-14
Yes, if you configure with pppoeconf the network-manager ignores eth0 which is configured in thje /etc/network/interfaces

---

### Post by dineshs on 2011-09-14
> it's all working now! thanks for all the help although don't really know which step really fixed the issue
May be this.```
sudo ifconfig eth0 mtu 1492
```But I think it is a temporary solution (till reboot).You may set MTU permanently via network manager.For this click NM icon - edit connections - DSL tab(if you are using DSL connection)-select DSL connection -wired tab-change MTU to say 1492 and apply.Restart NM using
```
sudo service network-manager restart
```

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-09-16
@dineshs thanks for the reply but I already did that multiple times :)
Anyway, I'm really observing what could really be the cause of this very weird problem. Like I said I'm suspecting booting to windows and restarting to ubuntu causes the problem. Yesterday afternoon, I had the problem again when I booted windows 7 first. I can't solve it even how many times I restart my PC. What I did is shuy it down completely and wait for some time and open it again,now booting to Ubuntu directly...boom! it's working again. Really weird isn't it? :D

---

### Post by javacookies on 2011-10-01
too bad I'm still experiencing this problem. There are really random sites that I can visit but majority I cannot. I actually deleted 11.04 and installed 10.04 using wubi. And the problem still persist. What's the problem of this thing? related to winodws 7? wubi? I got no internet problem in my ubuntu 11.04 on my old laptop with XP.

---

