---
title: "18.04 erratic PING behavior"
date: 2022-09-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by coop589 on 2022-09-26
New to this forum.  Currently standing up a networking communications lab at a local college using repurposed Dell E5400 laptops and Dell 6010 workstations to teach fundamentals to EET students.  Ubuntu 18.04 installed fine and added the networking tools to be able to use common functions such as ifconfig.

Issue:  After configuring the system NIC and connecting the PCs and laptops with an unconfigured Cisco 2960 switch (VLAN1), the systems experience odd behavior when disconnecting the LAN cable while running a simple PING session.  

After disconnecting the LAN cable, the screen does not show the PING session time out.  The screen does not update and holds steady with the last entry.  After re-connecting the LAN cable and after a long wait (about 30 seconds), the lost ping session messages while the cable was disconnected appear, and after the cache of stale PING messages come through does the PING session resumes.  This behavior is exhibited on both the laptop and desktop PCs. 

The reason I chose to go with 18.04 is because I read that this was a stable version that worked fine on these older systems.   Any advice anyone can provide to help resolve the PING issue would be welcomed.  Ideally, I expect PING sessions to readily react to connecting and disconnecting the LAN cable.  Objectively looking to teach the students common OS tools that can aid in troubleshooting when working with IP networks.

---

### Post by QIII on 2022-09-26
18.04 is probably not a good choice because it will reach the end of its standard support in April, 2023.  At that point you will have to re-install a newer release.  You don't want to teach that using an OS that is no longer supported with security updates is a good idea.  That, or you will have to pay for extended security maintenance.

I've never seen this sort of behavior.  Does ping behave in a similar manner in each of the three cases if you ping another machine in your LAN, ping the router/gateway/switch and ping an outside IP?

---

### Post by coop589 on 2022-09-26
QIII,

Appreciate your feedback.  I'm tracking the need to evolve the OS, and since the networks are in a closed sandbox type environment, I have liberties on what I implement in the lab to get things underway.  Access to the internet is controlled and is only enabled on these machines on a case by case basis typically managed by the lab coordinator.  I've yet to add a router/gateway device, all the devices are on a local LAN and the switch isn't configured to have an IP address yet.  The network has at least three hosts on it and all the hosts exhibit this behavior when running the PING command.  

As a quick test, I'll look to add some laptops to the network that I know don't have this behavior to ensure the issue is not attributed to anything external (switch and cables) to the laptop or desktop workstations.  

I'll look to install a newer release of Ubuntu on another test laptop to see if it can load the newer release and if this issue goes away (or not).

---

### Post by QIII on 2022-09-26
OK.  I guess we can dispense with a test out to the world.

On each of the hosts, are you disconnecting the host from the switch?  What if you ping from Host A to Host B and instead of disconnecting Host A, disconnect host B?  That is, test to and from the switch and also beyond the switch.

I'm curious myself.  :)  I would expect an immediate series of lost packets being reported in any case.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2022-09-26
I think a Cisco switch will take 30 seconds or so to re-enable the port after you plug back in because it is waiting for any spanning-tree topology to stabilise. Look at the portfast option to disable this behaviour on the switch port.
Ping on Linux doesn't print a timeout message for lost packets (unlike Windows ping). You really need to look at the sequence numbers to see if any went missing.

P.S.: [https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/switches/lan/catalyst4000/8-2glx/configuration/guide/stp_enha.html](https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/switches/lan/catalyst4000/8-2glx/configuration/guide/stp_enha.html)
PPS: ifconfig is deprecated and I don't think it's even there in recent releases. Look at using ip address (or ip -s address) instead.

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2022-09-27
> **coop589 said:**
> The reason I chose to go with 18.04 is because I read that this was a stable version that worked fine on these older systems Linux Ubuntu 18.04 LTS is nearly End of support by next year. And since few months now 18.04 LTS haven't receive any new updates then. Better choose the New Ubuntu LTS release. Regards and cheers.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2022-09-27
Set up a machine with 22.04 and give it a test drive.  I'd try a couple of other flavors of Ubuntu if you have the time, particularly Kubuntu with the KDE desktop. Virtual machines using either VirtualBox or the built-in [Kernel Virtual Machine]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/KVM/Installation") facility is an easy way to try out alternative distros.

Could you replace the Cisco with a simple dumb network switch for at least a few of the machines and see if the problem goes away? Like QIII, I would expect the screen to be littered with errors when you pull the cable.

I install net-tools to gain access to ifconfig and other hoary network tools. I have scripts that use ifconfig to determine the host's IP address. I'm also just accustomed to typing "ifconfig" from decades of prior experience.

---

### Post by coop589 on 2022-10-01
Sensei,

I'll be trying other machines on the local LAN later this upcoming week.  I do have access to a small unmanaged switch that I can try out to observe the behavior.  Net-tools has been installed and was the only way to use the ifconfig commands on the 18.04 installs.  Migrating to the latest 22.04 is in the plans.  I'll update the post to share my observations and findings (if any).

More to follow

---

