---
title: "14.04 unstable wifi, connected but no access"
date: 2014-07-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rodrigo13 on 2014-07-27
Hi, 

I'm having a very annoying problem. I'm connected to the wireless network but repeteadly lose the access without losing the connection. 
If I restart the connection from the computer, it works again. The problem is that this is ocurring every 5 minutes or so. 

The problem persists even with: 

- uninstalling network manager and using wicd
- creating the file 'ath9k.conf'in '/etc/modprobe.d' with the line 'options ath9k nohwcrypt=1'

The notebook is an Asus N53SV with an AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter. I ran the wireless script as indicated in other posts so please I hope somebody could look in the results.

Thanks!

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-08-04
Welcome to the forums rodrigo13!

I see that this post appears to be a week old now, which means probably almost two weeks old. But also seeing an obvious problem which should have been immediately pointed out by experts had any of them seen the report, I'm replying in case you still have the problem and can notice this post.

First, please change the encryption type in your router to pure WPA2-PSK with AES (CCMP). Currently it is using WPA/WPA2 mixed mode with TKIP - avoid this.

Secondly, I suggest changing the access-point name to something simpler - that doesn't contain so many blank spaces (preferably no spaces or special characters other than hyphen (-) or underscore (_) at all).

Apart from these, try channel 1 or 11, as they usually offer better signal quality than the rest, provided they are not already too crowded by neighbouring APs which doesn't seem to be a problem in your case.

Also try setting IPv6 to "Ignore" in Network Manager, since you don't seem to be using it.

Lastly, I see that you are using TLP package which tries to save power on all components whenever and wherever possible. I have no evidence that it may cause wifi problems, but given its nature of trying to save power on all opportunities, I believe it may. So if the problem persists after making above changes, then additionally try moving its wireless related script to your home, and see if things improve (you may have to reboot after this) -
```
sudo mv /etc/pm/power.d/wireless ./
```

Of all these changes, I believe just changing the encryption type as suggested should be sufficient to solve your problem. The rest are just to make it better or additional options worth trying.

---

