---
title: "10.04 Server Force Duplex Setting"
date: 2011-05-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by KwanX on 2011-05-11
Hello - I am an ubuntu/CLI noober.
 
Looking to force eth0 & eth1 to 100MB Full Duplex/Auto Negotiation off but am having trouble.
 
When I run: "ethtool -s eth1 speed 100 duplex full autoneg off" manually, it works fine. However when I add it to the intefaces file it does not after several different configuration attempts:
 
/etc/network/interfaces:
 
# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
# The primary network interface
#auto eth1
#iface eth1 inet dhcp
 
auto eth0 eth1
#pre-up /user/sbin/ethtool -s eth0 autoneg off speed 100 duplex full
iface eth0 inet static
address 10.93.33.36
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 10.93.33.0
broadcast 10.93.33.255
gateway 10.93.33.1
#pre-up /sbin/ethtool -s eth1 speed 100 duplex full autoneg off
iface eth1 inet static
address 10.93.33.37
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 10.93.33.0
broadcast 10.93.33.255
gateway 10.93.33.1
up route add -net 10.85.4.0/24 gw 10.93.33.1 dev eth0
up route add -net 10.85.4.0/24 gw 10.93.33.1 dev eth1
#up route add -net 10.0.0.0/8 gw 10.93.33.1 dev eth0
#up route add -net 10.0.0.0/8 gw 10.93.33.1 dev eth1
~
 
 
 
 
 
_Also a second question please_ - it seems my current configuration wont allow both eth0 and eth1 to be active at the same time. I would like them to be active-active if possible (if one goes down the other will service all traffice and vise versa).
 
 
Thanks for reading!

---

### Post by KwanX on 2011-05-18
Problem is solved with a few disclaimers, I will share my solution:
1) I have no clue what I am doing :P
2) I scoured web pages, blogs, wiki's and nothing I could find would solve my problem 
3) This is either seriously ghetto rigged or geinus, but it works!
 
 
 
 
 
_**Problem 1:**_ When I run: "ethtool -s eth1 speed 100 duplex full autoneg off" manually, it works fine. However when I add it to the intefaces file it does not after several different configuration attempts:
 
This I did find info on and is simply post-up instead of pre-up:
 
```
post-up /sbin/ethtool -s eth1 speed 100 duplex full autoneg
```
 
 
 
 
_**Problem2 : **Also a second question please_ - it seems my current configuration wont allow both eth0 and eth1 to be active at the same time. I would like them to be active-active if possible (if one goes down the other will service all traffice and vise versa).
 
Here in comes the questionable engineering - how to achieve active-active with dual nics both with static IPs.
 
The problem initiated when I learned I could not have static routes for both eths to the same subnet:
 
Wrong: 
up route add -net 10.85.4.0/24 gw 10.93.33.1 dev eth0
up route add -net 10.85.4.0/24 gw 10.93.33.1 dev eth1
 
Many hours of bonding, teaming, bridging info read through google searches and tons of different experiements to no avail.
 
 
To solve it, I went with a bond + virtual bond configuration - something I didnt see in anyone elses "how to's" - so remember you saw it here first :popcorn:
 
1) install your ifenslave
2) edit /etc/modules (I chose mode 6, seems to work good):
 
```

# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.
loop
lp
rtc
bonding mode=6 miimon=100

```
 
 
3) Edit /etc/network/interfaces:
 
```

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
 
# The primary network interface
auto bond0
iface bond0 inet static
        address 10.93.33.37
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        network 10.93.33.0
        broadcast 10.93.33.255
        gateway 10.93.33.1
        post-up sudo /sbin/ifenslave bond0 eth0 eth1
        pre-down sudo /sbin/ifenslave -d bond0 eth0 eth1
 
auto bond0:1
iface bond0:1 inet static
        address 10.93.33.138
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        network 10.93.33.0
        broadcast 10.93.33.255
        gateway 10.93.33.1

```
 
 
 
I have not yet got to do the "pull the nics" tests...maybe tomorrow night 
 
Comments welcome!

---

### Post by KwanX on 2011-05-18
ok - I coudln't wait!

 
-Continuous ping to each IP from remote server
-Putty to each IP from remote server
-Pulled "eth0" - both pings/both SSH remain interrupted
-Replaced "eth0" - waited 2 mins
-Pulled "eth1" - both pings/both SSH remain interrupted
-Replaced "eth1"
 
 
 
Test Passed!
 
:guitar:

---

