---
title: "ddclient - what am I missing"
date: 2012-10-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by baconmaker on 2012-10-29
I am trying to set up ddclient to use with opendns to provide site filtering. I thought I had everything set up correctly but it does not block any sites. See my various reports.

# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

protocol=dyndns2
use=if, if=eth0
server=updates.opendns.com
login=**************@*****.com
password='********'
baconmaker1

# Configuration for ddclient scripts 
# generated from debconf on Sun Oct 28 22:08:11 CDT 2012
#
# /etc/default/ddclient

# Set to "true" if ddclient should be run every time a new ppp connection is 
# established. This might be useful, if you are using dial-on-demand.
run_ipup="false"

# Set to "true" if ddclient should run in daemon mode
# If this is changed to true, run_ipup must be set to false.
run_daemon="true"

# Set the time interval between the updates of the dynamic DNS name in seconds.
# This option only takes effect if the ddclient runs in daemon mode.
daemon_interval="1800"

sudo ddclient -daemon=0 -debug -noquiet
WARNING:  file /var/cache/ddclient/ddclient.cache, line 8: Invalid Value for keyword 'ip' = ''
DEBUG:    get_ip: using if, eth0 reports 192.168.1.2
DEBUG:    
DEBUG:     nic_dyndns2_update -------------------
DEBUG:    proxy  = 
DEBUG:    url    = [http://updates.opendns.com/nic/update?system=dyndns&hostname=baconmaker1&myip=192.168.1.2](http://updates.opendns.com/nic/update?system=dyndns&hostname=baconmaker1&myip=192.168.1.2)
DEBUG:    server = updates.opendns.com

I am connect to wireless router by ethernet (wireless is for the kids laptops) and then to a modem.  My ISP provides a dynamic address which does not seem to change very often, but when I tried to change my router to a static address it kicked out as not valid.

I think I issued the correct command to update and start ddclient even though I found several commands on the web to do this so I could be wrong. The command I used was sudo /etc/init.d/ddclient start 

Any suggestions would be appreciated.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-10-29
set it to use the ip checker, you are setting it to your local (rfc 1918****)  192 address and not the one your ISP gave you
or make your router do this

i think you you are messing around wit the wrong stuff you should be setting the dns server

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-10-29
Hi baconmaker.

I've not used OpenDNS, but from using ddclient for DynDNS, I can suggest this:

Since you are behind NAT (using a router), using the interface to identify your IP address won't work. Use 'web' option instead. For instance:
```
use=web, web=checkip.dyndns.com, web-skip='IP Address'
```

AFAIK, the last parameter is the full domain name that you subscribed for your machine, thus:
```
baconmaker1
```
should be replaced with something like:
```
baconmaker1.opendns.com
```
(that is just a guess, please use the proper name).

Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by baconmaker on 2012-11-01
I have changed my conf file to the following:

# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

protocol=dyndns2
use=web, web=checkip.dyndns.com, web-skip=baconmaker1@opendns.com
server=updates.opendns.com
login=**************@*****.com
password='********'
baconmaker1

I have not changed /etc/default/ddclient

Here is the debug report:

DEBUG:    proxy  = 
DEBUG:    url    = checkip.dyndns.com
DEBUG:    server = checkip.dyndns.com
DEBUG:    get_ip: using web, checkip.dyndns.com reports 71.94.100.255
DEBUG:    
DEBUG:     nic_dyndns2_update -------------------
DEBUG:    proxy  = 
DEBUG:    url    = [http://updates.opendns.com/nic/update?system=dyndns&hostname=baconmaker1&myip=71.94.100.255](http://updates.opendns.com/nic/update?system=dyndns&hostname=baconmaker1&myip=71.94.100.255)
DEBUG:    server = updates.opendns.com

When I go to OpenDNS it tells me that my IP address is the same as what my debug report is showing.  When I check the filtering standards I set in my OpenDNS account this IP address should be filtering.  But when I attempt to access what should be a blocked site it is not blocked. So again I ask, what am I missing?

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-11-01
It seems that ddclient is working properly and OpenDNS is getting your correct public IP. That means that now you can access your home LAN using a domain name like 'baconmaker1.opendns.com'.

However, the blocking functionality requires another setting. OpenDNS blocks site in a DNS resolution level, so you need to set your machines to use their DNS instead of your router's or your IPS's.

I believe these are their DNS services (obtained from their website):
```
208.67.222.222
208.67.220.220
```

There are several solutions to accomplish this in your home network. If you want a solution per machine, check this [tutorial]("http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/09/how-to-switch-to-opendns-in-ubuntu-for-faster-browsing") for Ubuntu boxes.

On the other hand, if you want to set it for all your machines at home, you may need to research (1) if your router allow to pass another dns address besides the defaults (or the obtained from your ISP), and (2) actually set OpenDNS' address on the correct page on the router.

In order to check whether or not the previous procedure was done correctly, visit this page: [https://www.opendns.com/welcome/]("https://www.opendns.com/welcome/")

I hope that helps, and tell us how it goes.
Regards.

---

