---
title: "10.04 LTS Toshiba Satellite C655 networking help needed"
date: 2012-01-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Bladewing2 on 2012-01-18
To all,
I need help with networking. I am lost and beyond frustrated at this point. I have a Toshiba Satellite C655. It's a C655D-S5330 I believe. Here are stats:
 
AMD E-300 APU 1.30 Ghz Processor
3.00 GB Ram
AMD Radeon HD 6310 Graphics
Atheros AR8152/8158 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller (NDIS 6.20)
Realtek RTL8188CE Wireless LAN 802.11n PCI-E NIC
 
The goal is to get Ubuntu 10.04 32 bit on this machine in place of the Windows 7 64 bit. I've been using a vm of 10.04 for work with Oracle's UCM. And I'd like to leave virtualbox behind. But I am having major issues getting ubuntu to recognize either of the networking options. And since I'm unable to connect at all, I'm in the creek without a paddle pretty much. Whatever information you need, please let me know and I'll get it to you. Just please help. I'm at my wits end on this.
 
Also I've tried the compat-wireless-2.6.tar.bz2, but I'm not even sure if it installed correctly. And I tried getting the driver from realtek, but what they have for linux is 92ce_se_de_linux_mac80211_0005.1230.2011.tar.gz which errors out on make.
 
Please Help,
Thanks,
John

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-01-18
> have for linux is 92ce_se_de_linux_mac80211_0005.1230.2011.tar.gz which errors out on make.Does it error out on make if you have *linux-headers-generic* and *build-essential* installed?

The most recent version of Ubuntu has the driver installed by default, I believe. If you'll post:```
lspci -nn | grep 0280
```Then I can confirm it.

---

### Post by Bladewing2 on 2012-01-19
Thanks for the response. I finally got the compat-wireless to compile and install correctly. And got connected to the wired connection...then after 10 minutes or so...stopped transmitting data. So I decided to heck with it and put in 11.10. Got connected on the wireless right away...and again after a few minutes it stopped transmitting data. System didn't lock up, just stopped talking to the web. Turns out this is a known bug for 11.10 and I'm thinking for other versions as well. See here:
 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/881270](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/881270)
 
So I don't know. I'm just fed up with it right now. So I'll put win7 back on the laptop and use it for java/android development. And to get a Ubuntu laptop I'll look for a laptop that causes less issues.
 
Thanks again for the response,
John

---

### Post by iamsleepwalker on 2012-02-08
I just bought a Toshiba Satellite C655 last night. I was very disappointed when Ubuntu 10.4 didn't recognize either of my network options. I just finished downloading and installing Mint 12 64 bit. Not only did it recognize my ethernet, and wireless adapters, it also sees all the power management, and correctly recognizes my graphics card. I'm very pleased.

---

### Post by mvai on 2012-07-09
i have toshiba satellite c655d-sp5137L  , sames  networks adapters, 
i solved wifi  only at de moment with this. 
[HTML] 
171902:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Device 8176 (rev 01)
 
06:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications AR8152 v1.1 Fast Ethernet (rev c1) 
[/HTML]download  .deb from : 
                  [link]("http://ppa.launchpad.net/lexical/hwe-wireless/ubuntu/pool/main/r/rtl8192ce-dkms/")     
                 rtl8192ce-dkms_2.6.0003.0628.2010ubuntu1_all.deb
before install ...all.deb  
install from your CD,
[HTML]
 cdrom:[Ubuntu 10.04.4 LTS _Lucid Lynx_ - Release i386 (20120214)]
/pool/main/p/patch/patch_2.6-2ubuntu1_i386.deb 
/pool/main/d/dkms/dkms_2.1.1.2-2ubuntu1_all.deb 
/pool/main/f/fakeroot/fakeroot_1.14.4-1ubuntu1_i386.deb 
[/HTML]that not is  a complete solution ... only solved wifi.

---

