---
title: "Spent last 3 days still no internet connection"
date: 2013-07-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
I am very new at ubuntu cant figure out how to get my wifi working after installing 13.04 Ubuntu on dell inspiron 1520. Reason why i installed it cus i want to learn programming. Please help.

---

### Post by kc1di on 2013-07-11
Hello Cbatchelor13  and Welcome to Ubuntu,

Sorry your having problems.  we need a little more information in order to help though. 
Do you know what wiresless card is being used?

and could you got to a terminal and type this command ```
rfkill list all
```
you may have to install rfkill first you can do this by typeing: ```
sudo apt-get install rfkill
```

if your not sure what wireless card is in your machine. then type this command in a terminal and list the output
```
lspci -nn | grep -e '\[0200\]' -e '\[0280\]'
```

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
I tried rfkill list all nothing happened but when i did install it said updates are already newest version...

03:00.0 ethernet controller:broadcom corporation bcm4401-bo 100base-tx [14e4:170c] (rev 02)
0c:00.0 network controller [0280]: broadcom corporation bcm4311 802.11b/g wlan [14e4:4311] (rev 01)


Thank you so much for replying

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2013-07-11
have you tried additional drivers programme? i think it's in software center now.:
under item 2: [http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/10-things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu-13-04](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/04/10-things-to-do-after-installing-ubuntu-13-04)


make sure you are connected to internet with wire.

edit: the wifi card/chip is recognised but it might need drivers.

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
It doesn't work with wire connection either but i will see what i can do with my phone cus im on that right now. I wont be able to get to a desktop within next 5 hours if i cant use my phone ill let you know

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
Nothing works on the phone so i will look at it when i can get to desktop later. Is there anyway i can contact you for future reference. I am learning to program and like to make some programing friends for lunix/Ubuntu.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2013-07-11
That second line is your wireless card.  "bcm4311" means you have the Broadcom 4311, which is not supported out-of-the-box.

The easiest approaches to fixing this involve obtaining a wired internet connection.  If that's not possible, there are other ways.

First approach:
From the Dash, open "Software & Updates" and go to the "Additional Drivers" tab.  Your card should be listed, and you should be able to enable the proprietary drivers for it.

Second approach: (still assuming you have wired internet connection)
First, remove bcmwl-kernel-source and install b43-fwcutter and firmware-b43-installer
```
sudo apt-get remove bwcml-kernel-source && sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter firmware-b43-installer
```
Second, check if the card is blacklisted
```
cat /etc/modprobe.d/* | egrep 'bcm'
```
and if it is, change that by running
```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
```
  Find the line that says "blacklist bcm43xx" and add a "#" symbol at the beginning of that line.  Then save the file and close gedit.
Third, reboot.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2013-07-11
gksu gedit

...or

sudo nano

use gksu with graphical applicaitons (e.g. gedit) and sudo with CLI applicaitons (e.g. nano)

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
First step u said came out " unable to loacate package bwcml-kernel-source"

Second said warning file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost

Blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist bcma
blacklist bcm43xx

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
Mastablasta i didnt understand that ... its like Chinese for me.

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
Third line newb85 is command not found

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
Third action said command not found

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-07-11
You need to get an internet connection in order for any of this to work. You can't tether your phone?

Alternately, you can download those packages on another computer from packages.ubuntu.com, and then install them on the computer that can't access wireless.

The final alternative is to simply buy a wifi device that will work out-of-the-box on Ubuntu. Amazon has a few made by Alfa that work well.

---

### Post by kc1di on 2013-07-11
you will have to get a hardwire connection via Ethernet then follow the terminal command on this [page. ]("http://linuxg.net/how-to-fix-broadcom-bcm4311-wireless-driver-on-ubuntu-and-linux-mint/")

you card uses b43 driver.  If you can not get online at all then you will have to download the drivers and install them manually.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2013-07-11
> **Cbatchelor13 said:**
> Mastablasta i didn't understand that ... its like Chinese for me.


:lolflag:

OK, fair enough.


sudo = super user do - it's a command that gives you temorary admin privileges and should be used with applicaitons that are based in command line such as text editor nano (which is sort of like edit in DOS)
gksu = graphical sudo - a command that does same as sudo but for applicaiton that are based on graphical desktop ionterface such as for example gedit (which is a text editor kind of liek notepad in windows).

 in last command if you use gedit (as suggested in the given command) as text editor it is better to use gksu. aslo as others mentioned you need wired internet connection first or download drivers elsewhere and install them

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
i just connected hardwire im gonna try those three steps new85 gave me and mastablasta thanks man it helped alot that u told me those hahaha

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
So i did first step then second step and a blank white window like notepad popped up and it is blank. my entire terminal.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get remove bwcml-kernel-source && sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter firmware-b43-installer
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package bwcml-kernel-source
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ cat / etc/modprobe.d/* | egrep 'bcm'
cat: /: Is a directory
cat: etc/modprobe.d/*: No such file or directory
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo gedit /etc/modrobe.d/blacklist.conf

(gedit:9863): IBUS-WARNING **: The owner of /home/ubuntu/.config/ibus/bus is not root!

---

### Post by newb85 on 2013-07-11
The cat command failed because you put an extra space in the file path.

I'm guessing you haven't installed any updates, which is why it didn't find bcmwl-kernel-source, install the fwcutter or firmware installer, or find the blacklist file.

First,
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
(Say yes to bring your system up to date.  It will probably take a while.)

Once that's finished, try using the first approach I mentioned earlier to install the proprietary drivers.  If that doesn't work, then move on to the second approach.

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
i tried the first one and then gave me a list of fails then the second code i got 0 upgrades, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
correction i redid the code you gave me pulled up a long black list got 52 lines


# This file lists those modules which we don't want to be loaded by 
# alias expansion, usually so some other driver will be loaded for the 
# device instead. 


# evbug is a debug tool that should be loaded explicitly 
blacklist evbug 


# these drivers are very simple, the HID drivers are usually preferred 
blacklist usbmouse 
blacklist usbkbd 


# replaced by e100 
blacklist eepro100 


# replaced by tulip 
blacklist de4x5 


# causes no end of confusion by creating unexpected network interfaces 
blacklist eth1394 


# snd_intel8x0m can interfere with snd_intel8x0, doesn't seem to support much 
# hardware on its own (Ubuntu bug #2011, #6810) 
blacklist snd_intel8x0m 


# Conflicts with dvb driver (which is better for handling this device) 
blacklist snd_aw2 


# causes failure to suspend on HP compaq nc6000 (Ubuntu: #10306) 
blacklist i2c_i801 


# replaced by p54pci 
blacklist prism54 


# replaced by b43 and ssb. 
blacklist bcm43xx 


# most apps now use garmin usb driver directly (Ubuntu: #114565) 
blacklist garmin_gps 


# replaced by asus-laptop (Ubuntu: #184721) 
blacklist asus_acpi 


# low-quality, just noise when being used for sound playback, causes 
# hangs at desktop session start (Ubuntu: #246969) 
blacklist snd_pcsp 


# ugly and loud noise, getting on everyone's nerves; this should be done by a 
# nice pulseaudio bing (Ubuntu: #77010) 
blacklist pcspkr 


# EDAC driver for amd76x clashes with the agp driver preventing the aperture 
# from being initialised (Ubuntu: #297750). Blacklist so that the driver 
# continues to build and is installable for the few cases where its 
# really needed. 
blacklist amd76x_edac

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
i will not being anymore commands or disconnecting the hardwire or shut off until next step

---

### Post by newb85 on 2013-07-11
> **Cbatchelor13 said:**
> i tried the first one and then gave me a list of fails then the second code i got 0 upgrades, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded

Let's focus on getting the updates to work first.  If you can't connect to the repositories, you won't be able to install the drivers from them.

How about sharing that list of fails for apt-get update?

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
well that screen only popped up when i had the installation disc in... right now i cant even connect to the internet. i can only when boot from disc but it never installs updates i already tried that.

---

### Post by newb85 on 2013-07-11
Can you not connect to the web via ethernet cable from the installed Ubuntu?

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
well when i put the cd in i get ethernet from the cable only... when i take the live cd out i end up not getting any connection from cable.

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
the cd image isnt coppied right i have made 3 different ubuntu cd's and same issue

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
im still on this list is the last thing i did... it popped up from a white screen 

[COLOR=#000000]# This file lists those modules which we don't want to be loaded by [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]# alias expansion, usually so some other driver will be loaded for the [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]# device instead. [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# evbug is a debug tool that should be loaded explicitly [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist evbug [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# these drivers are very simple, the HID drivers are usually preferred [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist usbmouse [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist usbkbd [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# replaced by e100 [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist eepro100 [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# replaced by tulip [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist de4x5 [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# causes no end of confusion by creating unexpected network interfaces [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist eth1394 [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# snd_intel8x0m can interfere with snd_intel8x0, doesn't seem to support much [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]# hardware on its own (Ubuntu bug #2011, #6810) [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist snd_intel8x0m [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# Conflicts with dvb driver (which is better for handling this device) [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist snd_aw2 [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# causes failure to suspend on HP compaq nc6000 (Ubuntu: #10306) [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist i2c_i801 [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# replaced by p54pci [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist prism54 [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# replaced by b43 and ssb. [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist bcm43xx [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# most apps now use garmin usb driver directly (Ubuntu: #114565) [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist garmin_gps [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# replaced by asus-laptop (Ubuntu: #184721) [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist asus_acpi [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# low-quality, just noise when being used for sound playback, causes [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]# hangs at desktop session start (Ubuntu: #246969) [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist snd_pcsp [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# ugly and loud noise, getting on everyone's nerves; this should be done by a [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]# nice pulseaudio bing (Ubuntu: #77010) [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist pcspkr [/COLOR]


[COLOR=#000000]# EDAC driver for amd76x clashes with the agp driver preventing the aperture [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]# from being initialised (Ubuntu: #297750). Blacklist so that the driver [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]# continues to build and is installable for the few cases where its [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]# really needed. [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]blacklist amd76x_edac[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-11
and i dont got a cd in right now

---

### Post by newb85 on 2013-07-11
First, anything after 12.04 is too large to fit onto a regular CD.  It needs a DVD.

Once you have a working disc, boot Ubuntu from the Hard Drive and then insert the disc.  Open "Software & Updates", and on the Ubuntu Software tab, enable the DVD as a source.  It should contain the necessary packages.  Disable the four main repositories at the top for now.

Then run the following commands one at a time.
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter
sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer
```

Let me know if they install the two packages.

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-12
so should i restart the computer then put the disc in and boot from disc?

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-12
i cannot get wifi unless i boot from disc

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-12
ok so what i did was i put the cd in then i turned the computer off and booted from cd.
i installed updates from first and 2nd code... third code it couldnt find.
then i took cd out then restarted computer from hard drive and no connection is available through wireless or wire connections

---

### Post by newb85 on 2013-07-12
When you boot from the Live disc, changes made to the system aren't permanent.  That's why I instructed you to "boot Ubuntu from the Hard Drive and then insert the disc."

Yes, you've made it clear that neither internet connection works when you boot from the Hard Drive.  That's why I want you to try to install the drivers and firmware loader from the DVD instead of the online repositories.  Please follow the steps in post #29 again, making sure to boot from the Hard Drive before inserting the DVD.

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-12
so i just did that i installed from hard drive then i repeated 29... first command gave me a list of fail.2nd one "unable to loacate package b43=fwcutter". and same thing for the 3rd

---

### Post by westie457 on 2013-07-12
Hi, unfortunately the suggestion by newb85 will not work because the required driver is not on the DVD.

Instead I suggest you boot from your DVD into 'Try mode' with a cable plugged in for the internet. Go to these links to download the drivers. One is for the 64 bit, the other is for the 32 bit OS. Copy the one you need to the Desktop folder of your installation. To find that open the File Browser, look at the left pane for an icon the corresponds to the size of your installation - it might just be a number with GB at the end. Double-click to mount and open and navigate to the Desktop folder. 

[http://ubuntuone.com/3AGkEjyvcbhqnyhz9zpHBi](http://ubuntuone.com/3AGkEjyvcbhqnyhz9zpHBi)

[http://ubuntuone.com/0bB9zdFZW9TK9m0PWITKBz](http://ubuntuone.com/0bB9zdFZW9TK9m0PWITKBz)

When you have the package in the right place reboot using your hard drive not the DVD. When it has finished loading and the DVD is still in the tray double-click on the file on the Desktop, Software Centre should open and install the driver for you. It should also locate the B43-fwcutter package on the DVD.
Wait a few seconds then check the Network Manager icon for any available networks. If none showing open a terminal and run ```
sudo modprobe b43
``` and check again. If the cable is still attached remove it. If no networks showing after the modprobe command simply reboot to the hard drive and all should be working.

Let us know how it goes.

Thank you.

---

### Post by LordFran on 2013-07-12
If I were you, I would use an Internet cord for direct connection, I tried wifi and had the same problem.

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-12
so i booted from dvd
then i downloaded them and stuck them both on desktop.
then i restarted computer and went to my desktop nothing is there i will try redoing it. to double check.
but it says fatal: module 43 not found.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-07-12
Any files you download onto the live CD will be lost when you reboot. Copy the files onto a USB stick or onto a hard disk before rebooting. Or onto your phone.

I'm very surprised the wifi and ethernet works on the CD but not on the installed system. Have you tried simply reinstalling the system?

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-12
So i ended up saving to my phone then i booted from harddrive then i transferred the file to my phone. I entered command it asked for pw i put it in and then it didn't do anything

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-12
Ive tried three dvd's same issue and it only connects with wire while booted from live cd. Wireless doesn't work at all.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2013-07-12
Hi, 
Download the b43 zip file to a flash drive then drag and drop the file to your ubuntu desktop. Right-click it and select Extract Here. Open a terminal and do:
```
sudo mkdir /lib/firmware/b43
sudo cp Desktop/b43/* /lib/firmware/b43
sudo rmmod -f b43
sudo rmmod -f ssb
sudo modprobe b43

```
Also do:
```
sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf
sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/broadcom-sta-common.conf
sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/broadcom-sta-dkms.conf
```
It should be that simple as long as you have not installed any other dirvers.
Thanks

---

### Post by newb85 on 2013-07-13
@OP, you're in good hands with Wild Man.  If anyone can help you, he can.  Just be sure to copy the terminal commands *exactly* as they are.  I suggest you copy them into a text file and transfer them using the flash drive with the b43.zip file.

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-13
i dragged it to the desktop. then i unzipped it. then i punched in first three codes this is now what it looks like. i will not be turning it off or touching it till next step.

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-13
with all commands

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-07-13
*Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless***

Better late than never. ;)

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-13
everything is working just fine thank you all so much.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-07-13
Good news. Please mark thread as solved by following the link in my signature.

---

### Post by Cbatchelor13 on 2013-07-13
its not there like it said in your signature thing.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2013-07-13
Your welcome! that is an old trick of chili555.

---

