---
title: "NetworkManager.conf accidental edit?"
date: 2014-02-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by fromite on 2014-02-17
Hey all,

    So my net went down and in the mix of everything I factory reset my wifi router just to make sure there was nothing there (doesn't take long to reconfig). In this process I had to hardwire to my Router in order to set it up. While I was waiting for the initial setup to finish I was cleaning up my Wifi list and I accidentally deleted "Auto-ethernet" from the list. Since then I have been getting the following error message:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]250437[/ATTACH]

    If anyone has any idea how I can remedy this that would be wonderful. When I initially boot, the wifi adapter constantly attempts to connect to my home network; however, it also constantly fails until I manually disconnect it during an attempt and then select the network. Shortly after which the aforementioned error occurs.

Thanks,
Dan 

PS- please let me know if you need any other information.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2014-02-17
Please show
```
ifconfig -a
cat /etc/resolv.conf
cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```

---

### Post by fromite on 2014-02-17
> **praseodym said:**
> Please show
```
ifconfig -a
cat /etc/resolv.conf
cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```

--ifconfig shows no errors, drops, collisions, etc. 

--cat /etc/resolv.conf

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
search home

--cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf

[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile,ofono
dns=dnsmasq

no-auto-default=DC:0E:A1:B8:52:62,

[ifupdown]
managed=false

---

