---
title: "gnome ppp download speed 1.5 to 2.8 kbps"
date: 2008-09-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jkohler2 on 2008-09-02
In earlier times using a 56k modem to an old serial port, the dial-up program would usually get a 30 to 40 kbps connection on good days, and 14.4 kbps on bad days.  

I am trying another dialup method now.  A 56k Zoom usb modem model 3095, connects to the phone line and Gnome-ppp makes a successful configuration that works.


The trouble is the download speed, from 1.5 to 2.8 kbps.  I am seeing some hayes commands I don't recognize after the "atz" like atq0v1e1s0-0&c1&d2+fclass=0 and atm1L3dt*70,,nnnnnnnn(phone number)

Is the dialing string wrong?  If so, can I tell GNOME PPP to change it?

How do I do that?

Thanks, in advance,

John

---

### Post by jkohler2 on 2008-09-02
More info:  handshake messsages:

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT*70,,5574037
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT*70,,5574037
CONNECT 57600
--> Carrier detected.  Starting PPP immediately.
--> Starting pppd at Tue Sep  2 12:07:47 2008
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 7399
--> Using interface ppp0
--> local  IP address 12.72.210.180
--> remote IP address 165.238.43.39
--> primary   DNS address 68.94.156.1
--> secondary DNS address 68.94.157.1
--> Terminating connection due to lack of activity.
--> Connect time 0.2 minutes.
--> Disconnecting at Tue Sep  2 12:08:00 2008
--> The PPP daemon has died: Link idle: Idle Seconds reached. (exit code = 12)
--> man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
--> I guess that's it for now, exiting
--> The PPP daemon has died. (exit code = 12)

---

### Post by _duncan_ on 2008-09-03
Connection speed is expressed in Kilo**BITS** per second. Download speed in Kilo**BYTES** per second. Conversion is 1 Byte = 8 Bits.

Given ideal conditions (i.e. clean phone line, fast download server, etc.) the max actual download speed should be in the vicinity of 5 KBytes/sec. This should correspond to ideal connection speeds of 45-48 kBits/sec.

I don't think it's an init string problem coz you can get connection speeds of up to 40 kbps on good days. My hunch is you have an old / noisy phone line. Maybe you can convince your telephone company to replace the line.

---

### Post by jkohler2 on 2008-09-23
Same setup, different problem:  The Acer 5315 laptop and zoom 3095 usb modem connect to the mlocal AT&T dial up line even though the CHAP and PAP logs indicate errors.  The connection is 42 kbps, reliably.  If,  however,
I use another ISP phone number, with my valid ID and password, the same modem under GNOME-PPP takes the phone off-hook, detects dial tone, dials the number, but doesn't do the handshake successfully.

I don't know how to view, or print, the log of the failed connection.

John

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-06-25
Same problem as thread owner. Only getting max download speeds of 2.2kb/s. Driving me crazy.

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2009-06-25
> **EXCiD3 said:**
> Same problem as thread owner. Only getting max download speeds of 2.2kb/s. Driving me crazy.

What type of modem are you using?  Is it the linuxant version?

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-06-25
Zoom 3095 USB Modem...and yes apparently its the one that you have to pay for to get over 14.4kb/s :(

Any other way to get it up to speed?

---

