---
title: "12.10 64bit can't connect to apple time capsule but 32 can?"
date: 2013-02-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by twinturbotom on 2013-02-20
12.10 Fresh 32 bit install connected to my apple time capsule shared drive but my fresh 64 bit install will not.

I've tried several things from an assortment of posts on the forums and google.  I'll list them below:

First in nautilus browsed network and found the drive, double clicked, entered credentials and received an error:

```

Unable to mount location
Got error "kFPAuthContinue" from server
```

After researching it appeared to be user name credentials on the apple (weird this didn't happen for 32 bit).  I've seen issues with this as my apple time capsule is configured with file sharing based on "password".  Not credential.  I think it defaults to the user name of the first person who set it up (not sure why apples does this).  So I tried that user name and nautilus kept an "Opening" dialog up for ever.

So I reconfigured my time capsule with credential sharing, created accounts with user names and passwords (this messed up sharing on my windows and mac but lets get this ubuntu 64bit working first!).  Attempt to connect and same error.... hhhmmm

I put things back on the time capsule.

Next I installed afp and used mount_afp (which I also used on 32 bit with no issues).  That gave me this error:
```
The afpfs daemon does not appear to be running, let me start it for you
could not connect, never got a response status, connection timed out
```
when that worked on my 32 bit I did recieve the let me start it for you bit so I thought I was okay until the following time out thing.

I installed samba and ran ```
smbclient -L "IP_HERE" -U%
```

That returned the proper domain, OS and a server CIFS number.

Now i'm working to install cifs and looking into [this]("http://task3.cc/418/how-to-automatically-mount-and-umount-apple-time-capsule-on-linux/")

Anyone have any better ideas on accessing my time capsule from ubuntu?

I'm also having windows network issues... I see my WORKGROUP but never the computers in it ?

related issue?

---

### Post by twinturbotom on 2013-02-20
mount.cifs worked.... Now I guess I have to add that to a start up script and I should be good.
full command:

```
sudo mount.cifs //IP_ADDRESS/Data ~/capsule -o pass=xxxx
```

---

### Post by haruska on 2013-11-06
Thanks, your mount.cifs mostly worked for me. Here is mine on Ubuntu 13.10:

```

sudo apt-get install cifs-utils
sudo mount.cifs //IP_ADDRESS/Data ~/capsule -o password=CAPSULE_PASSWORD,sec=ntlm,uid=LOCAL_USERNAME

```

---

### Post by twinturbotom on 2013-11-07
I've also updated mine to now use a credentials file instead of typing my password.  I still don't get why sometimes this would and would not work with and without DNS or IP!  Things have been working fine as of late!  
[URL="https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MountWindowsSharesPermanently"]
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MountWindowsSharesPermanently](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MountWindowsSharesPermanently)
[/URL]

---

