---
title: ".sh scripts (rsync -e ssh) not working under 8.10"
date: 2008-11-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jeffk on 2008-11-23
I create convenience scripts for my users with one or more commands. The scripts are executable for UGO as appropriate, and usually carry a .sh file extension. I have not usually used shebang first lines to specify a shell.

Since the upgrade to 8.10, Scripts with commands of the form:
```
$ cat foo.sh
rsync -avPe ssh source host:dest
```
Have not worked. I test these from an ssh login, the users click the script in GNOME and execute. 

Symptoms: There is no (rsync) output, and the ssh console/gnome terminal is not prompted for a password. The job appears hung for all intents and purposes. It can be killed, but Ctrl-C does not interrupt, at least over ssh.

The verbatim rsync+ssh command works perfectly when entered from the prompt.

Other commands in .sh scripts may work poorly as well, but have not been tested as such.

sudo is not wanted in this case, as the rsync commands are always and only for user-owned files. Any inaccessible files are --exclude-from'd during script testing and development.

What is going on here? I have suspicions that ConsoleKit/PolicyKit are involved.

I would be very appreciative of a proper syntax for a one-liner script that can be run transparently in 8.10 client and server as: 

1) ssh console as a regular user
2) from the GNOME terminal as a regular user 
3) from cron jobs as root
4) from GNOME nautilus double-click to execute.

Thanks.

Possibly related issue:
[console-kit-daemon 97% CPU from rsync ssh .sh script]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990370")

---

### Post by jeffk on 2008-11-23
I have found that with a proper shebang line, the scripts work fine.
```
#!/bin/bash
rsync ...
```
What has changed in Ubuntu 8.10 to change the behavior of scripts without the shebang?

Thanks.

---

