---
title: "Network &amp; Cups Issue"
date: 2010-10-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rockom on 2010-10-05
Hello,

I have a system running a very basic LTS install (10.04).  Ubuntu has been setup with very little additional packages.  No GUI. Once it's booted to a prompt for the first time I add the following packages,

cups cupsys ssh pi memtester nfs-common
aptitude safe-upgrade

At this time I don't have additional information on exactly what packages are installed.  I did not perform the installs myself.  I will update this thread when I get more details from my IT counterpart on how the system was setup.

This is used for a headless(no monitor, no keyboard) system running some custom applications.

Here are two problems.
1.  If I plug into an ethernet network after I boot, the network never connects. I need to reboot with the network connected in order to get an IP.  What is the service to "auto connect" to a network? 

2.  I have a network printer configured on lpd called myprinter.  If I  am connected to the network when I boot, I can print to this printer just fine using:
```
lp -dmyprinter
```However, If I boot disconnected from the network and print to myprinter,  the jobs obviously cannot print.  They get spooled.  Using 'lpstat -t' I can see that the spooled print jobs are assigned a job number and that myprinter is trying to connect.  I shutdown, reconnect my ethernet network and boot up.  All my printer configuration is blown away.  

/etc/cups/printers.conf has been wiped out to look like this:
```
# Printer configuration file for CUPS v1.4.3
# Written by cupsd
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE WHEN CUPSD IS RUNNING
```My 'good' printer configuration is copied to printers.conf.O

To recover from this, I need to stop cups, copy printers.conf.O to printers.conf, restart cups, and re-setup my network printer.

So, What causes my printers to get wiped out?  I've repeated this on 4 systems with the same setup.

Thanks,
-Rocko

---

### Post by rockom on 2010-10-05
Here is what the healthy printers.conf file looks like.

```
# Printer configuration file for CUPS v1.4.3
# Written by cupsd
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE WHEN CUPSD IS RUNNING
<DefaultPrinter myprinter>
Info myprinter
DeviceURI lpd://10.20.30.20/myprinter
State Idle
StateTime 1283441378
Type 4
Accepting Yes
Shared Yes
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
OpPolicy default
ErrorPolicy retry-job
</Printer>
```

---

