---
title: "13.04 fails to connect, disconnects, both wired and wireless"
date: 2013-06-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Gfurst on 2013-06-27
Hello folks, I'm having trouble connecting ubuntu 13.04 to the internet, here is how this behaves:
trying to connect Wi-Fi, it will accept the password, the icon will show connected with good signal strength, but trying to access internet will give no response, even the router.
trying to connect wired will give response though, network will connect and I can access anything for about 5 minutes, then will have no response anymore.

This same behavior happens with two different machines that have ubuntu 13.04 installed, 
one is a old Intel eeepc, the other a Dell inspiron.
both have a fresh 13.04 install

Another important point is that I have other devices successfully connected, also that the same computers can connect successfully on another router(different house).
So in summary, from what I gather, the issue may lie with my router configuration, I don't know what could it be though.
The issue may also be ubuntu's network manager, with a lot of other reports around( no answers though) is the probably fault one.

---

### Post by Gfurst on 2013-06-28
IMPORTANT
I think i've found a solution for this, somewhat, changed the router setting "DNS relay", that hides the DNS from the computers behind the router. a while after i changed that internet resumed working normally.

---

### Post by Gfurst on 2013-06-30
The DNS relay  thing quite work, the laptops did connect for some reason i don't know yet.
Then i've tried with success, changing the encryption type from AES + TKIP to only TKIP
Now both ubuntu and android devices work alright.

---

