---
title: "2wire 802.11g wirless usb"
date: 2006-09-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nathansmith on 2006-09-17
i don't know if this should go in networking or wireless support -- so i'll just post it in both places.
 i'm fairly new to linux and after looking around for a while i decided to go with ubuntu. i have the latest version (6.06), and everything seems to work great, except my network. I have a a 2wire 802.11g usb wireless adapter, and can't seem to get it working. It has power going to it, and i've messed with ndiswrapper, but everything i try to install it's driver, i've tried multiple ones, it says that they are invalid. At this point I have no clue what to do except to continue using Xp. Any help as to what i need to do would be appreciated.

---

### Post by mbro96 on 2007-08-11
i know this wont help, but i can't use my 2wire 802.11g wireless adapter  either! and i have tried everything i can think of for help!! that is sort of funny, all the threads on this type of hardware have no replies... :) that bites! i wish there was a hacker site or a site from 2wire that made open source drivers (or GNU made a driver).

---

### Post by mbro96 on 2007-12-26
Hi, it's me again. Why not just try and get a different adapter. One that's supported. Such as LinkSys (for full support for the Linux kernel, and it's only $60 USD). /Or/ if you want just something really /really/ cheap, you can get a Netgear (which I'm using right now). The problem with netgears (I don't recommend them at ALL), is that the connection always stops, and they seem to be just act real cheaply-made (just like the price). The connection works for a while, but then sometimes in Ubuntu it will stop. So I would recommend just getting something cheap that is actually supported by the Kernel itself, and not Ubuntu. That way, you won't have stupid errors, since the Kernel probably won't take the driver out of the Linux Kernel, and you are free to use any distro you like without much effort for your device. Also, if you are the experimental type, Linksys will most likely work with FreeBSD / ?=OpenSolaris also (since it can run FreeBSD/NetBSD), therefore, I recommend just getting the modifiable linksys router! I hope this helps!

Best Regards,
          Caleb H        [Ubuntu user; trying-to-get-FreeBSD-working user]

---

### Post by MFIC on 2007-12-30
> **mbro96 said:**
> Hi, it's me again. Why not just try and get a different adapter. One that's supported. Such as LinkSys (for full support for the Linux kernel, and it's only $60 USD). /Or/ if you want just something really /really/ cheap, you can get a Netgear (which I'm using right now). The problem with netgears (I don't recommend them at ALL), is that the connection always stops, and they seem to be just act real cheaply-made (just like the price). The connection works for a while, but then sometimes in Ubuntu it will stop. So I would recommend just getting something cheap that is actually supported by the Kernel itself, and not Ubuntu. That way, you won't have stupid errors, since the Kernel probably won't take the driver out of the Linux Kernel, and you are free to use any distro you like without much effort for your device. Also, if you are the experimental type, Linksys will most likely work with FreeBSD / ?=OpenSolaris also (since it can run FreeBSD/NetBSD), therefore, I recommend just getting the modifiable linksys router! I hope this helps!

Best Regards,
          Caleb H        [Ubuntu user; trying-to-get-FreeBSD-working user]

Hey which linksys did you buy? is it a PCI card or usb adpater?

---

### Post by defconoii on 2008-02-25
this is a howto for the 2wire usb adapter:
[http://www.ubuntu-unleashed.com/2008/02/howto-setup-2wire-80211g-wireless-usb.html](http://www.ubuntu-unleashed.com/2008/02/howto-setup-2wire-80211g-wireless-usb.html)

---

