---
title: "UFW and IPTables"
date: 2017-04-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Geoff_Lane on 2017-04-30
Folks,

Does UFW actually create IPTABLES rules?

Reason I ask is that on my Raspberry Pi I have enabled port 22 access and enabled UFW.

If I type sudo ufw status it shows       22   ALLOW  Anywhere
but if I type sudo iptables -L  I see a lot of reference to ufw but nothing that indicates port 22

Geffers

---

### Post by The Cog on 2017-04-30
I believe it does, although it can be tricky to figure out exactly what it is doing. "sudo iptables -L" will display port 22 as "ssh" as you have not asked for numeric port output (-n). Also, without the -v flag, the iptables output omits some important info (any input and output port definitions for the rules), so it tends to look as though the first rule listed allows all traffic when it is probably only allowing all traffic on the loopback port lo. "sudo iptables -nvL" is probably a better command, although personally I prefer to use "sudo iptables-save" which prints the entries as they would be entered, and also prints any NAT configuration.

---

### Post by Geoff_Lane on 2017-05-02
> **The Cog said:**
> I believe it does, although it can be tricky to figure out exactly what it is doing. 

Thanks Cog for reply.

The more I look in to it the more confusing I find it.

Ubuntu's firewall ufw has a default policy of drop incoming whereas default for iptables seems to be allow.

Geffers

---

### Post by The Cog on 2017-05-02
> **Geoff_Lane said:**
> Ubuntu's firewall ufw has a default policy of drop incoming whereas default for iptables seems to be allow.

Are you saying that the iptables rules generated by ufw have a default allow? I doubt that if you have set ufw to default deny. But I don't use ufw. If you care to post the output of **sudo iptables-save** I will have a look and try to figure it out. As I say, it's not straightforward because ufw creates a number of chains that it hooks together.

---

### Post by Geoff_Lane on 2017-05-19
> **The Cog said:**
> Are you saying that the iptables rules generated by ufw have a default allow? I doubt that if you have set ufw to default deny. But I don't use ufw. If you care to post the output of **sudo iptables-save** I will have a look and try to figure it out. As I say, it's not straightforward because ufw creates a number of chains that it hooks together.

Cog,

Thank you for reply and sorry for delay in replying.

I know historically (When the internet was young and relatively safe) routers allowed ALL and users denied by choice but nowadays it is block everything incoming unless related or established but allow out.

I am sure when I was exploring I saw IP tables default policy or ALLOW in and out and thought it strange otherwise I would not have asked the question but it seems checking on my present Ubuntu 16:04 laptop the setup appears to be allow out but drop all others.

I am experimenting with various servers including OpenVPN on a RaspberryPi therefore want to secure it, hence my enquiry.

I was quite happy with UFW but OpenVPN gives the iptables rules for the server machine so I was wondering about the relationship between the two.

Attached output of iptables-save and also iptables -L | grep policy

Geffers

---

