---
title: "14.04 server two NIC config"
date: 2014-10-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by scott75 on 2014-10-23
I am trying to set up a clonezilla server. I have installed 14.04. I am running an onboard NIC (realtek) and pci card (3com) since Clonezilla requires two or more NIC's. First.... why am I seeing p4p1 instead of eth0? Second I add p5p1 (that's what Ubuntu associated with my 2nd NIC upon installation) to the interfaces file it won't let the networking reinitialize.... ifupdown gives me the error "ifup: failed to open lockfile /run/network/.ifstate.lock: Permission denied" what is that all about? I cannot reinit any networking at all... just keep rebooting server. Surely there's a better way. 

In conclusion... yes I'm prob rambling... sorry it's been a looonnnngggg day.

1. How do I configure both NIC's (both will be static - primary will be static public secondary will be static private) AND have them both work? (I know how to edit /etc/network/interfaces file.... just not understanding if p4p1/p5p1 is the same as eth0/eth1)
2. What command is used to reinitialize the NIC's?
3. If ifup / ifdown are the correct commands... why am i getting the error and how do I correct it?

Thank you for any/all help.

---

### Post by scott75 on 2014-10-25
Very odd.... so I leave this project alone for a day or so... come back in the office on Saturday. I uncomment the 2nd NIC from the interface file, reboot and.... BAM! it works! Install Clonezilla server and it's working like a charm....

---

