---
title: "rlt 8085"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by trucker33377 on 2008-05-13
has this been fixed? i cant get mine to work

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-05-13
Is this a network card? Wired or wireless? I have never heard of, nor can Google find an rlt8085. Please let us see:```
sudo lshw -C network
```

---

### Post by trucker33377 on 2008-05-13
i was half asleep when i posted but i installed gutsy it works on that

---

### Post by trucker33377 on 2008-05-18
well im still working on this first of all its an rtl8185. next is it works with 7.10

heres whats happened this is a gateway mt3421 with gutsy i can use the wireless out of the box, but theres no sound

with hardy i get sound no wireless

now i dont really care if im using gutsy or hardy just want both things to work.

ive downloaded the rtl8185_linux_26.1027.0823.2007 driver and tried to follow dir to install.

got the box on my desktop and a folder i extracted 

i found a posting on how to install but its not working for me

this is the hardy in my pc right now

please help

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-05-18
There is a pretty good tutorial here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=772006&highlight=8185](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=772006&highlight=8185) Note that to make it work in Hardy, you must install it booted into Hardy. As that great saying goes, 'What happens in Hardy stays in Hardy.

---

### Post by trucker33377 on 2008-05-18
things go ok till i try to do this

mkdir  /lib/modules/`uname -r`/kernel/net/ieee80211
cp ieee80211/*.ko  /lib/modules/`uname -r`/kernel/net/ieee80211
cp rtl8185/*.ko  /lib/modules/`uname -r`/kernel/net
depmod -ae

trucker@trucker-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get install build-essential
[sudo] password for trucker: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
build-essential is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  libfltk1.1 fxload
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
trucker@trucker-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get remove libfltk1.1 fxload
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  fxload libfltk1.1
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 2 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
After this operation, 1016kB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? y
(Reading database ... 117163 files and directories currently installed.)
Removing fxload ...
Removing libfltk1.1 ...
Processing triggers for libc6 ...
ldconfig deferred processing now taking place
trucker@trucker-laptop:~$ find /lib/modules/`uname -r` -name r8180.ko
trucker@trucker-laptop:~$ mkdir  /lib/modules/`uname -r`/kernel/net/ieee80211
mkdir: cannot create directory `/lib/modules/2.6.24-16-generic/kernel/net/ieee80211': File exists
trucker@trucker-laptop:~$ cp ieee80211/*.ko  /lib/modules/`uname -r`/kernel/net/ieee80211
cp: cannot stat `ieee80211/*.ko': No such file or directory
trucker@trucker-laptop:~$ cp rtl8185/*.ko  /lib/modules/`uname -r`/kernel/net
cp: cannot stat `rtl8185/*.ko': No such file or directory
trucker@trucker-laptop:~$ depmod -ae

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-05-18
Your mkdir and cp commands were not done because you do not have permission to amend these files in /lib/modules, but the superuser does. Try preceeding those commands with 'sudo'.

If in doubt, sudo. "sudo, please bring me a beer."

---

### Post by brandoncolorado on 2008-05-18
Won't work in Hardy, but works out of the box with Fedora 9 (patched driver missed the latest Ubuntu version, but not Fedora).  Best of luck.

---

### Post by trucker33377 on 2008-05-18
still no luck here ive tried the windows driver for xp works on pclinuxos but not with hardy

one other thing here i dont really understand, when i look at my networks i can edit wireless it see's my network am i missing something simple here? the only thing it looks like i can do is remove it

---

