---
title: "Slow DNS resolving, but not under VPN"
date: 2009-02-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Miguel on 2009-02-23
Dear all,

I've been banging my head trying to find out what is making my internet connection "slow", but I have been unsuccessful so far.

**What is the problem?** Resolving addresses in Ubuntu 8.10 x86_64 takes a very long time, and it happens using DHCP via both ethernet (Intel gigabit ethernet using module e1000e) and WiFi (802.11g via Intel WiFi Link 5300 using iwlagn). Network transfer speeds are par, and I can download big archives as fast as I used to do 10 days ago. Resolving names takes so long that PING takes it as a timeout.

**Is it avoidable?** Yes. It doesn't happen in WinXP Pro SP3 and it doesn't happen either in OpenSUSE 11.1. Funnily enough it doesn't happen either in a liveCD session of the very same Ubuntu version I've got installed. Also, to add insult to injury, if I open a VPN tunnel to my university using vpnc, the issue goes away and resolving is as fast as always. Of course, I incur in a slight performance penalty under VPN, but it's the only way I can surf (or ssh, for that matter) properly.

**What have you tried?** I've tried disabling IPv6, re-enabling it, rebooting, rebuilding initramfs, dpkg-reconfiguring BIND and all packages returned by "aptitude search network | grep ^i".

**Contents of important files** I'm using DHCP via Network Manager, so I suppose this won't give much help.

/etc/network/interfaces:
```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```

/etc/resolv.conf - The first address looks suspicious. I'm killing it to see if it changes anything.
```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.2.1
nameserver 129.49.7.3
nameserver 129.49.7.250
search sunysb.edu

```

And ifconfig says:
```

$ ifconfig 
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1e:37:da:9a:16  
          inet addr:129.49.95.129  Bcast:129.49.95.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::21e:37ff:feda:9a16/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:25262 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:5787 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:100 
          RX bytes:8144965 (8.1 MB)  TX bytes:1385552 (1.3 MB)
          Memory:fc000000-fc020000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:1252 (1.2 KB)  TX bytes:1252 (1.2 KB)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:16:ea:68:cd:c6  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

wmaster0  Link encap:UNSPEC  HWaddr 00-16-EA-68-CD-C6-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00  
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

```

I'm worried about the wmaster0 stuff too. I don't know how to kill it, since it doesn't respond to ifdown. Note that I'm writing this while I have the tunnel closed, and that wmaster thingie also appears just after booting.

If you have any clue and/or need any more info, just tell me. The hardware by the way is a Lenovo T400 that has worked perfectly OK.

EDIT: I've re-run ifconfig, but with the locale set to US English, in order to make more sense to most of you.

EDIT 2: Killing the 192.168.* address from the resolv.conf list seems to help ***a lot***. Now I only need to find out why the heck NetworkManager insisted in getting that address in the first place.

---

### Post by Miguel on 2009-02-24
OK, I'm bumping this after a day, with what I've found.

1) For whatever reason, the first DNS I obtain via DHCP is always 192.168.2.1. Well, the last two numbers may change, but the idea is the same. Trying to connect to anything will be exhausing DNS timeout from there, and that's why ping halts and why browsing is unbearably irresponsive. Deleting that DNS from /etc/resolv.conf solves this for both ethernet and WiFi until I reconnect to the network.

2) Reinstalling and reconfiguring bind, dhclient stuff and that hasn't worked (yet), although I'm willing to retry.

3) wmaster0 is an interface created by my iwlagn that the user isn't supposed to mess with.

So I suppose I should rename the thread to **"Wrong DNS is first in /etc/resolv.conf"**. If anyone knows why this happens, I'll be grateful.

EDIT: I've just changed the title to better reflect the real nature of my issues.

---

### Post by Miguel on 2009-03-03
Hello everybody again,

I'm bumping this because after a week I still haven't solved the issues. Now that I'm back from the states, I can confirm that the rogue DNS inserts itself in resolv.conf even when I'm using Static IP with **three** fixed DNS servers in network-manager.

Does anybody know what could cause a rogue DNS to be present in resolv.conf? How could I fix it?

Regards,

Miguel

---

### Post by error420 on 2009-03-03
> **Miguel said:**
> Hello everybody again,

I'm bumping this because after a week I still haven't solved the issues. Now that I'm back from the states, I can confirm that the rogue DNS inserts itself in resolv.conf even when I'm using Static IP with **three** fixed DNS servers in network-manager.

Does anybody know what could cause a rogue DNS to be present in resolv.conf? How could I fix it?

Regards,

Miguel


Same problem DNS... Internet worked fine until in installed vpnc and kvpnc. MY vpn connection worked fine but the next day my firefox was slow to visit web sites. Everythign else works fine. My /etc/resolv.conf file shows the dns servers of the remote network i'm vpn-ed into. After that it shows my local dns ... it needs to be local dns first, remote dns last. I Wonder if this is a bug of ubuntu?

---

### Post by Miguel on 2009-03-04
> **error420 said:**
> Same problem DNS... Internet worked fine until in installed vpnc and kvpnc. MY vpn connection worked fine but the next day my firefox was slow to visit web sites. Everythign else works fine. My /etc/resolv.conf file shows the dns servers of the remote network i'm vpn-ed into. After that it shows my local dns ... it needs to be local dns first, remote dns last. I Wonder if this is a bug of ubuntu?

Hello! Thank god there's someone out there!

I've got a little question for you. When you first login in Gnome or whatever, is the first nameserver in **/etc/resolv.conf** 192.168.2.1? Also, does name resolving work OK after establishing the VPN tunnel?

I've tried some ugly hack in **/etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf** by adding the line

```

reject 192.168.2.1;

```

But it hasn't helped at all in the last 10 days. Maybe with the network-manager update of today it will start working again. Anyway, I've grepped through the whole /etc directory and found the following:
```

$ sudo grep -R 192.168.2.1 /etc/*
/etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf:reject 192.168.2.1;	# Bloody ugly temporary hack for DNS
/etc/resolvconf/run/interface/eth0:nameserver 192.168.2.1

```

*Edit:* Grep also returns some lines in /etc/security/, but I've deleted them since they are meaningless and don't refer to ".2.1" but "201". I'll try to have a look at the resolvconf file to see if anything there can be manipulated to my tastes.

BTW: My real problem is that whenever I connect to anything via n-m, the first DNS is 192.168.2.1, regardless of the interface or the type of connection.

---

### Post by k@e on 2009-03-04
Using Hardy and anything below, I had similar problems with slow name resolving. Whenever I changed the DNS, it kept resetting to a default address, 192.168.2.1. Eventually, I found a solution to this. I don't know if that will help you or if our problems are similar at all but give this a try:

Open /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf and look for the line headed by "request".

```
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
	domain-name, domain-name-servers, domain-search, host-name,
	netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope, interface-mtu;
```

Remove the entry "domain-name-servers". Now, look at the line directly above the one you just changed, it should read "#prepend domain-name servers". Uncomment it by removing the hash sign and change the IP address to whatever you want to be your DNS. It should then look like this:

```
prepend domain-name-servers 208.67.222.222, 208.67.220.220;
```

This will set the entered addresses as your prefered DNS. This example uses OpenDNS, which I recommended to use because it's fast and free.

Save your changes and don't forget to make a backup to be able to revert a mess. Restart the networking daemon and see if pages a loaded faster.

---

### Post by Miguel on 2009-03-04
Thanks for the time k@e,

It may help error420, although in my case, I need some private name servers when I'm at university (I need them to get out of Uni) and then back to public ones again when I'm using WiFi at home. 

As a side note, I've seen that /etc/resolvconf/ has a totally different structure in my laptop than in the many other machines I've seen today, although they were all running Ubuntu 8.04 (except maybe one). However, deleting **/etc/resolvconf/run/interface/eth0** seems to have helped.

*EDIT:* I obviously didn't delete it, but moved elsewhere, where the mighty network gnomes running inside my laptop couldn't find it.

---

