---
title: "18.04/18.10 - Qualcomm Atheros - no wifi, &quot;fixes&quot; only work until next boot"
date: 2019-06-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sicch on 2019-06-26
After a decade or so of Ubuntu, I have finally run into a problem I can't seem to answer by googling. I don't believe I updated anything during the boot session right before my problem began, but I also have a habit of sometimes leaving the computer on for a couple days at a time, so it is possible I did a couple days before,  can't remember it now, and just hadn't booted again since then. Also, if relevant, there was some power flickering during a storm right before I turned it off the last time before the issue began. It's a laptop though, so it stayed on the whole time, no half-startups or anything like that.

Had 18.04. Booted and had no internet, though both showed as connected in Network Manager. Ethernet was able to ping 8.8.8.8, but not google.com, so I figure it was a DNS issue, even though wifi was not able to ping either one. Found a fix involving changing the resolv.conf head/base/tail files and adding "netserver 8.8.8.8" to each, restarted the service, and both ethernet and wifi worked.

Next full boot and wifi was down again, still showing as connected in Network Manager, but not able to ping anything once again. Ethernet, however, stayed working. Tried some possible fixes involving blacklists, rfkill, wmi, power settings, etc and nothing worked or it wasn't relevant to my case. Gave up and tried just upgrading the distro to see if that would help. Upgraded to 18.10, rebooted at the end of it and everything worked again.

Next boot back to no wifi, just like before the upgrade. Found a fix involving rolling back the firmware for the drivers. Got the previous version (20190514) and using nautilus in root, copied and overwrote the files in /lib/firmware/ath10k/QCA9377/hw1.0 as that was my specific version according to lspci.

That worked after a reboot, but once more, only for that boot. Today it is back to no wifi. Seeing as all of these fixes worked after a restart, and then didn't work after a full power down and turning back on, I have even attempted just booting and then restarting to see if that would somehow make it work -- it didn't. I've found most of the solutions to past problems in these forums, so I'm hoping someone can help with this one too.

My Wireless Info pastebin:
[URL="http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/XDmYBr2PkV/"]http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/XDmYBr2PkV/
[ATTACH]283511[/ATTACH]
[/URL]

---

