---
title: "ipw2200 1.0.0 &quot;Make&quot; error"
date: 2005-05-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by svarreby on 2005-05-21
After 2-3 days I'm still struggling with wireless (Intel PRO 2200 B/G) "thing" ...

I have followed every thread here on the forum (about ipw2200), the latest one was this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=30671](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=30671)

... wich pointed to an "easy-to-understand" tutorial at:

[http://nickselby.com/articles/technology/index.htm?a=1807](http://nickselby.com/articles/technology/index.htm?a=1807)


First I'm about to uninstall the old ones. That process gives me this:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dsvarreby@ubuntu:~$ sudo bash ./remove-old
/lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ieee80211 /lib/modules/2.6 .10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ieee80211/ieee80211_crypt.ko /lib/modules/ 2.6.10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ieee80211/ieee80211.ko /lib/modules/2.6 .10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ieee80211/ieee80211_crypt_ccmp.ko /lib/mod ules/2.6.10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ieee80211/ieee80211_crypt_tkip.ko /lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ieee80211/ieee80211_crypt_ wep.ko /lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ipw2100 /lib/module s/2.6.10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ipw2100/ipw2100.ko /lib/modules/2.6.1 0-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ipw2200 /lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/kernel/dri vers/net/wireless/ipw2200/ipw2200.ko /lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/kernel/drivers/us b/serial/ipw.ko

Above files found.  Remove? [y],n y

rm: cannot remove `/lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ieee802 11': Is a directory
rm: cannot remove `/lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ipw2100 ': Is a directory
rm: cannot remove `/lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/ipw2200 ': Is a directory
grep: /lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/build/.config: No such file or directory
grep: /lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/build/include/linux/autoconf.h: No such file or directory
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Then I proceed with the installation (hoping that this will succeed). I issue "sudo make" (tested with all drivers from 1.0.0 -> 1.0.4) and the result is this:

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dsvarreby@ubuntu:~/ipw2200-1.0.0$ sudo make
make -C /lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/build SUBDIRS=/home/dsvarreby/ipw2200-1.0.0 MO DVERDIR=/home/dsvarreby/ipw2200-1.0.0 modules
make: *** /lib/modules/2.6.10-5-386/build: No such file or directory.  Stop.
make: *** [modules] Error 2
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I also have noticed (never seen this one before) that the "Network Settings- GUI" gives me an error (the same I saw during the installation) that reads:

ipw2200: Radio Frequency Kill-Switch is on (??????)

I have checked to see if I got the kernel-headers and that seems to be the case. 

I really wan't to get Ubuntu working on my laptop ... if I'm not able to fix this ... you all know the alternative ... and that ain't pretty ...

Is it someone out here that have some clues to what is wrong with my "system"???

---

### Post by luca_linux on 2005-05-21
Just follow this howto: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=26623](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=26623).
As said in the howto's thread, you need the packages: build-essential, kernel headers, gcc.

---

### Post by svarreby on 2005-05-21
OK, I see ... but how do I get hold of these packages without an Internet connection?

I could D/L them to this machine (XP) and transfer them over with a USB-stick ... but where do I D/L them from?

---

### Post by luca_linux on 2005-05-21
Look at the Ubuntu cd. Some packages are also there.
If not, let me know and I'll put them on my webspace and give you the link.

---

