---
title: "Possible Samba Flaw"
date: 2007-04-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2007-04-30
I've been working to try to narrow down a problem I'm having.  I'm running an AMD3500+ 64 with i386 Feisty which was just set up on a brand new sata HDD.  The motherboard is a a8n-sli deluxe motherboard with 2 gigs of DDR RAM.

I have a modest LAN here with shared drives on mostly Windows boxes.  I've used SAMBA to mount those shares by editing the fstab file and adding the share line.

Here's the fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdc1 :
UUID=be69bce7-cf7e-47d4-a3e0-f7d380acee2c / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdc5 :
UUID=c0f18676-9bb3-4fd4-9ea7-e59b2a0deb05 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/MusicLibrary ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/XP ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/Windows\040XP\040Pro ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0

//ftc-int3600/agentn /home/jimbo/agentn smbfs  guest,uid=1000,iocharset=utf8,codepage=unicode,unicode  0  0


WHAT HAPPENS:

After a while the desktop appears to lock.  What I mean is that I can't click on any of the icons on the desktop and have it do anyting.  If I wait an excessively long period of time it will appear to return control but only for short bursts of time.  During the desktop freezes I can use the mouse to click on the panels and go through the menu.  I can also right click on the system monitor panel item and bring up the system monitor.  If i choose to click on the first two tabs the program continues to work.  If I click on the "Resources" or the "File Systems' tab that program will then lock in the same manner as the desktop.

I've looked at cpu utilization. It is extremely low.  I've looked at hard disk resources and it indicates no issues.  I've looked at network usage and no issues.  I've installed knetworkmanager (not a useful program at all) and it doesn't indicate anything abnormal.

If I open a terminal window and do a ls or dir it will list the directory list quickly.  If i do a ls -al it will take a long time.  No matter how many times I execute it.  If I do the same thing in any other directory other than my home directory it ls -al responds immediately.

What the fstab shows is that I have mounted a share to a folder under my home directory.  It is this folder which appears to be causing the problem. Causing the long delays.  If I reboot and move that share to a different folder doing an ls -al doesn't appear to give me issues.

When I experience these long delays and i manage to get a nautilus view of the home folder the folder named "agentn" is represented by a generic file icon.  When I reboot it shows itself as a regular folder icon.

I've also noticed that I can't find a single reference on how to dismount a remote share using the command line.

Summarize:
I hope this isn't too much to understand.  To summarize, I use the fstab to mount a remote windows share into my ~ folder.  When I start the computer the fstab should be read and the remote share automatically mounted.  This doesn't happen.  The other drives are mounted but not the remote share.  I do a sudo mount -a and then I get the share mounted and I can go into the folder and view the contents.

After a while it appears to lag and lock my desktop so that I can't click on the desktop or right click on the destkop or any icon (or left click for that matter).  If I have compiz loaded and any folders are open they appear to go DIM (showing they are unresponsive).  If I then use the mouse cursor and traverse the gnome menu to load a terminal and do an ls -al in the home directory there's a huge delay before I responds.  If I move up through the directory tree and do ls -al all respond immediately.  When I get some limited return of control of the desktop, after waiting a long while and I see the nautilus view of the home folder the "agentn" folder is a generic icon.

Upon rebooting it goes back to normal.

I am testing some more and have moved the share out of my home folder to see if it will stll lock the desktop. 

This is a very annoying problem.  It almost makes this NEW UBUNTU unusable.  I had run Edgy for some time on another computer and had absolutely no issues.

The reason I say this is a network issue is that it is the network share that appears to be causing the home folder to become unresponsive.  It wouldn't be so bad if I could just drop the share but I can't find reference on how to unmount the share.  I have tried to drop samba but doing that doesn't seem to solve the problem.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2007-04-30
I tested by moving the share and mounting it under /mnt/agentn.  I modified the fstab file.  I waited b4 trying to access the /mnt folder.  When I did the folder became unresponsive.  When I got control of it there was a generic gnome icon for the folder called "agentn".

When I forced the nautilus window close the desktop sort of became unresponsive and then shortly thereafter reloaded and I was in control again.

Although this is good that my desktop isn't locking now I can't gain access to my shared folders.

This really is beginning to look like a flaw in samba.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2007-04-30
One of those WOW things.  After looking at the forum list trying to find my post to see if anyone had responded I saw hundreds of posts.  I can only wonder how many of those have no response.

Am I in the right area for this posting?  Is everyone here a poster looking for help finding none?

Anyway, hopefully tI'll get some response on this soon.

---

### Post by MCMcButtah on 2007-04-30
I have almost the EXACT same problem.

I am using Kubuntu feisty and this is the issue:

If I boot my PC after I login KDE takes a long time to get to my desktop. If I then click on any of my mounted
samba shares the gui sort of locks up for a long period of time. If I go to the dir where the mounted folder are stored and issue an 'ls' it lists my shared dirs. But if I do an 'ls -l' the terminal window will just hang there. If I browse to my /mnt folderkonqueror will hang as well.

BUT check this out:

If I comment out all my samba shares in /etc/fstab, then my pc boots fine. After I login and KDE loads if I
uncomment (reactivate) my samba shares in /etc/fstab and then issue a 'sudo mount -a' at a terminal the samba shares load perfectly. What's up with that?

The most annoying part of it is once this problem happens I have to hit the reset button to restart. If I choose restart kde shuts down fine and then I am stuck a black screen. Then every couple of minutes it issues a message about 'smb retry' and it not being able to connect.

I used to have this problem with edgy, but only if I booted the machine while the samba shares from the server were off. But now it happens 100% of the time.

One final note: If i load up windows XP via vmware, I can connect to the samba shares no problem while its host is experiencing the issues above. I see no errors in the samba logs.

Please help, I cannot explain to my girlfriend the proceedure for editing fstab before and after every boot. Thanks.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2007-04-30
try cifs instead of smbfs.  second link in my sig.

---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2007-05-14
I've had a linux box up and running for some time.  I've, since the release of feisty, decided to put up another linux box.  this one is nearly identical to my edgy box in how it is configured, etc.  When I mount a remote windows volume using samba after a while the shares become unstable (if you will) and I can't access the data on those shares.   If I try to access those shares immediately after rebooting the shares are accessible and I can work with them.

It takes an exorbitantly long period of time to get the share to respond and during this time it makes my desktop unresponsive.  If I attempt to open a share after the long unresponsive period I get a message indicating that the contents of the share could not be displayed.

i decided the other day to update my edgy box to feisty using the update tool provided by the Ubuntu folks.  After doing the upgrade I found that it  to experienced the same problems.  I have used my other windows boxes to check that the shares are accessible from them.  Through windows boxes those shares are easily accessible.  When I reboot the feisty boxes the shares are again responsive for a short while.

Someone should have some idea of what is causing this and the solution.  The folks in #samba are mute and reply to no one.  There are no other venues for asking for support other than here.

I would appreciate some input.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2007-05-15
> **jimbo99 said:**
> I would appreciate some input.

change your current fstab line to this:
```
//ftc-int3600/agentn /home/jimbo/agentn cifs    guest,rw,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0 
```

---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2007-05-15
I already made the change to CIFS at the time of the posting.  I just wasn't happy that was the final solution.  As well, I wasn't sure that I wouldn't have the same problem.

I did look up in google what the dir_mode=0777 means but found nothing.  I removed it from the line and it still mounted my volumes.  (I tried it with and without and no noticeable change to any behavior, including folders and files that I state I was unable to delete -- later in this posting if you read down).

Though I did make the change and it appears to have improved things for me I think there are at least a couple issues to deal with.

1)  After a while of inactivity (say I'm not accessing the volumes) samba/cifs appears to just break the connection.  With CIFS the connection appears to wake up again and I have access.  With smbfs it appears to never re-awake.  This is much more pleasant than having the desktop become unresponsive for long periods of time...Nonetheless, the samba and Ubuntu folks have some issues to work out.

2) I do not have the full control over all the folders that I have even when providing a username and password of an account on the windows box with administrative rights.  I was denied access to open or delete certain folders and files, and newly created folders have a lock emblem on them.  Even so, I can still delete those locked folders.

I know I haven't been completely succinct in what I have written here but I am a lot happier with the results when using CIFS vs SMBFS.

I'm pretty sure that the SAMBA folks and the UBUNTU folks should have encountered this problem before as it happens on both of my Linux boxes.  I believe I had some lesser issues when I was running Edgy.  At least know I now what was causing that bad behavior on the Edgy installs.  It has been frustrating.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2007-05-15
```
man mount.cifs
```
will tell you exactly what each option is and what it does.  no need to search on the internet.
>        file_mode=arg
              If  the  server  does  not support the CIFS Unix extensions this
              overrides the default file mode.

       dir_mode=arg
              If the server does not support the  CIFS  Unix  extensions  this
              overrides the default mode for directories.

smbfs is an older protocol than cifs.  cifs is the replacement for smbfs because smbfs isn't as flexible.  this is not a bug in smbfs, it's merely a result of outdated functionality.

your problem with dropping connection may not be with samba dropping.  point in fact, your windows machine probably terminates the connection after a period of inactivity.

not sure what to tell you about your folder/file permissions issues.  seems odd to me as i've never experienced it despite having configured uncountable clients and many servers.  you might have some success by adding uid and gid options like so:
```
//ftc-int3600/agentn /home/jimbo/agentn cifs    guest,rw,uid=1000,gid=1000,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0
```
otherwise ... pay very close attention to the problems and try to make it happen.  if you can make it happen, can you repeat it?  if so, report what you did to cause the issue and we might be able to provide a fix for it.

---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2007-05-15
I intensely dislike man.  It is a program and concept that has lasted long long long long beyond it's time.

As far as the dropping goes, it is samba and not the windows boxes--even if windows did stop communicating it would be up to samba to reestablish that link upon request by me to reopen the share.  Also, since CIFS doesn't have the problem clearly it is smbfs specific.  This is purely a samba problem.  I can agree it is one of very outdated buggy concepts and implementations.

If CIFS is the replacement it needs to be marketed this way and pushed to the hilt that it should be used instead.

---

### Post by jimbo99 on 2007-05-16
I've also now noticed additional issues  but they are annoyances more than they are insurmountable.

If I open a drive, a share, or a folder on my desktop it takes quite a while for it to open any of them, but once one is opened they all open quickly.  If I let the computer sit without opening a drive or folder or network share and then try it again later I will get the same long delay, and then everything opens thereafter rather quickly.

---

