---
title: "DNS issue with query cache"
date: 2013-02-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bibble235 on 2013-02-07
Hi,

I have a bind9 dns and have an issue with queries to the DNS.

The queries from the devices on the same network are using the external IP rather than the internal IP such as 192.168.1.40

E.g.

Feb  8 15:28:34 fred named[24143]: client 121.73.xxx.xxx#62178: query (cache) 'www.apple.com/A/IN' denied

This is a query from 192.168.1.40 but instead the query uses my wan address. I can work around it but my wan is not static.

Thanks

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-02-07
Hi bibble235.

Could you post the result of this commands from the client?
```
nslookup ubuntu.com

dig ubuntuforums.org

cat /etc/resolv.conf

grep dnsmasq /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf

cat /var/run/nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf
```
Regards.

---

### Post by bibble235 on 2013-02-07
Here you go,

bbm lib # nslookup ubuntu.com
Server:		127.0.1.1
Address:	127.0.1.1#53

** server can't find ubuntu.com: REFUSED

bbm lib # dig ubuntuforums.org

; <<>> DiG 9.8.1-P1 <<>> ubuntuforums.org
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: REFUSED, id: 9042
;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;ubuntuforums.org.		IN	A

;; Query time: 1 msec
;; SERVER: 127.0.1.1#53(127.0.1.1)
;; WHEN: Fri Feb  8 16:29:29 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 34

bbm lib # cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

# OpenDNS Fallback (configured by Linux Mint in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail).
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220
bbm lib # grep dnsmasq /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
dns=dnsmasq
bbm lib # cat /var/run/nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-02-07
Thanks.

There are a couple of unusual settings:
[LIST]
[*]You are using the dnsmasq plugin, but instead of looping into 127.0.**[COLOR="Red"]0[/COLOR]**.1, you are using 127.0.**[COLOR="Red"]1[/COLOR]**.1
[*]The file /var/run/nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf should content a line with upstream DNS server, but it seems to be empty. It should something like:
```
server=192.168.1.1
```
Where 192.168.1.1 is the LAN IP of your server running bind.
[/LIST]
I hope that help. Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-02-09
> **papibe said:**
> 
There are a couple of unusual settings:
[LIST]
[*]You are using the dnsmasq plugin, but instead of looping into 127.0.**[COLOR="Red"]0[/COLOR]**.1, you are using 127.0.**[COLOR="Red"]1[/COLOR]**.1
[/LIST]


That is not unusual. In Ubuntu 12.10 the address 127.0.1.1 is used instead of 127.0.0.1.

> **papibe said:**
> 
[LIST]
[*]The file /var/run/nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf should content a line with upstream DNS server, but it seems to be empty. It should something like:
```
server=192.168.1.1
```
Where 192.168.1.1 is the LAN IP of your server running bind.
[/LIST]
I hope that help. Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

This is no longer true in Ubuntu 12.10. In Ubuntu 12.10 NetworkManager supplies nameserver addresses to its slave dnsmasq process over D-Bus, not via nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf.

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-02-09
So the client is using NetworkManager+dnsmasq. To find out what dnsmasq is using as upstream nameservers you have to do a bit more digging. Please post the output of 
```

   nmcli -f IP4 dev list | grep DNS

```
Ref: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/180094/is-there-a-way-to-make-dig-report-the-actual-name-server-rather-than-127-0-0-1/180174#180174](http://askubuntu.com/questions/180094/is-there-a-way-to-make-dig-report-the-actual-name-server-rather-than-127-0-0-1/180174#180174)

I speculate that the client is consulting your LAN's modemrouter which forwards the query to your BIND instance using its WAN address as source address.

---

### Post by bibble235 on 2013-02-09
The result is the IP of the router. 192.168.1.2.

It is incredibly frustrating. All I want to do is use my services e.g mail on my lan at work and at home. I use virtual hosts at work to allow this to work but when I get home they don't resolve to the local ip. Hence the DNS on my local lan.

Thanks for your reply

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-02-09
Configure the DHCP server on your router to give out the address of the BIND server, rather than the address of the router, as the address of the DNS nameserver.

---

### Post by bibble235 on 2013-02-09
Not too sure how to do this. I have a TD-W8960N

Manual is at 

[http://www.tp-link.com/Resources/document/TD-W8960N_V3_User_Guide.pdf](http://www.tp-link.com/Resources/document/TD-W8960N_V3_User_Guide.pdf)

I can disable DHCP but that is not you have asked I think.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2013-02-09
Take a look at section 4.4.11 of that manual.  I don't know if that will change the DNS server address that DHCP will offer, but you can give it a try.

---

### Post by bibble235 on 2013-02-09
I changed this already to be the dns of bind9 and a secondary address of the original dns (just in case). 

No joy. I have a script to update my dynamic ip at zonedit, I guess I will make this update and restart bind9 at the same time.

thanks for looking

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-02-10
> **bibble235 said:**
> Not too sure how to do this. I have a TD-W8960N. Manual is at [http://www.tp-link.com/Resources/document/TD-W8960N_V3_User_Guide.pdf](http://www.tp-link.com/Resources/document/TD-W8960N_V3_User_Guide.pdf)

I can disable DHCP but that is not you have asked I think.

Page 33 of the manual talks about the DHCP server. It does not look as if you can set the address that the DHCP server gives out to clients as the DNS nameserver address.

Is your domain publicly visible? If so then I imagine what is happening is that clients are using the router as nameserver; the router's nameserver forwards to the ISP's nameserver; the ISP's nameserver does iterative DNS queries which ultimately lead back to your local BIND nameserver. So queries appear to be coming from outside. They *are* coming from the outside. But this is just a guess.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2013-02-10
It's not in the list of [routers that support dd-wrt]("http://dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/Supported_Devices#TP-Link") either.  If it were you could flash the firmware and use that instead.

---

