---
title: "BCM4311 [14e4:4311] (rev 01)"
date: 2013-06-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mike909 on 2013-06-09
Having trouble getting this wifi card to work.
```

lspci -nn:
05:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN [14e4:4311] (rev 01)

```
lsmod output (trimmed):
```

mac80211              526519  1 b43
sparse_keymap          13658  1 dell_wmi
drm                   228750  4 ttm,drm_kms_helper,radeon
soundcore              12600  1 snd
dell_laptop            17161  0 
cfg80211              436177  2 b43,mac80211
ssb                    50628  3 b43,b44,ssb_hcd

```
```

dmesg:
b43-phy0 ERROR: Firmware file "b43/ucode5.fw" not found
[   10.824924] b43-phy0 ERROR: Firmware file "b43-open/ucode5.fw" not found
[   10.825024] b43-phy0 ERROR: You must go to [http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#devicefirmware) and download the correct firmware for this driver version. Please carefully read all instructions on this website.

```

What I have tried:
1. 
apt-get install firmware-b43-installer
reboot
result: opening NM shows only greyed out "wifi is disabled by hardware switch"
sudo rfki list all:
0: phy0: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: yes
2.
apt-get remove firmware-b43-installer
apt-get install bcmwl-kernel-source
message during install: "FATAL: Module ssb is in use."
reboot
result:
No wireless options in NM, and I lose my wired connection as well.

sudo rfkill list all yields nothing.
3.
sudo apt-get install broadcom-sta-dkms
reboot
result:
no wireless options in NM.

My model (1505) does not have a hardware wifi switch.
works on windows, so I do not suspect hardware issue.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-06-09
> sudo apt-get install broadcom-sta-dkms
reboot
result:
no wireless options in NM.That's right! That is the wrong driver for your device and it's installation blacklists the correct driver. For the benefit of all the searchers out there, 14e4:4311 requires b43, ssb and, as you saw above, proprietary firmware:> b43-phy0 ERROR: Firmware file "b43/ucode5.fw" not foundInstalling the *wrong* driver is not a suitable substitute for installing the *right* firmware.

End rant.

Now let's fix it:```
sudo apt-get remove --purge broadcom-sta-*
sudo apt-get remove --purge bcmwl-kernel-source
sudo apt-get install linux-firmware-nonfree
```Reboot and let us hear your report.

---

### Post by mike909 on 2013-06-09
with linux-firmware-nonfree
```

sudo rfki list all:
0: phy0: Wireless LAN
Soft blocked: no
Hard blocked: yes

```
Back to having wifi options greyed out in NM.
```

sudo ifconfig wlan0 up
SIOSIFFLAGS: Operation not possible due to RF-kill

```
Double checked bios, since it seems like the OS things it's 'hardware-switched off'. Worked in XP directly before putting ubuntu on, so I don't think that's it.

---

### Post by mike909 on 2013-06-09
resolved.
Well that's annoying, I had to enable the 'software switch' in BIOS, then boot into linux and hit Fn-F2 to remove the 'hardware block' that rfkill was reporting. That, plus the correct driver, as chili555 pointed out (thank you for that), and it works.
Thanks again.
EDIT: How do I mark the thread as resolved? I don't see the thing that sais "prefix".

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-06-09
> **mike909 said:**
> resolved.
Well that's annoying, I had to enable the 'software switch' in BIOS, then boot into linux and hit Fn-F2 to remove the 'hardware block' that rfkill was reporting. That, plus the correct driver, as chili555 pointed out (thank you for that), and it works.
Thanks again.Awesome! Glad it's working. Have fun!

---

