---
title: "16.04 Ethernet Issues - Ethernet Network connected, but getting &quot;Server not Found&quot;"
date: 2017-01-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cakebatta on 2017-01-03
Hi everyone, just started running Ubuntu and have ran into some issues getting the internet working. 

I've ran some stuff I've seen online, like pinging google.com or 8.8.8.8, and all I get is an infinite repetition of "Destination Host Unreachable."

I have my IPv4 set to manual, IPv6 set to ignore, I've manually setup my Address, Netmask, Gateway, and DNS settings (I've tried both local DNS and using google's public 8.8.8.8 DNS).

I honestly have no idea what to do, and I haven't found a similar problem via google in the past three hours now.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-01-04
Welcome to the forums.

Do you understand IPv4 networking?  If not, using DHCP is recommended.  The specific stuff has to be correct. Perhaps if you post that data?
Can you ping your router by IP address?
Since you can't ping 8.8.8.8, that means the WAN connectivity isn't working. If there is a router and other devices ARE working, that means the issue is probably one of these things:
* bad router/switch port
* bad cable
* bad network card port
* bad drivers
* incorrect configuration

To help, we need facts. Since you are new, it is best NOT to interpret things, just provide the facts.
[http://blog.jdpfu.com/2013/03/01/linux-troubleshooting-101-networking](http://blog.jdpfu.com/2013/03/01/linux-troubleshooting-101-networking) - this assumes you can open a terminal and run the commands.  Please let us know how familiar you are with networking, running shell programs, etc.  With a low post count, we don't have any idea.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2017-01-04
To start with, please post the output of these comands:
```
ifconfig -a
route -n
```
If there is a default route in the route output, check that the gateway address is the same as the default gateway in the output from the command "route print" in a windows box on your network.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2017-01-04
Hi, your post states.."I have my IPv4 set to manual, IPv6 set to ignore"
This would mean that NetworkManager is managing your network.
your network interface file should read..
```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
```
output should only have this...
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```
*If it has more than those 2 lines, you can re-write the file to make it correct with..
```
echo -e 'auto lo\niface lo inet loopback' | sudo tee /etc/newtork/interfaces 
```
Here is a good vid on how to do a manual configuration for your network using networkmanager..
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hvi2cTMmTq0](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hvi2cTMmTq0)
*To find your Gateway...
```
route -n | awk 'FNR == 3{print$2}'
```
Thanks.

---

