---
title: "9.10, no Internet, unrecognized option '-eth0'"
date: 2009-12-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by knacki on 2009-12-18
For a couple of days I cannot enter the Internet using Ubuntu 9.10. I just upgraded from 8.10 where the net was working (although I sometimes had to switch off the modem to make it work again).

Now with 9.10 I type sudo pppoeconf and configure it until the end and everthing seems to be fine. But when I start the browser I stay offline. Also restarting the system does not change this.

I searched a lot of forums and saw that others are also having trouble going online with 9.10 but the solutions offered did not help me so far.

typing plog in the terminal gives me the information that /etc/ppp/peers/dsl-provider and sometimes also .../peers/provider are having problems.


this is the plog result:

plog
Plugin rp-pppoe.so loaded.
RP-PPPoE plugin version 3.8p compiled against pppd 2.4.5
In file /etc/ppp/peers/dsl-provider: unrecognized option '-eth0'



another unrecognized option is:

In file /etc/ppp/peers/provider: unrecognized option '/dev/modem'



Can anyone help, please? Thanks!

---

### Post by ishtvibhu on 2009-12-18
same problem I am facing.

---

### Post by orangeman25 on 2009-12-19
[FONT=Arial Black][SIZE=4]I am having the same problem, but my ubuntu 9.10 is on vmware and the network adapter 1 and 8 are unrecognized and i cant connect to the internet. Anyone have any suggestions please?[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by knacki on 2009-12-19
O also tried pppoeconf while booting from the 9.10 and the 9.04 Live CD and also from Kanotix. The problem stays the same. 

Please help, or I will keep on playing this guitar :guitar:

---

### Post by dahelgran on 2009-12-19
i'm having a similar issue after upgrading to 9.10. my wireless worked flawlessly on 8.10, now it seems i may need to find/install new drivers for my wireless card. it doesnt make sense though that the drivers would get dropped on an upgrade. you'd think if anything more drivers would become available. any suggestions?

---

### Post by knacki on 2009-12-19
Something that might be interesting to add: in my case the Internet connection under windows works perfectly. just Linux is giving me trouble.

---

### Post by 7raTEYdCql on 2010-01-03
I'm also having a similar issue. I can even ping wwww.google.com, and get a response, but the internet doesn't work.

I think that my ports are closed. I used network tools(port scan on localhost), and saw that http port 81 seemed to be closed. How do you open the port, can anyone please help??

---

### Post by 7raTEYdCql on 2010-01-03
I seem to have a solution it. Came across this article.
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-setup-networkmanager-work-with-pppoe-connection-on-ubuntu-9-10-karmic.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-setup-networkmanager-work-with-pppoe-connection-on-ubuntu-9-10-karmic.html)

Hope this helps. What i posted earlier, is not relevant.

---

