---
title: "8.04 ralink rt73 will not work"
date: 2008-05-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Vegadark on 2008-05-06
Ok, so I am new to Ubuntu and Linux in general. I am trying to get a wireless network connection going, but I am at a loss. I have followed several tutorials so far and none of them have gotten the thing going.

I am using a belkin USB adapter with RT73 chipset.

I have ndiswrapper installed.

i installed the driver from the CD that came with the adapter using ndiswrapper.

I have done all the interface changes, blacklists, ect that the howto's have shown.

At this point the adapter does not show up in the network settings window. All that is there is the point to point connection.

Please bear with me as like I said - I am completely new at this.

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by Jackie999 on 2008-05-06
I'm probably even newer at this than you are ...but I set up the ndiswrapper on my lappy a couple of times. I find it freezes so I'm trying to get the native drivers installed, but that's another story......
When I installed the ndiswrapper, I didn't do any blacklists at all..just installed it, then went to the Wireless in System-Administration and pointed to the .inf from the windows drivers that came with the usb adapter.

Perhaps if you post what you see when you go to terminal and type:

iwconfig

Also post the: 

lshw -C network


it will help somebody that knows what they're doing help.

---

### Post by Vegadark on 2008-05-06
Hello, just installed for the first time on Sunday evening. I have been trying to get something going ever since.

iwconfig returned:

lo no wireless extensions

I ran the other thing (lshw -C network) and all that did was flash the words PCI and SCSI for a second or two.

---

### Post by zdude on 2008-05-06
Hmmm, my rt73 usb device showed up in 8.04 - even from the live cd. I had a speed problem with my device. Here is a sample of iwconfig and lshw ran from a termin on my machine:

~$lshw -C network
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-network               
       description: Wireless interface
       physical id: 2
       logical name: wlan0
       serial: 00:1a:73:63:a1:7a
       capabilities: ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes ip=192.168.1.101 multicast=yes wireless=RT73 WLAN

~$ iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

wlan0     RT73 WLAN  ESSID:"MyRouterName"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency=2.422 GHz  Access Point: 00:1D:7E:13:26:86   
          Bit Rate=54 Mb/s   
          RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Link Quality=83/100  Signal level:-56 dBm  Noise level:-63 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

-------

Why does running lspci show?

---

### Post by echo6 on 2008-05-06
You shouldn't need to use ndiswrapper for this device.

What does ```
lsmod | grep rt
``` show?

```
echo6@rock:~$ lsmod | grep rt
rt2500usb              24320  0 
rt73usb                27136  0 
rt2x00usb              12800  2 rt2500usb,rt73usb
rt2x00lib              22528  3 rt2500usb,rt73usb,rt2x00usb
rfkill                  8592  1 rt2x00lib
input_polldev           5896  1 rt2x00lib
crc_itu_t               3072  1 rt2x00lib
mac80211              165652  2 rt2x00usb,rt2x00lib
parport_pc             36260  0 
parport                37832  3 ppdev,parport_pc,lp
iTCO_vendor_support     4868  1 iTCO_wdt
agpgart                34760  2 nvidia,intel_agp
usbcore               146028  7 rt2500usb,rt73usb,rt2x00usb,usbhid,ehci_hcd,uhci_hcd
```

Also what please post the output from **lsusb**

```
echo6@rock:~$ lsusb
Bus 005 Device 003: ID 148f:2573 Ralink Technology, Corp. 
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 004 Device 002: ID 046d:c016 Logitech, Inc. M-UV69a Optical Wheel Mouse
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
```

---

### Post by Vegadark on 2008-05-06
here is the copied text:

```
vegadark@vegadark:~$ lsmod | grep rt
parport_pc             36260  0 
parport                37832  3 ppdev,parport_pc,lp
gameport               16008  2 emu10k1_gp
agpgart                34760  1 via_agp
vegadark@vegadark:~$ lsusb
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 005 Device 002: ID 050d:905b Belkin Components 
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 004 Device 002: ID 13fe:1d00 Kingston Technology Company Inc. DataTraveler 2.0 1GB Flash Drive
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
vegadark@vegadark:~$ 


```

I unfortunately have to go back and forth between two computers with a thumbdrive as wireless is the only way the one with Ubuntu can go online. I do not have a regular NIC. Just thought I would mention that incase it was important.

Mike P.

---

### Post by Vegadark on 2008-05-06
Ok, so I changed to a different wireless USB adapter (Netgear WG121) and got the network window to see it, but I cannot get it connected to the router. So it is progress, but still not fully working.

---

### Post by Cresta on 2008-05-12
I too have the WG121 installed and upgraded to 8.04. I'm pretty sure I have it all configured properly, but I am unable to connect to the router. I enter the 'correct' password for the router, the connection light on the WG121 lights up for about 10 seconds, blinks, 10 seconds on, blinks, 10 seconds on, then connection light off. No connection. I have tried adding the password as ASCI and Hex.

Any ideas anyone.

---

### Post by Vegadark on 2008-05-12
make sure the password is correct. It will be the long string of chars, like 2e5eb7a955a... not the unencrypted password you can use to set it up with the app netgear uses in windows. You can log on to the router with another machine and get into the admin screen-- it will show you what the correct passkey is there.

---

