---
title: "11.04 Networking Problems - Help!"
date: 2011-02-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bigalxyz123 on 2011-02-24
Hello forum,

I'm having networking trouble with my laptop.

Toshiba Satellite Pro P300, dual boot Windows 7/Ubuntu.

I decided a week or so ago to upgrade from Ubuntu 10.10 to the latest alpha version of 11.04.

All was fine for a while but today a whole load of updates appeared on the update manager - dozens of files, about 52MB in total.

The update didn't complete properly (failed downloads), but I was prompted to reboot my machine.  I did so and tried again, but this time something seems to have gone wrong.  My wi-fi connectivity seems to have disappeared.  I hoped I would be able to connect to my broadband router via ethernet & use that instead, but that's not working either.

I'm not sure how to go about fixing this.  The 'repair broken packages' option in recovery mode was no help because it wasn't able to download anything because of the loss of network connectivity.

Can anyone advise how to proceed please?  Have swapped back to Windows 7 in the mean time :(

Many thanks,

Alan.

---

### Post by thomasw_lrd on 2011-02-24
You should be able to boot into a lower kernel version from the grub menu.  This will at least allow you to use your system again.  Maybe from there, you can attempt to uninstall the failed programs.

---

### Post by bigalxyz123 on 2011-02-24
Thank you.  The Grub menu did indeed allow me to select the previous Linux kernel.  Unfortunately the problem persists - boots up to the GNOME screen etc. but the wi-fi symbol in the top panel has vanished & neither wi-fi or ethernet show any connections at all.

Do you have any other advice?  I could do a clean install on the relevant partition I suppose, but I'd really rather not...!

---

### Post by grg3 on 2011-02-25
This may not help, but check to see if network manager is actually managing or not.

Set managed=true in /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf

restart networkmanager with sudo restart networkmanager

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by afrodeity on 2011-05-04
> **grg3 said:**
> This may not help, but check to see if network manager is actually managing or not.

Set managed=true in /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf

restart networkmanager with sudo restart networkmanager

Hope that helps.

This might just do the trick, otherwise I have to start it manually with:

```

pon dsl-provider


```

You can also try the old method:

```


sudo pppoeconf


```

Which bypasses network-manager, but this is not ideal.

---

### Post by afrodeity on 2011-05-05
If I try to restart network-manager:

```


sudo restart networkmanager
restart: Unknown job: networkmanager

```

Setting

```


managed=true 

```

in /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf

has no effect.

Posted a[ bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/777184")

---

### Post by andrew287 on 2011-10-22
Try  

restart network-manager

The hyphen is necessary.

---

