---
title: "10.04 eeePC 901 RT2860 WPA problems after Huawei E1752Cu mobile broadband dongle"
date: 2011-03-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by m0ezp on 2011-03-01
My eeePC has been running wonderfully with no updates since Summer 2010. This was deliberate because updates have always killed my RT2860 wireless since Hardy!  

I'd ordered a O2-UK PAYG Huawei E1752Cu mobile broadband dongle and thought I should run security updates at least before the install. Wireless worked fine after the updates yesterday and today, I installed the Huawei E1752Cu this afternoon which I expected to be problematic but [http://flax.ie/o2-broadband-e1752-dongle-working-on-ubuntu-10-04/](http://flax.ie/o2-broadband-e1752-dongle-working-on-ubuntu-10-04/) and usb_modeswitch made it really easy. 

However, now my wireless is broken again. I can see networks and I can see my network (O2 Thomson router WPA) but it times out when trying to connect. 

I've followed [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1481710](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1481710) and having completed that I found wireless worked :) However after rebooting, it fails again.

My hunch is that something was dislodged in the dongle installation and is unsetting things at boot time...perhaps???

---

### Post by m0ezp on 2011-03-02
I have found if I take down the wireless interface, remove the driver from the kernal, refresh the kernal dependencies and bring wireless up again, I can then connect using WPA (until I reboot).

sudo ifconfig wlan0 down
sudo rmmod rt2860sta
sudo depmod -a
sudo ifconfig wlan0 up

If 10.10 fixes all the netdiswrapper problems then I might do that next...trepidation approaches! 

Comments welcome!

---

### Post by m0ezp on 2011-03-02
Upgraded to 10.10 and what do you know...problem still exists! Oh and I've got a list of new ones!:(

---

### Post by m0ezp on 2011-03-03
Amazing how your own company can sometimes find the answers! :D

Here's what I did
Synaptic Package Manager
1. filter by Upgradable (upstream)
2. select all packages filtered, right click, reinstall
3. apply changes

Took ages and my over-plump distro needs a diet!

However, kernel is now 2.6.35-27-generic and everything (including wireless problems with WPA) appears to work. 

Tested with a few reboots and seems stable.

---

### Post by mfz01stl on 2011-03-08
someone who knows exactly what is right?
is this correct: usb modeswitch.conf

---

