---
title: "9.10 WOL, upstart &amp; ethtool"
date: 2010-08-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jingo_man on 2010-08-13
i have been looking at enabling WOL at bootup.

an earlier [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=234588") shows how to do this via the now-defunct /etc/init.d method, but i was hoping to use the newer "upstart" method to achieve the same goal...

later on in the same thread, at end of [page 15]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=234588&page=15") & top of [page 16]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=234588&page=16"), the user **Dleonard0** suggests adding the following configs:

/etc/network/interfaces
> auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
        ethernet-wol g


/etc/init/acpi-wol.conf
> # acpi-wol - enable the LAN device in acpi/wakeup
# This allows the ethernet-wol entry in /etc/network/interfaces to work
description "enable LAN device wakeup"
start on runlevel [2345]
task
script
    DEVICE=LAN0
    if grep -s "^$DEVICE.*disabled" /proc/acpi/wakeup; then
      echo "$DEVICE" > /proc/acpi/wakeup
      grep -s "^$DEVICE.*enabled" /proc/acpi/wakeup
    fi
end script

the second script executes without a problem. if i check after a reboot, the device (in my case, actually "NMAC" not "LAN0") lists as enabled in the /proc/acpi/wakeup output.

by editing the /etc/network/interfaces file, it should be picked up by the following script:
/etc/network/if-up.d/ethtool

which has a section to gather any "ethernet_wol" settings specified.

however, if i add anything to the /etc/network/interfaces file, like:
iface eth0 ethernet_wol g

when i next reboot, the interface doesnt come up at all. why is this happening?

by default, this file had nothing mentioned about "eth0" in it, and i want the interface totally DHCP controlled if possible.

i have now edited the /etc/network/if-up.d/ethtool script with the following amendments:

```
# WOL has an optional pass-key
set -- $IF_ETHERNET_WOL
#SETTINGS="$SETTINGS${1:+ wol $1}${2:+ sopass $2}"
SETTINGS="$SETTINGS wol g"
```so i have hard-coded it. but if this file is ever updated, i will lose this functionality... so i would like it coded properly.

can anyone help me please? have i explained my problem & goal properly?

many thanks

jingo_man

---

### Post by djeikyb on 2011-06-09
I found a great solution from [jevinskie on github]('https://gist.github.com/721245'). It works on 11.04, and I can't see any reason it shouldn't work for any Ubuntu running upstart. This will enable wake-on-lan for all your nics, every boot.

```
start on started network

script
    for interface in $(cut -d: -f1 /proc/net/dev | tail -n +3); do
        logger -t 'wakeonlan init script' enabling wake on lan for $interface
        ethtool -s $interface wol g
    done
end script
```

---

### Post by bbkudk on 2012-02-01
```
iface eth0 inet dhcp
post-up /sbin/ethtool -s $IFACE wol g
post-down /sbin/ethtool -s $IFACE wol g
```

---

