---
title: "Problem loading web pages - Resolving host ... too much"
date: 2010-03-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bucsaradu on 2010-03-01
I have installed Ubuntu 9.10 on a system with 2 network cards: eth0 with public ip  (X.Y.1.253) and on eth1 I have 2 local IPs (192.168.0.10, 192.168.1.10). Using Google Chrome, but the problem occurs in Firefox too, that the loading of any web pages (less localhost) browser is locked on Resolving host and it resolve for long time. I had one time when I used Google's DNS (8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4), but I returned to those offered by ISP. 
Network settings on all computers in the network come from the same server that has multiple IP's (192.168.0.1, 192.168.1.1 and X.Y.1.241 - this is for the class of public IPs that we have). In my settings, I set the gateway for each class separately - went perfectly for several years. 
From what I found on forums and on the net, like all say it is a problem related to traffic on the local network or on the ISP's network, but exclude this situation because on the local network  only me have this problem, more than, in a virtual machine (Windows XP on VirtualBox) installed on my computer the problem doesn't exist. On my laptop I have Ubuntu 9.10 Netbook Remix on same network and I did not have the problem. 
The thing that is driving me crazy as this system I use a web server to redirect my domain (name.ro) to my site on google at [www.name.ro](www.name.ro) and if I acces name.ro (from anywhere - local area network or from Internet) expect much to be redirect as if browsing the internet. 
The problem does not occur in other services: ssh, ftp, etc.. and limited to HTTP. 

Today I tried a 3G mobile connection, completely disabling the cable connections and I noticed the same problem, resolve the host ... long and hard, after that load almost instantly page. 

I say it is a problem in my system but I have no idea it could be. 

Thanks in advance.

PS. Excuse my english, is not my native language, but I think I can make myself clear. Thanks again.

---

### Post by Barriehie on 2010-03-01
What have you got in /etc/hosts and /etc/resolv.conf?

---

### Post by bucsaradu on 2010-03-02
In /etc/hosts I found this lines:

> 
127.0.0.1    localhost
127.0.1.1    buxa-office

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts
and in relsov.conf I found this:

> 
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 62.231.96.2
nameserver 62.231.96.4
I wonder if the second line from /etc/hosts should not be like X.Y.1.253 name.ro? Nameservers are good, is ISP's IPs.
However, these files I have not changed in any way.

Thanks for your IDEA.
It seems that the problem was in /etc /hosts. There, I added 2 more IPs and hostnames and it seems that everything has returned to normal. Now the hosts file format is as follows:

> 
127.0.0.1         localhost
127.0.1.1          buxa-office
[COLOR=Red]X.Y.77.253     name.ro
192.168.0.10  buxa-office[/COLOR]


# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts


---

### Post by Barriehie on 2010-03-02
Glad you got it.  I too have gone 'round and 'round with that issue b4.

---

### Post by onclouds on 2010-03-03
I'm having exactly the same problem but it affects my battle.net connection as well (diablo2) ... I just get timeouts =/

> **bucsaradu said:**
> 
I wonder if the second line from /etc/hosts should not be like X.Y.1.253 name.ro?

where did you get that string? what would be a similar one for me? and any idea on why this started happening ?

EDIT: 
just realized I didn't give you much info ^^

the second line I understood and know how to add one according to my setup
the first one is more tricky.. I just can't figure it out...

running Ubuntu Karmic 32bit up to date..

---

### Post by Barriehie on 2010-03-03
> **onclouds said:**
> I'm having exactly the same problem but it affects my battle.net connection as well (diablo2) ... I just get timeouts =/



where did you get that string? what would be a similar one for me? and any idea on why this started happening ?

EDIT: 
just realized I didn't give you much info ^^

the second line I understood and know how to add one according to my setup
the first one is more tricky.. I just can't figure it out...

running Ubuntu Karmic 32bit up to date..

Before you go editing, spell maybe breaking!, your setup I'ld try to make sure the timeouts are NOT because of your end and as always please do make a backup of any file you're about to change, or comment and change, you get the idea.  For local networks you can tell your machine where to search first in /etc/resolv.conf  Off the top of my head I can't remember the syntax.  I had added another domain to my machine and FF would take forever to load it until I modified /etc/resolv.conf and then it was instant after rebooting.

Which line are you having trouble with? (maybe start another thread???)

HTH,
Barrie

---

### Post by onclouds on 2010-03-03
> **Barriehie said:**
> Before you go editing, spell maybe breaking!, your setup I'ld try to make sure the timeouts are NOT because of your end and as always please do make a backup of any file you're about to change, or comment and change, you get the idea.  For local networks you can tell your machine where to search first in /etc/resolv.conf  Off the top of my head I can't remember the syntax.  I had added another domain to my machine and FF would take forever to load it until I modified /etc/resolv.conf and then it was instant after rebooting.

Which line are you having trouble with? (maybe start another thread???)

HTH,
Barrie

Sorry to have wasted anyone's time.. shortly after writing my post I checked my router and it had misteriously decided to reset dhcp settings ^^

One of the desktops was getting my fixed IP over and over again =X ...

---

### Post by bucsaradu on 2010-03-05
Me again and the same problem. Now is bigger because it affect all my Linux systems, except Virtual Box with WIN XP. I think is an update or something ... please help

---

### Post by am84pm on 2010-07-09
Hi guys. First of all I'm very new to Linux "Ubuntu" and this is my first thread. so please take it easy on me :) . 
I have the same problem with my Ubuntu 10.04 64 bit.
I have read the solution from other people but unfortunately I do't know how to change and add those lines! I even don't know how should I get the ip from ISP which I'm using.
please help me to solve this step by step.

I really appreciate and tnx in advance!

---

