---
title: "/etc/resolv.conf file troubles"
date: 2007-07-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by BobSongs on 2007-07-03
[FONT=Verdana]My file, **/etc/resolv.conf** keeps losing its data. The file normally looks like this:

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver xxx.xxx.xx.xx4
nameserver xxx.xxx.xx.xx5

``` (numbers hidden for sanity reasons).

When I reboot the PC or if a non-admin logs in this file ends up looking like:

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
```Huh? Where did the nameservers go?

Any ideas?

Edit: Ubuntu Dapper Drake, 6.06.1, generic PC, Celeron Processor (okay, don't laugh), 512 Mb RAM, lot's of hard drive space, good vid card, etc., blah, blah.
[/FONT]

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2007-07-04
they are automativally updated by the network manager. Its perfectly normal operation.

If you get an ip from dhcp they will show up in there when you get the lease.

If you have static ip's then you have to set them up inside network manager and it will make changes to the file.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2007-07-04
put your # in /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf

alt+f2 type> gksu gedit /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf

put your numbers, looks like this->

prepend domain-name-servers 208.67.220.220, 208.67.222.222;

(that setup is if you wanted to use opendns)

---

### Post by BobSongs on 2007-07-04
[FONT=Verdana]Thanks, folks!

Listen, **kerry_s**, I've keyed it into the file. Let's see how this baby'll take it.

I failed to mention this particular Linux setup is kinda old, y'know, like... it's about a year or so since I've installed it (compared to when I regularly re-installed XP :-P ). Initially this '*fading of the nameservers' *didn't happen. But *one fine day*, *out of the blue*, I started getting called into my office by the family: "Then Internet's broken!" ;) My standard procedure was:
[/FONT][LIST]
[*][FONT=Verdana]System -> Administration -> Networking[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Verdana]Click the DNS tab[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Verdana]Whoa! The numbers were gone![/FONT]
[*][FONT=Verdana]Key them back in[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Verdana]Close box[/FONT][/LIST][FONT=Verdana]and all was well.
Even switched routers from Linksys to Belkin: same problem. :confused: I figured it was time to post a question here about this issue.

**Note**: I've removed the hash (#) from before **prepend domain-name-servers blah blah;** in the **/etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf** file; I entered my DNS numbers (it's to the point where I know them by heart now). I've saved the file and I'll give it a chance to stew. ;-)

Thanks. I'll post the results.
[/FONT]

---

### Post by BobSongs on 2007-07-04
[FONT=Verdana][COLOR=Wheat]**[SIZE=4]follow up[/SIZE]**[/COLOR]

Well. Gave it a whirl. Here are the results.
[/FONT][LIST]
[*][FONT=Verdana]The initial boot process fell out of the standard graphical mode with the progress bar (about half-way through), and it took a bit longer to load. Nevertheless it faithfully came up to the login screen.[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Verdana]Logged in and -- same problem: the **/etc/resolv.conf** file has the two initial lines, ending with 'OVERWRITTEN', but the nameservers are gone. I had to key them back in manually to get back here.
[/FONT][/LIST][FONT=Verdana]I don't particularly want to re-install **ubuntu** just to fix this. Sometimes it's the only way. And look: it's not an issue. I mean, just last night I was chatting with a friend about the Ubuntu setup disk. I said: "How many systems do you know where you can set up your O/S while surfing the net, editing an OpenOffice document, chatting in an IM and checking your email?" Can't do it with Mac OS X. I know that. Can't do it with XP's setup.

OK. Any other suggestions?

:?
[/FONT]

---

### Post by trak87 on 2007-07-04
You could try System, Administration, Network, DNS, and enter your DNS servers manually.

Edit: Whoops. I see you've tried that....

You might try this:

edit dhclient.conf (sudo vi /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf) and uncomment the following line:
                prepend domain-name-servers <ipaddress>;
Then edit resolve.conf (sudo vi /etc/resolve.conf) and change entry to 
nameserver <ipaddress>

---

### Post by BobSongs on 2007-07-04
[FONT=Verdana]> **trak87 said:**
> You could try System, Administration, Network, DNS, and enter your DNS servers manually.

Edit: Whoops. I see you've tried that....

You might try this:

edit dhclient.conf (sudo vi /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf) and uncomment the following line:
                prepend domain-name-servers <ipaddress>;
Then edit resolve.conf (sudo vi /etc/resolve.conf) and change entry to "nameserver <ipaddress>"
Heyyy, no hassles, **trak87**; any post is a good post. Shows somebody's reading these threads. ;)

So far I've tried:
[/FONT][LIST]
[*][FONT=Verdana]manually editing the **/etc/resolv.conf** file and adding the nameservers. It works until I reboot. Then they vanish.[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Verdana]**System -> Administration -> Networking -> DNS tab** and keying in the numbers there. Well, it's just a graphical way of editing the /etc/resolv.conf file. Same results as above.[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Verdana]manually editing the **/etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf** file (see above). Nada. Same results. Rebooting gives me an /etc/resolv.conf file stripped of its nameservers.[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Verdana]changed routers from Linksys to Belkin.
[/FONT][/LIST][FONT=Verdana]Odd, eh? A real challenge. I've never seen this before. Google hasn't been very helpful either.

I guess it's time ... to wipe and re-install!
[/FONT]

---

### Post by trak87 on 2007-07-04
The system is working as designed. You somehow need to turn off the automatic insertion of DNS into /etc/resolve.conf so you can use your own settings. I've done the same thing but for a different reason: a caching nameserver for a little extra speed. Editing /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf did the trick for me. Expand your search to Google.

---

### Post by jsully1 on 2007-07-04
You could chattr +i /etc/resolv.conf - that may lead to some unexpected results with Network Manager however.

---

