---
title: "7.10 64-bit ipw3945 wpa - possible solution"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ahhyamom on 2007-10-19
Hi, a bit new here, but have been using linux on and off for a number of years. I love linux, but ubuntu is just that much better. It's great and love the site. Have used the boards for many solutions.

This may be circumstantial to my situation, take with grains of salt.

Could not get 64bit, 7.10 ipw3945 with WPA-PSK (AES or TKIP) working. (64bit probably does not matter but I wish to be accurate)

The iwl3945 drivers just werent getting it done for me. Or I wasnt getting it done. Low and behold, x64Jimbo had posted way back in January:

"I have had infinite problems with WPA networks that have hidden SSIDs. Try un-hiding it. WPA is secure enough that you don't need to hide your SSID if you have a strong passphrase."

So this is what I did. Broadcast ESSID, and voila. With the ipw3945 drivers it works. 

Before un-hiding, "create a new wireless network" was used, it would ask for network name and wps-psk key and type. Sometimes it would list the network, sometimes not. But I kept getting a message in syslog: 
Oct 18 17:20:23 sonytop NetworkManager: <info>  Activation (eth1) Stage 2 of 5 (Device Configure) complete. 
Oct 18 17:22:23 sonytop NetworkManager: <info>  Activation (eth1/wireless): association took too long (>120s), failing activation. 
Oct 18 17:22:23 sonytop NetworkManager: <info>  Activation (eth1) failure scheduled... 

So, I'm not really sure where the bug/problem is. Something with hidden SSID's.

Hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by s57nev on 2008-01-11
Yeah same here on i386. I can connect to open network but with WPA / WPA2 TKIP whatever it doasn't work. I'll test iwl3945 now ...I hope that works. I have nx7300 laptop and I'm already sorry to  install that 7.04 was great for wireless.

---

