---
title: "MTS ZTE 2766 EVDO Modem not connecting to internet"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gaurav2328 on 2010-05-04
Hi guys,

This is a real problem for me. This is the real why I am not able to use Ubuntu. I tried for a long tim with 9.10 but my modem did not connect, then I waited that 10.04 will bring some support. But then also it did not even detect my modem, which I solved by stoping the data storage mode. Although now Ubuntu detect my Modem, it asks for more setting for a connection in Mobile Broadband section, I provide everything right from APN to userid and password, which I confirmed twice from my service provider.
Even after that when I try to connect. Ubuntu tries tries but no connection after all.

I am seriously disappointed by all this, I seriously want to migrate from crappy windows but if i do not have internet on Ubuntu when what is the meaning.
So guys please help me. Fast... ASAP

I am giving more details./

Modem: ZTE AC2766 (go here for ZTE's official page [http://goo.gl/oluO](http://goo.gl/oluO) ) ZTE says this modem supports Linux, god know why it does not work for me.
Country: India
Service Provider: MTS
Linux: Ubuntu 10.04
and all, i am still a newbie, so please explain whatever you want me to do clearly, although i am good at everything in windows or even web but Linux, i am learning.

Thanks in advance..

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-05-04
You can try any method for dialup as this site says
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/setting-up-dial-up-connection-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/setting-up-dial-up-connection-in-ubuntu.html)
I suggest pppconfig

---

### Post by gaurav2328 on 2010-05-04
pppconfig is not working for me.. I am pasting the plog.

May  4 22:01:50 gaurav-laptop pppd[1797]: pppd 2.4.5 started by root, uid 0
May  4 22:01:51 gaurav-laptop chat[1799]: Can't get terminal parameters: Input/output error
May  4 22:01:51 gaurav-laptop pppd[1797]: Script /usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/mts finished (pid 1798), status = 0x2
May  4 22:01:51 gaurav-laptop pppd[1797]: Connect script failed
May  4 22:01:52 gaurav-laptop pppd[1797]: Exit.
May  4 22:02:58 gaurav-laptop pppd[1821]: pppd 2.4.5 started by root, uid 0
May  4 22:02:59 gaurav-laptop chat[1823]: Can't get terminal parameters: Input/output error
May  4 22:02:59 gaurav-laptop pppd[1821]: Script /usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/mts finished (pid 1822), status = 0x2
May  4 22:02:59 gaurav-laptop pppd[1821]: Connect script failed
May  4 22:03:00 gaurav-laptop pppd[1821]: Exit.



and other methods do not work in 10.04, this article which u referred me to was written way back in 2006. and i have no internet in ubuntu, so i can not for the ways which require  a download..
so please tell me a workable thing..

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-05-04
Can you post the output of
```
gksudo gedit /etc/ppp/peers/provider
```
You can try editing this line ,
```
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
```

try USB0,USB1 or USB2

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-05-04
I wonder if you would type 

> lsusb and tell us the results when you plug your modem in

and if you could then copy and paste or type the next string in 

> dmesg | grep tty and copy and paste the results back here

---

### Post by gaurav2328 on 2010-05-05
Dinesh,

Changing USB0 in the command, made my day. My Internet is working fine. Thanks for all the help. Thanks PDC for your help too.
I just wanted to know one thing one, does the dial up connections like this restrict speed, coz when i use this data card/ usn modem in windows, the download speed is normally over 100 KB/s, but in Ubuntu, I am getting only around 50 KB/s. If there is something which i can change, lemme know.

Thanks

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-05-05
good;

what did you change ttyUSB0 to: ttyUSB2?

---

### Post by gaurav2328 on 2010-05-05
yes, i changed that. 

But can you help me with the speed issue

:)

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-05-05
no

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-05-05
Happy to hear that your net is working fine.Can you pl post the output of
```
gksudo gedit /etc/ppp/peers/provider
```
and
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by gaurav2328 on 2010-05-06
------- 

gaurav@gaurav-laptop:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# resolv.conf created by pppconfig for mts

nameserver 10.216.254.132

nameserver 10.216.126.132

-------


# This optionfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.18. 
# 
#
hide-password 
noauth
connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/mts"
debug
/dev/ttyUSB2
115200
defaultroute
noipdefault 
user "internet@internet.mtsindia.in"
 
ipparam mts

usepeerdns


-------------------

Dinesh, 

I have posted both the outputs.
But it seems there is a new problem. Empathy can not detect my internet, so its not logging in.
I even tried logging in from Gnome-ppp, which also works now, the internet connects, but empathy does not connect.

---

### Post by gaurav2328 on 2010-05-06
Hi,

Got the workaround to make empathy connect.

[http://hardik.in/2010/01/18/empathy-is-now-working-with-gnome-ppp-pppd-connection-on-ubuntu-9-10/](http://hardik.in/2010/01/18/empathy-is-now-working-with-gnome-ppp-pppd-connection-on-ubuntu-9-10/)

Now empathy is also working.. i m so happy.. now i can finally shift to Ubuntu..

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-05-06
> **gaurav2328 said:**
> yes, i changed that. 

But can you help me with the speed issue

:)

speed issue

try an open nic server, best to search web with your location or country

then from network tools ping the address of your isp
if you find an open nic then ping them to compare which is fastest

your isp servers
10.216.254.132
10.216.126.132

I have pinged the two address the first is not very responsive
the second not responding, 

if can find an open nic which is faster the make two seperate connections
in the network manager

when using open nics set the IPv4 settings to Automatic(PPP) Address only

enter the address or addresses in the DNS servers text box

---

### Post by sandeepji_choudhary on 2010-06-25
Hi All,

Full in detail that how to install USB Modems in Ubuntu (e.g. "ZTE AC2766" MTSBLAZE)

check here : [http://mobi-solutions.blogspot.com/2010/06/usb-modem-installation-in-linux-for.html](http://mobi-solutions.blogspot.com/2010/06/usb-modem-installation-in-linux-for.html)

- Sandeep Choudhary
[A Mobile Evangelist's Deep Dive In Mobi]("http://mobi-solutions.blogspot.com/") 

:guitar:

---

