---
title: "8.04 Samba Broked - can't access any shares"
date: 2008-06-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by pyriX on 2008-06-18
Howdy all. I Have run out of things to try here. I have been using ubuntu for about a year now - i started out at 7.04, and while samba configuration has never been the easiest, I've been able to figure it out. And now I cant.

I installed 8.04 more or less as soon as it came out, and everything has been going along well since - everything else still is - but a few months in, samba just stopped working. From my windows machine (i.e, every other machine in the house), i can see the machine, dive into it and see the shared folders, but when I double click them, it asks for a user name and password. This is not cool for two reasons a) This is a private network, and those are public files - I dont want people to be asked user names and passwords to access them, its a major pain in the ***. b) Nothing input works. I've tried smbpasswd, I recently installed gsambad to no avail. I just cannot access these shares that were working fine. This is a problem because this is the primary storage machine for the network. It has a terrabyte or so of storage, which is for the most part full. I need access to these files from other computers on the network, or this box is fairly useless for anything but word processing.

For giggles, heres my current (most recent of many unsuccesful) smb.conf

> 
[global]
netbios name = Jackson
server string = 
workgroup = Network
security = guest
hosts allow = 127. 192.168.0.
interfaces = 127.0.0.1/8 192.168.0.0/24 
remote announce = 192.168.0.255
remote browse sync = 192.168.0.255
printcap name = /etc/printcap
load printers = yes
cups options = raw
printing = cups
guest account = Guest
log file = /var/log/samba/samba.log
max log size = 1000
null passwords = no
username level = 0
password level = 0
encrypt passwords = yes
unix password sync = yes
socket options = TCP_NODELAY SO_RCVBUF=8192 SO_SNDBUF=8192
local master = no
domain master = no
preferred master = no
domain logons = no
os level = 33
logon drive = m:
logon home = \\%L\homes\%u
logon path = \\%L\profiles\%u
logon script = %G.bat
time server = no
name resolve order = wins lmhosts bcast
wins support = no
wins server = 
wins proxy = no
dns proxy = no
preserve case = yes
short preserve case = yes
client use spnego = no
client signing = no
client schannel = no
server signing = no
server schannel = no
nt pipe support = yes
nt status support = yes
allow trusted domains = no
obey pam restrictions = yes
enable spoolss = yes
client plaintext auth = no
disable netbios = no
follow symlinks = no
update encrypted = yes
pam password change = no
passwd chat timeout = 120
hostname lookups = no
username map = /etc/samba/smbusers
smb passwd file = /etc/samba/smbpasswd
passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd '%u'
passwd chat = *New*password* %n\n *ReType*new*password* %n\n *passwd*changed*\n
add user script = /usr/sbin/useradd -d /dev/null -c 'Samba User Account' -s /dev/null '%u'
add user to group script = /usr/sbin/useradd -d /dev/null -c 'Samba User Account' -s /dev/null -g '%g' '%u'
add group script = /usr/sbin/groupadd '%g'
delete user script = /usr/sbin/userdel '%u'
delete user from group script = /usr/sbin/userdel '%u' '%g'
delete group script = /usr/sbin/groupdel '%g'
add machine script = /usr/sbin/useradd -d /dev/null -g sambamachines -c 'Samba Machine Account' -s /dev/null -M '%u'
machine password timeout = 120
idmap uid = 16777216-33554431
idmap gid = 16777216-33554431
template shell = /dev/null
winbind use default domain = yes
winbind separator = @
winbind cache time = 360
winbind trusted domains only = yes
winbind nested groups = no
winbind nss info = no
winbind refresh tickets = no
winbind offline logon = no

[homes]
comment = Home Directories
path = /home
read only = no
available = yes
browseable = yes
writable = yes
guest ok = no
public = no
printable = no
share modes = no
locking = no

[netlogon]
comment = Network Logon Service
path = /home/netlogon
read only = no
available = yes
browseable = yes
writable = no
guest ok = no
public = no
printable = no
share modes = no
locking = no

[profiles]
comment = User Profiles
path = /var/samba/profiles
read only = no
available = yes
browseable = no
writable = yes
guest ok = no
public = no
printable = no
locking = no
create mode = 0600
directory mask = 0700

[printers]
comment = All Printers
path = /var/spool/samba
browseable = yes
writable = no
guest ok = no
public = no
printable = yes
share modes = no
locking = no

[pdf-documents]
path = /home/pdf-documents
comment = Converted PDF Documents
available = yes
browseable = yes
writeable = yes
guest ok = yes

[pdf-printer]
path = /tmp
comment = PDF Printer Service
printable = yes
guest ok = yes
use client driver = yes
printing = bsd
print command = /usr/bin/gsambadpdf %s %u
lpq command =
lprm command =


Am I missing something horribly simple here?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Hamm on 2008-06-18
Same problem, It worked in 7.10 but not now.

---

### Post by jetsam on 2008-06-18
> security = guest
I think that is wrong, and what you want there is:
```
security = share
```
..since you want a security free set-up.  

That's a whole lotta smb.conf.  There could be other problems.  The two idmap options I'm unfamiliar with:  
> idmap uid = 16777216-33554431
idmap gid = 16777216-33554431
They're unusual, so if you don't know what they do or why they're in there, comment them out.  

Hope that helps...

**Added:** **guest account = Guest** could cause trouble, too, unless you've added a user named Guest to the system.  Maybe comment this out as well, so the default **guest account = nobody** is used instead.

...sometimes it's easier to re-start with a simpler smb.conf and build up than to debug a complicated smb.conf with a bunch of problems.

---

### Post by brutalandkind on 2008-06-18
Similar problems here. I ran the system update this morning and amidst several other updates was prompted to (I can't remember the message exactly) use my current samba conf file or update; I chose not to update and now I cannot access my network.

Any help and/or guidance will be greatly appreciated. TIA.

[UPDATE: Per suggestion below I have started a new thread for this entitled "6-18-08 samba update - can't browse to XP box"].

---

### Post by jetsam on 2008-06-18
Hi, brutalandkind.

Your problem is probably different.  Can you start a new thread and describe your problem more specifically (overview of your network setup, and symptoms-- can't browse in Nautilus?), as well as the output in a terminal of:
```
pgrep -l mbd
```

I can't promise I can help, but I'll have a look at it...

---

### Post by jonandrews on 2008-06-19
Have a look at the XP / Ubuntu networking guides on my website:

[http://www.europe.eclipse.co.uk/Ubuntu/](http://www.europe.eclipse.co.uk/Ubuntu/)

That should help get it sorted

---

### Post by pyriX on 2008-06-21
Thanks guys. Did as suggested and started with a less complicated SMB.conf. This seemed to help in that I can now access the machine, just not the individual shares, these are still asking for a password, which could have something to do with the fact that the enable guest access button in nautilus is greyed out... (see attachment)

In any case, just for funzies, heres the new smb.conf file.
What am I still missing?

> 

#
# Sample configuration file for the Samba suite for Debian GNU/Linux.
#
#
# This is the main Samba configuration file. You should read the
# smb.conf(5) manual page in order to understand the options listed
# here. Samba has a huge number of configurable options most of which
# are not shown in this example
#
# Any line which starts with a ; (semi-colon) or a # (hash)
# is a comment and is ignored. In this example we will use a #
# for commentary and a ; for parts of the config file that you
# may wish to enable
#
# NOTE: Whenever you modify this file you should run the command
# "testparm" to check that you have not many any basic syntactic
# errors.
#

#======================= Global Settings =======================

[global]


## Browsing/Identification ###

# Change this to the workgroup/NT-domain name your Samba server will part of
  workgroup = Network

# server string is the equivalent of the NT Description field
  server string = %h

# Windows Internet Name Serving Support Section:
# WINS Support - Tells the NMBD component of Samba to enable its WINS Server
;   wins support = no

# WINS Server - Tells the NMBD components of Samba to be a WINS Client
# Note: Samba can be either a WINS Server, or a WINS Client, but NOT both
;   wins server = w.x.y.z

# This will prevent nmbd to search for NetBIOS names through DNS.
  dns proxy = no

# What naming service and in what order should we use to resolve host names
# to IP addresses
;   name resolve order = lmhosts host wins bcast

usershare owner only = False


#### Debugging/Accounting ####

# This tells Samba to use a separate log file for each machine
# that connects
  log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m

# Put a capping on the size of the log files (in Kb).
  max log size = 1000

# If you want Samba to only log through syslog then set the following
# parameter to 'yes'.
;   syslog only = no

# We want Samba to log a minimum amount of information to syslog. Everything
# should go to /var/log/samba/log.{smbd,nmbd} instead. If you want to log
# through syslog you should set the following parameter to something higher.
  syslog = 0

# Do something sensible when Samba crashes: mail the admin a backtrace
  panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d


####### Authentication #######

# "security = user" is always a good idea. This will require a Unix account
# in this server for every user accessing the server. See
# /usr/share/doc/samba-doc/htmldocs/ServerType.html in the samba-doc
# package for details.
   security = share

#  You may wish to use password encryption.  See the section on
# 'encrypt passwords' in the smb.conf(5) manpage before enabling.
   encrypt passwords = true

# If you are using encrypted passwords, Samba will need to know what
# password database type you are using.
;  passdb backend = tdbsam guest
   passdb backend = tdbsam

  obey pam restrictions = yes

   guest account = nobody
  invalid users = root

# This boolean parameter controls whether Samba attempts to sync the Unix
# password with the SMB password when the encrypted SMB password in the
# passdb is changed.
   unix password sync = yes

# For Unix password sync to work on a Debian GNU/Linux system, the following
# parameters must be set (thanks to Augustin Luton <aluton@hybrigenics.fr> for
# sending the correct chat script for the passwd program in Debian Potato).
  passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
  passwd chat = *Enter\snew\sUNIX\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\sUNIX\spassword:* %n\n .

# This boolean controls whether PAM will be used for password changes
# when requested by an SMB client instead of the program listed in
# 'passwd program'. The default is 'no'.
;   pam password change = no

########## Printing ##########

# If you want to automatically load your printer list rather
# than setting them up individually then you'll need this
   load printers = yes

# lpr(ng) printing. You may wish to override the location of the
# printcap file
;   printing = bsd
;   printcap name = /etc/printcap

# CUPS printing.  See also the cupsaddsmb(8) manpage in the
# cupsys-client package.
   printing = cups
   printcap name = cups

# When using [print$], root is implicitly a 'printer admin', but you can
# also give this right to other users to add drivers and set printer
# properties
   printer admin = @lpadmin

######## File sharing ########

# Name mangling options
;   preserve case = yes
;   short preserve case = yes


############ Misc ############

# Using the following line enables you to customise your configuration
# on a per machine basis. The %m gets replaced with the netbios name
# of the machine that is connecting
;   include = /home/samba/etc/smb.conf.%m

# Most people will find that this option gives better performance.
# See smb.conf(5) and /usr/share/doc/samba-doc/htmldocs/speed.html
# for details
# You may want to add the following on a Linux system:
#         SO_RCVBUF=8192 SO_SNDBUF=8192
  socket options = TCP_NODELAY

# The following parameter is useful only if you have the linpopup package
# installed. The samba maintainer and the linpopup maintainer are
# working to ease installation and configuration of linpopup and samba.
;   message command = /bin/sh -c '/usr/bin/linpopup "%f" "%m" %s; rm %s' &

# Domain Master specifies Samba to be the Domain Master Browser. If this
# machine will be configured as a BDC (a secondary logon server), you
# must set this to 'no'; otherwise, the default behavior is recommended.
;   domain master = auto

# Some defaults for winbind (make sure you're not using the ranges
# for something else.)
;   idmap uid = 10000-20000
;   idmap gid = 10000-20000
;   template shell = /bin/bash

#======================= Share Definitions =======================

[homes]
  comment = Home Directories
  browseable = no

# By default, the home directories are exported read-only. Change next
# parameter to 'yes' if you want to be able to write to them.
  writable = yes

# File creation mask is set to 0700 for security reasons. If you want to
# create files with group=rw permissions, set next parameter to 0775.
  create mask = 0755

# Directory creation mask is set to 0700 for security reasons. If you want to
# create dirs. with group=rw permissions, set next parameter to 0775.
  directory mask = 0755

# Un-comment the following and create the netlogon directory for Domain Logons
# (you need to configure Samba to act as a domain controller too.)
;[netlogon]
;   comment = Network Logon Service
;   path = /home/samba/netlogon
;   guest ok = yes
;   writable = no
;   share modes = no

[printers]
  comment = All Printers
  path = /var/spool/samba
  browseable = yes
  writable = no
  printable = yes


# Windows clients look for this share name as a source of downloadable
# printer drivers
; [print$]
;    comment = Printer Drivers
;    path = /var/lib/samba/printers
;    browseable = yes
;    read only = yes
;    guest ok = no
# Uncomment to allow remote administration of Windows print drivers.
# Replace 'ntadmin' with the name of the group your admin users are
# members of.
;   write list = root, @ntadmin

# A sample share for sharing your CD-ROM with others.
;[cdrom]
;   comment = Samba server's CD-ROM
;   writable = no
;   locking = no
;   path = /cdrom
;   public = yes

# The next two parameters show how to auto-mount a CD-ROM when the
#       cdrom share is accesed. For this to work /etc/fstab must contain
#       an entry like this:
#
#       /dev/scd0   /cdrom  iso9660 defaults,noauto,ro,user   0 0
#
# The CD-ROM gets unmounted automatically after the connection to the
#
# If you don't want to use auto-mounting/unmounting make sure the CD
#       is mounted on /cdrom
#
;   preexec = /bin/mount /cdrom
;   postexec = /bin/umount /cdrom

Thanks again.

**EDIT: The Terminal window in the top left shows what happened when i restarted the samba service after changing the smb.conf file - this has since gone away, dont know if its relevant or not.**

---

### Post by pyriX on 2008-06-21
:guitar:

Alrighty, kinda fixed this. I think the problem lies somewhere in nautilus, becuase using the old school shares-admin tool allowed the folders to be shared no problems whatsoever.

....Thank Jesus.

For future reference, to access this, type shares-admin into a terminal windows, and follow the fairly self explanatory instructions there.

Being a continuous user of both Windows XP, ubuntu, Mac OS X 10.something, I have to say ubuntu's implementation of samba has to be the worst of any of them. In windows, it just works, all the time, no questions asked. In OSX, it works without having to dive into a terminal at all. While im not going to discontinue using ubuntu because of a lot of things it does really well, I have to ask why something as basic as file sharing is the most difficult to set up in every install I have, and from the amount of posts in the Networking thread, I'm hardly alone.
While I'm eternally grateful to the amount of people that spend so much time and energy developing ubuntu, as it's in general a brilliant job, I can't, as a person who sells computers for part of my living, recommend that the average user switch away - yet - from windows, and a big part of that is the implementation of samba support.

Anyways, thanks again to the users that helped me resolve this.

---

