---
title: "Network connected but no Internet access"
date: 2015-05-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by llmunro on 2015-05-25
Hi Forum! 

I'm hoping someone can help me sort out what happened to my wifi connection! I'm using ubuntu 14.04 on a Dell XPS 13. I don't know what happened, as all seemed to be working fine last night, but this morning, although the Network Manager shows that ubuntu is connected to my network, I'm unable to access the Internet at all. I've tried rebooting, deleting the connection in NM, and turning the WiFi off and on. I don't think it's the router, as other devices seem to connect fine. I do not know how to fix this problem, short of reinstalling ubuntu. Can someone walk me through troubleshooting? 

Thank you! 
Lisa

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2015-05-25
Have you *tried *restarting the router? unless there's a good reason not to (critical established connections or whatever) it's the first thing that I would try to eliminate. Sometimes they just get themselves in knots.

If that doesn't help, then you need to start narrowing it down e.g. is it a name resolution problem or a routing problem - for instance can you 'ping' the LAN gateway (router) IP? can you ping 8.8.4.4 but not google.com ?

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2015-05-25
Another trouble shooting idea is to connect your Dell directly to the router via ethernet cable.

---

### Post by llmunro on 2015-05-25
Thanks so much for the help! 

I did indeed reset the modem, but Ubuntu still connects to my network without Internet access. 

I am looking for my ethernet cable to test with (just moved and things are still in boxes!). 

What's my next step? 

Thank you!

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2015-05-25
Open a terminal (Ctrl-Alt-t) and enter each of the following commands - paste the outputs back here between ```
 tags please

[CODE]
ifconfig

ping -c4 8.8.4.4

ping -c4 google.com

ls -l /etc/resolv.conf

cat /etc/resolv.conf

```

---

### Post by llmunro on 2015-05-25
Thank you! 

I'm running the terminal commands as you suggested, but will have to type them out. (using my phone for Internet!) 

If configuration gives this:

lo           link encap:local loopback
              inet address:  ::1/128 Scope:Host
              UP LOOPBACK RUNNING   MTU:65536     Metric:1
              RX packets:6273 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
              TX packets: 6237 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
              collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
              RX bytes:498012 (498.0 KB)     TX bytes:498012 (498.0 KB)


wlan0   Link encap:Ethernet    Hw address: e8:2a:ea:51:04:41
              inet addr: 192.168.0.2    Bcast:192.168.0.225   Mask:255.255.255.0
              inet6 addr: fe8: :ea2a:eaff:fe51:441/64 Scope:Link
              UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
              RX packets:745 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
              TX packets632 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
              collisions:0 txqueuelen:100
              RX bytes:100382 (100.3 KB)   TX bytes:67239 (67.2)


Output of other commands here in a minute. 
Thank you!

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2015-05-25
sorry forgot you would probably need to do that - no need to type it all, just interested in 

[LIST]
[*]whether the pings succeed or fail
[*]whether the /etc/resolv.conf file is a file or a symbolic link
[*]contents of /etc/resolv.conf
[/LIST]

---

### Post by llmunro on 2015-05-25
Here's what I can tell, being something of a terminal newb:

Pings do not seem to have succeeded. Pinging 8.8.4.4. gives me several lines that the Destination Host was unreachable. 


Trying to ping Google, 4 errors. 

ls - l /etc/resolv.conf  doesn't seem to report much information, besides 1 root root 29 Jul 18 2014

The last command with cat reports that Dynamic resolv.conf (5) File for glibc resolver (3) generated by resolv.conf (8) and a scary warning not to edit the file be hand. 

I confess that I'm unsure how to interpret this stuff. 


Thanks so much. 
Lisa

---

### Post by llmunro on 2015-05-25
New Internet weirdness. I get wifi for a brief moments and then the computer goes back to showing a connection without giving Internet access. I've also now tried changing the security on the router, but it doesn't seem to help. :-( I'm going to see what happens with a live CD.

---

### Post by llmunro on 2015-05-30
Most bizarre thing ever--Internet has come back as if there was never a problem.  Marking thread as solved. Thank you for the ideas and help!

---

