---
title: "16.04 won't pick up hotspot or WIFI"
date: 2018-07-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rocky3 on 2018-07-27
Friends,  My main purpose for this post is to get UBUNTU 16.04 to recognize my hotspot which is generated by my Iphone. 2ndly, it would be great to get my ubuntu to recognize any WiFI out there.

What caused the problem:  My ISP replaced my modem in my house with their latest paneramic and told me to go into the new modem and change the "public shared" password with a new one of my own choosing.  WIFI has not worked since I changed my password, but  my windows laptop picks my hotspot and any WIFI out there.

My ubuntu WIFI has worked fine since December of 2016:  Please see December 2016  WIFI  info file at link:(just after I got WIFI working)

[https://paste.ubuntu.com/23664885/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/23664885/)

Today I ran the following at the command line 
 [COLOR=#000000][FONT=Courier New][SIZE=2]sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade[/SIZE][/FONT][/COLOR]

  

and now the WIFI info file looks like the file at link below:

[https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/wfY6bDBjhZ/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/wfY6bDBjhZ/)

Anything you could do to assist me would be much appreciated!!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2018-07-28
Please see:> 0: hp-wifi: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: yes
	Hard blocked: yesHard blocked, in this context, means that the wireless is turned off by a hardware switch or button, sometimes called Airplane Mode.

Please find the switch or button and switch it.

Please note that in your prior wireless_info, the switch is set to enable wireless.

---

### Post by rocky3 on 2018-07-28
Chili 555,  Thanks for the tip. . . .  my airport mode was on as you suggested and so I turned it off, but then, dummy me . . . found that my wireless switch directly under the airport mode switch was OFF!!  once I turned it one and the handshake occurred . . . [drum roll . . . . ] I connected . . . . and Oh by the way, my WIFI light, which is f12 on my laptop went from yellow to white as soon as it connected.   Now, i am going to try to find the "SOLVED"  button.:P

---

### Post by chili555 on 2018-07-28
Awesome! Glad it's working. You may mark Solved using thread tools at the top.

---

