---
title: "Ubuntu Server 14.04 network issue"
date: 2015-10-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Deeboxi on 2015-10-28
Hello,
I have been trying to establish connectivity between my server and workstaions for over two weeks now.
The problem i am having is pinging from the ubuntu server to gateway  (192.168.1.1) and other workstations. I can not ping this server from  workstations either. but I can ping the gateway from the other workstations.

I can  ping the internet from the server tho, I mean i can ping all the addresses in the internet,  e.g. yahoo.com, cnn.com, bbc.co.uk etc.


here is my **/etc/networking/interfaces**
[FONT=arial]address 192.168.1.3
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1 
dns-nameservers 192.168.1.3 8.8.8.8 (we use our server as DNS + google DNS as secondary DNS)
dns-search mydomain.com

**/etc/hosts**
127.0.0.1 localhost
192.168.1.3 Server1.mydomain.com Server1

[B]/etc/hostname
[/B]Server1

**/etc/resolv.con**f
[/FONT]nameserver 192.168.1.3
nameserver 8.8.8.8
dns-search  mydomain.com 				

I am really puzzled why this won't work, please help

Thank you

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-10-29
Are you using a firewall?

---

### Post by Deeboxi on 2015-10-29
Yes but i have disabled the firewall

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2015-10-29
Change the address to something like *.151.  There is probably a DHCP handed out to a low address like *.3.  Check your router's DHCP policy to see what the reserve IP block is.

---

### Post by Deeboxi on 2015-10-29
Thanks but it still not resolving anything except the local dns, which files should i check for errors?

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2015-10-29
Post the output of:

```
cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```

You are not supposed to edit /etc/resolv.conf.  That's old school and has been changed:

> 
tgalati4@Mint17 ~ $ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1



---

### Post by Deeboxi on 2015-11-01
Thank you for the help, I changed the server ip to a high address xxx.xxx.xxx.155, i am now ablee to ping the LAN and can ping the gateway, thank you ever so much [**[COLOR=#000000]tgalati4[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=241895") for the hint.

There are two problems now:
1. Ounce i reboot the machine i have to change the IP adress again for it to work again.
2. host -t A mydomain.com gives out the result/record of the old IP addresses

Please help, Thanking you in advance

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2015-11-01
Are you running NetworkManager?

---

### Post by Deeboxi on 2015-11-02
No, i am not running network manager, i refersh by ifdown && ifup commmands

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2015-11-02
Follow these steps then post:  [http://askubuntu.com/questions/431682/how-do-i-use-etc-network-interfaces-instead-of-network-manager](http://askubuntu.com/questions/431682/how-do-i-use-etc-network-interfaces-instead-of-network-manager)

```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
```

---

### Post by Deeboxi on 2015-11-02
That has been stated at the begining, please scroll up

---

### Post by Deeboxi on 2015-11-02
I have listed the cat /etc/networks/interface at the begining, please scroll up

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2015-11-02
It needs to be modified according to the link that I posted.

Perhaps:

> 
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.155
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1 

---

### Post by Deeboxi on 2015-11-02
Thanks for the response, As i have stated i can not ping the linux box from workstations but can ssh into it,
i have stopped the firewall, ufw status is [I]ufw stop/waiting

[/I]1. i can not run webmin either from the workstations
2. host -t A mydomain.com gives out the result/record of the old IP addresses (192.168.1.3), where else can i update it

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2015-11-03
What router are you using?  Check the policies that are set up on it.  Ping may be firewalled in the router.  TCP may be firewalled in the router as well.

---

### Post by Deeboxi on 2015-11-08
If i change the IP address to any unreserved DHCP addresses (e.g. 192.168.1.10) i am able to connect and can ping both ways but the problem is that the samba retains the old dns records(192.168.1.3), if i go back to the ip address (192.168.1.3) then i can't ping nor resolve the local dns. its a catch 22.

Which files in Samba directories can i look into.

Anyone with an idea what i can do to resolve this, its been a while

Thank you

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2015-11-08
Look in /etc/samba/smb.conf.  There is a Network section that may need changing.

---

### Post by Deeboxi on 2015-11-10
Solved, i found out that it was Pluto that was hogging the IP address, disabled it now everything is fine

---

