---
title: ".inf driver file for BCM4322?"
date: 2010-02-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-02-28
Hello All,

I'm having problems with (no surprise) my Broadcom BCM4322 Network Adapter after a clean install of 9.10.  I am just about tearing my hair out.

1.  I downloaded Broadcom's provided Linux drivers.  No joy.

2.  I installed first the STA package, then b43-fwcutter.  No joy.

3.  I installed NDISwrapper, but cannot find the .inf file I need.  Anyone?  I dual boot with Vista, so I went into my Windows system and pulled a .inf file from the driver files there (bcmwl6.inf), but NDISwrapper said it was not valid.  I have looked all over the web for a .inf driver file for this chipset but cannot seem to find anything (all I can find is .exe files).

Ideas, anyone, before my sanity is exhausted?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-01
> all I can find is .exe filesWe have tools that can open most exes. Please give us a link to one of the exes and let's see if we can guide you through it.

---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-03-01
Thanks!  For some reason, when I fetched bcmwl6.inf from a different source (and kept it with all the accompanying files in the folder) NDISwrapper was able to use it.  However, I'm still having issues.

When I run "ndiswrapper -l"in the terminal, I get this output:
```
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper, it will be
ignored in a future release.
bcmwl6: driver installed
         device (14E4:432B) present (alternative driver: ssb)
```Also, when I open "Windows Wireless Drivers" under System>Administration, I get the following error:  "Unable to see if hardware is present."  However, when I click through this, I can see bcmwl6, and it says "Hardware present: yes."  When I try to configure the network, it says it cannot find a configuration tool.

There is a missing link somewhere here?

Thanks for all help.  I don't know what I would do without the Ubuntu Forums.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-01
> WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper, it will be
ignored in a future release.This one is easy. We'll simply add conf!```
sudo mv /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper.conf
```This one is a bit harder:> (alternative driver: ssb)Ordinarily, we would blacklist ssb so it had no possibility of interfering with our wireless, however, ssb is also used with a lot of Broadcom ethernet drivers, for example:> $ modinfo [COLOR="Blue"]b44[/COLOR]
filename:       /lib/modules/2.6.31-19-generic/updates/cw/b44.ko
version:        2.0
license:        GPL
description:    [COLOR="Blue"]Broadcom 44xx/47xx 10/100 PCI ethernet driver[/COLOR]
author:         Felix Fietkau, Florian Schirmer, Pekka Pietikainen, David S. Miller
srcversion:     70A9D13BD6C3411A79D80FD
alias:          ssb:v4243id0806rev*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d0000170Csv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004402sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000014E4d00004401sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
[COLOR="Blue"]depends:        ssb[/COLOR],mii
vermagic:       2.6.31-19-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 586 
parm:           b44_debug:B44 bitmapped debugging message enable value (int)It is likely that, if we blacklist ssb and, possibly b44, your wired ethernet will not work. When you need it six months from now, you may or may not remember what we did and how to undo it.

Of course, you may not even have a Broadcom ethernet card; check in:```
lspci
```

Do you have a wireless interface?```
iwconfig
```Can you click the Network Manager icon at the upper right and attempt to connect?

---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-03-03
Thx, I added .conf to that file.  Output for "ndiswrapper -l" is now:

```
bcmwl6: driver installed
              device (14E4:432B) present (alternate driver: ssb)
```So no warning.

However, I don't think the system is using NDISwrapper for the driver at all.  Here's the output for "sudo lshw -C network" (it lists my ethernet card first, but I'll skip that here)

```
*-network
          description: Network controller
          product: BCM4322 802.11a/b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller
          vendor: Broadcom Corporation
          physical id: 0
          bus info: pci@0000:09:00.0
          version: 01
          width: 64 bits
          clock: 33MHz
          capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
          configuration: driver=b43-pci-bridge latency=0
          resources: irq:17 memory: d3100000-d3103fff
```

So it says it's using "b43-pci-bridge" for the driver?  I'm not sure how to change this.

When I open System>Administration>Windows Wireless Drivers, and try to configure the bcmwl6 driver, it still says I have no network configuration tool.  Shouldn't this be the Network Manager?  I've heard good things about WICD; should I ditch Network Manager and get it instead?  Do I have a missing package?  (E.g. do I need "network-config?")

I can't try to connect because Network Manager doesn't detect any wireless networks.

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-03-03
Sorry, I forgot, I meant to post the output of "iwconfig:"

```

lo              no wireless extensions
eth0            no wireless extensions

```

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-03
Let's try a temporary fix. If it works, we can make it permanent. Open a terminal and do:```
sudo rmmod -f b43 ssb
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
iwconfig
```Now do you have a wireless interface, wlan0, perhaps? Can you click Network manager and connect?

---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-03-03
Well, new development.  I consulted the sticky "Comprehensive NDISwrapper Troubleshooting Guide," and per its suggestion tried blacklisting "b43-pci-bridge."  Per its suggestion I afterwards ran "sudo update-initramfs -k all -u" and rebooted.  To my chagrin my wireless card was now invisible; no trace of it after running "sudo lshw -C network" or after "ndiswrapper -l."  Naturally I then unblacklisted b43-pci-bridge, ran "sudo update-initramfs -k all -u," and rebooted, and to my dismay still no sign of my wireless card.  It now seems the system doesn't even know it is there.  Ay yay yay.  I'm considering looking into what it might take to replace it with something more Ubuntu-friendly.

I'm sorry I didn't mention before: I have an ethernet card and it is vital I be able to use it (for instance for posting here!) so I don't want to mess with ssb if it will affect my ethernet.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-03
So what is the outcome of my suggestion above? By the way, I believe, and it's strictly my own opinion, that ndiswrapper is the hard way to get your card going.

---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-03-03
Output of "sudo rmmod -f b43 ssb:"

```
ERROR:  Removing 'b43':  No such file or directory
ERROR:  Removing 'ssb':  No such file or directory
```"iwconfig" still outputs "no wireless extensions."

If not NDISwrapper what do you recommend I use?

I forgot to mention before that the wireless card is also no longer on the list when I run "lspci."

Thanks!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-03
> I forgot to mention before that the wireless card is also no longer on the list when I run "lspci."Let's try to troubleshoot that first. If the card is turned off or defective or whatever, b43 and ssb would not be loaded, so that helps explain:> ERROR:  Removing 'b43':  No such file or directoryPlease be sure that any switches or key combinations (Fn+F5 on many laptops) that have anything to do with wireless are activated. Next, please run:```
rfkill list
```> If not NDISwrapper what do you recommend I use?```
sudo apt-get install bcmwl-kernel-source
```I look forward to your report!

What kind of computer is this?

---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-03-03
Thank you so much for your patience with this problem!

So, here's the latest.  I ran "rfkill list" with no output.  I installed bcmwl-kernel-source.  The system still cannot "see" the card (even under "Windows Wireless Drivers," it is now saying the hardware is not present).  I am puzzled because the system certainly could see the card before.  It was only after I blacklisted "b43-pci-bridge" that the card became invisible.  I took b43-pci-bridge out of the blacklist file, but something changed and still the card is invisible.

This is an HP/Compaq 6535b laptop.  My wireless button is frustrating; it's on a strip of lighted buttons just above the keyboard, but they're all "touch"--there is no physical button, just a light to tap.  When I tap the WiFi button nothing happens (it stays orange, off).  If there's a key combination that will switch wireless on or off I don't know it.  Fn+F5 gives no visible result.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-03
Is this the button, #6? Is the machine dual-booting with Windows?

---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-03-03
Yes, that is the button and Yes, I dual boot with Vista.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-03
May I see:```
dmesg | grep -e b43 -e 09:00
```Thanks.

---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-03-03
There was no output.

I was just researching "dmesg" and "grep."  From what I just learned I'm guessing this means b43 is not loading at boot-up (because there is no mention of it in dmesg), correct?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-03
This just gets better! Isn't the bus number for your wireless device 09:00 something when you run lspci? Yeah, I know, it doesn't even show in lspci.> *-network
          description: Network controller
          product: BCM4322 802.11a/b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller
          vendor: Broadcom Corporation
          physical id: 0
          bus info: pci@[COLOR="Blue"]0000:09:00.0[/COLOR]
That suggests, and I hope I'm wrong, that the computer doesn't even recognize the bus! Please do:```
dmesg > dmesg.txt
zip dmesg.zip dmesg.txt
```You will find a file, *dmesg.zip*, in your user directory. Attach *dmesg.zip* to your reply. I will be quite fascinated to see what is happening...or not, under the hood.

---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-03-03
Attached as requested.  I'm getting a little alarmed about this... : )  Though it is very interesting trying to figure it out.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-03
>  Though it is very interesting trying to figure it out.Quite! I enjoy these detective cases very much. 

I am studying your file now.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-03
I am googling these suspicious lines:> [ 1491.324717] [COLOR="Red"]ACPI handle has no context![/COLOR]
[ 1491.460093] HDA Intel 0000:00:14.2: power state changed by ACPI to D3
[COLOR="Blue"][ 1491.604427] ACPI: Preparing to enter system sleep state S3
[ 1491.916029] ACPI: Waking up from system sleep state S3[/COLOR]
[ 1495.948542] tg3 0000:02:00.0: wake-up capability disabled by ACPII see that your ethernet interface is driven by the module *tg3*, which does not depend on ssb.

I am quite mystified that your system goes to sleep and comes back out, apparently in 1/3 second! 

Are IRQs set for 'Auto Select' in the BIOS?

...Googling...

---

### Post by Birch Bark on 2010-03-13
So here's where this project stands.

Being a recreational Ubuntu user : ) unfortunately I had no time to work on this for the past week.  I checked in with things yesterday, and discovered, to my vast surprise, that the system is mysteriously recognizing the card again.  Output of "sudo lshw -C network" is now:

```
*-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: NetLink BCM5787M Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:22:64:4e:42:00
       size: 100MB/s
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm vpd msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=tg3 driverversion=3.99 duplex=full firmware=sb v2.13 ip=192.168.2.5 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=twisted pair speed=100MB/s
       resources: irq:29 memory:d5200000-d520ffff
  *-network UNCLAIMED
       description: Network controller
       product: BCM4322 802.11a/b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:09:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:d3100000-d3103fff
```Output of "iwconfig" is still:

```
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

```So now, as far as I can see, I have my choice of what driver I want to try to get to work, since it isn't configured with any at the moment.  Right?   Chili5555, you recommended bcmwl-kernel-source, which I installed.  How do I get the system to use it??

Thanks again. : )

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-14
Please let us see:```
ndiswrapper -l
```If it shows the driver and device as present, then you might do:```
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
```Then check *lshw* again. I feel thay your wireless button and its recognition by the kernel is probably the real issue. Let's keep looking for a solution.

---

