---
title: "11.04 Server Install No Network Connectivity"
date: 2011-09-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Lancor on 2011-09-09
This is a fresh install of Ubuntu Server 11.04. Gnome3 desktop installed (since I'm not too much of a command line guy). Hardware is as follows:

Intel Core i5-2500K
Gigabyte GA-Z68XP-UD3P 

I haven't heard of any compatibility issues with networking and this particular Motherboard (but what do I know). I have a network at home setup with a Windows 7 desktop, and a Vista laptop sharing files. I setup the Ubuntu computer and ran a network cable directly to my router. No matter what settings I change in Samba or under Network Connections in Ubuntu I can't get it to connect to the network. I am unable to discover the Ubuntu box on any of the Window's PC's.

The network is a local network and is NOT connected to the internet (there is no internet at this location). I would like to be able to set up the Ubuntu box as a server so any computer in the residence can access it's files.

Samba is installed.
It has been connected to the internet before at another location.

After that I really have no idea where to begin. There are no settings that I can find that seem to be configured incorrectly. Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Best Regards

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2011-09-09
Did you already try the more basic things, i.e.
- see if the lights of the network card are blinking
- can you ping the the IP address of your router
- can you ping one of your Windows machines

---

### Post by Lancor on 2011-09-09
Network card is functional, lights blinking and all. Didn't try pinging anything. On the router configuration page the DHCP list has the Ubuntu box listed as having been leased an IP address so it's connecting to the router fine (supposedly). In Ubuntu when I click on "Connection Information" I get an error "No Valid Active Connection Found". Any ideas? It's probably something stupid that I'm missing. 

Best Regards

---

### Post by Lancor on 2011-09-10
Update...
I am able to ping every device on the network from every other device. So I guess my problem has really been that I am unable to discover anything on the network from the Ubuntu box. Nor am I able to see the Ubuntu box from any other device on the network. And that Ubuntu says that there is no valid active network connection. Any Ideas?

Regards

---

