---
title: "vpn pia dns"
date: 2022-05-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jgw on 2022-05-16
I use PIA (Private Internet Access) for my VPN (been there for years)  Now however, I have a problem.  My network just stops but PIA thinks its still running.  To fix this problem I disconnect and reconnect.  I think this is also the reason that, at night, the computer keeps on re-connection (two or three times a night).  Anyway, I went to PIA with this one and they told me to change my "desktop application settings" and confirm that my DNS name server is "PIA DNS".  Think this is referring to the DNS in my wifi connection setting, in my system Settings, which is currently "auto".  

Anyway, I thought I would post this and find out if anybody has any thoughts on this one.

Thank you................

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-05-17
Not directly an answer for your question, but something to consider when renewal comes up. [https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21679682](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21679682) 
and [https://restoreprivacy.com/vpn/reviews/private-internet-access/](https://restoreprivacy.com/vpn/reviews/private-internet-access/)
Their no-log stance was with prior owners. We don't know the truth for the current owners. A few VPN companies claiming/marketing to be no-log were caught lying.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-05-17
> **TheFu said:**
> Not directly an answer for your question, but something to consider when renewal comes up. [https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21679682](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=21679682) 
and [https://restoreprivacy.com/vpn/reviews/private-internet-access/](https://restoreprivacy.com/vpn/reviews/private-internet-access/)
Their no-log stance was with prior owners. We don't know the truth for the current owners. A few VPN companies claiming/marketing to be no-log were caught lying.
+1
yep, I always take that as a "Time to move on"
as tester I point blank asked about their policy on no logs>>>>no answer.....:o
I also pointed to them that I would relay advice on a not known policy.
I no longer use the said VPN

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-05-17
> **jgw said:**
> I use PIA (Private Internet Access) for my VPN (been there for years)  Now however, I have a problem.  My network just stops but PIA thinks its still running.  To fix this problem I disconnect and reconnect.  I think this is also the reason that, at night, the computer keeps on re-connection (two or three times a night).  Anyway, I went to PIA with this one and they told me to change my "desktop application settings" and confirm that my DNS name server is "PIA DNS".  Think this is referring to the DNS in my wifi connection setting, in my system Settings, which is currently "auto".  

Anyway, I thought I would post this and find out if anybody has any thoughts on this one.

Thank you................

I kind of got sidetracked, post the return of:
```
ls -l /etc/resolv.conf
```
I forgot this as well:
```
 cat /etc/resolv.conf

```

---

### Post by jgw on 2022-05-17
thanks for the reply.

```

reg@greg-System-Product-Name:~$ ls -l /etc/resolv.conf
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 39 Apr 27 14:49 /etc/resolv.conf -> ../run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf

```

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-05-17
> **jgw said:**
> thanks for the reply.

```

reg@greg-System-Product-Name:~$ ls -l /etc/resolv.conf
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 39 Apr 27 14:49 /etc/resolv.conf -> ../run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf

```

That's what i thought, but I still need to see:
```
 cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-05-17
[https://www.privateinternetaccess.com/helpdesk/kb/articles/using-pia-dns-in-custom-configurations](https://www.privateinternetaccess.com/helpdesk/kb/articles/using-pia-dns-in-custom-configurations)
Have you seen that?

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-05-17
I have yes.
not speaking for the OP though.
right now my kvm jammy is using a locked dns.
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NordVPN
nameserver 103.86.96.100
nameserver 103.86.99.100

```

---

### Post by jgw on 2022-05-19
I have also been at PIA about this one.  First they told me I should change my DNS from my settings.  I never did that as I still wasn't sure.  Recently I got another note from them telling me that they didn't mean in my settings but in my PIA settings.  Change the settings, under 'network',  from PIA DNS to "built-in resolver" and, so far, it worked!  I say "so far" as I will wait a bit before I am sure.

Anyway, I appreciate all the help here.  I suspect I will be changing my VPN but I took the 3 year deal so I have a bit of time before I do that.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-05-19
Great, you'll be OK for that amount of time, unless criminal behavior is detected by them.
And in that case you shouldn't be using just a VPN.
@ jgw that was not aimed at you of course. said as a general statement for all.

---

