---
title: "11.04 cannot see wireless networks after suspend"
date: 2011-06-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jshou on 2011-06-08
I cannot see any wireless networks after waking the computer from suspend.  Wireless works fine on boot.  

I've tried restarting the network service, but I still don't see any available wireless networks.

foo@foo-thinkpad ~$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
 * Running /etc/init.d/networking restart is deprecated because it may not enable again some interfaces
 * Reconfiguring network interfaces...                                                                               Ignoring unknown interface eth0=eth0.

My setup:

Chipset: RTL8188CE
Ubuntu 11.04 (64 bit)
Thinkpad W520

Any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by jshou on 2011-06-08
Not sure if this is useful, but this came from pm-suspend.log:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/75modules thaw hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/60_wpa_supplicant thaw hibernate:
Failed to connect to wpa_supplicant - wpa_ctrl_open: No such file or directory

I don't know if this has to do with the wake time being really slow too.

---

### Post by jshou on 2011-06-11
Are there any other logs that I could look at which might reveal the issue?

---

### Post by shiinto23 on 2011-08-08
same problem here: after resuming from suspend my Wireless Adapter is not usable. I cant see any networks. Ubunu 10.04 + 11.04 ; Vaio NR11S Intel Chipset...

---

### Post by asraf_wm on 2011-08-14
I have the same problem,Mine is a Desktop with AMD 785G chipset.
I have updated the file /etc/default/acpi-support to stop the networking services on suspend/hibernate


Updated Value in the file
STOP_SERVICES="networking"

Waiting for it to work on my next hibernate.Will update whether it works or not.

---

