---
title: "rtl 8319c"
date: 2006-03-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sveri on 2006-03-06
Hi,

i have a realtek 8139 c+ onboard nic.
When i installed kubuntu i wasnt able to set it up with dchp.
(Other boxes here did well with the dhcp server)

Later i set it up manually with
ifconfig eth1 192.168.15.13 up
and added a route with
route add default gw 192.168.15.1 dev eth1

ifconfig show the correct output, everthing seems to be fine.
I can ping the nic
ping 192.168.15.13
and it seems to work too.

But if i want to ping the server
ping 192.168.15.1
it says:
ping 192.168.15.1 (.....) with .. bytes of data (this is the server)
from 192.168.15.13 icmp... destination host seems unreachable

So i plugged another pci nic in, unfortunately again a realtek rtl 8139 c+
and disabled the onboard nic.

But its the same again.

I checked all settings with somebody helpful in the kubuntu irc channel,
and they are correct.

Theres only one thing which seems strange.

After booting two modules (8139too and 8139cp) are loaded.
If i remove the 8139cp module, restart the network and try to ping it says:
ping 192.168.15.1
eth0 network is unreachable

And if remove the 9139too module and load the other one it says:
ifconfig eth0 ... up
SIOCSIFADDR:  didnt find a suitable interface (its my translation because the output comes in german ;-))

Does anybody have an idea where the problem could be.
I dont have anymore of them :-(


Thanks in Advance
Sven

---

### Post by sveri on 2006-03-08
I was able to solve it.
I had to add acpi=off in the boot options in the grub config file.

Good luck to everybody

---

