---
title: "14.04 Static IP Problems -DNS"
date: 2017-05-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jeff113 on 2017-05-05
Hello,

I cannot seem to be able to get a fully functioning static IP address (I believe it's a DNS issue)

Here is my interfaces file


# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp
iface eth0 inet static
address 10.0.2.65
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 10.0.2.0
broadcast 10.0.2.255
gateway 10.0.2.1
dns-nameservers 10.0.2.9 8.8.8.8 10.0.2.1

With this configuration I can ping devices by IP address on my network 10.0.2.0. I can even ping my two other networks at my two other branches which I have static routes for on my cisco router. The other branch networks are 10.0.3.0 and 10.0.1.0. I cannot ping anything by hostname nor can I ping anything outside of our network(s) meaning nothing on the Internet. I have disabled IPv6. If I switch back to DHCP everything works just fine.

I'm stumped. This is a clean install of 14.0.4. I'm installing this version to mimic our production server which works just fine. It's just not supposed to be this difficult :-). Any help would be greatly appreciated

Thanks,

Jeff

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2017-05-05
Are you sure there's no other machine with 10.0.2.65?  What do you see with "arp -a"?  

What address do you get with DHCP?  10.0.2.65 or something else?

---

### Post by jeff113 on 2017-05-08
Hello,

Nothing else with that IP address. If I shutdown the machine then try to ping 10.0.2.65 I get no response. With the machine up I get a response. When I set it to DHCP I get a 10.0.2.211 IP address

Here's what I get with arp -a

? (10.0.2.1) at 70:e4:22:fb:17:30 [ether] on eth0
ccpldc1.ccpl.local (10.0.2.9) at 00:15:5d:02:03:00 [ether] on eth0
nw-itadmin.ccpl.local (10.0.2.186) at f8:b1:56:e2:19:fd [ether] on eth0

Thanks,

Jeff

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2017-05-08
> **jeff113 said:**
> I cannot ping anything by hostname nor can I ping anything outside of our network(s) meaning nothing on the Internet.
Is that true for Internet addresses as well?  Can you ping 8.8.8.8 or not ping by IP address at all?  If you can ping by address, then it's pretty likely a DNS problem.  Let's start with a quick test.

Given your specification of dns-nameservers in the interfaces file, you should have an /etc/resolv.conf file that looks like this:
```

nameserver 10.0.2.9
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 10.0.2.1

```
Put a hash mark ("#") at the beginning of the lines for the two servers with 10 addresses so you just have 8.8.8.8 as active.  Any better?

---

### Post by jeff113 on 2017-05-08
I cannot ping 8.8.8.8, nothing outside our network. While I can ping our network by IP address, nothing by hostname. Our internal DNS server is 10.0.2.9. I cannot ping any Internet IP address nor Internet name (yahoo.com). Putting hash marks in front of the 10.0 addresses still does not work. On a reboot that file gets overwritten with what I have in the interfaces file. It's strange because I have a Ubuntu 14.0.4 production machine up and running without any issue with these same settings, except for the local IP address of course.

Thanks,

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2017-05-09
If you use DHCP, what does resolv.conf look like?  Does it list the same DNS servers?  Is the routing table ("route -n') the same with the same gateway?

Not being able to ping outside the local network would usually mean a routing problem upstream, but the fact that it works with DHCP and on another machine tends to rule that explanation out.  I'm running out of guesses here, I'm afraid.

Any iptables rules on this machine?  What does "sudo iptables -L -nv" show?  All permitted?

---

### Post by jeff113 on 2017-05-09
Hello,

If I use DHCP resolv.conf looks the same as when set to static. It list the two DNS servers.
10.0.2.9
8.8.8.8

Running the "route -n" command returns the same whether it's set to DHCP or static

Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask    Flags  Metric  Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0       10.0.2.1  0.0.0.0       UG    0        0   0     eth0
10.0.2.0    0.0.0.0    255.255.255.0  U     0       0    0      eth0

Running the "sudo iptables -L -nv" command returns the same whether it's set to DHCP or static

Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT 387 packets, 40237 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
 
Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT 0 packets, 0 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination
 
Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT 205 packets, 53752 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination

The chain input and output packets were different of course

I'm no Linux guru but I have never had this problem before. I thought it might be a corrupt install so I did a clean reinstall and same thing.

I appreciate the help

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2017-05-11
> When I set it to DHCP I get a 10.0.2.211 IP address

Do things work properly if you use 10.0.2.211 as the machine's static address?  Maybe the router has rules about what ranges of IP addresses it accepts.

---

### Post by jeff113 on 2017-06-14
[COLOR=#DD4814][COLOR=#DD4814][COLOR=#000000]Hey SeijiSensei,

Just wanted to follow up and let you know what the problem was. I had setup Mobile VPN with IPSEC on our firewall so that I could work remotely from home on occasion. Part of that configuration is a reserved IP address pool for IP address assignment when connecting. That pool is 10.0.2.65 thru 10.0.2.69.

Here I was trying to use 10.0.2.65. Everything worked great internally but trying to get outside to the Internet the firewall was having nothing to do with it since it considered that IP already in use.

Anyway thanks for your help and putting up with my stupidity [/COLOR][/COLOR][/COLOR]:oops:

Jeff

---

