---
title: "17.10 How do I allow SSH access?"
date: 2017-10-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by shochatd on 2017-10-20
I have installed 17.10 on my laptop and need to solve a problem where the machine becomes unresponsive after screen dim. So I would like to SSH into the laptop from my desktop and am getting port 22 connection refused. What is the simplest way to open port 22 for access from my local network? Official 17.10 documentation suggests gufw and Firestarter. I have gufw but it fails to launch. There does not appear to be any Firestarter package. I tried firewall-config (added port 22), but that didn't work. Perhaps there are additional steps that this tool requires?

---

### Post by The Cog on 2017-10-20
You need to install the SSH server to start with:
```
sudo apt install openssh-server
```

You should see it listening on port 22 with the command
```
netstat -lnt
```

Netstat will show the port listening regardless of firewall rules (if the ssh server is running). If you were just going to open port 22 then there is no point in installing a firewall - it will be open anyway if no firewall is installed to block it. If you intended to restrict access to port 22, for instance only allowing your local network to connect to it, then in that case there certainly is a need to install the firewall.

---

### Post by shochatd on 2017-10-20
> **The Cog said:**
> You need to install the SSH server...:

Well, that was embarrassing. Truth is that this is the first time I've had any occasion to SSH into this laptop and I just assumed...
Anyway, thank you! Solved.

---

