---
title: "Anyone do DynDNS ?"
date: 2007-09-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ant2ne on 2007-09-11
terminal```
antsvr@antubuntu:~/DynDNS/inadyn/bin/linux$ inadyn
INADYN: Started 'INADYN version 1.96' - dynamic DNS updater.
I:INADYN: IP address for alias 'ant2ne.kick-***.net' needs update to '146.163.211.152'
W:INADYN: Error validating DYNDNS svr answer. Check usr,pass,hostname!

```

/etc/inadyn.conf
```
update_period_sec 600
username ant2ne
password *****
dyndns_system dyndns@dyndns.org
alias ant2ne.kick-***.net
```

[https://www.dyndns.com/account/services/hosts/ant2ne.kicks-***.net](https://www.dyndns.com/account/services/hosts/ant2ne.kicks-***.net)
> Changes Saved.
Hostname:	ant2ne.kicks-***.net
Wildcard:	Not set
Current Service:	IP address (an A-record)
Current IP: 	146.163.211.152
TTL:	1 min.
Has Redirect Settings:	no
MX Records:	NONE (mailservers will try to deliver e-mail messages directly to ant2ne.kicks-***.net)

What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by billdotson on 2007-09-11
sorry, I have dyndns but I could never get it to work in Linux, so I just updated it manually often and hoped it did not change..

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2007-09-11
I used one of the auto update programs that they reccomend on the DYNdns web page.

I found it in the repo's and gave it the info it needed and it works flawlessly. Everytime.

Good luck.

---

### Post by ant2ne on 2007-09-11
> **steveneddy said:**
> I used one of the auto update programs that they reccomend on the DYNdns web page.

I found it in the repo's and gave it the info it needed and it works flawlessly. Everytime.which one? Could you post your .conf for me to examin?

---

### Post by almostalive on 2007-09-11
aw.. I also use dyndns.. recently switched from windows to linux
I really hope it works! :-/ cause I'm going to be setting up my server soon..

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-09-12
I use ddclient.

Perhaps putting "username" and "password" with quotes.

---

### Post by Megaqwerty on 2007-09-12
I also use ddclient. The only downside is that it uses whatever IP is assigned to your computer, so if your computer is on a LAN, it will use the LAN assigned address  (i.e. 192.168.0.1); as opposed to your external IP (i.e. 64.455.34.12)

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-09-12
ant2ne, in the file /etc/inadyn.conf you have to put "--" before each options, just like if you were running inadyn from the terminal.

```
--update_period_sec 600
--username ant2ne
--password *****
--alias ant2ne.kick-***.net
--background

```For more info about how to use and setup DynDNS with inadyn, please check [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DynamicDNS](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DynamicDNS).

---

### Post by ant2ne on 2007-09-12
Well I suppose I kind of solved my problem apparently my router supports DynDNS.com so I don't even need to run any additional software. Now I just need to set up my web page and get apache to display it. :popcorn:

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2007-09-13
# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=dyndns2
use=if, if=web
server=members.dyndns.org
wildcard=yes
login=your_login_name
password='your_password' (in the little ' marks)
your_domain.whateverdomain.org

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-09-14
You could try to noip.com as an alternative.

I also wrote a perl script a ways back -- kind of my own dynamic update client -- that queried my router, grabbed the external WAN, and then sent it to noip.com.  I ran it as a cron job, and it did work for a while until noip changed the interface.  Im sure it could be modified if you were interested in this approach to send your WAN to dyndns.  If you are not, with very minimal effort, you could at least grab the WAN IP address off your router, and somehow use this information in the query to dyndns.  Grabbing the WAN address also fits in very well with conky (if you use this tool).

---

### Post by xdefconx on 2008-01-07
dyndns.com same with dyndns.org?it is can be use on script?

---

