---
title: "802.11b and WPA issue"
date: 2010-04-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sunshineubu on 2010-04-04
My Level: Beginner for Linux and Laptops in general.

Laptop: Dell Latitude C400, P3 1200MHz, 256MB ram, 20GB HD.

Wireless card: External IOGEAR 802.11b, model GWP512.

Router: Trendnet, WPA security.

ISSUE:

1) I installed UBUNTU 9.10 and wiped out WiN XP from my laptop.
2) My wireless card worked perfectly with my current router, i had to add a patch to make the 802.11b card work with WPA security.
3) After installing ubuntu and the wireless driver using ndisgtk, wpa suppliant etc. I am able to make the wireless card work. It detects the wireless network connection, but when I enter the password it doesnot connect to the newtwork. Keeps asking for password every minute.
4) This was kind of same when i has Win XP but when i added the patch it worked fine.
5) Is there any patch for UBUNTU also?

Can some body help me, direct me to correct thread how can i make this card work for my wireless network on UBUNTU 9.10?

There should be some way out and i hope i dont have to buy new wireless card that is compatible with linux.

Looking forward for your replies.

---

### Post by haveaswiss on 2010-04-05
I have had a similar problem where I entered my wifi passcode correctly, but it kept prompting me to enter it again. this was fixed simply by entering the passcode in all caps. I don't know if it will work for you, but it helped me.

---

### Post by sunshineubu on 2010-04-12
I tried using caps lock ...somehow doesnot work for me :(( ....

searched a bit and seems like a bug in ubuntu 9.10.

how do we know when a bug is solved?

---

