---
title: "USB727 modem and Gnome ppp"
date: 2008-03-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Michaelg14 on 2008-03-30
I almost have this working.  I get as far as getting local and remote IP addresses and primary and secondary DNS addresses.  Then nothing it is just sitting there saying connecting...  With the light on the USB727 flashing.

Any help appreciated

---

### Post by pseudo-random on 2008-03-30
Interesting. In terms of the communication layers you're there.
Can you ping anything, like a remote gateway?
What about the command > route
Do you have your gateway setup?
Also check your /etc/hosts for deprecated DNS servers.

---

### Post by Michaelg14 on 2008-03-30
Now I can't get that far.  I can't seem to establish a connection.  This is the wvdial log file

/home/greybeard/.wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvModem<*1>: Cannot get information for serial port.
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATX3
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Modem initialized.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATM1L3DT#777
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier.
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATM1L3DT#777
WvDial Modem<*1>: CONNECT
WvDial<*1>: Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
WvDial<Err>: Connected, but carrier signal lost!  Retrying...
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATM1L3DT#777
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier.
WvDial Modem<*1>: NO CARRIER
WvDial<Warn>: No Carrier!  Trying again.
WvDial<Warn>: Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
WvDial<*1>: Disconnecting at Sun Mar 30 15:52:21 2008

---

### Post by Michaelg14 on 2008-03-31
I finally got this working.  I enabled enough stuff and got connected.  I think the key for me was enabling the modem connection in System/Administration/Network then using GNOME ppp to connect.   :lolflag:

---

### Post by chilinski on 2008-03-31
Check the U727 linux instructions at sprint.com/downloads. For wvdial, there were two additional lines they suggested adding. One had to do with the carrier. I used Sprint's instructions on my U727 on my EEEPC and it worked the first time and every time after that.

---

