---
title: "9.04 won't load webpages"
date: 2009-07-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by drummerchrissk on 2009-07-26
I have installed Jaunty on my friends computer. Everything worked well for about a month. I have virtually no information as to what computer he is using or the type of router. I know the cables are connected. Jaunty says that it is connected to the internet. However, every time I try to load a webpage, it tells me that Firefox cannot load the page. I've tried about 15 different websites and they all show the same result. If you can help in any way it would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-07-26
Can you ping Google by name? Open an Applications-->Accessories-->Terminal and type:

```
ping www.google.com
```

the results look something like this:

```
ping www.google.com
PING www.l.google.com (74.125.53.99) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from pw-in-f99.google.com (74.125.53.99): icmp_seq=1 ttl=54 time=46.3 ms
64 bytes from pw-in-f99.google.com (74.125.53.99): icmp_seq=2 ttl=54 time=46.0 ms
64 bytes from pw-in-f99.google.com (74.125.53.99): icmp_seq=3 ttl=54 time=48.8 ms
64 bytes from pw-in-f99.google.com (74.125.53.99): icmp_seq=4 ttl=54 time=41.7 ms
64 bytes from pw-in-f99.google.com (74.125.53.99): icmp_seq=5 ttl=54 time=42.5 ms
```

If that doesn't work try pinging by number:

```
ping 74.125.53.99
```

If the above command works then you are having a dns problem.

---

### Post by drummerchrissk on 2009-07-27
I tried the first code and recieved this...

> ping: unknown host [www.google.com](www.google.com)

I tried the second code and it appeared to work.

> PING 74.125.53.99 (74.125.53.99) 56(84) bytes of data

So, it appeasrs I have a DNS issue. How do I fix this?

---

### Post by Newfoundlander on 2009-07-27
Was it Friday or later when it suddenly stopped working?  If it's the same problem that I had then it is affecting a huge number of users.

---

### Post by drummerchrissk on 2009-07-27
No. This has been going on now for about a month and a half.

---

### Post by Newfoundlander on 2009-07-28
Someone suggested that resolv.conf may be causing the problem.

Maybe compare resolv.conf in your usual setup to that of a Live CD?  I had no problem connecting to the Internet using a Live CD.

```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by dcody on 2009-07-28
Hello - I show connection to the my wireless network, but am unable to load pages. I have been trying to fix this issue for several weeks now. I have read many posts with the same issues and have tried many fixes, but no solution. 

It started when I moved & had to buy a new router (linksys model #wrt320n). I was using a linksys before (unknown model #). I have the same issue on both my pc & laptop, as well as being unable to get a wired connection on my pc. Both units worked fine with the other router & cable modem. 

Has anyone come up with a solution for this issue yet? Any ideas? Right now my box is useless and my laptop has an anchor (eth cable). 

I have been using JJ for about 4 months and have solved a few issues with the help of many forums, but I am still a beginner. 

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by dcody on 2009-07-28
I also should mention - I was also unabe to load pages of the live cd and when I ping by name and by address, each time it returns showing data. How do I stop the pings, by the way? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by MrCode on 2009-07-28
You hit Ctrl-C. :)  As far as your not being able to load web pages, are your browser settings correct?

---

### Post by dcody on 2009-07-28
Thanks for the key stroke. Regarding browser settings - I have scanned them, all seems to be in order - are you thinking of any specific ones?

---

