---
title: "Weirdest Problem with Ubuntu and Internet"
date: 2009-02-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by punkiishmob on 2009-02-26
Out of nowhere this started happening as of this morning. When Ubuntu boots, I cannot browse or use the internet for any application. Ubuntu shows I am on the network, and I can access my router in the browser. However, if I try to go to a website, the browser window remains blank (white), and the status bar just says "Done". 

If I reboot my modem and router, it starts working again.

All the other computers in my house can use the internet, and one other machine is using Ubuntu with internet with no problems at all.

I restarted again and the same issue happened. Unplugged and plugged back in the router and modem, and I can browse again.

It's weird that it just started to happen.. my Evolution has been going apes*** for a week by constantly asking me for my username and password. when I give the correct one, it'll Fetch... then prompt me again. So I erased my accounts with Evolution, installed Thunderbird, and the accounts started working again. 

Evolution is listed as a startup session for me, so everytime the OS boots Evolution does also. But now since my accounts are gone the "Welcome to Evolution" window pops up at startup now. I will disable Evolution as a session, reboot, and see if that coincidentally makes any difference.

Has anyone else ran into problems like this?

---

### Post by punkiishmob on 2009-02-26
Tried removing Evolution and removing it as a startup item to no avail. Should I uninstall Thunderbird?

I restarted, opened up a browser, and it's blank again with every page I try to access saying "Done" with a blank page. I turned off my modem and router, and turned them back on, and now the internet is working.

Should I reinstall Ubuntu? Ive been using Ultimate Edition which has given me problems before and am debating just fresh-installing Ubuntu and reinstall the packages.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-26
This doesn't sound like and  issue with your email  client, it sounds more like a dns problem, what is the output of:

```
cat /etc/reslov.conf
```

Paste the output in your next post.

Jim

---

### Post by punkiishmob on 2009-02-26
> **cariboo907 said:**
> This doesn't sound like and  issue with your email  client, it sounds more like a dns problem, what is the output of:

```
cat /etc/reslov.conf
```

Paste the output in your next post.

Jim

Here is the output:

amir@jaflinux:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain socal.rr.com
search socal.rr.com
nameserver 76.85.229.110
nameserver 76.85.229.111

This is when I reboot my modem and router.. and I have internet access.

I just typed 'ping google.com' and I keep getting
"From 192.168.1.101 icmp_seq=1 Destination Port Unreachable"

But I can browse the internet and use Pidgin... weird.

---

