---
title: "17.04 wifi will not connect"
date: 2017-06-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by FerryGnu on 2017-06-27
Hi,

I need help getting the wifi to connect. It is NOT the internal card as I have a TP-LINK USB adaptor as well. Both show up in the Network configuration. Both show "excellent" for signal strength. But, it keeps saying the Passkey is incorrect.

The Passkey IS correct. 

The entire configuration for the wifi is correct. 

I tried turning off ipv6. 

I tried using a specific IP Address and turning off the DHCP, still nothing.

It seems like Ubuntu is blocking it as it goes off and tries for about 15-seconds "connecting". 

Is there something else I should set to allow wifi access?

p.s. I have run apt-get update and apt-get upgrade as well. Still no difference

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-06-28
Thread moved to the "*Networking & Wireless*" forum, probably a better fit.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-06-28
> he entire configuration for the wifi is correct. Really? The old skeptic in Doc Chili wonders if there isn't maybe a little something we could tweak ... just a little. For instance, having two devices active at once as you do probably causes a conflict in the cfg80211 and mac80211 pieces:>  It is NOT the internal card as I have a TP-LINK USB adaptor as well. Both show up in the Network configuration. Both show "excellent" for signal strengthI suggest that we concentrate on the internal. Please detach the USB and then provide the results of the wireless script and we'll continue: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370108](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370108)

---

### Post by FerryGnu on 2017-06-28
> **chili555 said:**
> Really? 

having two devices active at once as you do

Oh dear, Doc, I do hope you are not so cavalier with a scalpel in your hand. Where does it say I had both devices [COLOR=#ff0000]**active**[/COLOR] at the same time?

As it turns out, I was able to resolve the issue with some tweaks to a config file. But having now spent two days with 17.04 I have put 16.04 back on, IMHO, 17.04 is a mess. Seems like it was rushed out to meet the Date deadline.

But, on  a lighter note, I quite liked Gnome desktop.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-06-28
> Both show up in the Network configuration. Both show "excellent" for signal strength. It is strongly implied here.

As for 17.04, it works perfectly for many of us including me. The nature of the forums is that almost no-one posts to say that everything works as expected.

In any event, I'm glad you're sorted.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2017-06-28
Hi, please take the time to mark your thread solved
by logging in to your thread..and clicking **Thread Tools**
and then **S****olved.**

Thanks.

---

