---
title: "8.10 network manager is gone"
date: 2008-11-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by t3hparad0x on 2008-11-25
Firstly, I'll start off by saying that I've seen several 'SIMILAR' posts... however, none have addressed the issue to the extent that I believe should be.

I'm running a relatively newer install of Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex. I'm on a (again) relatively newer Dell XPS M170 laptop. This baby's fine with me and seems to handle Ubuntu fairly well, well... we've run into a few problems, but if that wasn't the case... we wouldn't be doing well now would we?

Anyhow, I made a mistake somehow. While in the process of attempting to learn the network manager (I'm previously a Windows fiend... forgive me if I seem slow.) I somehow removed the icon from the 'Notification Area.' IN all truth, I somehow removed the whole damned Notification Area all together. If I knew how I did this, I could simply retrace my steps and fix the problem. 

I set up a static IP on my wired network, but I do have access to my wireless home network. Internet does work with eth0 and eth1 (1 being the wireless.) However, as I've seen common with the other's posts... upon restart, my eth0 defaults to an unknown configuration where my internet is NOT WORKING. Not only does it bump me off my wired network, but it disables my wireless network.

Now that I've gone through the uninstall and reinstallation process, and I've gotten my network manager to show up on the Notification Area, my network manager is stating "Device is unmanaged" under Wired Network.

Anyone know a fix? I've edited my ifupdown config so that I do have a static ip, and it DOES work, and I can do everything perfectly well... UNTIL I REBOOT! This is almost maddening. I've consulted several sources in attempt to find someone else with a SOLID fix for this, but it seems there isn't one at this time.

I will post any info I find helpful. Thanks in advance!

---

