---
title: "Dwl-520 E1"
date: 2006-06-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by This_is_me on 2006-06-09
I'm using Xubuntu Dapper 32bit. I'm using the linux-wlan-ng driver, version 0.2.3. When I type "wlanctl-ng wlan0 lnxreq_ifstate ifstate=enable" it tells me
```
message=lnxreq_ifstate
  ifstate=enable
  resultcode=implementation_failure
```
and dmesg says this:
```
[  591.999359] hfa384x_docmd_wait: hfa384x_cmd timeout(1), reg=0x8000.
[  591.999746] hfa384x_drvr_start: Initialize command failed.
[  592.000082] hfa384x_drvr_start: Failed, result=-110
[  592.000360] prism2sta_ifstate: hfa384x_drvr_start() failed,result=-110
```

I'm using the DWL-520 revision E1. I had this driver working under Debian at one point last year, without any problems.
Should I try an older version of the driver, or is the problem with Ubuntu?

---

### Post by This_is_me on 2006-06-10
Can anyone help with this? 
:shock: This was all the way to the bottom of the second page!
Sorry...but I'd almost rather have someone say "I really have no idea what this problem is," than no answer at all: though it really makes no difference, it satisfies my ego to think that someone is paying attention. :mrgreen:

---

### Post by bazald on 2006-06-11
I'm essentially having the same problem on an IBM-T30, attempting to use a DWL-650.  It worked fine using both Debian and Ubuntu 5.10.  Now wlan0 appears not to have any wireless extensions.

I've tried manually compiling linux-wlan-ng, and that doesn't seem to help at all.  When I manually compiled, it seemed to have difficulty loading the p80211 module correctly.

first dmesg error, eventually followed by the ones already mentioned:
kobject_register failed for p80211 (-17)
 [c01f607b> kobject_register+0x6b/0x80
 .
 .
 .

If anyone has any ideas, I'd really appreciate hearing them.

Edit: Just thought I'd mention that I'm running Ubuntu, not Xubuntu

---

