---
title: "12.04 (x64) rtl8168 cannot set link speed to gigabit"
date: 2014-01-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nickabbey on 2014-01-02
I had a 10.04 system up and running for a year or two and decided to do a clean install of 12.04 on the box.
Back when I did my 10.04 install, I had to do the driver switch from r8169 to r8168.
Luckily, 12.04 worked with the r8169 driver "out of the box".
However, as the post title suggests, this device is only running in 100 full duplex mode.  
The same card, connected to the same cable, which went to the same router was working in 1gb/s.
My win 7 box in the other room is still connected and running at 1gb/s, so I know the network/router/other hosts are fine.
I connected my MacBook to the same patch cord that the ubuntu machine is on, and it also connects at 1gb/s.
So it doens't appear to be a physical layer issue.
I tried to force the link speed to 1000t using ethtool from the terminal while using the r8169 driver.  The command:
sudo ethtool -s eth0 speed 1000 duplex full autoneg off 
appeared to work (no error output on the terminal) but the command
sudo ethtool eth0 
showed that the link speed was still 100 (didn't capture that output, but it's the same as the one below just with th r8169 driver loaded)
I also tried bringing the interface down, running the ethtool command and bringing the interface back up - same result.

(In the next section , I used this to walk through disabling nm without uninstalling:  
[http://www.sitepoint.com/ubuntu-12-04-lts-precise-pangolin-networking-tips-and-tricks/](http://www.sitepoint.com/ubuntu-12-04-lts-precise-pangolin-networking-tips-and-tricks/)
specifically, the section titled:  Disable the Network Manager and &#8216;hard-code&#8217; a static IP address)

I tried to disable network manager by editing /etc/network/interfaces and adding 

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.2
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1
broadcast 192.168.1.255
pre-up /sbin/ethtool -s eth0 speed 1000 duplex full autoneg off

then changed /etc/NetworkManager.conf from 

[ifupdown]
managed=false

to

[ifupdown]
managed=true

rebooted, and ethtool still showed i was only at 100 mb/s

tried ethtool again from the terminal, no luck.
brought the interface down, tried ethtool, brought it back up.  still no luck.

Undid my changes to networkmanager.conf and interfaces, rebooted
verified all the same original behavior.

I thought maybe the other driver would work a little better, so I downloaded and compiled the r8168 driver (version 8.037.00) from realtek and did:

rmmod r8169
blacklisted r8169
copied the newly compiled r8168 driver to /lib/modules/3.8.0-34-generic/kernel/drivers/net/ethernet/realtek
sudo depmod -a 
modprobe r8168
sudo update-initramfs -u
rebooted

behavior is exactly the same with the 8168 driver as the 8169.
That is to say, ethtool allows me to set the autoneg and duplex, and looks like it's letting me set the link speed (no error output when typing command)
but no matter what it always stays at 100 m/s

here's an output of ethtool eth0:

```
Settings for eth0:
    Supported ports: [ TP ]
    Supported link modes:   10baseT/Half 10baseT/Full 
                            100baseT/Half 100baseT/Full 
                            1000baseT/Full 
    Supported pause frame use: No
    Supports auto-negotiation: Yes
    Advertised link modes:  10baseT/Half 10baseT/Full 
                            100baseT/Half 100baseT/Full 
                            1000baseT/Full 
    Advertised pause frame use: Symmetric Receive-only
    Advertised auto-negotiation: Yes
    Speed: 100Mb/s
    Duplex: Full
    Port: Twisted Pair
    PHYAD: 0
    Transceiver: internal
    Auto-negotiation: on
    MDI-X: Unknown
    Supports Wake-on: pumbg
    Wake-on: g
    Current message level: 0x00000033 (51)
                   drv probe ifdown ifup
    Link detected: yes

```

I haven't yet tried to disable NM again with the r8168 driver, but ethtool behaves the exact same way with this driver.
I'm going to try it (and the pre-up commands, as well) but based on my results so far, I'm not optimistic.

Also worth noting, I found a thread in these forums (can't remember which) where the person found a bios setting (something like IOMEM) that needed to be disabled on his Gigabyte board.  I checked that, but didn't have such a setting, just a simple onboard NIC enabled/disabled setting.


I have three things left that seem worth trying:
Disable NM again and set the interface up manually with a preup command
^this with different (older)  versions of the realtek r8168 and/or r8169 drivers.  
Maybe this?
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/100988/how-to-force-network-manager-to-set-auto-negotiation-to-false-off-for-a-particul](http://askubuntu.com/questions/100988/how-to-force-network-manager-to-set-auto-negotiation-to-false-off-for-a-particul)

Anyone dealt with this kind of issue?

Edit:  I also tried to rmmod r8168 and then load with options to set the driver to 1000/full/off by default using the command:
insmod <path to driver>/r8169.ko speed=1000 duplex=1 autoneg=0
(found the values in the readme file for the driver that was download from realtek's)
this also didn't work

Edit 2: Should note that even though it DID work in 10.04 with the original patch cable, that patch cord was only a cat5, so I punched down a new cat5e (1 foot long).  Same results regardless of whether autoneg was on or not.

---

