---
title: "11.10 unable to connect wired or wireless"
date: 2012-03-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by callowschoolboy on 2012-03-06
Hi,
  I put 11.10 on my landlady's Satellite L655, things were going great but suddenly today it won't connect, neither wirelessly nor wired.  Earlier it did both fine, except once when it would get on wired but not wireless.  I read somewhere that a good fix was to install WICD and uninstall Network Manager, so I did that and the wireless was working fine.  Now WICD can detect wireless networks fine but not connect to them and when I plug an ethernet cord into it the Network Application still says Ethernet is unplugged.  My landlady thought it had something to do with trying to start using Ubuntu One, I'm not sure.  
  If it makes any difference the results of ifconfig include eth0, and the Network Tools seems to think ethernet is active.  
Every time I try to connect to the wireless network in WICD it says "Bad password" after trying for a minute.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2012-03-06
Does **ifconfig** show an IP address for eth0?

---

### Post by callowschoolboy on 2012-03-07
No, but it does for lo and wlan0.  I couldn't get ifup to work, I saw that ppl requested that as useful info.

---

### Post by Sergius14 on 2012-03-07
Please, paste this info to discard any mayor misconfiguration or error:


#ifconfig -a

#cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules

#cat /etc/network/interfaces

---

### Post by callowschoolboy on 2012-03-09
> **Sergius14 said:**
> #ifconfig -a

mary@Mary-Satellite-212:~$ sudo ifconfig -a
[sudo] password for mary: 
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 60:eb:69:80:0f:40  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:43 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:240 (240.0 B)  TX bytes:240 (240.0 B)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 20:7c:8f:47:cc:6e  
          inet addr:192.168.1.149  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::227c:8fff:fe47:cc6e/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:19 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:54 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:3050 (3.0 KB)  TX bytes:11276 (11.2 KB)

> **Sergius14 said:**
> #cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules

mary@Mary-Satellite-212:~$ cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.

# PCI device 0x1969:0x2060 (atl1c)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="60:eb:69:80:0f:40", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"

# PCI device 0x10ec:0x8176 (rtl8192ce)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="20:7c:8f:47:cc:6e", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan0"

> **Sergius14 said:**
> #cat /etc/network/interfaces

mary@Mary-Satellite-212:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

---

### Post by Sergius14 on 2012-03-09
I will take a look where are stored desktop 11.10 network parameters to take a look via CLI.


It had changed and don't remember...


Can you paste a capture of Wired network values? (automatic, etc.)?

What happens if you run a ifconfig eth0 up ?

---

### Post by callowschoolboy on 2012-03-09
I don't know how to get a capture of wired network values, but I tried ifconfig eth0 up and got nothing, no feedback not even an error message.

I read something about this problem on Toshibas with Realtek network adapters, how do I check what card I have?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2012-03-09
I fired up my 11.10 machine to find where some stuff is [s]hidden[/s] located. Mine is a stock system - which looks like Network Manager,  System settings (behind the gear in the top right corner) has an icon for Network. Select that for information about whether wired is on,etc. I've never used WICD, so can't tell you how to find the same information there... :(

---

### Post by missingno on 2012-03-09
I'm having the same problem all of a sudden today. Wireless keeps asking for the password again and again, wired just immediately gives "disconnected". And without any way of getting a connection I can't get wicd to try.

---

### Post by callowschoolboy on 2012-03-10
Yeah, I'm having that problem in reverse, I'd love to reinstall Network Manager but of course I can't get into the software center without some connection.  I was rash to delete it, but a thread here said that installing WICD and uninstalling Network Manager worked for them, and it did work for me for a while, but now I'm up a creek.

---

### Post by missingno on 2012-03-10
Well, I found the problem - xorg-edgers' 3.2.0-18 kernel. I reinstalled my whole system and everything worked, but after updating the the problem resurfaced. So I tried uninstalling that kernel and everything's peachy again.

But being back on 3.0 isn't very good for my Sandy Bridge hardware...

---

### Post by callowschoolboy on 2012-03-10
I read that you can install packages from the install CD, I had some success (set the Sources to include CDs) but couldn't get traction (couldn't find in Software center where the packages available from my inserted install CD were listed).  I'd like to try that to get the original Network Manager program back, can anyone advise me how that works from CD?

---

