---
title: "12.10 Can't Get to the Internet"
date: 2012-10-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ORF1000 on 2012-10-21
This machine has been upgraded continually and flawlessly with each new realease for 4 years or more.  But this time, there's a hiccup, and I don't see anyone with the same problem.  The machine is wired -- not wireless.

I can get on my network and ping other machines and be pinged by other machines internally. But I can't ping outside of the network -- e.g., I can't ping Google's IP address.  All packets lost.  And, of course, I can't get my mail, and I can't get to any web sites.  

Network manager looks normal from everything I can see.  Everything looks normal on the router's configuration -- it shows the machine to be on line and functioning normally.

I noticed in the release notes that the loopback IP address is supposed to change from 127.0.0.1 to 127.0.1.1, but resolv.conf still has it at 127.0.0.1.  Can this cause a problem like this?  In any event, I don't know how to change it, because reslov.conf is automatically generated. 

This is a dual-boot machine.  During the boot up, before the screen where I select which partition to boot from, I now very briefly see three new identical lines, which I think say something like: Error: File not found.

The Windows partition works fine.

I made an image of the 10.04 partition before the upgrade, so I will need to restore it.  Otherwise the machine isn't much use to me, and I need it today.  But I'd like to figure this out.  I have also made an image of the upgraded partition, so that can be restored as well.

Any help or suggestions are appreciated.

Thanks.

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-10-21
Although the problem may require resolution, it doesn't belong in the Resolution Centre, thread moved to "*Networking & Wireless*"

---

### Post by ORF1000 on 2012-10-21
Deleted statement about working with 2.6 kernels.  It worked with the 2.6 and 3.0 kernels in the earlier releases, but it's not working now with any kernel when running 12.10.

Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by ORF1000 on 2012-10-30
Maybe the answer will be found in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12327654#post12327654").

---

