---
title: "10.04 wpa2 won't connect"
date: 2010-12-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gohsthb on 2010-12-20
I have had my network setup and working with WEP for a long time.  Also Windows 7 is working fine from the same laptop.  I can't figure out why the essid is scrambled.  Here is the output of iwconfig:
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo iwconfig wlan0

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bgn  ESSID:"f2\x0D\xB71X\xA3Z%]\x05\x17X\xE9^\xD4\xAB\xB2\xCD\xC6\x9B\xB4T\x11\x0E\x82tA!=\xDC\x87"  
          Mode:Managed
  Frequency:2.462 GHz
  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Tx-Power=14 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Encryption key:off
          Power Management:off
```

And here are my wireless cards from lspci:
```
02:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation WiFi Link 1000 Series
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)
```

I don't know about the scrambled essid, maybe that is what it is supposed to look like with wpa2 setup?  I'm just stumped by this, especially since when I set it up it was fine.

---

### Post by gohsthb on 2010-12-20
Interesting.  Rebooted the router (Dlink wbr-1310) and now I got connected.  I guess I will see if it stays connected.  The router is running the newest firmware revision for it.  Probably tommorow it will not connect again.

---

### Post by seraphia on 2010-12-20
i also had the same problem before...
but not now...
what u have to do is open synaptic and uninstall "network-manager" completely...
then,go to this site 
[http://downloads.wicd.net/pkgs/latest/xUbuntu_9.04/](http://downloads.wicd.net/pkgs/latest/xUbuntu_9.04/)
and install wicd_1.6.2_all.deb...
u should have your connection now;)

[FONT=monospace][U]p/s: never update your wicd again...if you updated it to 1.7.0,remove it from ubuntu software centre..and install wicd 1.6.2 again...
[/U][/FONT]

---

### Post by gohsthb on 2010-12-23
so I am not sure what the problem was but since I have reset the router I can connect just fine.  I'm still wondering why the essid was messed up??  If anyone has any ideas about that I would be interested.

---

### Post by cwejg on 2010-12-23
Don't know if this will help you as I am still very new but I changed the router from auto to the frequency displayed in iwconfig and haven't had any more problems.

---

### Post by gohsthb on 2010-12-26
My router has always been set to a specific channel.  I have started having the same problem again today.  It seems that after a few days something happens in the router and I can't get an address from it.  I was checking the log on the router and it showed that I successfully connected from Ubuntu but I didn't get an address from dhcp.  So I rebooted into Ubuntu, and setting a static IP allows me to connect to the internet.  So it seems that the problem is with DHCP.

---

### Post by gohsthb on 2010-12-26
Ok here is a file from wireshark.  I started wireshark and then let wlan0 try to connect via dhcp.  I'm not sure how to make sense of the packets.  Could someone point me to a good source of information for this.
Thanks

---

