---
title: "12.04 cannot use TrueCrypt to navigate to fuse mounted network drives"
date: 2014-04-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by KatieS on 2014-04-30
Hello Ubuntu experts,

I successfully mounted some remote directories to my local machine using the instructions located here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSHFS](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSHFS)

But the main reason I wanted to do this was so that I could use TrueCrypt to create an encrypted file container on the remote directories and encrypt some of my files there.  When I open up the TrueCrypt file browser to try to create the file container, I can see my mounted remote directory, but if I click on it nothing happens.  When I go the the parent directory of my mount point, /media, the little icon for my mounted directory is not a folder, as it is for the rest of them, but the generic file icon.

I have a theory this maybe is due to the fact that I don't have a line in /etc/mtab for this mounted directory, but I'm not sure I should hand edit /etc/mtab -- shouldn't that be edited by some automatic process when the directory is mounted?  

Here is the line I put in fstab:

sshfs#$REMOTEUSERNAME@remoteserver.edu:/remote/dir /media/dir fuse defaults,idmap=user 0 0

Should I change the defaults?  

Also, after I created the mount points, I chowned them to be user owned.  Was that a bad idea?  

I run truecrypt with admin privileges so I don't think the problem is that truecrypt has insufficient permissions.  

Thanks very much for your help.  I appreciate your input, and please let me know if I need to provide any other information.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-04-30
The way I would do this is to ssh into the remote system then create the truecrypt volume using the CLI interface only (does truecrypt have a CLI interface?),  In 14.04, I didn't even create the mount points - truecrypt defaulted to /media/truecrypt1  It looks like this when mounted.
```
/dev/mapper/truecrypt1  245G  243G  2.3G 100% /media/truecrypt1
``` That is an actual truecrypt volume as mounted.

Then, after it is mounted on the remote system, I'd use sshfs to mount it over the network.  Here's what that looks like.
```
c720:/media/truecrypt1  245G  243G  2.3G 100% /media/T
```

I didn't touch the fstab.  /media is a special folder, it seems.  Things get mounted there automatically, so sshfs complained about using it directly. I created a subdir - T to hold the sshfs mount location.

So - looks like remote mounting of a truecrypt partition is possible, provided it is already mounted on the remote system first.

I was surprised that this worked.

---

### Post by KatieS on 2014-05-07
Thanks very much for your help!  I am sorry I'm coming back to this so late; I was away from work.  

TrueCrypt does have a command line interface, and it occurred to me a little belatedly that I should be trying to use it, but I don't have authority to install TrueCrypt on the remote machine, at least, not in a way that would be easy for me to achieve.  I'm allowed to have executable files but I can't install TrueCrypt using the binary that wants to do things like create directories outside of my sandbox.  I was thinking that if I could mount the directory, I could use TrueCrypt via the GUI to create and mount the volume on my local machine.  But if that's possible to do at the command line via ssh, I don't know how.  If I say ssh user@remote truecrypt -t -c it just says bash:truecrypt: command not found.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-05-07
On 99.9999% of Linux systems, we an specify an alternate location to install stuff .... like under our $HOME.

The "ssh user@remote truecrypt -t -c " error is a simple environment issue. Specify the full path to the installed truecrypt command to get it working.

---

### Post by KatieS on 2014-05-07
Thanks!  While you were replying to me, I realized I could take your advice in a slightly different form -- I mounted the remote drive with sshfs and then just ran truecrypt through the CLI on my local machine without ssh-ing.  It appears to be working -- a volume is in the process of being created.  Thanks so much for your help.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-05-07
> **KatieS said:**
> Thanks!  While you were replying to me, I realized I could take your advice in a slightly different form -- I mounted the remote drive with sshfs and then just ran truecrypt through the CLI on my local machine without ssh-ing.  It appears to be working -- a volume is in the process of being created.  Thanks so much for your help.

I'd worry about data corruption. I don't think sshfs is that safe of a block device solution and suspect that truecrypt really, really, really, needs extremely safe block device access to the partition.

Regardless - happy you found something that might work. I'd test for a week at least before trusting it, however.

---

