---
title: "11.04 - new wireless USB - finds networks, can't connect"
date: 2011-05-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by maxe on 2011-05-20
Hi,

So I was the one who couldn't get their ethernet port to function properly. Most likely, this was the result of bad hardware since none of the community's suggestions for software fixes did anything. I believe this is probably true.

Indeed, when I bought a cheap $10 wireless USB dongle, it immediately worked better than all the previous things. It detected networks, displayed network strength and even allowed me to attempt login.

The only problem now seems to be that it cannot login. I've rechecked the password countless times, but it just shows the 'connecting to wireless' animation for a minute or two and then poops out and says, 'disconnected'.

I assume if everything is getting me this far, the driver is not the problem with the device. Is this a safe assumption?

---

### Post by maxe on 2011-05-20
Nevermind.

I just did:

```
sudo service network-manager stop
sudo service network-manager start
```

and it worked brilliantly!

Maybe throwing (a little) money at a problem does sometimes help! :D

---

### Post by Lissy on 2011-05-20
I'm not going to be any help with this post, but I am trying to find out a very similar problem and will let you know when I get the answer. 

I got this problem as soon as I upgraded to 11.04, I can search for networks, and they show up fine, and it lets me put my password in fine, I then changed Ubuntu to 10.04 LTS, which is meant to be fully stable, still the internet doesn't work, even with the Ethernet cable. Got the same problem on JoliCloud OS, but Windows 7 is going online fine, and working as usual. ??

---

