---
title: "12.04 has stopped working with Sony Xperia as wireless/tethered access point"
date: 2015-06-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by t0p on 2015-06-21
I've been using 12.04 for ages, accessing internet via my Sony Xperia phone (both wifi and usb tethered).  Today, 12.04 won't access internet via the phone.  It hangs for ages, saying it's resolving the site name, then finally says the site is unavailable.

I don't think it's the phone, as I can still access the internet via the phone on my Windows 8.1-running laptop, and also using a live usb with 15.04 on it (the computer with 12.04 installed on it).  I thought maybe it was a kernel update problem (I had to update a stack of stuff yesterday), but still have the problem using older kernels.

In **System Settings > Network > Wireless** it claims that the wireless *is* connected, speed 65 Mb/s. 

The problem is with Firefox and Chromium, so I don't think it's a browser issue.  A strange thing is: when I first make the wifi/wired connection and open the browser, I am able to login to LastPass, which I would have thought should be impossible as it isn't letting me browse.  After a minute or so the connection to LastPass is lost.

I don't know how to possibly suss out the cause of the problem, or fix it.  Any suggestions welcome.

Cheers.

---

### Post by t0p on 2015-06-22
Bump

---

### Post by t0p on 2015-06-22
Just thought to add:

When I'm trying to browse on 12.04 (using Firefox) the eventual error message is failed DNS lookup.  But the DNS IP address for 12.04 and 15.04 are the same.  The error message suggests the failure could be down to incorrectly configured network... but as the wired tethered connection to the 15.04 live session works, but doesn't work for the 12.04 installed version... I don't get it.

If I've managed to screw up a configuration in the 12.04 installed OS, what could it be?  Where should I look?  I'm not a networking guru... can a Wise Man help me out?  I really don't want to install a new version of Ubuntu on this computer at the moment, and running a live session is such a pain.  Help?  (Not waving but drowning...).

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2015-06-22
Hi, please click on the wireless script in my signature and follow the directions for running the script and posting the results here. 
Thanks

---

### Post by t0p on 2015-06-22
Thanks for that Wild Man, but I seem to have solved the issue myself.

My file /etc/resolv.conf contained just

```
nameserver 1.2.3.4
```

Googling around for possible solutions, I came across a post on another site where a user had a similar problem.  He was advised to add

```
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4
```

to /etc/resolv.conf. 

I did that to my /etc/resolv.conf, and *ta dah!* everything appears to be good again.

So, I'm tentatively marking this thread [SOLVED] apparently without the need to follow your advice.  I say "tentatively" because I don't recall removing anything from /etc/resolv.conf, and I have no idea how the changes I made have fixed everything.  If it all blows up in my face, I hope I can get your help.  Thanks.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2015-06-22
When you reboot if you have network manager installed it will over write those settings, they need to be set in network manager if they are not already.
Thanks

---

### Post by t0p on 2015-06-22
Thanks for that Wild Man.  I restarted my computer to see what would happen and, happily, my changes to /etc/resolv.conf stuck and I'm still able to access the net as before.  Which came as a great relief: after reading your last post I had a look at Network Manager and couldn't figure out how I was going to do any fixing there!

Incidentally, I followed the instructions to get the wireless-info script, and got this:
```
t0p@mars:~$ wget -N -t 5 -T 10 https://github.com/UbuntuForums/wireless-info/raw/master/wireless-info && \> chmod +x wireless-info && \
> ./wireless-info
--2015-06-22 22:56:01--  https://github.com/UbuntuForums/wireless-info/raw/master/wireless-info
Resolving github.com (github.com)... failed: Connection timed out.
wget: unable to resolve host address `github.com'
t0p@mars:~$ 

```

which baffles me as I can browse to github.com in my web browser.  I thought maybe wget doesn't use /etc/resolv.conf to resolve host names, but I was able to download material from another website using wget.  Puzzling.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2015-06-22
I am glad that it is working! I checked the download command and it worked for me, maybe github had a temporary issue.

---

