---
title: "802.11x Certificates"
date: 2008-03-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by hadeshorn on 2008-03-05
Hi,

I am at the University of Tasmania (Utas). We have an 802.11x network using TTLS(PAP) with WEP.

However I am having a dickens of a time trying to get it setup. I need certificates. Now if I was running windows, the certificates would be downloaded automatically. But it seems with the wpa_supplicant or xsupplicant I actually have to have the copies of them and they dont automatically download? Is this true?

I have also tried using WICD which is a great network manager. Way better then the gnome one. However STILL having trouble with 802.11x as it still wants a certificate but doesnt automatically download one!

So everyone else who is using 802.11x authentication for wireless, did you get copies of the certs or did they automatically download when you tried to connect to the network?

---

### Post by shrinux on 2008-04-01
I'm a student in Utas too !

And have same problem. Unfortunately, I'm in the way installing Windows XP after two ears of continues use of Ubuntu in my laptop.

If you get it done, please tell me before I do so.

---

### Post by uberground on 2008-06-02
No luck in downloading certificates, but they can be exported from a Windows machine. Trying to remember how.... closest I can get in Windows XP is Control Panel > Internet Options > Content > Certificates. Then find the ITR or UANA certificate (looking at a wired computer, so don't have it) and export. Choose DER, then on a linux based machine convert to PEM (assuming you've exported to a file named source.crt):

```
openssl x509 -inform DER -outform PEM -in source.crt -out uana.pem
```

Then follow [http://utasnotes.blogspot.com/2008/05/uana-wireless-on-ubuntu.html]("http://utasnotes.blogspot.com/2008/05/uana-wireless-on-ubuntu.html")
to connect to UANA.

---

### Post by shrinux on 2008-06-04
Wow !!!

Finally someone replayed for this post !!!

Thank you [COLOR="Red"]uberground[/COLOR] for your help, I'll try to get my ubuntu done today, and thanks for posting the link as well :)

---

