---
title: "Very slow wireless internet"
date: 2017-04-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sofianito on 2017-04-10
Hi,

I am having troubles with my wireless. Internet became too slow...

I've also noted that my /etc/resolv.conf doesn't have any DNS server:


# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

I've tried to restart the network manager but still the same issue.

I run the wireless-info script provide by Jeremy, and posted the diagnostic to: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/24358053/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/24358053/)

I suspect the issue started a couple of days ago after I installed KVM and Virtuaal Machine Manager...

Any help appreciated. Thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-11
Ubuntu has been using a local DNS caching server for a few releases now - that's the nameserver line in your resolv.conf file. It is probably fine.

Did you install bridge-utils for your VM needs?  I never use the automatic bridge/NAT setups with my KVM systems. I always manually make the bridges to be used by VMs.

So ... start by running a *network information gathering script* that grabs all the network stuff and posts it.  ifconfig, network hardware, routes and bridges. We need to see it all to help.

---

### Post by sofianito on 2017-04-17
> **TheFu said:**
> Ubuntu has been using a local DNS caching server for a few releases now - that's the nameserver line in your resolv.conf file. It is probably fine.

Did you install bridge-utils for your VM needs?  I never use the automatic bridge/NAT setups with my KVM systems. I always manually make the bridges to be used by VMs.

So ... start by running a *network information gathering script* that grabs all the network stuff and posts it.  ifconfig, network hardware, routes and bridges. We need to see it all to help.

I fixed it by deleting the bridge br0 and the virbr0-nic.

Thanks for the tip. I'll create manually the bridge.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-17
Please mark the thread as [solved]

---

