---
title: "No Network Connectivity- Broadcom BCM4401"
date: 2013-07-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by artful23 on 2013-07-14
Hi All, I'm fairly new to linux/ubuntu and spent the last two weeks trying to get my laptop connected.  I've gone through A LOT of posts, but can't seem to get this working.  I have an older Dell Inspiron E1705 that has the Broadcom BCM4401 network interface on the motherboard.  When I run ubuntu 12.04 from the CD everything works fine ... however after the install, no joy, i.e. can't ping the router, much less access the internet.
  After a lot of poking around (and several re-installations), it seems this card/driver had issues and although functional when running from the CD are blacklisted in the installation

/etc/modprobd.d/blacklist.conf
# replaced by b43 and ssb.
# blacklist bcm43xx ** I added the # and rebooted but no joy **

/etc/modprobd.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf
# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist brcm80211
blacklist brcmfmac
blacklist brcmsmac
blacklist bcma
blacklist b44
install wl modprobe -r b43 b44 b43legacy ssb; modprobe --ignore-install wl ; modprobe --ignore-install b44

I'm thinking either (a) the drivers are installed somewhere, and it's just a matter of un-blacklisting them and making them active or (b) download the drivers from Broadcom and reinstall/recompile.
  I've seen various approaches in other threads but they all require some variation of 'apt-get install' ... which always fails when the system tries access sites on the web, i.e. [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com), [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) , etc.  Consequently I'll need some way to turn this searching utility off if I need to 'apt-get' anything.

Any help most appreciated.  Thanks

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2013-07-14
Hi, try this, open a terminal and enter..
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge bcmwl-kernel-source
sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf
sudo modprobe -rf wl
sudo modprobe b44
sudo modprobe ssb
```
*None of these commands require an internet connection...
is your wired connection working now?

---

### Post by artful23 on 2013-07-15
I tried running the remove command and the process hung (let run over 30 minutes).  Did a complete reinstall to make sure I hadn't screwed anything up, but same results 
> 
sudo apt-get remove --purge bcmwl-kernel-source
[sudo] password:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
The following package was automatically installed and is no longer required:
  dkms
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  bcmwl-kernel-source*
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 to remove and 276 not upgraded.
After this operation, 3,656 kB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? y
(Reading database ... 143302 files and directories currently installed.)
Removing bcmwl-kernel-source ...
Removing all DKMS Modules
Done.
update-initramfs: deferring update (trigger activated)
Purging configuration files for bcmwl-kernel-source ...
update-initramfs: deferring update (trigger activated)
Processing triggers for initramfs-tools ...
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-23-generic


I did verify that there is a gzip file called "/boot/initrd.img-3-5-0-23-generic"  15.4MB
which contains intrd.img-3.5  35.1MB.
Are there any logs I should look at to determine why this is hanging or just kill the process and try the next line?

---

### Post by artful23 on 2013-07-15
I tried the other commands you suggested, not much luck ... BUT ... after a reboot it is now working ... JOY,
Thanks.

---

