---
title: "packet forwarding"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mrroland on 2008-04-30
Hi all.

I have the following setup at home:

[LAPTOP wlan] <--> [wlan SERVER eth] <--> router

I want to be able to forward all packages on the server from wlan to eth interface. I try'd a bridge, but brctl show results in "segmentation fault"
(2 different pc's) so i guess it is broken.

If i can make this work with route / or and iptables it is fine to,
but i try'd a lot and just cant get things working.
Is there somebody who has this working? (and willing to help me?)

Thanks in advance.
Regards, Mrroland

---

### Post by SpaceTeddy on 2008-04-30
mhm - not exactly what one would call internet sharing... i would say your problem is that the router does not know where the subnet of the laptop is. 

the long way is this [[COLOR="Blue"]thread[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=713874").

the short way for a test is:

make sure the laptop can ping the server.
make sure the server has internet connectivity.
make sure that the subnet between the laptop and the server is **different** to the one between the server and the router (it will not work if they are the same !)

issue the following commands **on the server**
```
sudo su
echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
iptables -P FORWARD ACCEPT
iptables -A POSTROUTING --table nat -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
```
the first command will make you root.
the second will enable ip_forwarding so that pakets may pass through the server.
the third will make sure any paket cann pass through the server.
the fourth will rewrite any paket going out on eth0 to look like it was generated by your server. This is neccessary since the pakets need to find their way back, but cannot do so if the senders address remains your laptop, since your router does not know where to find the laptop. it can only find the server.

the next thing is to set the default route **on the laptop**
do this with
```
sudo route add default gw %server%
```
where the %server% is replaced by the IP of the wifi card on your server.

now try to ping the router from the laptop. if this works, you have internet connectivity. Set the proper dns server in your /etc/resolv.conf and your laptop should be ready to rock. 

This was a very heavy crashcourse... if this is too short, try the other thread. It should work for you aswell, if you regard your router as the internet and your server as your entity to connect to the internet.

---

### Post by mrroland on 2008-05-01
Thanks for your help! I realy apreciate this.

Right now the server seems to have a boot problem, so i'll start with a fresh install. I'll follow your guide and let you know.

Regards.


Edit: just tested: works perfect!!! thanks a lot :-). took me days and still didn't succed.

---

