---
title: "10.04--flickering wireless light"
date: 2010-07-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cwscribner on 2010-07-06
Hi all.

I've got a flickering wireless light corresponding with my connection.  I've only had this problem since upgrading to 10.04.  This same laptop previously had 9.04 and 9.10, neither of which had the flickering wireless connection problem.  Any ideas on how to fix it?

---

### Post by bigboss92 on 2010-07-06
I am also experiencing the same problem on 10.04. The only way for me to get about it is to switch off the network adapter manually (the slide on hp laptops) and switch it on again. Then, the thing works.
P.S I also want to get rid of it, can some1 help???

---

### Post by nisbeam on 2010-07-06
Similar here but stopped flickering & cannot connect.  But using the WiFi tool I can see my wireless router & it has a strong signal.  This has always worked until recently, any help appreciated - thanks.

---

### Post by cwscribner on 2010-07-06
> **bigboss92 said:**
> I am also experiencing the same problem on 10.04. The only way for me to get about it is to switch off the network adapter manually (the slide on hp laptops) and switch it on again. Then, the thing works.
P.S I also want to get rid of it, can some1 help???

I tried that, but it doesn't make a difference unfortunately.  It operates correctly when using the button.  I can turn wireless off and on, but once its on, it does that obnoxious connection flickering.  I can't do anything to trigger or cure the flickering either.  I thought maybe it was a loose wire initially but I can rotate the laptop in several directions and the light still only flickers when it wants to.

---

### Post by cwscribner on 2010-07-12
Bump

---

### Post by libssd on 2010-07-12
I'm pretty sure the flickering wifi indicator is a feature, not a bug. This was not handled correctly on many machines prior to 10.04, and the light was either on or off, depending on the hardware. It's supposed to flicker, reflecting network traffic. You can demonstrate this by running system monitor: watch the network traffic graph, which should spike every time there is activity, and be flat when there is not -- wifi indicator blinking should match these states.

---

### Post by cwscribner on 2010-07-12
Hmmm.  Any documentation available on this being a feature?  I see the wifi button LED as being a representation of an on/off state, not as a feature for monitoring network traffic.  That's what the network monitor app is for.  Also, this flickering happens even sitting very close to the router.  My desk is only ~6ft. from my router.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-07-12
> **libssd said:**
> I'm pretty sure the flickering wifi indicator is a feature, not a bug. This was not handled correctly on many machines prior to 10.04, and the light was either on or off, depending on the hardware. It's supposed to flicker, reflecting network traffic. You can demonstrate this by running system monitor: watch the network traffic graph, which should spike every time there is activity, and be flat when there is not -- wifi indicator blinking should match these states.

+1. 

> **cwscribner said:**
> Hmmm.  Any documentation available on this being a feature?  I see the wifi button LED as being a representation of an on/off state, not as a feature for monitoring network traffic.  That's what the network monitor app is for.  Also, this flickering happens even sitting very close to the router.  My desk is only ~6ft. from my router.

No matter how close you are to the router, that flickering will still happen. libssd is right. BTW, that also happens with windows (on at least some wireless cards anyway). 

See these forum posts- 

[http://forum1.netgear.com/showthread.php?t=9909](http://forum1.netgear.com/showthread.php?t=9909)
[http://forums.thinkpads.com/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=5157](http://forums.thinkpads.com/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=5157)

You *might* be able to disable the flickering, but the only guide I found to do that is for 8.10 (and for a dell vostro)-

[http://blog.crossedstreams.com/ubuntu/flickering-wireless-led-in-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex/](http://blog.crossedstreams.com/ubuntu/flickering-wireless-led-in-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex/)

---

### Post by M4570D0N on 2010-10-07
dang it! Why is this marked solved? How was it solved? 

I'm running 10.10, and I tried the scripts on the crossedstreams blog post, but it did not change anything. Tried it with my Mint 9 partition as well. The led continues to blink based on network traffic and it is very annoying.

Anyone know anything about setleds or ledcontrol?

---

### Post by Nodaki on 2010-10-20
No Solution presented other than it is a feature.  Same problem here since upgrading to Maverick 10.10.  HP 8510P.

---

### Post by M4570D0N on 2010-10-26
SUCCESS! I found a working solution for kernels since 2.6.34. I just tested it out and it works. Light is blue when it's connected, orange when it's not, and nothing else in between. :grin:

create a new file:
```
user@computer:$ sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/wlan.conf
```

paste this in the new file:
```
 [FONT=monospace]#1 means do not blink
options iwlcore led_mode=1[/FONT]
 

```

Save. Reboot. Done.

Found it here:
[http://alexcabal.com/stop-blinking-intel-wifi-led-on-ubuntu-karmic/](http://alexcabal.com/stop-blinking-intel-wifi-led-on-ubuntu-karmic/)

---

### Post by Nodaki on 2010-11-04
M4570D0N

This so called fix made sure that my wireless card instead of blinking is no longer accessible in 10.04.

Run at your own risk!

HP 8510P

---

### Post by stephenhau on 2011-04-13
> **M4570D0N said:**
> …snip…

create a new file:
```
user@computer:$ sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/wlan.conf
```paste this in the new file:
```
 [FONT=monospace]#1 means do not blink
options iwlcore led_mode=1[/FONT]
 

```Save. Reboot. Done.

Found it here:
[http://alexcabal.com/stop-blinking-intel-wifi-led-on-ubuntu-karmic/](http://alexcabal.com/stop-blinking-intel-wifi-led-on-ubuntu-karmic/)

+1 for this solution, it worked for me too in 10.10 64bit

---

### Post by keithspg on 2011-05-26
+1 
worked for me in 11.04 64 bit

---

### Post by pascie on 2011-09-08
Hi I've been using Ubuntu 11.04 for quiet some time now and find it very strange that this "new feature" all at a sudden started working.
In my opinion the wireless led should just indicate whether the hardware is switched on or off.. The blinking is just annoying!

I wanted to report that M4570D0N's fix worked like a charm and I have the exact same laptop as Nodaki (HP 8510p). Even if it doesn't work, you can just delete the file again.. I would say, give it a shot!

---

### Post by patagonik on 2011-09-21
Excellent... thanks a lot, it worked perfect on Dell XPS M1330 with Ubuntu 11.04

---

