---
title: "10.04 loses wi-fi"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Orestes1986 on 2010-05-04
I first noticed it with EVE online, after a while the wireless connection was gone.
Then I putted it on ether-net but then again after a little more while the system turns off.

After a day or two I realized that the wireless connection is gone every time I use the network a bit more (some tabs with flash videos loading at the same time).


When the net is gone I can't find it again, not even after some reboots.

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon9.gif[/IMG]

Any help please [-o<?

---

### Post by udippel on 2010-05-04
> **Orestes1986 said:**
> I first noticed it with EVE online, after a while the wireless connection was gone.

After a day or two I realized that the wireless connection is gone every time I use the network a bit more (some tabs with flash videos loading at the same time).


That's totally characteristic for a number of people. It should be made sticky, I guess, because it is being asked once per hour (and obviously most don't search before they post).

> **Orestes1986 said:**
> 
When the net is gone I can't find it again, not even after some reboots.
Any help please [-o<?

I'm more lucky than you. Usually mine comes back once the access point has low traffic.
May I take a guess: It will come back after you 'halt'ed the system: power down.? (At least, here it does all the time.)

Uwe

---

### Post by Orestes1986 on 2010-05-05
> **udippel said:**
> That's totally characteristic for a number of people. It should be made sticky, I guess, because it is being asked once per hour (and obviously most don't search before they post).


I'm sorry, I didn't find many things on that for Lynx and since I had no similar problem on 08.10 nor on 09.10 I thought  it's steel early for results.


> **udippel said:**
> 
I'm more lucky than you. Usually mine comes back once the access point has low traffic.
May I take a guess: It will come back after you 'halt'ed the system: power down.? (At least, here it does all the time.)


So you are saying that I have to shut down the computer and wait for a while each time? There is no hope to stop the problem for good and work fine just like the old systems (08.04,09.10)?


> **udippel said:**
> 
Uwe
 
Is this going for Uwe Banton?     "...the Jah is never sleeping..."


thank you very VERY much for the reply udippel

---

