---
title: "Need help installing Netgear N300 Wireless USB Adapter [WNA3100]"
date: 2011-03-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by b737lvr on 2011-03-25
I need help installing the Netgear N300 Wireless USB Adapter [WNA3100].

I am 100% new to Ubuntu (Linux in whole :P) but installation was EASY.

I tried to install the adapter off of the netgear CD but, as expected, it wont run :P

SO i need help. Like if someone could give me step by step instructions on how to install the adapter off of Ubuntu.

Thanks

Ubuntu 10.10 64 Bit

---

### Post by An Sanct on 2011-03-25
Welcome to the forums!

Did you try to just plug the USB dongle in?

If that doesn't work out of the box, [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1695036") is a thread that should help...

---

### Post by b737lvr on 2011-03-25
DOngle?  Go into detail please

---

### Post by b737lvr on 2011-03-25
Can someone help me i have no idea what to do.

---

### Post by tgrex on 2011-03-27
i'm in the same boat except using 32 bit 10.10

tried everything thats online. i don't see a .inf in windows even though it's sucessfully installed...

and have tried two different people's .infs

Help! :)

---

### Post by An Sanct on 2011-03-28
Well with "dongle" I meant the USB Adapter.

My question was, did you try to use the USB adapter?

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-03-28
If you post the wireless-results.txt generated by running the woreless_script (link below) it might help people diagnose the problem.

---

### Post by ueghio on 2011-04-18
> **victoryred said:**
> Hey all,
 I went through a big effort but successfully installed the WNA3100 wireless USB adapter in Linux. I'm using it right now to port to this thread. Each of you have the information in this thread to check the installation but you missed the fundamental problem. IoUnregisterPlugPlayNotification. Here's what is required.

1.) From the install disk, a copy of bcmwlhigh5- both the inf and sys file.
2.) go to Sourceforge and download ndiswrapper version 1.56
3.) the wrapper for IoUnregisterPlugPlayNotification needs to be added to ntoskernal_io.c at the bottom of the file-

wstdcall NTSTATUS WIN_FUNC(IoUnregisterPlugPlayNotification,1)
	(void *tag) /* Don't ever use this pointer */
{
	TRACE2("%p", tag);
	TODO(); /* Probably Not, legacy function abandoned in Windows 7 */
	IOEXIT(return STATUS_SUCCESS); /* Linux doesn't use it either */
}

follow the make instructions and then follow the instructions in this thread. There is more work to do on this function but it's a start. If someone else knows of a better way share it.

Hope I helped....a little

Unfortunately it doesn't work yet on the 64bit architecture.Bye

---

### Post by ueghio on 2011-04-18
Here you can find installation files

---

