---
title: "D-link DWA-547 (AR5416 (802.11/b/g/n)) working"
date: 2008-01-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Komadyret on 2008-01-15
I've just gotten this card to work in Kubuntu 7.10 (desktop-amd64). 

I've tried a lot of things, including different drivers in ndiswrapper, compiling new ndiswrapper, compiling latest madwifi (0.9.3.3) to get latest drivers, to no avail. Spent the better part of 3 days on this.

As I was about to give up on the whole endeavor I saw on the madwifi site that the card was reported working just a couple of days ago in gentoo x386. I downloaded the reported functioning Trunk r3123 of madwifi (supposedly unstable stuff), compiled and installed it, and you won't believe it! The ath0 magically appeared after I did

§ modprobe ath_pci

Just entered the necessary info (wep key etc) in KnetworkManager, and it's flying!

K

---

### Post by frespot on 2008-01-17
I am the biggest n00b. PLEASE tell me how to compile and install r3123 step by step. I have really tried, and I just want it to work. 

Desperately seeking..:confused:

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2008-01-19
[http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/GettingMadwifi](http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/GettingMadwifi)
[http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/FirstTimeHowTo](http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/FirstTimeHowTo)

You will need at least the packages build-essential, subversion, and linux-headers-$(uname -r), where $(uname -r) is the output of the "uname -r" command (it tells you what version of the Linux kernel you are currently running).

---

### Post by Komadyret on 2008-01-21
Yes, just go to the madwifi site, find the trunk and download it. Unpack the archive you have downloaded and there is a slightly over-detailed walkthrough in the INSTALL file. Basicly you just have to do $ make and $ make install and then load the module with modprobe (as explaiuned in the INSTALL file).

I've just made a 32-bit install of kubuntu, and can confirm that it works with this version too.

K

---

### Post by bus_ter on 2008-01-21
What speed does this card run at?

---

### Post by Komadyret on 2008-01-22
It's good for 54Mbps at least. I don't think the D-link 'turbo 104Mbps' works in Linux, and I believe the draft n support is still not well implemented in madwifi.
I do not know for sure though, as I connect to a a/b/g router and cant test draft n at all. 
My /var/log/messages lists speeds up to 54Mbps, so I take it thats it for now.
A throughput meassurement with 'bing' gives 42-54 Mbps with an average of 51,4Mbps.

K

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2008-01-22
I have been trying to find out if the 5416 driver is all that matters. I bought a d-link dwa-552 which has the 5416 driver but couldn't get it to work with ndiswrapper either but I returned it researched for compatable cards an wound up buying a netgear card.

---

### Post by ounas on 2008-02-03
> **Komadyret said:**
> It's good for 54Mbps at least. I don't think the D-link 'turbo 104Mbps' works in Linux, and I believe the draft n support is still not well implemented in madwifi.
I do not know for sure though, as I connect to a a/b/g router and cant test draft n at all. 
My /var/log/messages lists speeds up to 54Mbps, so I take it thats it for now.
A throughput meassurement with 'bing' gives 42-54 Mbps with an average of 51,4Mbps.

K

Di you managed to get this to work?
I installed the latest madwifi source then compiled and installed.
Worked ok for a while, but connection dies after sometime. 
Checking this forum, found it would be better to remove network-manager.
Then installed wicd, now the connection work's but dies after a few hours.

:(

---

### Post by hvollebregt on 2008-04-09
I have the same card and got it to work in the end, both using ndiswrapper and also using madwifi. The only thing is, it only works at 11Mbs speed, and the range is very bad. It only works when I am very close to my router. When I am in my living room two storeys down, it just doesn't work. My old wireless-b card *does* work from there.

I was wondering, what were your experiences with the range?

And tad, can you please share your experience on the Netgear card because I am really really thinking of replacing my card with a netgear card too, just like you did.

---

### Post by TroyDowling on 2008-07-08
Hey guys, I've been wanting to get this second wireless NIC into my Ubuntu PC for a while now. I've had it just on a shelf for a couple years now because when I first got it, driver support (Windows and Linux) was a total crapshoot. So, now I have my DWA-542 Card in my machine, I compiled the latest Madwifi drivers (0.9.4), I modprobe'd in the "ath_pci" module, but nothing comes up... It's using the same chipset as described above, the AR5416.

'lshw -C network' reports the device as unclaimed. I'll post any output that anyone needs upon request. I really want this second NIC to function. My only requirement is that it doesn't use NDISWrapper because I want to be able to use Monitor mode on it which NDISWrapper doesn't support. Thanks for any help.

---

