---
title: "No DNS for wireless"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jarome on 2010-04-30
I have 10.04 installed on my HP MiniNote Netbook. If I plug it into the the ethernet directly, all is well, but if I only use the wireless, i get no DNS servers. And one of my wireless networks is on the same router as the wired connection. Also, wireless works just perfectly on my MacBook Air. So, I do not think it is the router.

So why am I not getting DNS addresses?  How would I set them manually? I can't figure out how to start network manager.

Thanks,
Jim

---

### Post by daboochmeister on 2010-04-30
Can you execute in a terminal, and post the results, of the following:

  cat /etc/resolv.conf
  route -n

If your situation is like mine, routes aren't being established correctly during the DHCP step, and your gateway/DNS server isn't reachable.

---

### Post by jarome on 2010-05-01
> **daboochmeister said:**
> Can you execute in a terminal, and post the results, of the following:

  cat /etc/resolv.conf
  route -n

If your situation is like mine, routes aren't being established correctly during the DHCP step, and your gateway/DNS server isn't reachable.

If I boot, and connect via wireless, 
/etc/resolv.conf just has
#generated by NetworkManager

But then I plug in the ethernet cable, and I get:
#generated by NetworkManager
domain hsd1.comcast.net.
search hsd1.comcast.net.
nameserver 75.75.75.75
nameserver 75.75.76.76

And this is using the same router!

If I connect to my second wireless router, I get
#generated by NetworkManager
domain hsd1.comcast.net.
search hsd1.comcast.net.
nameserver 192.168.0.1    (the router address)

This is on the wireless:
jar@jarhp:~$ route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     2      0        0 wlan0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 wlan0
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 wlan0

But resolv.conf is blank.

So why isn't NetworkManager writing its resolv.conf file? This is with a Linksys WRT54GS router. The 192.168.0.1 is with a D-Link DIR825 (which I do NOT recommend to anyone).

More on this. My MacBook Air gets the correct resolv.conf file from the Linksys router. 
I reconfigured the D-Link to be a wired bridge on the 192.168.1 network, and if my 10.04 MiniNote connects to the D-Link wireless, it gets the correct resolv.conf. But if the MiniNote connects wirelessly to the Linksys, resolv.conf is blank. I do not see any setting on the Linksys that could be causing this.

---

