---
title: "Packet analyser"
date: 2009-05-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Tony Flury on 2009-05-15
All,
Is it possible to use a laptop, connected to a router by wireless to analyse the traffic between a pc and the router where the pc is connected by a ethernet cable.

I know in theory it is possible to do it if everything is wired - but the laptop is wireless only.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-05-15
i think wireshark should help..its the same , wired,wireless.. should work either way.. as both come under LAN..

---

### Post by Tony Flury on 2009-05-21
Tried wirehack, it did not show any traffic from the PC, just showed some traffic from my wireless to router.

I guess it does not make sense for all traffic from a wired pc to be broadcast by the router over wireless connections, as it would only use radio bandwidth unneccessarily. In fact the more i think on it - the more i think that what i am trying to do wont work.

If the laptop and PC are connected via wires to a simple Hub, them the laptop will see traffic from the pc, because all that a Hub does is regenerate electrical signals, it does not do any higher level switching or routing.

A router however will do exactly that - and it will send traffic destined for each system down the correct interface, so you unless you can set the router into some sort of broadcast mode, you wont be able to see the traffic generated by another system, unless the traffic is actually intended for your system.

---

### Post by kryptoz on 2009-05-21
Tony, You can do that via sniffing the traffic using arp poisoning. Here is a [security note on how-to arp poisoning for awareness and protection]("http://www.infosecwriters.com/text_resources/pdf/arp_spoofing.pdf").

---

