---
title: "OpenVPN and resolv.conf"
date: 2009-02-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nusch on 2009-02-15
I have problem with nameservers priority. I had configured my home wifi network using KNetworkManager, after trying openvpn plugin for KNetworkManager which was constantly segfaulting I configured it successfully with /etc/openvpn/company.vpn.conf config and run by /etc/init.d/openvpn start.

After that I installed resolvconf but It doesn't work as excepted or I'm doing something wrong.

I have added to /etc/openvpn/company.vpn.conf those lines:
```

up /etc/openvpn/update-resolv-conf
down /etc/openvpn/update-resolv-conf
dhcp-option DNS 192.168.3.1
dhcp-option DOMAIN "company.vpn"

```

after that my /etc/resolv.conf always looks like:
```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.3.1
nameserver ns1.myisp.com
nameserver ns2.myisp.com
search company.vpn

```
I don't like this behaviour - one reason is my privacy - all DNS requests even to google goes through my company DNS, second reason - it's much slower that direct ISP DNS lookup.

I tried moving tun before wlan or wlan before tun in /etc/resolvconf/interface-order but it's look like it doesn't affect my problem. Of course I reconnected with KWifiManager and restarted /etc/init.d/openvpn after this change


EDIT: Solved it myself. If someone has the problem, add NetworkManager before tun* to /etc/resolvconf/interface-order. But this causes another unconviniency:
In company DNS all hosts has names:
host1.company.vpn
host2.company.vpn

I want ping host1 and it's automatically ping host1.company.vpn, line:
```

search company.vpn

```
in resolv.conf does the work but only if the first nameserver is company one.

Is it a way to fallback to it only if two ISP DNSes didn't find the name?

---

