---
title: "NM,  dnsmasq,  search List"
date: 2012-12-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by KermitTensmeyer on 2012-12-26
This might be the right forum, or not.

Old stock DNS  _(nslookup, dig, ssh)_ etc would attempt to use each of the domains listed in the search list (*/etc/resolv.conf*) to find a given target given a base_name (w/out a ".")

The current configuration uses 127.0.0.1 as a caching server and relies on dnsmasq to lookup dns entries from upstream providers.
DNSmasq as driven by NetworkManager get the servers from */run/nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf*.  NM completely rewrites this file on each network change and will ignore the /etc/resolv.conf (which is generated by resolvconf)

I can put the least of search domains into the tail file in the resolveconf directory and it will be constructed into the resolv.conf file.

  Where should the search domains be configured?  (DHCP correctly identifies the local domain for both the  domain and search keywords, as well as identifying two local dns servers) (as confirmed by nm-tool)

I have verified that I can look-up, and connect to hosts via ssh using the FQDN (and look up the same using nslookup/dig)
Ssh and dig fail to find the server if a simple name is used, and a search list is specified.  (nslookup does not use the same method, and will not use anybody else's searchlist.  see the man page for more detail).

NM completely re-writes the nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf, every time.

 /run/resolv.conf/resolv.conf gets generated from the files in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d

 1.  Where should the  domain search list be specified?
 2.  Which process should be using the search-list  (resolv library)  (dnsmasq when talking to the upstream dns server)

 3. Any suggestions for debugging this process?

 (current problem exists in 12.04, problem was much worse when using 12.10. NM_tool would report the dns servers, but not update nm-dns-dnsmasq with the information)

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-01-04
> **KermitTensmeyer said:**
> Old stock DNS  _(nslookup, dig, ssh)_ etc would attempt to use each of the domains listed in the search list (*/etc/resolv.conf*) to find a given target given a base_name (w/out a ".")

The current configuration uses 127.0.0.1 as a caching server and relies on dnsmasq to lookup dns entries from upstream providers.
DNSmasq as driven by NetworkManager get the servers from */run/nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf*.  NM completely rewrites this file on each network change and will ignore the /etc/resolv.conf (which is generated by resolvconf)

I can put the least of search domains into the tail file in the resolvconf directory and it will be constructed into the resolv.conf file.

Where should the search domains be configured?

They are still configured in resolv.conf. It's the glibc resolver which tries different domain completions, not the nameserver.

> I have verified that I can look-up, and connect to hosts via ssh using the FQDN (and look up the same using nslookup/dig).
Ssh and dig fail to find the server if a simple name is used, and a search list is specified.  (nslookup does not use the same method, and will not use anybody else's searchlist.  see the man page for more detail).

NM completely re-writes the nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf, every time.

 /run/resolv.conf/resolv.conf gets generated from the files in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d

Take a look at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dnsmasq/+bug/998712](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dnsmasq/+bug/998712)

---

