---
title: "13.04 How to create a real wifi AP without eth0?"
date: 2014-02-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gph752 on 2014-02-23
Hi,

I've been trying to create a real Access Point on one of my two (**AP mode supported**, driver ath9k_htc) TP-link TL-WN722N 's (it's a laptop modded into a server, it also has an unused intel wireless adapter on wlan0, but the eth0 seems dead instead).

So _what I'm trying to do is to set up an AP on wlan2, that would gain internet access from wlan1_ annd... that's the troublesome part for me, can anyone please help?

I'm able to create an AP using MySpotIsHot (an interesting Hostapd GUI) or bare Hostapd, but every time I try to use **wlan1** as source (instead of **eth0**, like in most tutorials) I'm sometimes able to create a network, but there's no internet connection from it.

So after many tries and unsuccessful experiments with bridging etc., I'm seeking Your help here.

I loved how it worked in a (trial) windows app Connectify, and I'm seeking something simillar for ubuntu. 

Is it possible to for example tweak something, so there would be a wlan1->eth0 bridge, or could anyone perhaps copypasta known-working .interfaces and/or config files? 

my interfaces: 
**wlan0 - not used at all** -intel mPCIe card
[U]**wlan1 - connected to the internet** -TP-LINK
**wlan2 - (meant to be used as an AP)** -TP-LINK[/U]
**eth0 - disconnected** and very likely **dead anyway**

Thanks in advance, help much appreciated :)

PS. 
I know there's an ubuntu feature, that lets you easily share a network connection through network manager... and that's **almost** what I need... almost, because it doesn't work in AP mode and many devices (ex. my android smartphone, and that's the vital part) can't connect to it. It's not visible to it as a real AccessPoint.

---

