---
title: "Certificates"
date: 2020-12-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by 4l3x2 on 2020-12-26
Good morning,

I'm facing a problem with the detection of the certificates under both XUbuntu 20.04 and Debian 10.x both 64bits.
In order to enable users to do smart working, my company is using a software by Citrix, the workspace app, which can be downloaded from here:
[https://www.citrix.com/it-it/downloads/workspace-app/linux/](https://www.citrix.com/it-it/downloads/workspace-app/linux/)

I linked the Linux version, but the software exists for Windows and Apple too.
It is a software that opens a little file (very little, like a torrent file, but containing informations about the virtual desktop to be opened) and let the user operate using his pc like a terminal, connected to a server which provides the virtual resources.

Under Win and Apple I can find the system's certificates manager and everything works fine, under Linux I can't find it, so I imported the certificates in Mozilla Firefox, but the App doesn't recognize them.

Looking around I found a way to import the certificates in the App itself, but even in this way it can't recognize certificates, so it seems that the App only relies on the system's own management of the certificates.
All the certificates are in .crt format (less then 10 single type file) or .sst format (about 300 certificates in one file).

Is there a system service to be installed/enabled to manage certificates?
I don't need to create my own certificate, I just need to import certificates fro other sources to be recognized as safe sources when I connect to their sites/services.

Thank you very much in advance, obviously

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-12-26
google found this: [https://askubuntu.com/questions/645818/how-to-install-certificates-for-command-line](https://askubuntu.com/questions/645818/how-to-install-certificates-for-command-line)

---

### Post by 4l3x2 on 2020-12-26
Already done, it says that 133 certificates are already installed and it didn't found a new one to install.

The App still can't find the certificates.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-12-26
```
$ sudo update-ca-certificates
Updating certificates in /etc/ssl/certs...
0 added, 0 removed; done.
Running hooks in /etc/ca-certificates/update.d...

done.
done.
```

?  or something else after placing the certs in the correct location. Show your work, please. Tired of guessing what may or may not have been done.

---

### Post by 4l3x2 on 2020-12-29
The first step is installing the software, a simple
- sudo dpkg -i icaclient<version>.deb
The second step is the update of the certificates.
They were already in the right directory, since Firefox places them there.
The result of the operation is in the Certificates.txt file attached.

At this time I log-in with username, password and OTP (generated by Citrix SSO on my smartphone) and I get the page as Screenshot.png and the error as Citrix_SSL_Error.png.

Please note that the Desktop icon on the up-left part of the page should show a monitor and it is a button which is automatically pushed by the page.
It opens the little file I said about before and, opening it, I get the error.

In the file List.txt you can see the certificates I have in Mozilla before importing with update-ca-certificates.

---

