---
title: "9.10 Fresh install wired ethernet network connectivity problem"
date: 2010-03-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-14
[FONT="Lucida Console"]Hello there. I have been using Ubuntu since 7.04 onwards. And until now, I have had absolutely no problems with my internet connection. But now, I don't understand what is happening. The connection is getting established automatically and is also pinging to the ubuntu.com host. But I am not able to use the internet through ANY of the applications. This includes even apt-get.

Please help. I am typing this through my Windows installation and am regretting it every bit. :([/FONT]

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-03-14
What is in */etc/resolv.conf*? It's probably valid if you can ping sites by name.  You might check MTU value (via **ip link** or **ifconfig -a**) [This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1376506") thread discusses some MTU analysis methods.

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-14
Hello again...
This is the information I could gather from all the various commands. I don't know what any of them mean. So I am just pasting it here.

> $ route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0

> $ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

> $ ifconfig -a
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1f:c6:be:06:a7  
          inet addr:192.168.1.2  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::21f:c6ff:febe:6a7/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:12 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:54 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:1554 (1.5 KB)  TX bytes:9061 (9.0 KB)
          Interrupt:27 Base address:0x4000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:240 (240.0 B)  TX bytes:240 (240.0 B)

This is all. If I need any more info, I will be taking a little time because I need to boot into Windows just to reply to this thread. Thanks for all your help. I hope this will be resolved soon.

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-15
Someone please help me... Having an Ubuntu installation without internet is the worst thing I can imagine.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-03-15
> **indiapavan said:**
> Someone please help me...Boss gets grouchy if I spend too much company time on the Forum - and I just got home. 
Results of commands looks kosher - if 192.168.1.1 is nameserver. Everything seems to funnel through there. I presume the Windows box does the same. "Firewall" comes to mind - if you have one...

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-16
> Results of commands looks kosher - if 192.168.1.1 is nameserver. Everything seems to funnel through there. I presume the Windows box does the same. "Firewall" comes to mind - if you have one...

I don't get it... Does that mean I have to disable firewall or something even in Ubuntu? I thought only Windows had firewall because it was insecure. Am I wrong?
**And THANKS A TON for replying.** It gives me that warm feeling that people are here to help me should something happen. :)

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-03-17
Quick check for firewall is:```
sudo iptables -L
``` 
> **indiapavan said:**
> And THANKS A TON for replying. Replying is one thing - but I'd prefer to be *helping* (which hasn't happened yet...)

---

### Post by zap1989 on 2010-03-17
Don't mean to hijack this thread, but wanted to point out I am having what seems to be the exact same problem.  Except I also have apache and stuff set up, and I can connect to the webserver from the outside.  But on the server itself, I can't access any internet (FF, software package, "wget"..but I can also ping any domain successfully).

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-17
> **Iowan said:**
> Quick check for firewall is:```
sudo iptables -L
```

> sudo iptables -L
[sudo] password for pavan: 
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination 

What do I do next? Is that supposed to mean something? Like where the problem lies?

> **Iowan said:**
> Replying is one thing - but I'd prefer to be helping (which hasn't happened yet...)
Helping can be a consequence of replying. And as you pointed out, its not YET happened. :)

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-03-18
Those results (no active rules) suggest there is no firewall on the machine.  Hmmm... You can check */etc/hosts.allow* and */etc/hosts.deny* (I think that's the location...) - I'm not expecting anything, but all the easy checks haven't worked...

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2010-03-18
Linux can be firewalled, too.  It's a better firewall.  That's one (of many) things that make Linux more secure (or at least allow it to be made more secure).  One can make Linux very insecure if they choose to.  But much of the security comes from having fewer things listening for hackers to connect, and those that do not be so vulnerable as happens so much on Windows.  The one system I'd trust more than Linux for out of the box (e.g. just installed and placed online) security is OpenBSD.

If you can ping, but TCP connections don't get established, there can be a few different things gone wrong.  An alternate description of the problem is that TCP connections do get established, but no traffic can pass through.  Both can look alike until you examine the network in more depth.

So, try to make connections using the telnet command.  Connect to port 80 on web sites like ubuntuforums.org itself.  In a 2nd terminal window, do "sudo netstat -antp" and look for connections in states like ESTABLISHED or SYN_SENT.  That should help determine how far along TCP was able to establish connections.

If the connection is not established, it probably is not an MTU issue.  That would suggest a port or protocol specific access table or other firewall issue, in this system, or upstream.

If the connection is established, but no traffic goes through, that suggests either an MTU issue or a packet corruption issue.  Try setting the MTU on the interface (eth0) to a small number like 576 or 512, and make a new connection.

You can also run another terminal window and do "sudo tcpdump -nnl -i eth0 port 80" to see packets go both ways to get a better feel for what is happening.

I was just today diagnosing a firewall issue with some mixed up routing.  Ping worked, but TCP never established.  Furthermore, the connecting client host kept resetting the connection after SYN-ACK was received.  After about an hour I found that the firewall was actually pseudo-proxying the connections (without changing the source IP), causing the TCP sequence numbers to be re-randomized, and the return packets were being routed over a different path back, around the firewall.  So the client was seeing ACKs with totally out of range sequences.  Not something for the average person to detect.

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-19
> **Iowan said:**
> Those results (no active rules) suggest there is no firewall on the machine.  Hmmm... You can check */etc/hosts.allow* and */etc/hosts.deny* (I think that's the location...) - I'm not expecting anything, but all the easy checks haven't worked...

Nothing there either. At least I think... All I could find was a bunch of comments. "#something" means comments right?

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-19
> **Skaperen said:**
> Linux can be firewalled, too.  It's a better firewall.  That's one (of many) things that make Linux more secure (or at least allow it to be made more secure).  One can make Linux very insecure if they choose to.  But much of the security comes from having fewer things listening for hackers to connect, and those that do not be so vulnerable as happens so much on Windows.  The one system I'd trust more than Linux for out of the box (e.g. just installed and placed online) security is OpenBSD.

If you can ping, but TCP connections don't get established, there can be a few different things gone wrong.  An alternate description of the problem is that TCP connections do get established, but no traffic can pass through.  Both can look alike until you examine the network in more depth.

So, try to make connections using the telnet command.  Connect to port 80 on web sites like ubuntuforums.org itself.  In a 2nd terminal window, do "sudo netstat -antp" and look for connections in states like ESTABLISHED or SYN_SENT.  That should help determine how far along TCP was able to establish connections.

If the connection is not established, it probably is not an MTU issue.  That would suggest a port or protocol specific access table or other firewall issue, in this system, or upstream.

If the connection is established, but no traffic goes through, that suggests either an MTU issue or a packet corruption issue.  Try setting the MTU on the interface (eth0) to a small number like 576 or 512, and make a new connection.

You can also run another terminal window and do "sudo tcpdump -nnl -i eth0 port 80" to see packets go both ways to get a better feel for what is happening.

I was just today diagnosing a firewall issue with some mixed up routing.  Ping worked, but TCP never established.  Furthermore, the connecting client host kept resetting the connection after SYN-ACK was received.  After about an hour I found that the firewall was actually pseudo-proxying the connections (without changing the source IP), causing the TCP sequence numbers to be re-randomized, and the return packets were being routed over a different path back, around the firewall.  So the client was seeing ACKs with totally out of range sequences.  Not something for the average person to detect.
This is what happened.
> sudo netstat -antp
Active Internet connections (servers and established)
Proto Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address           Foreign Address         State       PID/Program name
tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:631           0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      1036/cupsd      
tcp6       0      0 ::1:631                 :::*                    LISTEN      1036/cupsd  

And for the other command nothing happened. Or am I doing something wrong?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-03-19
For what it's worth - [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8994983#post8994983") is a similar thread...

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-21
Nothing out there seems to be rectifying this problem. :( I think I might be convinced to uninstall Karmic and re-install Jaunty. It worked PERFECTLY for me except some graphics driver issues.

---

### Post by amrasurion on 2010-03-21
check and make sure ipv6 is on ignore through the network manager. apprently mine was set with v4 and v6 both acquiring adresses and as soon as i ignored v6 it connected instantly.
just a thought. I'll watch this topic

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-21
> **ghostfacekillah said:**
> check and make sure ipv6 is on ignore through the network manager. apprently mine was set with v4 and v6 both acquiring adresses and as soon as i ignored v6 it connected instantly.
just a thought. I'll watch this topic

Mine's on "Ignore" too. So I guess THAT isn't the problem.

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-28
Alright, I am now reviving this thread after trying out some things.

1) Tried with 9.10 64-bit with Live CD. Result: No internet.
2) Tried to install 10.04 32-bit BETA with Live CD. Result: No internet with installation hanging after trying to sync the clock(I should probably report this at the 10.04 dept.)

Can anyone PLEASE help me? The suspense is driving me MAD. :(

---

### Post by DaveTheA on 2010-03-29
Hello,

Came across your woes whilst trying to fault find my connection issues. I could not get internet access but could get local access. I dunno why, but I expect there was a bug in an update cos I did not hack it (Bart Simpson)!

I noted from

sudo lshw -C network

that my eth0 was DISABLED

I edited \etc\network\interfaces to include

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

and it worked after a reboot!

My network icon now shows no connection, however it IS working :-~

The giveaway appeared to be the lack of this line in the file, but it wasn't me!

Regards

DaveTheA

---

### Post by indiapavan on 2010-03-30
> **DaveTheA said:**
> Hello,

Came across your woes whilst trying to fault find my connection issues. I could not get internet access but could get local access. I dunno why, but I expect there was a bug in an update cos I did not hack it (Bart Simpson)!

I noted from

sudo lshw -C network

that my eth0 was DISABLED

I edited \etc\network\interfaces to include

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

and it worked after a reboot!

My network icon now shows no connection, however it IS working :-~

The giveaway appeared to be the lack of this line in the file, but it wasn't me!

Regards

DaveTheA

I tried the same things. But something weird happened. There were no connections listed under available connections. And the same problem still reigns supreme. :|

---

### Post by silanea on 2011-03-21
New year, old issue. Maverick is doing very bad things to my blood pressure.
Two machines on 10.10 AMD64, both display similar symptoms.

Laptop:
[LIST]
[*]Wireless works flawlessly.
[*]Wired connection does not acquire correct route for minutes after plugging in, or not at all.
[*]Connectivity is lost after varying time spans between 5 and 30 minutes. High network load definitely triggers this, but it also happens when idling. Weird thing: Copying a large file via gvfs/SSH and simultaneously browsing the web or accessing the same SSH share in nautilus kills the connection, transferring a file and being logged into the target machine in an SSH terminal and doing stuff there does not.
[*]```
/etc/init.d/networking restart
``` usually restores connectivity, but not always.
[/LIST]

Desktop machine:
[LIST]
[*]Only wired interface. High network load (Torrent client + JDownloader + web browsing) seems to be the trigger for connectivity loss, but sometimes connectivity is lost during idle and sometimes it is maintained even through hours of heavy load.
[*]```
/etc/init.d/networking restart
``` always restores connectivity.
[*]Routes etc. are always acquired correctly and immediately.
[/LIST]

I did not experience any issues under 9.04 upwards including 10.04. The log files do not give me anything to go by. I have an unqualified feeling that network-manager is the culprit, but I cannot pinpoint the cause of this issue.

---

