---
title: "10.10 Wireless unstable-ar2413"
date: 2011-01-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Six_Digits on 2011-01-04
A fresh Xubuntu 10.10 install will give me access to my network, but with fluctuating speeds, and certain pages load forever. I have tried the blacklist edit as well as ndiswrapper, and neither have helped me. I can't find a madwifi guide for this issue either. 

Details:
Upon fresh install of xubuntu 10.10, wireless is detected. I enter my, key, hit google, and all is good. Then I try to log into my online classes. Firefox hung forever. So I tried a few other sites, and to my disappointment, random sites seemed to fail.

Brand-new, fresh, clean Xubuntu 10.10 install, Toshiba Satellite M45-165.

```
dan@Satellite-M45:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc Device 5a31 (rev 01)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 PCI Bridge
00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB2 Host Controller
00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 SMBus Controller (rev 11)
00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 IDE Controller
00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge
00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge
00:14.5 Multimedia audio controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:14.6 Modem: ATI Technologies Inc SB400 AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 02)
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RS400 [Radeon Xpress 200M]
02:04.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR2413 802.11bg NIC (rev 01)
02:06.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCI1410 PC card Cardbus Controller (rev 02)
02:07.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)

``````
dan@Satellite-M45:~$ iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:"ADL"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: 00:1B:2F:0C:9B:16   
          Bit Rate=1 Mb/s   Tx-Power=20 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=70/70  Signal level=-24 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

```[CODE]dan@Satellite-M45:~$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:a0:d1:20:eb:5a  
          inet addr:192.168.1.6  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::2a0:d1ff:fe20:eb5a/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:10918 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:6277 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:16076743 (16.0 MB)  TX bytes:569091 (569.0 KB)
          Interrupt:18 Base address:0xa000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:132 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:132 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:10416 (10.4 KB)  TX bytes:10416 (10.4 KB)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:11:f5:5d:05:78  
          inet addr:192.168.1.3  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::211:f5ff:fe5d:578/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1https://www.google.com/accounts/ServiceLogin?service=mail&passive=true&rm=false&continue=http%3A%2F%2Fmail.google.com%2Fmail%2F%3Fui%3Dhtml%26zy%3Dl&bsv=1eic6yu9oa4y3&scc=1&ltmpl=default&ltmplcache=2
          RX packets:5570 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:5613 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:5900318 (5.9 MB)  TX bytes:1408713 (1.4 MB)
[CODE]

Apparently my card (ar2413) is supported by the ar5005g driver, but I cant seem to make it work.
I'm sure the answer is somewhere, but I've exhausted myself searching.

So I ask, would you do in my situation? Xubuntu 10.10 having issues with an Atheros card, 2413. Let me know if you need more info to resolve this issue.

---

### Post by PatchesTheCaveman on 2011-01-04
Hi Six_Digits.  Happy New Year!

Try running
```
sudo iwconfig wlan0 rate 54M
```

---

### Post by Six_Digits on 2011-01-05
> **PatchesTheCaveman said:**
> Hi Six_Digits.  Happy New Year!

Try running
```
sudo iwconfig wlan0 rate 54M
```

Didn't resolve the issue. I recall using ndiswrapper without issues, but don't recall how I configured it. I've tried to do it twice from what I remembered, and obviously failed both times. 

I can currently connect to networks (sometimes) and I can load some pages, while others hang for longer than 5 minutes before I close them. In some cases, I can click the link a second time and have luck, but this trick fails more than it works.

---

### Post by alexelprogramador on 2011-01-05
hello

your configuration of the atheros minipci express card is ok.

I have 3 different types of atheros mini-pci express card.

I had no troubles with any of them.

**there is the possibility to be another router transmitting close to you**,[B]wich is in the same channel, or , its only very near to you.
[/B]
[SIZE=5]the noise affects the conection.[/SIZE]

look, this is the card im ussing now:

```

```root@mini:~# lspci | grep Atheros
07:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)
root@mini:~#

but sometimes, loading pages is tooo slow because where I live, are too many routers near to me :(

---

### Post by Six_Digits on 2011-01-05
> **alexelprogramador said:**
> hello

your configuration of the atheros minipci express card is ok.

I have 3 different types of atheros mini-pci express card.

I had no troubles with any of them.

**there is the possibility to be another router transmitting close to you**,**wich is in the same channel, or , its only very near to you.**

Forgot to take that into consideration. I will try different broadcast channels from my router to see if that fixes anything.

---

### Post by Six_Digits on 2011-01-08
Still having issues, some of which make me think noise isn't the whole issue. My connection is very picky as to which pages it will load, and some never do. I have tried multiple channels and locations with no noticeable changes. Upon startup, the icon will animate infinitely, while randomly asking my for my network password, which is stored. How can I be sure it's not a driver issue? Some of the symptoms do indicate a noise issue, but I was able to get it working flawlessly before I did a reinstall. Let me know if additional information is required.

---

### Post by Six_Digits on 2011-01-09
I have decided to try a fresh install with an older build. If I find a decent resolution for the ar2413 card using the ar5005g driver, I'll make a little tutorial. Until then, I could use some input from people with the same card.

---

### Post by Six_Digits on 2011-01-11
Rolled back to 10.04 with the same issues, as expected. Nothing changes when I switch between channels and my other laptop with vista holds a fantastic connection. The hardware does work out of the box to a certain extent, showing access points, connecting, and selectively loading pages. I really am confused about whether this is a noise issue, because I managed to makei work wonderfully with ndiswrapper before I decided I needed a fresh install for no reason. Ugh, shouldn't try to fix it if it isn't broken.

---

### Post by w0mbatharcos on 2011-01-12
Hello!

I have the same issue here on a Fujitsu Siemens Amilo Pa1510 with Atheros AR5005G chipset. As the 10.10 installer starts, it lists all the wireless networks, and I can connect to my WPA-protected router. It seems to work well, it starts downloadning the updates and language packs too, but after a bit, it gets so slow, that the installer cancels downloads. After reboot, networkmanager connects again, but with the same results: it's working so-so for some time, and it starts to slow down. 
ifconfig shows that wlan0 is connected correctly. (Sorry I didn't copy-paste it, but I'm writing from Xp)
Some weird things though: 
-there are some sites, that work without a glitch. First, I thought, it's a DNS-related error, and changed my ISP's to OpenDNS, but the results are the same.
-The problem only occures this machine, and only on Linux. The same network works beautyful on other laptops with Ubuntu 10.10, Xp, 7, and Arch, and on an iMac and iPod Touch. I installed ArchLinux on this Pa1510 too, and I have the same issues there.
-This system worked on wireless since 9.04, and never had a problem. 

Any suggestions maybe?

Thanks

---

