---
title: "802.11n supported devices"
date: 2009-07-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-07-14
Hi, can anyone point me in the direction of a list of supported 802.11n (Wireless N) chip sets / cards

I am running 9.04 on an IBM T42 laptop so was hoping that i could buy a USB or PCMCIA wireless N card and not suffer too much in getting it to work.

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks
CU

---

### Post by retiree on 2009-07-14
Look at the Sticky at the top of the page!!:guitar:

---

### Post by elj4176 on 2009-07-14
I don't see anything in there that answers the question. I'm looking for a new USB N adapter as well. 
The built-in a/b/g bcm4312 is going downhill fast on my laptop and I just upgraded to a N capable router.

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-07-15
> **retiree said:**
> Look at the Sticky at the top of the page!!:guitar:

Yeah i did, nothign in there that helps though.

It's not as if this is a new technology, why is it so hard to find any info about it in relation to Linux?

:p

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-07-15
This is a pretty common question and often left unanswered. The problem really is that the wireless devices typically encountered around here are the ones that don't work out of the box. And from what I can guess all the regular faces are happy with 802.11g, as that still works for just about everything but streaming HD movies, which isn't all that common of a hobby yet.

From what I remember seeing people get working after a bit of configuring are the Atheros chips, but I can't tell you names of the cards since those are of little importance around here, since drivers work just the same for all cards with the same chipset.

What you could do is check what cards the Mac Book Pros are using and just get one of those, the newest ones have 802.11n cards. The Mac subforum is fairly active and the solutions are well documented, since they almost all have the same hardware.

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-07-15
indeed. and guess what i need this for?  Streaming HD video :D

For those that are interested, muchos googleing around has led me to this

[http://www.intellinuxwireless.org/](http://www.intellinuxwireless.org/)

Intel do actually maintain a Linux driver for  5100BG, 5100ABG, 5100AGN, 5300AGN and 5350AGN series hardwares

I'm gogin to buy a mini PCI card for my T42 and see if it works, only £20

I'll try and remember to post here are let people know if it works or not.

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-07-18
for the benefit of others i'll post my results now

I purchased an Atheros WLAN AR5008 mini PCI (£20)

I have an IBM t42 which only supports IBM approved devices so i used this tool to change the CMOS settings to get the machine to boot with a non IBM card 

[http://www.command-tab.com/2006/02/26/thinkpad-1802-error-fix/](http://www.command-tab.com/2006/02/26/thinkpad-1802-error-fix/)

no problems at all with that.

Turned the machine on, booted into linux, connected to my Wireless N router on it's own and i'm getting 802.11N speeds right away.  NO config at all and it works :o

edit: I have just tried a USB linsys wusb600n-eu and again, works out of the box at 802.11n :D

edit2:  As it turns out i'm only connecting at 54Mbps with the Atheros WLAN AR5008 mini PCI.  I have not yet found a way to get it to connect at 300Mbps.

THe linksys usb one is connecting at a steady 300Mps

---

### Post by UltraAnders on 2009-07-21
Thanks for the update, been looking at getting an 11n router and wifi adapter to go with it and the USB Linksys wusb600n-eu looks to be the front runner now :) Out of interest, what router are you using?

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-07-24
yeah, the ath9k driver is ****, it's doesnt work properly so i would defo go for the linksys model, it just works out of the box at full speed and as it's USB you can move it around to get a better signal.  My minipci atheros card can get about 11% signal in my bedroom where my usb one gets 88%.

My routers are an old linsys wrt300n and a bufallo whrg-300n running dd-wrt.

go for the insys wusb600n-eu.  It will work out of the box but the drivers are readily available and easy to compile and install

---

### Post by UltraAnders on 2009-08-01
Thanks for the recommendation. Worked out of the box on Jaunty (not on Inteprid). I'm impressed with the range of the wusb600 compared to my old Belkin PCI card. Are you able to conect to 11n 5 GHz networks? My install of Jaunty doesn't find my WRT320N wireless AP when it's running in 5 GHz mode.

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-08-14
Sorry i forgot about this thread.

I'm running a Buffalo WHR-G300N with DD-WRT v24.sp2 in wideband mode (40Mhz) I can connect to this at 270Mbps no trouble at all.

I also have a repeater (Lnksys WRT54G) running DD-WRT v24 sp1 and a wireless bridge (linksys WRT54GL) also on DD-WRT v24 sp1.  The linksys boxes are both 802.11G and  i can connect to those at 54Mbps

I havent tried to switch my WHR-G300N to G mode as it's been one of those days and it will probably cock up my other devices :D

---

### Post by carmelo0815 on 2009-12-15
I have an HP laptop and I'm running 9.04 and I have a Linksys WUSB600-N and It works fine, but it did not work with 9.10.

---

### Post by confused_user on 2010-04-09
ubuntu has probably loaded two kernel modules for your chipset, i forget which ones it loads now but it is likely using the wrong one and you just need to unload that module and it will work fine.

If you check your networks in the network manager aplet does it show you more than one interface?  

if so then it had loaded two modules and they are both using the same chipset.  Unload the wrongly loaded one and it will just work fine.

sorry i cant be more specific, i'm currently away from my PC in guatemala but i have used it on 9.10 just fine one i got rid of the incorrect choice of kernel module.

---

