---
title: "17.04 upgrade is not connecting to internet"
date: 2017-04-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by chibeto on 2017-04-15
Yesterday ubuntu 17.04 was installed, doing the usual upgrade from the former version 16.10, the instalation seems fine, but internet is not working, the conection shows that is conected, but no program is being conected to internet, i have chromium and fire fox but and, when i try to open any website and the browser say that theres a server error, except for tor, tor is working normally, i have tried everything i have found in the internet but nothing works, i restarted de connection, also checked via terminal and the pc is conected, i must say that this happened once the upgrade was finished, y restarted the computer and then i suspended it, when i tried to continue the problem began

Sorry for my english, is not my first languaje xd

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-04-15
Thread moved to the "*Networking & Wireless*" forum for a better fit.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-15
There is a few bugs concerning internet connections in 17.04 we are trying to find work-arounds for them.

Let's go into network manager and change the DNS servers to match the screenshot.

Make sure your network name is at the top of the window, after you make the changes close and save then restart network manager.
```
sudo systemctl restart NetworkManager.service
```
or you can just reboot.
Thanks

---

### Post by dxruun on 2017-04-16
I had the same problem, and the screenshot DNS settings fixed it for me.   Both wired and wireless are now working.   Thanks.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-16
@dxruun, your welcome and enjoy.:)

---

### Post by waburden-4 on 2017-04-16
Thank you Wildmanne39 for this simple but effective solution. I spent most of the day yesterday searching Ubuntu Forums in vain until finding this just before I was about to revert back to 16.10. As a former Software Q/A specialist, i'm a little concerned at how widespread this problem seems to be on such an essential service as Networking. I had this problem on all my hardware so I know it's not client hardware related. Good Work Bud!

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-16
@waburden-4

Your welcome!

---

