---
title: "C720 14.04 AMD64; Wifi connects to networks but cannot download web pages from some"
date: 2014-06-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tanstaafl2 on 2014-06-17
First may I thank everyone involved in Ubuntu in general and the Chromebook C720 in particular.  I am an Ubuntu newb.

I installed 14.04 AMD64 using the 9sgchs script [here]("http://chromeos-cr48.blogspot.com/2013/10/chrubuntu-for-new-chromebooks-now-with.html").  My Atheros 9462 has successfully connected to every wifi network that I have tried to connect it with, BUT some of the networks refuse to download web pages or connect to the software center or log into minecraft.  For example, I can connect to my tmobile phone's hotspot and I can ping its DNS route 192.168.43.1, but no web pages will load in Firefox (and nothing from Software center, and can't log into Minecraft).  This problem also occurs at the wireless networks at my office.

(On the other hand, on my home networks--Belkin router, one 5ghz network and another 2.4ghz network, not only does the Atheros connect but Firefox works fine and so does Software Center and Minecraft.)

I have seen other threads about similar issues (example: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2225227](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2225227)), but I have not seen a resolution.  I have tried the 'nohwcrypt=1' suggestion and I tried using 8.8.8.8 DNS servers with no luck.

Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-18
I have a C720 ... but it is with a standard Ubuntu Server load, then LXDE added.  I use **wicd-curses** to manage the wifi network connections. The interface works even when no GUI is used. ;)

So ... at this point, I cannot tell if there is any issue with the wifi or not.  Lets step back and see if the general networking is fine, and if so, where is the failure?
Follow these steps: [http://blog.jdpfu.com/2013/03/01/linux-troubleshooting-101-networking](http://blog.jdpfu.com/2013/03/01/linux-troubleshooting-101-networking)

BTW, with a standard 14.04 installation, [http://blog.jdpfu.com/2014/04/18/easy-acer-c720-ubuntu-14-04](http://blog.jdpfu.com/2014/04/18/easy-acer-c720-ubuntu-14-04) explains how to keep the special drivers patched and updated after every new kernel.

---

### Post by tanstaafl2 on 2014-06-18
Thanks very much for the reply and the links.  I went to your links and did some research and the problem is fixed!!!!!!  Is seems (I think) that the problem was related to the resolv.conf file (here is the thread that worked for me: "[NetworkManager not populating resolve.conf]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/137037/networkmanager-not-populating-resolv-conf")".  This line in terminal fixed it for me:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf

After typing the above line, one has to answer "yes" to a couple of screens that appear, then reboot.

I hope this helps someone else.  I really want to thank you so much.  The whole reason I put Ubuntu on the Chromebook was for my son to play Minecraft while we are out of the house, and before this fix he could not log in.  This is great!!!  Best regards to you.

---

### Post by mossfoot2 on 2014-08-19
> **tanstaafl2 said:**
> Thanks very much for the reply and the links.  I went to your links and did some research and the problem is fixed!!!!!!  Is seems (I think) that the problem was related to the resolv.conf file (here is the thread that worked for me: "[NetworkManager not populating resolve.conf]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/137037/networkmanager-not-populating-resolv-conf")".  This line in terminal fixed it for me:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf

After typing the above line, one has to answer "yes" to a couple of screens that appear, then reboot.

I hope this helps someone else.  I really want to thank you so much.  The whole reason I put Ubuntu on the Chromebook was for my son to play Minecraft while we are out of the house, and before this fix he could not log in.  This is great!!!  Best regards to you.


This TOTALLY worked for me, so I am hoping that people doing a google search of keywords will find this.  This worked for me on my Chromebook c720 with xubuntu 14.04 installed.  I had no problem connecting to the router, but for some reason I wasn't able to get any wifi access.  The above reconfigure suggestion worked a treat.  THANKS!

---

