---
title: "10.4 offline broadcom install tutorial?"
date: 2010-06-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by unused_bagels on 2010-06-14
I was wondering how can I install my broadcom adapter on a linux box that only has access to wireless (please don't worry about why).  I want to do it via USB.  Can someone point me to how to do this? I haven't done it since I ran Hardy, and I forgot...

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-06-14
There is a good tutorial here (including "no internet access" instructions): [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)

The first step is figuring out exactly which Broadcom card you have so you can install the correct driver. :)

---

### Post by unused_bagels on 2010-06-14
thanks! I'll try it and get back.

---

### Post by unused_bagels on 2010-06-14
I tried adding my CD-ROM I used to install Ubuntu as a repository, and it kept giving me an error, saying there was no disc in the drive.  I know the disc was recognized, it was mounted and everything. What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-06-14
> **unused_bagels said:**
> I tried adding my CD-ROM I used to install Ubuntu as a repository, and it kept giving me an error, saying there was no disc in the drive.  I know the disc was recognized, it was mounted and everything. What am I doing wrong?

I am not 100% sure but I think that only works with the Alternate Install CD. I have always had good luck install the driver by temporarily connecting through wired ethernet. :)

---

### Post by unused_bagels on 2010-06-14
assuming I can't plug into ethernet, how do I get a hold of this alternate install CD, and can I use USB, too? 

Or perhaps just files, and manually tell ubu where they are?

---

### Post by unused_bagels on 2010-06-14
I looked up alternate installations, and I'm wondering, with Wubi, would I be connected to the internet via Windows as I installed, and therefore be able to configure things?

---

### Post by bkratz on 2010-06-14
> **unused_bagels said:**
> I looked up alternate installations, and I'm wondering, with Wubi, would I be connected to the internet via Windows as I installed, and therefore be able to configure things?

Well it would be nice to know which card you have. You can tell from lspci (that is LSPCI in lowercase). If it happens to be a Broadcom BCM4312 this link appears useful.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9134672&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9134672&postcount=6)

---

### Post by unused_bagels on 2010-06-15
I have a 4318

---

### Post by fman23 on 2010-06-16
I made a small shell script that extracts broadcom firmware files from itself and runs an install script to place them in the right directory.

Just download the file and run "sudo ./b43.sh" in the terminal from the directory you downloaded the file to install the firmware offline at anytime.

Download the file at: [http://www.4shared.com/file/lmYeytIX/b43.html](http://www.4shared.com/file/lmYeytIX/b43.html)

---

### Post by unused_bagels on 2010-06-17
All I get when I run it is 
> sudo: b43.sh: command not found

---

### Post by cheesemoo0 on 2010-06-17
Try below and make sure you are in the same dir.  > sudo sh b43.sh 


Edit: I had to disable boot on LAN in the BIOs to get it to boot again, but other than that it worked!

---

### Post by unused_bagels on 2010-06-17
THANKS! I got it to work! that's awesome.

---

