---
title: "14.4 SSH does not connect &quot;no route to host err - not sure how to debug further"
date: 2015-12-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tyran-mincey on 2015-12-21
I set up  a server at my home (server A, Xfinity cable modem, Netgear router) to serve as an offsite backup for (Server B, Zyzel DSL modem, Cisco router). Port 22 is opened on both "A" and "B" via the router, DSL, and Cable modem. I can ping websites without problem but when i try to SSH get a no connection at port 22;

On Server A;
Nmap on reveals;

root@Willowdale:/home/tyran# nmap 192.168.1.51                                  
Starting Nmap 6.40 ( [http://nmap.org](http://nmap.org) ) at 2015-12-21 21:54 EST
mass_dns: warning: Unable to determine any DNS servers. Reverse DNS is disabled. Try using --system-dns or specify valid servers with --dns-servers
Nmap scan report for 192.168.1.51
Host is up (0.000010s latency).
Not shown: 998 closed ports
PORT   STATE SERVICE
22/tcp open  ssh
80/tcp open  http

SSH from server "A" to the offsite server B  gives the following;

root@Willowdale:/home/tyran# ssh -v 192.168.1.8                              
debug1: Reading configuration data /etc/ssh/ssh_config
debug1: /etc/ssh/ssh_config line 19: Applying options for *
debug1: Connecting to 192.168.1.8 [192.168.1.8] port 22.
debug1: connect to address 192.168.1.8 port 22: No route to host
ssh: connect to host 192.168.1.8 port 22: No route to host

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2015-12-21
Hello and welcome to the forums

You seem to be trying to use a private (LAN) IP address to connect to the "offsite server" - is that part of a VPN?

Is there an SSH server running on Server B (the server you're trying to SSH *to*)?

---

### Post by tyran-mincey on 2015-12-22
Yes that is true. The offsite server should be part of the VPN. There is a functional ssh server running on "B" with confirmation that port 22 is open as well. I get the same error if  I try communicate from "B" to "A" as well.

---

