---
title: "Loss of networking after fsck"
date: 2009-10-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jonbriggs on 2009-10-05
Hello
    After doing a total shutdown and restart my ubuntu 8.10 says it needs to do fsck after about a billion yesses it boots to the gui everything seems to work but networking. I am using a wired network NOT wireless! I cannot get on the internet with firefox. I cannot connect to other pc's on my local network or my router. How do you rebuild the networking in ubuntu?
I hope someone can help!!
Jon

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-10-05
Why don't you begin by opening a terminal, running **lshw -C network** and posting the results. That will show the status of your wireless interface and its drivers.

---

### Post by jonbriggs on 2009-10-05
Thanks for the quick reply.
*-network               
       description: Wireless interface
       product: BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:06:00.0
       logical name: eth1
       version: 01
       serial: 00:14:a5:b1:20:9e
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=wl0 driverversion=5.10.27.12 latency=0 module=wl multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: PRO/100 VE Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 8
       bus info: pci@0000:08:08.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 01
       serial: 00:16:d4:30:dc:57
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=e100 driverversion=3.5.23-k4-NAPI firmware=N/A ip=192.168.0.5 latency=66 maxlatency=56 mingnt=8 module=e100 multicast=yes
  *-network DISABLED
       description: Ethernet interface
       physical id: 2
       logical name: pan0
       serial: a2:f6:98:bb:16:4d
       capabilities: ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=bridge driverversion=2.3 firmware=N/A multicast=yes

Remember I am Not using Wireless!

Thank You
Jon

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-10-05
Ah sorry, misread the first post a bit. Well, both interfaces seem to be in order. If you're having general networking issues, then I'd guess we'd better look at the routing tables and/or DNS configuration.

To get your routing tables, just run **netstat -nr** and then **less /etc/resolv.conf** for the DNS settings.

---

### Post by jonbriggs on 2009-10-05
This is What I get

Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U         0 0          0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U         0 0          0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth0

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.0.1
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
(END) 
Thank You

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-10-07
Ok, in your original post it's unclear just what exactly doesn't work.

The routes look to be in order, so you should at least be able to ping other machines on Internet and in your local network by IP.

DNS is referring to your router, so it's dependent on your ISP. If the name resolution (can try with **nslookup [www.google.com](www.google.com)** for instance) isn't working, could always try [OpenDNS]("http://www.opendns.com/") servers (208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220). You don't have a local domain or search set up, but the gethostbyname subroutine should be able to pick that one up.

---

### Post by jonbriggs on 2009-10-07
Hello 
Here is a screen shot showing examples of lack of communication outside the local pc. 
[www.jonbriggs.dyndns.org/screenshot.jpg](www.jonbriggs.dyndns.org/screenshot.jpg)
I cannot ping anything interanet or internet. 
Thanks again.
Jon

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-10-07
Ok, there's clearly something wrong beyond the normal networking methods. Did a bit of Googling and others who have had this problem found the cause was:
[LIST]
[*]iptable rules
[*]ipmasq
[*]shorewall
[/LIST]

So, in the case of IPtables, you'd do a **sudo iptables -L**, for the other two, unless you know you've installed them, one way to find, if they're running is grepping at *ps -A* output, ie. **ps -A | grep ipmasq**.

---

### Post by jonbriggs on 2009-10-07
Well I tried sudo iptables -L It didn't return any errors but didn't fix anything. The pc can ping itself I will try to ping it in the Morning from another pc. Are there any other configurations or thoughts?

Thank You
Jon

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-10-08
The L stands for listing the rules, so it's not supposed to fix anything per se. And clearly something is denying the pings and other traffic, since you're getting operation not permitted. One possible idea would be that the ping didn't have execution rights for normal users, which you can test by doing **sudo ping <ip>** or check with **ls -la `which ping`** (10th letter at the beginning of the line should be a x), but that still wouldn't give any clues as to why nothing else is working either.

---

### Post by jonbriggs on 2009-10-14
jon@jon-laptop:~$ iptables -L
iptables v1.4.0: can't initialize iptables table `filter': Permission denied (you must be root)
Perhaps iptables or your kernel needs to be upgraded.

---

### Post by pwerspire on 2009-10-14
you need root permission.

```
sudo iptables -L
```

---

### Post by jonbriggs on 2009-10-26
Thanks for your help!!! Seeing that this may be a lost cause to much corruption on the drive.... other things are acting funny too.. I think I will get a new drive and load 9.10 then copy everything over.
Thanks !!!
Jon

---

