---
title: "[12.04] LXProxy?"
date: 2012-05-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by DannyDroid on 2012-05-03
Hi,
At the moment I currently dual boot Lubuntu and Windows for college, but I would like to totally move to Lubuntu and install Windows into a VM.

The problem I am having is Lubuntu 12.04 doesn't include LXProxy and the only version I can seem to find is for 11.10. 

I would just manually add the proxy but I also use this laptop at home as well as for college so I would like to have an more easier way of switching the proxy settings on and off. 

Any recommendations?

---

### Post by llelectronics on 2012-05-03
You could install the 11.10 version. It should work fine.

---

### Post by marinara on 2012-05-03
i added instructions to the wiki, let me know if they are correct
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#Change_Proxy_settings_for_Web](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#Change_Proxy_settings_for_Web)

---

### Post by DannyDroid on 2012-05-04
> **marinara said:**
> i added instructions to the wiki, let me know if they are correct
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#Change_Proxy_settings_for_Web](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#Change_Proxy_settings_for_Web)

I believe I have tried that already. At first the .deb refused to install because it was built for 11.10, I managed to force install it but it refused to run.

---

### Post by leverettson on 2012-05-16
> **marinara said:**
> i added instructions to the wiki, let me know if they are correct
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#Change_Proxy_settings_for_Web](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/Guides#Change_Proxy_settings_for_Web)

So the problem is that I can't install lxproxy because when I try to install it there are dependencies that the system cannot attain because it can't get through the proxy.
My solution my not be elegant but in my situation it worked.  
The first step was to flip out to a terminal and do the sudo thing:
Add a new file called 02proxy to your /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/ directory with the following line:
```
Acquire::http::proxy "http://[user]:[password]@[server_ip_or_name]:[port#]";
```

Which in my case came up looking like:

```
Acquire::http::proxy "http://192.168.1.1:8080";
```

I then logged out and back in, at this point chromium still wasn't happy but I was able to get updates and so on for the system. 

The second step was to install lxproxy using the synaptic package manager or go to another machine with internet access and download the deb file from the [bottom of this page]("http://lubuntublog.blogspot.com/p/tools.html"). This time I had no problems with dependencies. Once I configured lxproxy everybody was happy even chromium. 

Note: I've repeated this procedure on a number of machines, for reasons that are above my head the file sometimes needs to be called 01proxy instead of 02proxy in which case I go back to the same directory in a terminal and type 
```
sudo cp 02proxy 01proxy
``` which makes a second copy of the file with the different name, someday I'll figure out why some machines work with the filename 02proxy and others with the filename 01proxy.

I think Lubuntu 12.04 rocks but leaving lxproxy out of the distro might leave some folks hanging. :p

---

### Post by DannyDroid on 2012-05-31
Thank you for the reply, but I would really like an easier way of switching the proxy on an off (home and college). 

I may see if I can submit a request to the Lubuntu dev's to see if they can compile LXProxy for 12.04.

---

