---
title: "connected but no internet"
date: 2016-08-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jgw on 2016-08-01
This is odd.  I have noticed that even though the network thinks its connected I cannot find the internet.  I cannot ping anything, etc.  I am using the usenetserver vpn but this occurs even when I am not connected to the vpn.  My solution is to disconnect and then connect again.  Once I do that I have the internet with/or without the vpn portion.  If I look at the connection info everything looks fine.  I have no idea what to do about this one.  Oh, I have an ongoing weather service program that runs and updates every hour.  I know when things have gone south when the advisory that there is no internet for it.  

thank you...............

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-08-01
Yep, think I know this problem exactly. It has been happening to me on a laptop and a desktop with 16.04 since I installed it. 

Changing to WICD worked for me, at least on my laptop, [as outlined in this thread]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WICD#Installing_WICD"). Give it a go and let us know if it works.

Wifi still drops rarely but when it does it is just a matter of clicking on the WICD icon in the taskbar and network pops back to life again. Not perfect, but a workaround ...

16.04 has had a couple of anomalies like this for me. USB keyboard also dies randomly (I am shortly taking the keyboard out the backyard to destroy I have reached such a level of frustration with it!) and I thought it might be generated by the same thing as the randomly dropping USB wireless dongle. :-k

---

### Post by jgw on 2016-08-02
thanks for the reply.  I forgot.  I also have a program called Indicator Multiload.  One of the things it shows, in real time, is the network.  In this particular case the net activity shows the network shows 0 up and 0 down.  On the other hand there is a little graph, at the top of the panel which shows yellow spikes.  I just thought I would throw that in.

Keyboards.  I have solutions for those.  The first is to wash them (spray with some kind of cleaner, turn a hose on it, dry it as good as you can and then hang it to dry for a couple of days.  The second thought is that Goodwill.  I buy keyboards there for around 1.00 each (your choice).  They all seem to work and there are LOTS of them!  There are also some wireless but they rarely come with a reciever.

Thanks again - I will do as you suggest.

I tried wicd but, then, realized that it really doesn't support vpn (says it will in v2).  There were instructions to get one up and running but I am running with 14.04 and now there is an upgrade and I wanted to wait and see what's in 16.4 (will take me a while to deal with this one).  Anyway, I installed wicd and it hooked right up but, then, I reinstalled the network manager and removed/purged wicd.  The strange thing is that, now, I seem to have fixed it!  (its all done with smoke and mirrors <g>)

thanks, yet again.

---

### Post by jgw on 2016-08-05
I also reported this problem to usenetserver as I am using their vpn.  I think the problem is the vpn and they are taking a look at that.  I was told to run sudo tail -f /var/log/syslog in a terminal.  This worked pretty good.  I have posted the results (turning on the wired connection, then the vpn, it runs a bit and then loses the network.  The interesting thing about it all is that the operating system continues to think its connected but the weather program, amongst others, is unable to access the net.  The file is at [http://pastebin.com/ykM50m37](http://pastebin.com/ykM50m37).  This stuff is beyond me but, hopefully, somebody is going to have an answer to this one?

I have now found that if I disconnect the vpn, when down, It starts working.  If I connect the vpn its chancy and will, eventually fail.  I am working with the usenetserver folks on this one.  I would also be grateful for any thoughts.

---

### Post by jgw on 2016-08-11
I surrender.  Apparently there is no answer.  I am going to move back to pia where there were no problems.  I will mark this solved.

---

