---
title: "10.04 and Broadcom ... yay!"
date: 2010-06-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by madm0nk on 2010-06-24
Ok I'm using the STA driver and I replaced the standard networking tool with wicd. Here is the issue. Wireless "works" meaning that any access point that I connect to on startup works. However, if I move to another area and try and connect to a different access point it hangs on getting the ip address. And the only way I can possibly connect to another AP is to completely reboot. I tried running "sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart" and/or "sudo /etc/init.d/wicd restart" instead of rebooting but that didn't help. If anyone else is having this problem and has a solution that would really help. Problems with wireless and linux is just ridiculous. I wish there could be something worked out between the hardware vendors and the open source community.

```

Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g (rev 01)
Subsystem: Dell Device 000c
Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 17
Memory at f8000000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
Capabilities: <access denied>
Kernel driver in use: wl
Kernel modules: wl, ssb

```

---

### Post by madm0nk on 2010-06-24
OK I can prevent from having to reboot by reloading the wl module and then restarting networking and wicd.

For now I just put the following into a file and made it executable (sudo chmod +x <filename>)

```

sudo modprobe -r wl
sudo modprobe wl
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
sudo /etc/init.d/wicd restart

```

I tried just reloading the module (wl) but that didn't seem to work. I'm not sure if I really have to restart networking but I did it for good measure anyways and it seems to work.

This is NOT a solution ... this is a hack! Yes I know .. it's linux and using hacks to get things working is commonplace but I would still like to see an actual solution. It's getting tiresome to have to keep jumping through hoops just to get a wireless connection every time I used a linux distro. Once again I'll be reporting a bug dealing with freaking broadcom ...

---

