---
title: "8.10 Wireless Help"
date: 2009-11-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by CLazarone1777 on 2009-11-27
Hi, I'm really new to Linux I've had it downloaded onto my laptop for almost a year and I've had a problem with it I've never been able to fix. I just started playing with it today again and thought I'd come here for help. 
 
I've got an HP laptop
I run both my Ubuntu and Windows still since I haven't been able to fix it yet.
I have a wireless router connected to a desktop computer and my laptop is connected to the router. It says that it's connected, but when I check in the terminal it says that there's no internet connection. And also my wireless switch light blinks blue to orange when I'm using my linux and I can't connect to the internet. But when I switch to Windows it works fine. It shows it's connected to an IP address, it has wlan0 also. 
 
I'm just lost and really need help.
 
 
**Sorry if this is a repost but I looked for a while and haven't seen this topic**

---

### Post by CLazarone1777 on 2009-11-27
This also may help I'm not sure. I have to go back and forth from windows to ubuntu to write everything down.
 
Description: Wireless interface
Product: PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN [Kedron] Network Connection
 
Network: DISABLED 
Description: Ethernet interface
Phys. ID: 1
 
Also in terminal iwconfig
Everything says No Wireless Connections....(even though it shows I'm connected)
ESSID: "Belkin...etc"  (Belkin is my wireless router)
 
No clue if this helps, but I would really appreciate someone checking up on it and helping me solve this. I'm sure it's something simple that I don't know.

---

### Post by pdc124 on 2009-11-27
can you plug your laptop temporarily into the back of your router so you have an internet  connection whilst sorting things out  ?

---

### Post by CLazarone1777 on 2009-11-27
I can try, I'm not sure if it will work

---

### Post by CLazarone1777 on 2009-11-27
I unplugged it from my desktop to my laptop, I think it works
I had to do this a while back to fix my modem/dsl box thing and it wasn't working then
that's why I wasn't sure if it would work now

---

### Post by CLazarone1777 on 2009-11-27
It's working now with the cable plugged in, 
how do I fix it to where I don't need the cable?
=[

---

### Post by pdc124 on 2009-11-27
you need to find out which card is the wireless one  
sudo iwconfig 
and see what it says for wireless ( likely to be eth0,et1 or wlan0 )
once you have identified the wireless card do. if its eg wlan0 
sudo iwlist wlan0 scan 

and see what  networks it can find 

if you can , take the encryption off ( briefly) and see if you can connect to it 

from the command line 
its 
sudo iwconfig wlan0 essid "my NW" 

and then do 
iwconfig wlan0 and see if it has associated 
 if it has, then start the DHCP client 
not that familiar with ubuntu , but i think its 

dhclient -d wlan0 
or perhaps dhclient3 -d wlan0 
and see what it says 
you are running the program to get an IP address in debug mode , so you can see where it fails 
if it works , then do 
ifconfig wlan0 and see what you r address is

---

### Post by CLazarone1777 on 2009-11-27
I think I can get it from this, maybe. I have to play around with it
Since I have it plugged into my router I've been doing updates that
have been on here since I installed ubuntu, it's almost finished.
After that I believe I can figure it out hopefully

---

### Post by CLazarone1777 on 2009-11-27
I see at Access Point it says Not Associated and things like this
 
wlan0     IEEE 802.11abgn  ESSID:"my NW"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.437 GHz  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Bit Rate:48 Mb/s   Tx-Power=14 dBm   
          Retry min limit:7   RTS thr: off   Fragment thr=2352 B   
          Power Management: off
          Link Quality=100/100  Signal level:-32 dBm  Noise level=-93 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

I don't know how to take encryptions off or anything

---

### Post by pdc124 on 2009-11-27
what is the output of 
sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
whats the name of the network you want to connect to ?

---

### Post by CLazarone1777 on 2009-11-27
Scan completed :
          Cell 01 - Address: 00:1C: DF:A4:24:AB
                    ESSID:"Belkin_N1_Wireless_A424AB-Candy"
                    Mode:Master
                    Channel:6
                    Frequency:2.437 GHz (Channel 6)
                    Quality=100/100  Signal level:-29 dBm  Noise level=-94 dBm
                    Encryption key: on
                    IE: WPA Version 1
                        Group Cipher : TKIP
                        Pairwise Ciphers (1) : TKIP
                        Authentication Suites (1) : PSK
                    IE: Unknown: 2D1AEE110FFFFF0000010000000000000000000000000C0000000000
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s
                              18 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s
                              24 Mb/s; 48 Mb/s
                    Extra:tsf=00000169e63ef6b2
                    Extra: Last beacon: 0ms ago
          Cell 02 - Address: 00:23:69:86:C6: D8
                    ESSID:"summer"
                    Mode:Master
                    Channel:6
                    Frequency:2.437 GHz (Channel 6)
                    Quality=30/100  Signal level:-91 dBm  Noise level=-127 dBm
                    Encryption key: on
                    IE: WPA Version 1
                        Group Cipher : TKIP
                        Pairwise Ciphers (2) : CCMP TKIP
                        Authentication Suites (1) : PSK
                    IE: IEEE 802.11i/WPA2 Version 1
                        Group Cipher : TKIP
                        Pairwise Ciphers (2) : CCMP TKIP
                        Authentication Suites (1) : PSK
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s
                              24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s
                              12 Mb/s; 48 Mb/s
                    Extra:tsf=0000055442fb9183
                    Extra: Last beacon: 3000ms ago
          Cell 03 - Address: 00:12:0E:A4:53:E3
                    ESSID:"08FX09096610"
                    Mode:Master
                    Channel:6
                    Frequency:2.437 GHz (Channel 6)
                    Quality=38/100  Signal level:-86 dBm  Noise level=-127 dBm
                    Encryption key: on
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 22 Mb/s
                              6 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s
                              36 Mb/s; 48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Extra:tsf=0000025b93dbe365
                    Extra: Last beacon: 3028ms ago

I'm trying to run off of my router: :"Belkin_N1_Wireless_A424AB-Candy"

---

### Post by pdc124 on 2009-11-27
have you got WPA-supplicant installed ?
sudo apt-get install wpasupplicant
once you have 

try editing the config file 


[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WPAHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WPAHowTo)

---

