---
title: "8.10 network problems"
date: 2009-05-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by lotster on 2009-05-22
Hi! I'm a Linux newbie, and I recently installed 8.10 on my Acer Aspire 3054WXMi notebook.  I have two network related problems.  The first is that my eth0 Wired Network keeps on resetting the IP configuration back to DHCP every time I restart.  I have to manually re-configure it to a static IP address every time I restart, which is okay I guess, but it's an unnecessary irritation.  Can someone please help me?

I also have a problem with the wireless network.  In hardware drivers it says that I'm using proprietary drivers for Atheros 802.11 wireless LAN cards. But when I go to the Network Connections screen, there's nothing there; I also tried to manually add a wireless network (we have a wireless broadband ISP that I'm trying to connect to), but that doesn't work either.  It worked out of the box with 8.04...

Could someone please help me?  And keep in mind that I'm a newbie, please... ;)

Thanks!

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2009-05-22
are you using the Network Manager app that came as default to set a static IP?

Myself and others have had a lot of problems setting a static ip with Network Manager. My advice would be to switch to WICD which is easier and more stable than NM.

```
sudo apt-get install wicd
``` the add ```
wicd-client
``` to your startup programs. (Note, installing wicd will automatically remove Network Manager but can easily be reinstalled again if you dont like wicd.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-05-22
1) insert static ip in the /etc/network/interfaces file [http://www.prash-babu.com/2008/11/how-to-setup-static-ip-address-in-linux.html](http://www.prash-babu.com/2008/11/how-to-setup-static-ip-address-in-linux.html)
2)nothing will appear unless you are connected or have connected to a network previously..

---

### Post by lotster on 2009-05-22
Thank you both... I tried wicd, but it messed up my 3G internet connection, which I'm sharing over the network.  So I uninstalled it and went back to the default network manager.  Then I tried inserting the static IP in the /etc/network/interfaces file, but now I'm not connected to the network anymore, I can't find any other computers on the network, my internet connection isn't shared, and I can't change it back to the way it was before.  Any further ideas?

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-05-23
post contents of /etc/network/interfaces . what happens when you type** sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart**

---

### Post by lotster on 2009-05-23
The contents:

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.0.1
netmask 255.255.255.0

When I do the "networking restart" I get 
" * Reconfiguring network interfaces...                                   [ OK ] "

The network still isn't working.  I have all my Windows PC's set up using static IP addresses in the same range as this one, and I configured them to connect to this one as gateway.  I can't ping my Ubuntu PC from any of the Windows systems, or see any Windows shares from Ubuntu.

I think I should also mention, yesterday when I restarted after configuring the network settings, my network icon in Ubuntu's top panel disappeared.  I can still get into "Network Configuration" from "System > Preferences", and there it calls my wired network "ifupdown (eth0).

Just thought I'd give as much info as possible...

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-05-24
your interfaces file is incomplete ,it doesnt mention gateway , are you sure you want to set it to 192.168.0.1 ?? usually routers use that ip.. and you also need to add the line
auto eth0 .check out my 1st link in post 3

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-05-24
> **superprash2003 said:**
>  are you sure you want to set it to 192.168.0.1 ?? usually routers use that ip..Whilst on the subject... You will want to see what address range your DHCP server uses - and avoid using an address in that range.

---

### Post by lotster on 2009-05-25
Thanks a lot... I changed the IP to 192.168.0.2, and I added the line "auto eth0", and now it's working.  Thank you very much for all the help!

---

