---
title: "10.10. Device Not Ready (firmware missing?)"
date: 2011-02-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Okaithx on 2011-02-22
Okay, so I  uninstalled 10.04 Wubi and installed 10.10, the latest version. Now, since I was left lost in 10.04 with wireless when it said "Device Not Ready", I couldn't fully explain the problem. But, thanks to 10.10's notification, it happily told me that my firmware was missing.

Now, where's my firmware and how can I install it?

Laptop: Dell Inspiron 1545
Wireless Card: Broadcom 4312 (there might be a "BCM" before 4312, I forgot,  but I think 4312 explains the card nicely.)

Please help me. Linux looks awesome and I can't wait to fully use it!





P.S. If anyone here is a Windows guru of some kind, my text box letter spacing is really screwed up. It generally occurs when there is small text, for example, a sidebar text ad heading might read:

"Buy  this"

with an extra space, or

"Buy t his"

with a random space, or even

"Bu ythis"

with a random space and a random combining.

Sorry for getting off-topic there, but I do need help with both of these problems (that's one reason I installed Ubuntu; to not have messed up spacing.)

---

### Post by Okaithx on 2011-02-23
Any suggestions?? :neutral:

---

### Post by Okaithx on 2011-02-23
Umm....hello?

---

### Post by Okaithx on 2011-02-27
I still need help!!

Also the Sticky thread with b43 didn't work because the Synaptic Package Manager did not show me the package mentioned in the thread.

---

### Post by abcjake on 2011-03-01
I myself am having the same problem. I recently switched my operating systems and I can not get wireless Internet, or Wired internet! it says that I am missing firmware, to get it, I need internet. I have been looking for the soultion and I think I found it. When I tried to download the firmware, It gave me a troubleshooting link. I tried the link on my other computer, and I found a file to download. I have been thinking about moving that file to a USB drive. I am going to buy one today, and I'll see if that works! If it does, I'll send you a link also. :P

---

### Post by Yogotiss on 2011-03-17
> **Okaithx said:**
> I still need help!!

Also the Sticky thread with b43 didn't work because the Synaptic Package Manager did not show me the package mentioned in the thread.

Not sure what you mean but try this out. Open Synaptic and search "b43", then install "firmware-b43-installer" "b43-fwcutter" also "firmware-b43legacy-install". My wireless started working instantly and if it doesn't work as fast for you try restarting after installing those packages and see if that helps. I hope I'm not telling to repeat any steps that may have been stated in the thread you mentioned.

---

