---
title: "(Jaunty) New install - Network connection only to LAN, not internet."
date: 2009-07-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jazzop on 2009-07-08
I have a new installation of Ubuntu 9.04 that appears to be connected to the LAN, but for some reason can't find the interweb.

This is a complete reinstall on a PC that had been working just fine before (I switched to an SAS RAID setup, requiring a new OS install).  I have installed Jaunty on three different machines recently, all of which found the internet just fine using DHCP in the following process:

1.  Install Ubuntu via CD, using the autoconfigure option during installation.
2.  Go into my router's firmware and assign a DHCP reservation, so that each PC has a fixed IP address (for ease of using a VNC viewer from one PC).

When I performed this reinstall, it gave me an error during the autoconfigure process, so I just impatiently went ahead with the rest of the install and figured I could set up the networking later.  Apparently not!

Some observations:
1.  This mobo has integrated dual gigabit ports.  I am only using one of them.  During the previous working installation, the active port I was using was called autoeth0.  But now, when I try to autoconfigure, it calls the port autoeth1.
2.  Packets are being sent to/from the PC and router.  The router sees and correctly identifies the PC.
3.  The PC is connected to an HP Procurve 4000M switch, which is connected to a Cradlepoint MBR1000 router, which is connected to a cable modem.  Nothing has physically changed since the previous working installation.  All other PC on the network can see each other and have access to the internet.

Where should I start?

---

### Post by prshah on 2009-07-08
> **jazzop said:**
> I have a new installation of Ubuntu 9.04 that appears to be connected to the LAN, but for some reason can't find the interweb.

Where should I start?

Open a terminal (Applications-Accessories-Terminal) and post back the output of
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
sudo mii-tool autoeth1
sudo mii-tool autoeth0
```

Perhaps the DNS servers are not setup correctly?

Can you ping the router? Is the gateway correct? Check with ```
route
```

---

### Post by jazzop on 2009-07-09
> **prshah said:**
> Open a terminal (Applications-Accessories-Terminal) and post back the output of
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.0.1
nameserver 192.168.0.2
```
sudo mii-tool autoeth1
```
SIOCGMIIPHY on 'autoeth1' failed: No such device

*same result for autoeth0*

> **prshah said:**
> Can you ping the router? Is the gateway correct? Check with ```
route
```

Kernel IP routing table
Destination Gateway      Genmask       Flags Metric Ref Use Iface
localnet    *            255.255.255.0 U     0      0   0   eth0
localnet    *            255.255.255.0 U     1      0   0   eth1
link-local  *            255.255.0.0   U     1000   0   0   eth0
default     192.168.0.1  0.0.0.0       UG    0      0   0   eth1
default     192.168.0.1  0.0.0.0       UG    100    0   0   eth0


Some additional information:
1.  When I try to ping this PC I get no response, but the Rx light DOES blink on the ethernet port.

2. In my network switch console, I get the following alert for this PC:

> Description: 
An excessively high rate of broadcast packets was received on port I1. This degrades the performance of all devices connected to this switch. 

Possible causes: 
This is usually caused by a network topology loop, but can also be due to a malfunctioning device, NIC, NIC driver, or software application. 

Actions: 
Verify that there are no topology loops in your network. 
Find and correct any malfunctioning devices or NICs on the segment. 
Find and correct any malfunctioning applications on devices on the segment.

---

### Post by jazzop on 2009-07-09
OK, one more thing that might be relevant:

When I click on the network connection icon in the toolbar, i get the following four items:

> Wired Network (ASUSTeK COmputer 82574L Gigabit)
***Auto Ethernet**
Wired Network (ASUSTeK COmputer 82574L Gigabit)
device not managed
______________________
**_V_PN Connections**

Lines 1,3,&4 aregrayed out. The * indicates a radio button.

In other words, my only choice is to select "Auto Ethernet".  I'm pretty sure I should have also the option of selecting the two actual network adapters! 

What gives?

---

