---
title: "brain dead DNS problem"
date: 2009-01-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by adealey on 2009-01-03
OK, this should have been really, really simple but I've somehow made it into a headscratcher... probably because I'm trying to move to fast.

I'm putting together a quick & dirty proof of concept which involves moving to Linux (Ubuntu or Debian) clients in a MS Active Directory domain. The POC is being done with Ubuntu 8.10 virtual machines running under VMware Workstation 6.5 on Windows XP.

Did the quick build of the VMs, got the vmware-tools (mostly) working as they should but then discovered that something is totally wonky with DNS resolution.

The virtual machines use bridged networking. They can ping any device on the physical network without a problem.

And they can resolve DNS names like a champ if you give them only the hostname to resolve. But feed any app (dig, nslookup, traceroute or anything else) the FQDN for the target and its a solid failure.

Here's my (slightly obfuscated) resolv.conf & nsswitch.conf files

[INDENT]root@vmUbuntu:/usr/bin# cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain mydomain.local
search mydomain.local
nameserver 192.168.77.11
nameserver 192.168.77.12

root@vmUbuntu:/usr/bin# cat /etc/nsswitch.conf
# /etc/nsswitch.conf
#
# Example configuration of GNU Name Service Switch functionality.
# If you have the `glibc-doc-reference' and `info' packages installed, try:
# `info libc "Name Service Switch"' for information about this file.

passwd:         compat
group:          compat
shadow:         compat

hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4
networks:       files

protocols:      db files
services:       db files
ethers:         db files
rpc:            db files

netgroup:       nis
root@vmUbuntu:/usr/bin# 
[/INDENT]

Anybody want to tell me what stupid thing I've done wrong?

---

