---
title: "10.04 Network Manager issues?"
date: 2011-01-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kerryhall on 2011-01-29
I have a Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM5721 network card on my server at work. Everything works fine for a few weeks, then randomly the network connection on the server will stop working. After it stops working, I will try to reconnect with the network manager, it shows a wired connection available, it shows the "connection in progress" animation, then the "connection disabled" icon. 

I uninstalled the network manager and used manual configuration, but do you think the network manager was the issue? I can't have the server disconnecting randomly every few weeks with no way to know what the real problem is. Was there an issue with the network manager with 10.04? 

Also, had Hardy, and this never happened.

Is there a way to scan for ethernet hardware malfunctions? 

Thanks!!

---

### Post by kerryhall on 2011-04-18
Bump

---

### Post by leclerc65 on 2011-04-18
I had similar , but not quite identical problem.
I made a script 

#!/bin/sh 
while [ 1 ]; do 
ping -c 1 8.8.8.8 
sleep 300 
done

According to the link [here.]("http://www.murga-linux.com/puppy/viewtopic.php?t=63004")
I change the sleep time to 300 from the original 30 sec because I don't think anyone wants their network to be pinged that often.
I run the script as a Cron job at @Reboot.

---

### Post by kerryhall on 2011-08-19
I'm still having problems here. Every so often, seemingly randomly, every computer on the network loses internet access. Unplugging the server from the network fixes the problem. Rebooting the server gives the server internet access again. Trying sudo ifdown eth0 then sudo ifup eth0 fixes it sometimes, but it sometimes takes about 30 seconds for each operation, which seems strange to me. Also strange is that ping doesn't work sometimes, even after internet access has been restored (firefox works) giving me the message "ping: unknown host google.com"

Gnome network manager has been uninstalled. I am configuring my network with /etc/network/interfaces as far as i know. There could always be some sort of unnecessary networking related process running somewhere that is causing problems, but I have no idea. Here is my interfaces file:

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0

###dhcp###
#iface eth0 inet dhcp

###static###
iface eth0 inet static
address 10.1.10.148
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 10.1.10.0
broadcast 10.1.10.255
gateway 10.1.10.1

I also wonder that if configuring my server as static is causing problem with my router. I have a SMC8014, which seems like a pretty crappy modem/router. Maybe it is trying to allocate 10.1.10.148 to another computer on the network and that is causing problems? Are you supposed to set a static ip from the router, or the computer? If you can give me a definitive answer to that question, please give me a source. Thanks!!!

---

### Post by kerryhall on 2011-09-07
Still having problems. I have been considering running some sort of script that pings google.com or similar every so often, then if the ping command fails, it creates a log file of output from helpful diagnostic commands.

However, I am not sure what to log. dmesg | tail? What else would be helpful to diagnose a problem where the network goes down seemingly randomly?

---

