---
title: "8.10 Server gets IP via DHCP?"
date: 2009-01-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kalliergo on 2009-01-21
I just did a fresh install (to a wiped HD) of Intrepid -- on a machine being used as a development server.

When I tried to logon to the box, via SSH from my desktop, I got the "no route to host" message.

So, OK... checked the SSH configuration, the firewall settings, etc.  All look fine, still not working.

Finally, it dawns on me that I can't remember specifying an IP address for the newly-installed box.  Hmmm...

Sure enough, the Intrepid server installation process apparently defaults to getting an IP via DHCP.  All my networking processes were listening on and talking to an IP that the server isn't using.

Easy to fix, of course, but:  Why in the world would anyone think it makes sense for a *server* to grab an IP via DHCP?

Sheesh.

---

### Post by jonobr on 2009-01-21
I may be missing something here, but if you install a windows box without defining IP address, it will try and boot itself using DHCP, if that fails it gives itself some funky IP address.

If you dont specify a server IP address, just wondering how it should act?

Im not sure Im follwing the problem or thought process here?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-01-21
Debian based servers have always defaulted to DHCP. The Debian installer gives you the opportunity to set a static ip address, but Ubuntu seems to have left that option out. I have to say that sometimes Ubuntu's ease of use, makes it harder for those of us that know what we are doing.

Jim

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-21
My LAMP server defaulted to DHCP, which was OK for development - I just had to use *ifconfig* on it before I tried to connect to it from another machine.  Eventually I decided to expand my horizons and let my DHCP server issue a *static lease* based on MAC address.

---

### Post by rburki on 2009-01-21
I installed Ubuntu Server 8.10 as a guest in Virtualbox, the host (main) OS being Vista.

Interestingly, I did not get an IP address via dhcp because Ubuntu reassigned eth0 to eth2. I have no clue why. See dmesg:

$ dmesg ¦ grep eth0
[   9.234553] udev: renamed network interface eth0 to eth2

I added in /etc/network/interfaces 

auto eth2
iface eth2 inet dhcp

and  I got an adress.

PS
In Virtualbox, the network  is set to Adapter 1, Host Interface pointing to the WLAN Adapter.
In fact I had 2 Adapter enabled (for trouble shooting reasons), and both eth0 and eth1 got reassigned. eth1 got assigned eth3.

Hope it's helpful to somebody.
Rainer

---

### Post by kalliergo on 2009-01-21
> **jonobr said:**
> I may be missing something here
If you dont specify a server IP address, just wondering how it should act?

Im not sure Im follwing the problem or thought process here?

Maybe I didn't make it clear:  The 8.10 server installation process *doesn't provide the option* of specifying an IP address.

Again, not a big deal (except maybe for newbies who would be lost trying to fix the problem on a box without a GUI), but still not good process design.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-21
> **kalliergo said:**
> Easy to fix, of course, but:  Why in the world would anyone think it makes sense for a *server* to grab an IP via DHCP?

Sheesh.Some folks consider it practical network administration to manage all IP addresses from a central point - the DHCP server.  I'll agree that one extra line in the installation "script" asking to choose "static or DHCP" would not be a bad idea.

---

