---
title: "Problem with DNS"
date: 2010-01-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by AmrH on 2010-01-16
Some time after I make a fresh installation of Ubuntu, the internet starts to be slow. I recognized that firefox and web browsers take a lot of time looking up host name. This happened to me several times after making fresh installations. Is there a specific package that causes such a problem?

---

### Post by sliketymo on 2010-01-16
Clear your cache,maybe try dis-abling ipv6,or perhaps try using Open DNS.There are many posts in the forum relating to these particular subjects.

---

### Post by AmrH on 2010-01-17
> **sliketymo said:**
> Clear your cache,maybe try dis-abling ipv6,or perhaps try using Open DNS.There are many posts in the forum relating to these particular subjects.
I've noticed that after clearing the cache, everything works as it should; however, after a few minutes, the problem comes back again. This problem doesn't exist when I switch to Windows, so that's probably something with one of the packages.

---

### Post by shredder12 on 2010-01-17
post the output of the following command
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

and you may also try disabling IPv6 in firefox. Enter "about:config" in the URL bar and then search for IPv6 in the filter and change the value of network.dns.disableIPv6 to true.

---

### Post by AmrH on 2010-01-25
> **shredder12 said:**
> post the output of the following command
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```and you may also try disabling IPv6 in firefox. Enter "about:config" in the URL bar and then search for IPv6 in the filter and change the value of network.dns.disableIPv6 to true.
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 163.121.128.134
nameserver 163.121.128.135

```Those are the DNS servers given to me by my ISP; however, after doing a fresh install everything was fine until a point were the problem arose again. Can a library cause such problems? May be Wine?!

---

### Post by shredder12 on 2010-01-25
have you tried disabling Ipv6 in firefox.. or on your system..
this will probably help you out.. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WebBrowsingSlowIPv6IPv4](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WebBrowsingSlowIPv6IPv4)

---

### Post by AmrH on 2010-01-25
Ipv6 is disabled, yet the problem persists. I believe it's a software conflict. Are there any programs or libraries known to cause such problems?

---

### Post by shredder12 on 2010-01-25
If it doesn't even work after disabling IPv6 for your system as well as firefox then it probably isn't ipv6 issue.. 
try these 
```
nslookup google.com
```
```
dig google.com
```

These will tell you how much time does it take to resolve the hostnames..

---

### Post by AmrH on 2010-02-02
The problem is now solved. The reason was that I've changed something in the nsswitch.conf file in /etc. The original entry was "
hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4 
However I changed it to
 hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] [COLOR=Red]wins[/COLOR] dns mdns4
Which took too much time to lookup hostnames. I tried several things to be able to access Windows shares and at the same time have reasonable lookup times, and the best bet was
 "hosts:          files wins dns"

I've shortened it because I'm not using a local DNS server, and I don't care about double checking. Now I've access to Windows shares via Samba, and at the same time the lookup time is almost perfect.

---

