---
title: "[9.10] Dell Vostro 1510 --Wireless adapter does not physically turn on"
date: 2009-12-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Darokgoodnes on 2009-12-23
I've installed 9.10 on this laptop,  and am trying to use Ndiswrapper to get my wireless working.  

I have 

A. gotten the appropriate drivers from Dell.  These match those that windows uses for this laptop. (dell 1395 wlan mini-card)

B. Installed Ndiswrapper (both from CD repository and downloading the .debs)

C: Blacklisted the default drivers

D: used Ndiswrapper to select the correct drivers.

This is where my problems start.

After selecting the driver (bcmwl5.inf), Ndiswrapper tells me that it cannot verify that the hardware is present, but then in the Ndiswrapper gui shows that it is present.

No dice however;  it still acts like nothing is installed.  

I then noticed that my wireless switch indicator is not lit;  the laptop appears to be behaving as if the switch is off, and I cannot turn it on.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by bkratz on 2009-12-23
See if any of this helps

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1344839&highlight=1510](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1344839&highlight=1510)

---

### Post by Darokgoodnes on 2009-12-23
Well, that got me some drivers,  but Hardware drivers tells me they are activated but not in use.  I don't have an option to use them.

a lshw -C Network shows the adapter is Unclaimed.


(I can't believe I didn't find that when searching.  That's embarrassing).

Edit:  nice to know that Ndiswrapper isn't the only option anymore.

---

### Post by bkratz on 2009-12-23
Most of the Dell information I have seen shows that they use one of several Broadcom devices (BCM43xx). We will probably have to remove the other drivers you already put in and try either STA or B43 depending on which yours is.  Did the sudo lshw -C network command show the actual card number?
By the way, it is my understanding that more info is given when you use the sudo at the beginning of the command.


Don't forget    lspci | grep Wireless

---

### Post by Darokgoodnes on 2009-12-23
okay,  I uninstalled Ndiswrapper,  disabling the drivers selected before uninstalling.

here are the results of the lshw and lspci commands:

> darok@coding:~$ sudo lshw -C Network
  *-network UNCLAIMED     
       description: Network controller
       product: BCM4312 802.11b/g
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:06:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:f4000000-f4003fff
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:07:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:21:70:de:37:f7
       size: 10MB/s
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list rom ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=half latency=0 link=no multicast=yes port=MII speed=10MB/s
       resources: irq:30 ioport:5000(size=256) memory:f8610000-f8610fff(prefetchable) memory:f8600000-f860ffff(prefetchable) memory:f8620000-f862ffff(prefetchable)

darok@coding:~$ lspci | grep Wireless
darok@coding:~$ sudo lspci |grep Wireless
darok@coding:~$ sudo lspci | Grep Wireless
No command 'Grep' found, did you mean:
 Command 'rep' from package 'librep9' (universe)
 Command 'prep' from package 'loki' (universe)
 Command 'grep' from package 'grep' (main)
Grep: command not found
darok@coding:~$ 





initially I blacklisted > echo -e "blacklist bcm43xx\nblacklist b43\nblacklist b43legacy\nblacklist ssb" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

Are any of those necessary for the new broadcom drivers to work?

in Hardware Drivers,  I have STA shown as activated,  but not in use.




Thank you very much for your help.

---

### Post by bkratz on 2009-12-23
not sure why the lspci | grep Wireless showed nothing, I'll have to study up on that (not a sudo command either).  Anyway this seems to work for most people.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1288865](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1288865)

Good Luck


Heres another that says basically the same thing

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1352270&highlight=broadcom](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1352270&highlight=broadcom)

---

### Post by Darokgoodnes on 2009-12-23
Apparently in all my mucking around with Ndiswrapper,  I inexplicably ruined it.

Just did a fresh install of Ubuntu,  and followed that guide.  everything works beautifully.

RESOLVED!

---

### Post by bkratz on 2009-12-23
> **Darokgoodnes said:**
> Apparently in all my mucking around with Ndiswrapper,  I inexplicably ruined it.

Just did a fresh install of Ubuntu,  and followed that guide.  everything works beautifully.

RESOLVED!

Glad to here that, sorry that it took a reload though!

---

