---
title: "IP Tables and Local Network"
date: 2011-02-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Nap1812 on 2011-02-02
Hello, I am fairly new to Linux and have installed Ubuntu 10.10 on my computer.  I would like to remote desktop to a Windows 7 machine on my local network but cannot do so from my new installation.  I can connect to the Windows 7 machine from another Windows 7 machine and can also connect to Windows servers outside my local network.  I cannot ping any machines on my local network but can ping the router.  I have a feeling it has to do with the IP Routing Table but have know idea what I'm looking for in the output.  Can anyone help me out?  Here's the output of "netstat -rn".

Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags     MSS    Window  irtt Iface
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0            255.255.255.0   U           0         0            0   wlan0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0            255.255.0.0       U           0         0            0   wlan0
0.0.0.0             192.168.1.1    0.0.0.0               UG        0         0            0   wlan0

Thanks a lot in advance.

---

### Post by mips on 2011-02-03
Your routing table is fine.

Can you ping the Win7 machines from Ubuntu?

---

### Post by Nap1812 on 2011-02-03
I cannot ping any of the IP addresses from my Ubuntu machine.  I have IP addresses for two iPhones, iPad, two Windows 7 machines and a HP printer.  I can ping the router at 192.168.1.1 and the IP address assigned to the Ubuntu machine, 192.168.1.104.  I can also ping the Ubuntu machine from the Windows machine.

Bottom line is the Ubuntu machine is assigned an IP address from the router, can ping the router and itself, and can also connect to the Internet.  However, it cannot ping any other machines on the local network and I cannot see the assigned IP address in the DHCP table from the router.

What should my "resolv.conf" look like?  Right now it has:

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain kc.rr.com
search kc.rr.com
nameserver 76.85.229.110
nameserver 76.85.229.111

Anything else I can post to debug the problem.  I appreciate the assistance as I am completely stumped with the issue.

---

### Post by ripat on 2011-02-03
Install nmap and run:
```
$ sudo nmap -PO 192.168.1.0/24
```

Note the nmap option -PO ([COLOR="Red"]P[/COLOR]apa [COLOR="Red"]O[/COLOR]scar) and not P zero

---

### Post by Nap1812 on 2011-02-03
When I run "nmap" it is able to locate my local network machines.  The computer I am attempting to connect to is 192.168.1.107, here is the output from nmap minus the MAC Address:

Nmap scan report for 192.168.1.107
Host is up (0.051s latency).
All 1000 scanned ports on 192.168.1.107 are filtered
MAC Address: XX:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX (Unknown)

Does this provide any information as to the issue?

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-02-03
Windows PCs don't normally respond to pings.

Are you trying to get a Windows desktop on your Ubuntu PC? A desktop of the PC at 192.168.1.107? Is that what you are trying to do?

If so, what Ubuntu application  are you using for this?

---

### Post by Nap1812 on 2011-02-03
That's exactly what I am attempting to do.  I want to establish a remote desktop connection from my Ubuntu 10.10 machine to my Windows 7 machine.  Everything on the Windows 7 machine should be set correctly as I can establish a remote desktop connection to the Windows 7 machine from another Windows machine.

I have tried the following software on my Ubuntu machine:

: Gnome-RDP
: Remote Desktop Viewer
: Terminal Server Client

I have not had success with any of these.  Is there something else I should try?

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-02-03
When you use Gnome-RDP in what way does it not work...what error message do you get?
What entries do you put in the connection window? Eg: you must put the IP address and not the "name" of the Windows machine.

[http://www.7tutorials.com/connecting-windows-remote-desktop-ubuntu](http://www.7tutorials.com/connecting-windows-remote-desktop-ubuntu)

---

### Post by Nap1812 on 2011-02-03
I reviewed the link you attached and have entered the information correctly using the IP address and not the computer name.  After I click "connect" I do not receive an error but if I look at the process in system monitor the "rdesktop" process says "inet_wait_for_connect" and then after about a minute I receive an error window "Error: 192.168.1.107: unable to connect".

Is there anything else I can look at or post for assistance?

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-02-03
It sounds like Windows is refusing the connection request. Check your Windows remote desktop settings; make them as liberal as possible.

---

### Post by Nap1812 on 2011-02-04
Windows settings should be fine.  I have them set as liberal as possible and have disabled the firewall.  I can remote desktop to the Windows 7 machine from another Windows machine.  I just cannot connect from my Ubuntu machine.

It's also interesting that the DHCP table in my router administrator does not show the IP address, 192.168.1.104, assigned to the Ubuntu machine.  It does however show all the other IP addresses assigned to other computers.

Are there any other configuration files or settings on the Ubuntu machine I should check to determine the issue?

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-02-04
In order to reproduce the problem I installed Gnome-RDP on my laptop and then fired up W7 on VirtualBox on my desktop (these days I like to contain Windows installations within the VB creche).
Then I followed the instructions I posted for you and there was no Remote Desktop menu. I gather Home Premium does not support remote desktop.
What a rip. Par for the course.


You probably know these things, but connections from client (Ubuntu) to host (Windows) can be thwarted by:
wrong host IP address
wrong credentials username/password
wrong port
firewall blocking access on host
user on host not authorized
routing issue
host protocol not supported by viewer


It is odd that your Ubuntu PC is not showing in your router. Have you got the Ubuntu PC doing dhcp to request an IP address from the router? Are you using Network Manager?  Are all your machines on the wireless network?

---

### Post by Nap1812 on 2011-02-04
I'm using the standard set up for Ubuntu 10.10 64 bit.  Do you have any advice on the steps I should follow to debug the issue?  I'm pretty sure Ubuntu is requesting an IP address using DHCP because in "network connections" IPv4 is set to "automatic DHCP" and IPv6 is set to ignore for the wireless connection.    Also, eth0 has never been used.  I assume this is the wired connection.

---

