---
title: "DNS not working after Upgrade to 12.04"
date: 2012-05-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ScottTParker on 2012-05-09
I just upgraded from 10.04 to 12.04 and now I cannot access my ISP's DNS when using a static IP.  Internet incoming and outgoing is still unaffected.

Here's my /etc/network/interfaces

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# Set static IP address
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.10
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
```

If I comment out all of the static IP lines, then NetworkManager kicks in and DNS works fine, and /etc/resolv.conf looks like
```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
search hsd1.il.comcast.net
```

Whereas if I don't comment them out, it looks like
```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
```

I know 12.04 has changed the way it handles DNS, but so far all of my attempts to get it working with the static IP have failed.  I suspect that I somehow need to add hsd1.il.comcast.net into the /etc/network/interfaces file, but I've tried playing with dns-nameserver and dns-search to no avail.

---

### Post by prezbedard on 2012-05-10
I don't mean to hijack this however I am having almost the same issue. The differences being this was a new install and the issue is with an auto config ip. It can access the interent but not any local network resources by name. I can ping by ip both on the local network and hosts on the other side of the vpn.

The interface look fine in the gui has the correct ip, dns and gateway

my ifconfig output:
```
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 52:54:00:79:da:98  
          inet addr:192.168.0.34  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::5054:ff:fe79:da98/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:8545 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1863 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:2040956 (2.0 MB)  TX bytes:269515 (269.5 KB)
          Interrupt:10 Base address:0x6000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:268 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:268 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:26798 (26.7 KB)  TX bytes:26798 (26.7 KB)

```

my interfaces

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```

my resolv.conf
```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
```

I did try adding my local dns server into this file but it was indeed overwritten back to the deafult.

Hoping perhaps this additional info helps.

---

### Post by ScottTParker on 2012-05-10
So clearly under 12.04, you cannot edit /etc/resolv.conf directly.  I tried adding the following lines to the end of /etc/network/interfaces

```
dns-nameservers 127.0.0.1
dns-search hsd1.il.comcast.net
```

which was able to modify my /etc/resolv.conf after doing a network restart to 

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
search hsd1.il.comcast.net
```

but I still don't seem to get a DNS (e.g. cannot ping google.com)

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2012-05-11
What does the ```
route 
```command show.
 
Does it show that you system has identified a gateway?

---

### Post by ScottTParker on 2012-05-11
Under the static IP configuration, where I my /etc/network/interfaces, looks like this: 
```
# The following were already part of the config file
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# Set static IP address
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.10
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
dns-nameservers 127.0.0.1
dns-search hsd1.il.comcast.net
```

*route* gives the following output:


```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
default         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 eth0
link-local      *               255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
192.168.1.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
```


Under DHCP, *route* gives

```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
default         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
link-local      *               255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
192.168.1.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0
```

It looks like it found the gateway the same, but the only difference is the Metric, but I don't know how that might affect things

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-05-11
Can you ping 8.8.8.8, the Google DNS server, using its address?  Can you ping the router at 192.168.1.1?  Most routers include DNS forwarding and make themselves your DNS server if you use DHCP.  Try these:

```

host www.google.com 8.8.8.8
host www.google.com 192.168.1.1
host www.google.com 127.0.0.1
host www.google.com 68.87.85.132

```

Which, if any, of these work for you?  The last of these is one of Comcast's servers, dns102.comcast.net.

You can specify a metric in /etc/network/interfaces like this:

```

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.10
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
[color=blue]metric 0[/color]

```

---

### Post by ScottTParker on 2012-05-11
Thanks SeijiSensei.  From your advice I got DNS up and working again, but I'm not sure if it's the most ideal configuration.  I've described my configuration and test results below for anybody interested in helping me understand this further.

I tried the pings and host commands that were suggested.  Using both DHCP and static IP, both pings worked.  Using the first host command (8.8.8.8) worked fine for both.  The second (192.168.1.1) found 5 IP addresses and then gave two instances of 
```
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
```
But it did so for both static IP and DHCP, so I don't see this as a major problem.
The third option (127.0.0.1) worked fine for DHCP, but it did not work for static IP.  Instead, I got the same connection time out error as above.
The final option did not work for either.  I got an error 
```
Host www.google.com not found: 5(REFUSED)
```

Finally, setting the metric 0 line in /etc/network/interfaces did manage to change the metric when running route, but produced no change in finding the DNS.

With all of these results in mind, I added the line 
```
dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8
``` to /etc/network/interfaces and things seem to work now.  I can ping "google.com" and my web browser seems to work. 

So this just leaves the question of if this is the *best* way do setup the config file or are there better ways?  I also tried setting ```
dns-nameservers 192.168.1.1
``` which in principle seems more robust, since the router should get DNS information from the ISP, so this should always be accurate (not that I really expect Google to change it's DNS), but if I ping google.com in this configuration it takes about 30 seconds for each succesive ping (even though the time reported is only about 25 ms) whereas if I set the nameserver to 8.8.8.8, it is much faster.

---

### Post by mattsvensson on 2012-07-13
I actually have had the same issue and had success simply adding the Comcast DNS servers (75.75.75.75 and 75.75.76.76) as namservers instead of the Google servers.  I'll re-post if for some reason this stops working but I'm beyond what my prior threshold was for maintaining connectivity.

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-10-27
ScottTParker: Hi. This thread was started some months ago so perhaps you have figured everything out now.  But here goes.

If you are using ifup to configure your interfaces statically then you need to put nameserver information in /etc/network/interfaces on dns-search and dns-nameservers lines in the stanza for the interface over which the nameserver is accessible. This information will be sent to resolvconf when the interface is brought up and resolvconf will add the information to resolv.conf.

If you are using ifup to configure your interfaces via DHCP then you don't need to do anything additional. The DHCP client will receive nameserver information from the DHCP server and will give this to resolvconf which will include it in resolv.conf.

If you are using NetworkManager to configure your interfaces statically then you need to add the nameserver information to NetworkManager's configuration via the indicator at the top of the screen. What NetworkManager does with that information depends on whether or not the NetworkManager-controlled local caching nameserver is activated (which is the case when /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf contains the line "dns=dnsmasq" in the [main] section). If no NetworkManager-controlled local caching nameserver is activated then when  NetworkManager configures an interface it sends the associated nameserver information to resolvconf which includes it in resolv.conf. If the NetworkManager-controlled local caching nameserver *is* activated then NetworkManager sends the search path and a 127.* nameserver address to resolvconf for inclusion in resolv.conf and sends the external nameserver address to the local caching nameserver.

HTH.

---

### Post by magis3xludi on 2012-12-09
Hi to all, I have a problem related, I think, with the issue in this thread.
I'm not able to set dns on a ppp connection that I set using a speedtouch usb adsl modem.
If I use, on the same adsl line, a modem router I can surf the web but if I want to use this old modem (only usb interface and without routing feature) my ISP supply to me a public IP address and I can reach any public IP but no domain is resolved. I set a pppoe connection following [this guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UsbAdslModem/SpeedTouch") but because I can't surf the web for the domain resolution inability then I disabled the option usepeerdns and tried to manually change /etc/resolv.conf with public DNS server (openDNS and google). The problem is that these settings have any effect and when I try to convert a domain to an IP I have this result
```
host -4 -d www.google.com
Trying "www.google.com"
Received 32 bytes from 127.0.0.1#53 in 0 ms
Trying "www.google.com"
Host www.google.com not found: 5(REFUSED)
Received 32 bytes from 127.0.0.1#53 in 0 ms
``` also if
```

sudo cat /etc/resolv.conf
[sudo] password for maurizio: 
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4
``` I think that the query to the loopback interface is the result of the line ```
dns=dnsmasq
``` in the NetworkManager.conf file but if I delete this line what will happen if I connect by the router (I have to connect to two different adsl line but I have only one router so I want to use a modem on one of them)?NetworkManager doesn't manage the adsl line, no way to set this, it doesn't see the interface then I have to start manually the ppp connection. On the other side ethernet/wifi connection using the router are perfectly managed by NM then I don't want to break these connections for repairing the ppp connection.How can I mantain the dhcp settings for the router connection and set static DNS only for ppp connection?How can I disable the dnsmasq option only for the ppp connection and force the system to use the dns listed in /etc/resolv.conf?
Thanks very much for any help, regards

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-12-10
> **magis3xludi said:**
> I think that the query to the loopback interface is the result of the line ```
dns=dnsmasq
``` in the NetworkManager.conf file

If "dns=dnsmasq" is there then NetworkManager starts a dnsmasq process which listens for DNS queries on 127.0.1.1 (formerly 127.0.0.1, in Precise); NetworkManager also sees to it that "nameserver 127.0.1.1" appears in resolv.conf.

If you comment out "dns=dnsmasq" and "sudo restart network-manager" then no such dnsmasq process will be started.

> but if I delete this line what will happen if I connect by the router (I have to connect to two different adsl line but I have only one router so I want to use a modem on one of them)?

Feel free to comment out "dns=dnsmasq". If you have resolvconf installed then everything should still work. Without "dns=dnsmasq" NetworkManager will put upstream nameserver addresses directly in resolv.conf instead of giving them to the dnsmasq process.

If you use NetworkManager for one interface it's best to use it for all interfaces. Otherwise it's best to use it for no interfaces and use ifupdown + /etc/network/interfaces instead.

Having said that, it may be possible to configure one interface with NetworkManager and another interface with ifup or pon or whatever. But keep in mind that NetworkManager controls the default route.

---

### Post by magis3xludi on 2012-12-10
> **jdthood said:**
> 
If you use NetworkManager for one interface it's best to use it for all interfaces. Otherwise it's best to use it for no interfaces and use ifupdown + /etc/network/interfaces instead.

I tried using NetworkManager also for the dsl connection but it seems that it can't manage it because doesn't see the interface (perhaps because is an usb modem?). When I create with the connection scripts in the linked guide 2 interfaces, nas0 and ppp0, I copied their MAC addresses onto the DSL connection described in Networkmanager but again it doesn't notice the activity of these 2 interfaces. Then I have to use pon and poff for the ppp connection but I will be happy if I could use NetworkManager also for the ppp connection because it's the simplest way to manage connections I think.
But your hint is precious anyway, I can't figure why changing manually /etc/resolv.conf have no effect, I did not know at all what the dnsmasq process does, I'll disable it and all should be working then.But there is any real advantage of using dnsmasq?I haven't ever changed this option then I think it is a default of the system.
Thanks a lot, best regards

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-12-10
> **magis3xludi said:**
> I tried using NetworkManager also for the dsl connection but it seems that it can't manage it because doesn't see the interface (perhaps because is an usb modem?).

Hundreds of bug reports have been filed against network-manager reporting faulty support for modems. Very few modems are officially supported.  See [https://live.gnome.org/NetworkManager/MobileBroadband](https://live.gnome.org/NetworkManager/MobileBroadband).

> I did not know at all what the dnsmasq process does, I'll disable it and all should be working then.

Disabling the NetworkManager-controlled dnsmasq process will at least make debugging easier.

> But there is any real advantage of using dnsmasq?

You have to distinguish between standalone dnsmasq as included in the "dnsmasq" and "dnsmasq-base" packages, and NetworkManager-controlled dnsmasq as included in the "network-manager" and "dnsmasq-base" packages.  Dnsmasq per se has many features: it is a DHCP server and a caching forwarding nameserver. All these features are available if you install "dnsmasq", but that package is not installed by default. Only "network-manager" and "dnsmasq-base" are installed by default in Ubuntu Desktop. NetworkManager uses Dnsmasq *only* as a forwarding nameserver (not even caching). The way this is done can in theory improve performance in VPN environments but in practice it has caused many malfunctions. Fortunately the NetworkManager-controlled dnsmasq process can be disabled.

---

### Post by magis3xludi on 2012-12-11
> **jdthood said:**
>  Disabling the NetworkManager-controlled dnsmasq process will at least make debugging easier.  I would know how to debug it, before:(
I disabled dnsmasq commenting the line in NetworkManager.conf, logged out and rebooted-> no way to surf with the modem and also with the router, perhaps I have to set DNS on NetworkManager because without dnsmasq the system doesn't receive the dns from the router?
Then I re-enabled dnsmasq and I am able to surf if I connect my pc to the router.
I noticed that the dnsmasq process start when an interface managed by NetworkManager is up. Before I connect to the router by my wifi usb dongle if I start the ppp connection using the usb adsl modem a request to dns is managed in this way
```
sudo more /etc/resolv.conf
nameserver 85.37.17.8
nameserver 85.38.28.73
maurizio@XubuDesktop:~$ host -d google.it 85.37.17.8
Trying "google.it"
Using domain server:
Name: 85.37.17.8
Address: 85.37.17.8#53
Aliases: 

;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 31393
;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 3, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;google.it.         IN   A

;; ANSWER SECTION:
google.it.      117   IN   A   173.194.35.184
google.it.      117   IN   A   173.194.35.191
google.it.      117   IN   A   173.194.35.183

Received 75 bytes from 85.37.17.8#53 in 58 ms
Trying "google.it"
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 18991
;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;google.it.         IN   AAAA

;; ANSWER SECTION:
google.it.      288   IN   AAAA   2a00:1450:4016:801::1017

Received 55 bytes from 85.37.17.8#53 in 58 ms
Trying "google.it"
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 43461
;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 5, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;google.it.         IN   MX

;; ANSWER SECTION:
google.it.      524   IN   MX   30 alt2.aspmx.l.google.com.
google.it.      524   IN   MX   40 alt3.aspmx.l.google.com.
google.it.      524   IN   MX   50 alt4.aspmx.l.google.com.
google.it.      524   IN   MX   10 aspmx.l.google.com.
google.it.      524   IN   MX   20 alt1.aspmx.l.google.com.

Received 145 bytes from 85.37.17.8#53 in 60 ms
maurizio@XubuDesktop:~$ host -d google.it
Trying "google.it"
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
```Then if I specify the same server that is listed as primary in /etc/resolv.conf the dns query is performed, if I do not specify server the query can't be performed and the system doesn't try to reach the server listed. The process dnsmasq is not running till I start wi-fi connection to the router so is not in charge for this strange behaviour

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-12-11
> I disabled dnsmasq commenting the line in NetworkManager.conf, logged out and rebooted-> no way to surf with the modem and also with the router

It appears that you don't have resolvconf installed, or that resolvconf is installed but /etc/resolv.conf is not a symbolic link to ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf. Consequently resolv.conf is not getting updated properly.

If you disabled NetworkManager-controlled dnsmasq (by commenting out "dns=dnsmasq" in /etc/NM/NM.conf) and this caused name resolution to stop working entirely then probably you had "nameserver 127.0.1.1" in a static /etc/resolv.conf file.

Later it seems you ran pppd and it wrote some addresses to /etc/resolv.conf but these were only valid when used over the PPP connection. But I am not sure.

You should purge and reinstall resolvconf, reboot, and then either use NetworkManager to manage all your network connections or use ifup/ifdown to manage them all.

---

### Post by magis3xludi on 2012-12-11
> It appears that you don't have resolvconf installed, or that resolvconf  is installed but /etc/resolv.conf is not a symbolic link to  ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf. Consequently resolv.conf is not getting  updated properly.
Yes, that's true. In the guide I followed for installing the speedtouch modem with pppoe connection they say that the symlink has to point /etc/ppp/resolv.conf.
I reconfigured resolvconf and now I'm writing connected by the modem
Thanks a lot,finally I have my connection up!
regards

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-12-12
> **magis3xludi said:**
> In the guide I followed for installing the speedtouch modem with pppoe connection they say that the symlink has to point /etc/ppp/resolv.conf.

I edited that guide to say that in Ubuntu 12.04 and later the admin shouldn't touch /etc/resolv.conf. In Ubuntu 12.04 and later, which have the resolvconf utility installed by default, resolvconf takes care of updating resolv.conf when nameserver addresses are received (by pppd, in this case).

That guide is out of date in other ways. For example, the br2684ctl program can now be installed with apt-get and doesn't have to be downloaded from a website. I changed this part too, but someone should go through the whole document and bring it up to date.

---

### Post by saketkumar on 2013-02-26
Hi Everyone!

I am having similar problem. I installed DNS server long ago using this article 
[http://www.danbishop.org/2011/10/29/ubuntu-11-10-sbs-small-business-server-setup-part-1-%E2%80%93-dhcp-and-dns/](http://www.danbishop.org/2011/10/29/ubuntu-11-10-sbs-small-business-server-setup-part-1-%E2%80%93-dhcp-and-dns/)

And it has been working perfectly, last night I upgraded my OS and pufff my network goes down. I checked 
/etc/network/interfaces
/etc/resolv.conf
/etc/dnsmasq.conf

It looks the same as before. 
Internet works fine on the server computer and I am able to ping other computers in the network and other computers can ping the server. But Internet is not working on other computers. 

I don't know what went wrong, if anyone knows anything please post... much appreciated.

- Saket Kumar
[http://saketkumar.com](http://saketkumar.com)

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-03-03
> **saketkumar said:**
> I am having similar problem.

Your problem is not similar to the one the opened this thread:
> 
I cannot access my ISP's DNS when using a static IP. Internet incoming and outgoing is still unaffected.


Please start a new thread saying that you have one machine that can connect to the Internet, other machines that can't, and this time describe the topology of the LAN, the machines that are on it and the software installed on those machines. Also describe how you expect networking to function on your LAN.

---

