---
title: "802.1x campus authentication via wired + VPN"
date: 2008-04-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Orestez on 2008-04-01
Hey, I searched and found some related threads but to no avail.

My problem is that I get my uni/campus internet via 802.1x wired and still want to use a VPN (SwissVPN to be exact). Its possible in windows. I have managed to succesfully connect to the VPN with the network-manager plugin at home where there is a wireless internet connection. The problem is, if I set the vpn up exactly the same on campus, nm doesn seem to try to connect to it (no connecting animation etc). I guess this is because my uni internet is configured manually (in the interfaces config) and at home the computer connects "automatically" via free roaming. 

I have tried to use pptpconfig, and I get as far as it connecting and authenticating. Cant load webpages though. My guess is, after reading some other threads, that there is something wrong with the dns routing, and I cant figure out how to make the routing go to the uni dns server and from there to swissvpn (if thats the right way).

I would really appreciate any help or push in the right direction and provide any necessary info, thx in advance.

---

### Post by rrwo on 2008-04-01
What do you mean by > I guess this is because my uni internet is configured manually (in the interfaces config) and at home the computer connects "automatically" via free roaming.
Is this the same computer (laptop) at home vs. bringing it onto campus?

Do you need to configure interfaces on your campus machine, or can you also use NetworkManager for it? (There's no reason why not for a wired machine.)

First: do you know if you can even connect to the VPN while on campus?  Some Universities block VPN connections from some networks (e.g. dorms and other on-campus residences).

---

### Post by Orestez on 2008-04-01
Thx for the reply :)


They are two different computers. At campus I need to configure the wired connection through the interfaces file (or use a logon.py supplied by the uni) because I cant select the encryption (802.1x MSCHAPV2 etc) for the wired connection in the network manager (as far as I know? if its possible excuse my noobines). 

I know I can connect to the VPN on campus, because Ive got it working in windows (and the uni inet officially allows it).

---

