---
title: "8.10 + HP tx2500 HELP!!!"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by alexpwalsh on 2008-10-30
Well, its not that big of a deal, but it is bothersome.... I'm here at my university... and I just installed the official release of 8.10 and its unable to pick up the WPA2 Enterprise wireless here on campus....

Here's my Situation so far....
1) Its not the network.... it worked in hardy and works for others using Ibex
AND it works when I'm in windows...
2) It could be hardware based.. but it works at my house(basic WEP)

I have a Broadcom BCM4322 a/b/g/n Card which my machine obviously see's but I'm totally lost for what to do....There is a nice forum for this model laptop for Hardy, but nothing yet for Intrepid (seeming its brand new)...

Hopefully someone can help me out....

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2008-10-30
Are you using ndiswrapper or the wl driver?  If you are not sure, can you go into the Terminal and post the results of lshw -C network?

---

### Post by alexpwalsh on 2008-10-30
the default wl that it started with.... Heres the result of lshw -C network.. I also know that the mac address that its using is the one configured on the network as well...
```

  *-network               
       description: Wireless interface
       product: BCM4322 802.11a/b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:08:00.0
       logical name: eth1
       version: 01
       serial: 00:21:00:32:0b:82
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=wl latency=0 module=wl multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abgn
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:09:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:1e:68:82:5a:18
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=half latency=0 link=no module=r8169 multicast=yes port=twisted pair
  *-network DISABLED
       description: Ethernet interface
       physical id: 1
       logical name: pan0
       serial: a2:a9:43:40:43:54
       capabilities: ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=bridge driverversion=2.3 firmware=N/A link=yes multicast=yes



```

---

### Post by gali98 on 2008-10-31
Have you installed the restricted drivers for it? 
System->administration->Hardware drivers

there should be a broadcom one listed there somewhere.
Kory

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2008-10-31
Can you go into the Terminal and check:
```
lsmod|grep wl
```
If all is well, it should show ieee80211_crypt_tkip in the list along with ieee80211_crypt.  If the ieee80211_crypt_tkip does not show up, please try the following:
```
sudo modprobe -r wl
sudo modprobe ieee80211_crypt_tkip
sudo modprobe wl
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```Then try connecting.

---

### Post by alexpwalsh on 2008-11-04
No dice..... I'm going to set up a WPA network at home so I can try things there... But currently the situation is..... I tried to have the restricted Broadcom driver that came in the install disabled, but it breaks it..... I tried all the above... with no avail....
it worked for me in hardy, I don't know why its not working now.... is there any way I can revert back to the older stuff while keeping 8.10, cause I like it so much more than hardy....

---

### Post by gali98 on 2008-11-04
This is a post about it:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=970236](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=970236)

also, as that post says, WICD may help.
[http://wicd.sourceforge.net/](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/)

Kory

---

### Post by alexpwalsh on 2008-11-04
thanks, but unfortunately it didnt work... I couldnt even get WEP to work with wicd.... thanks anyway

---

### Post by alexpwalsh on 2008-11-05
OK... so I tried WICD at school... and its saying I NEED a CA Certificate... the problem is there isint one (for PEAP with TKIP).... I Purpose this problem... is there any way I can get the network-manager from 8.04.. cause it works there... :( .... I'm to the point now where I'm contemplating going back to 8.04 because of this stuff..... 

Do you guys/gals think I would have the same problems if I upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10, would it still not work?

---

### Post by gali98 on 2008-11-05
My guess is that upgrading would cause the same problems, as network manager would also be upgraded. I don't know how much work it would take (or if it is possible) to use the old network manager. It's beyond my scope :) sorry.
Kory

---

### Post by alexpwalsh on 2008-11-07
I have a friend who is more familiar with linux than I and I'm getting him to have a look at it... but he's not having any luck either... we're thinking about using an older kernel....

---

### Post by gali98 on 2008-11-07
Found this post which may be of some help:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6125655&postcount=24](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6125655&postcount=24)
Kory

---

### Post by alexpwalsh on 2008-11-25
Ok, well.. nothing works... my friend tried some stuff with a custom kernel and it didnt work... I'm totally lost... at this point I'm really hoping that Jaunty will have the answers I seek....

---

### Post by vsound on 2009-02-18
Let me summarize whats happening to me as well:
I never got nm working with PEAP TKIP WEP2 configuration. My SSID is PAL2.0. It is a hidden network. WICD has problems finding hidden network.

So WICD wont work. The only thing is to play with NM. NM keeps creating entries like wep40 rsn ccmp etc to the nm entries and nm wont connect to the network. Trying to delete the entries is of no use, as they keep coming back. I have no clue what to do.

---

### Post by Favux on 2009-02-18
Hi vsound,

You probably need to remove at least CCMP in the group key.  This may help:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1010650]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1010650")

You will most likely have to experiment to find the right settings, but if you know the router settings it should help.  The key is once you have it set up, record it somewhere.  Because if you click on NM it will overwrite your settings and you'll have to repeat the gconf editing.

---

