---
title: "Frustating external serial dialup modem experience"
date: 2006-06-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by chuckman78 on 2006-06-18
Hi all.

I am trying to make my US Robotics external modem (on COM1, ttys01) work but I have had no luck.

I have been able to use wvdial, seting up the wvdial.conf file, then "sudo wvdial" The program starts, sends de phone number and then waits and waits and waits.... and finally disconnects saying "NO CARRIER DETECTED" first and if in the nexts try it says "dialup time out" or something like that. The thing is that the line is perfect because I can use the modem on WinXP (as I am doing now). I used to use breazy and things worked right, what could be happening? Thanks ind advance for your time and help.

Regards,

Carlos.
chuckman78 is offline   	Reply With Quote

---

### Post by zxee on 2006-06-19
There appear to be problems with internet & networking in dapper.
I have my external modem working ( I'm using it right now) by using pppconfig (from a shell) and modem monitor to connect. Modem monitor is a little quirky though. You can't change settings in it. Try pppconfig and if you still have problems report back. Hope that helps.

---

### Post by chuckman78 on 2006-06-20
Hi zxee, thanks for the reply.

I have already tried pppconfig with pon and poff and plog and I get the same results as with wvdial. It looks like there is a serious bug with Dapper and some external dialup serial modems. I have no idea of what can I do now. It is a shame because I really like Ubuntu but I need the net conection (who doesn´t?) .

Regards,

Carlos.

---

### Post by zxee on 2006-06-21
I would take a look at /etc/chatscripts. Did pppconfig create a correct file for your isp, and does etc/resolv.conf have the correct server address #'s?
Of course considering that internet configuration was breezy in breezy (sorry I could resist that) dapper's connection problems are irritating. Consider taking the poll I posted on this problem in networking.

---

### Post by chuckman78 on 2006-06-22
Hi again zxee,


   Sorry for the late reply. 

I think I am getting nuts. I have just reinstalled Breazy (for testing) and could you believe that now the internet conection DOESN'T WORK? I am beginning to think my ISP is rejecting any of my UBUNTU´s connections.


By the way, this /etc/chatscripts file is called CANTV and it says:

# This chatfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.10.
# Please do not delete any of the comments.  Pppconfig needs them.
# 
# ispauth PAP
# abortstring
ABORT BUSY ABORT 'NO CARRIER' ABORT VOICE ABORT 'NO DIALTONE' ABORT 'NO DIAL TONE' ABORT 'NO ANSWER' ABORT DELAYED
# modeminit
'' ATZ
# ispnumber
OK-AT-OK "ATDT,0,05000992000"
# ispconnect
CONNECT \d\c
# prelogin

# ispname
# isppassword
# postlogin

# end of pppconfig stuff

The resolv.conf file is empty.

Now, I am officially lost.

Regards,

Carlos.

---

### Post by zxee on 2006-06-22
> The resolv.conf file is empty.
That file should not be empty. You should have nameserver followed by the address i.e. a string of numbers seperated by decimal points. Maybe you can refer to your windows install to find what should go in there or check with your isp?

For an example here's a resolv.conf (you can't use these numbers though you need to find out what's suppose to be in there for your isp)

nameserver 64.136.173.5
nameserver 64.136.164.77

---

### Post by chuckman78 on 2006-06-22
Hi, again.

I found my ISP`s nameservers and used then in the resolv.conf but still no joy. By the way, let me put something a putted in the other thread, might be informative:

Hi and thanks for your time and help.

I tried the “Stupid mode = yes” suggestion and the other option too but no luck at all.

Below is the sudo wvdialconf /etc/wvdial.conf log:


carlos@mbubuntu:/etc$ sudo wvdialconf /etc/wvdial.conf
Scanning your serial ports for a modem.

ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 Z -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Modem Identifier: ATI -- 5601
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 4800: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 9600: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 19200: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 38400: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 57600: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 115200: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Max speed is 115200; that should be safe.
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud
ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.
Port Scan<*1>: S2   S3   S4   S5   S6   S7   S8   S9
Port Scan<*1>: S10  S11  S12  S13  S14
ttyS15<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
ttyS15<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud
ttyS15<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.
Port Scan<*1>: S16  S17  S18
Port Scan<*1>: S19  S20  S21  S22  S23  S24  S25  S26
Port Scan<*1>: S27  S28  S29  S30  S31  S32  S33  S34
Port Scan<*1>: S35  S36  S37  S38  S39  S40  S41  S42
Port Scan<*1>: S43  S44  S45  S46  S47  S48  S49
ttyS50<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
ttyS50<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud
ttyS50<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.
ttyS51<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
ttyS51<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud
ttyS51<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.
ttyS52<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
ttyS52<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud
ttyS52<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.
ttyS53<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
ttyS53<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud
ttyS53<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.

Found a modem on /dev/ttyS0.
Modem configuration written to /etc/wvdial.conf.
ttyS0<Info>: Speed 115200; init "ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0"

This is my wvdial.conf file:

[Dialer Defaults]
Modem = /dev/ttyS0
Baud = 115200
Carrier Check = no
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ISDN = 0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
Phone = ,X,XXXXXXXXXXX
Username = XXXXXXXXXXXX
Password = XXXXXXXXXXX

And here the result of sudo wvdial:

carlos@mbubuntu:/etc$ sudo wvdial
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.54.0
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATDT,X,XXXXXXXXXXX
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATDT,X,XXXXXXXXXXX
NO CARRIER

(HERE, THE MODEM BEEPS AND CHIRPS AS NORMAL BUT ABRUPTLY STOPS AT SOME POINT)

--> No Carrier!  Trying again.
--> Sending: ATDT,X,XXXXXXXXXXX
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATDT,X,XXXXXXXXXXX
--> Timed out while dialing.  Trying again.
--> Sending: ATDT,X,XXXXXXXXXXX
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATDT,X,XXXXXXXXXXX
Caught signal #2!  Attempting to exit gracefully...
--> Disconnecting at Fri Jun 23 22:40:02 2006

It looks like if at some point the ISP hangs me out. I think I have read something about a “noauth” problem, does it got something to do with this? Once again, thanks for your time and help.

Regards,

Carlos.

---

### Post by jhofmann on 2006-06-24
This is stuped, I know, but are you sure of your phone number?  From what you 
posted from wvdial, it sounds like whatever answered the phone after the ATDT modem command wasn't a computer.

---

### Post by zxee on 2006-06-24
Chuckman78, there have been two threads you have posted this to and I don't recall which one we dealt with permissions on but I may have stumbled onto something. I realize that I copied over my /usr/sbin/pppd from slackware. I know that to be the case because I have a pppd.old there. And permissions are IMO really screwed up on the default dapper install.
I'm going to post the permissions from dapper. The pppd is the one I copied from slack to get dial out working_I should take better notes-I know!

root@runecaster:/mnt/hdf1/usr/sbin# ls -la pppd
-rwsr-x---  1 john 1000 378632 2005-09-04 13:27 pppd   <this is the pppd from slackware

root@runecaster:/mnt/hdf1/usr/sbin# ls -la pppd.old
-rwxrwxrwx  1 root daemon 257720 2006-02-23 11:33 pppd.old  < this wouldn't work unless you belong to group daemon 

root@runecaster:/mnt/hdf1/usr/sbin#                
root@runecaster:/mnt/hdf1/dev# ls -la ttyS0
crw-rw----  1 root games 4, 64 2006-02-08 07:58 ttyS0

I'm not in the ubuntu install-just accessing it from another distro.
There are other problems with ppp in ubuntu but making sure that your user can execute pppd is essential.  I don't know if having root own pppd is a problem in ubuntu but since I'm the only one using this computer it was easier just to have me own it. Hope that helps.

---

### Post by TheTank on 2006-06-24
Hi. Just signed up to help as I am having similar problems and currently on my mother-in-laws pc trying to get the thing running.
I'm pretty much a linux noob (very basic knowlage).

I have the same modem and can conntect to the i-net.
Thing is I used the standard way via the system->admin->networking and it works.
That is until I close the window. Then the browsers cannot access anything anymore.

This might or might not have something to do with your problem.
If not maybe someone can help me out anyway.

---

### Post by TheTank on 2006-06-24
another thing I just noticed.
my modem is *not* listed in the devices.

edit:
ok mapped it and nothing changed.
Though I did notice that pages I have open can be refreshed but new ones, pointing to some place I have not yet been, will not.

---

### Post by zxee on 2006-06-24
Tank I read your 1st post here and if I'm understanding you then what you're discribing is normal behavior e.g. if you close the app that allows you to start your internet connection-it's the same as closing the connection. Although admittedly not all distros work that way. Just minimize the network app don't close it.

Added: To Patb, Yeah you're right it should not close the connection, and it doesn't close the connection in breezy, FC5, et al, but I've actually experianced that it does that in dapper.

---

### Post by Patb on 2006-06-27
[QUOTE=zxee]if you close the app that allows you to start your internet connection-it's the same as closing the connection. Although admittedly not all distros work that way. Just minimize the network app don't close it.[/QUOTE]
Zxee, that is not my experience.  In the system>administration>networking dialog, you have the option to Activate or Deactivate the dial-up connection.  If you close the dialog, the connection just remains in the state it was in, ie if you have Activated it, it remains connected.  That said, I agree it would be best just to minimise the network app while connected.  

Tank, I've looked at your post on 192222 as well as this thread.  Let's just stick to this thread.  What is the name of the dial-up connection you have configured under system>administration>networking?  (eg mine was "ppp0" before I changed things).  Secondly, if you have a provider options file under /etc/ppp/peers/ of the same name, could you please post the contents of that (deleting any personal bits of course).  Finally could you post just the uncommented lines from /etc/ppp/options.  

This might shed some light on your problem. 

Cheers, Pat.
-------
Edit:
[QUOTE=zxee]Yeah you're right it should not close the connection, and it doesn't close the connection in breezy, FC5, et al, but I've actually experianced that it does that in dapper.[/QUOTE]
Oops, okay, sorry.  :oops:  I was actually recalling the setup I had with Breezy, not Dapper.  Cheers, Pat

---

### Post by chuckman78 on 2006-06-28
Guys, right now I have almost given up with my external USRobotics modem. Right now I am trying a winmodem with an Intel 537EP chipset. Details at the thread:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205432](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205432)

Thanks all for your kind help and time. I will try again later.

Regards, 

Carlos.

---

### Post by chuckman78 on 2006-07-06
Hi, guys.

I have compiled a little Howto about all this 537EP stuff. you can find it here:

<[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=209840]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=209840")>

Regards,

Carlos.

---

### Post by chuckman78 on 2006-10-27
Hi all.

In case you are still interested, I got the external modem working, follow this link and post there, please.

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1673661#post1673661]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1673661#post1673661")

Regards,

Carlos.

---

