---
title: "[10.10] Can't use wireless and eth0 at the same time"
date: 2011-03-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by furryboi69 on 2011-03-19
Alright, so I'm trying to use eth0 (LAN hooked up to a ethernet switch that goes to my desktop, no internet access intended) and my wifi (Internet connection, LAN network connected to whole household) at the same time. It sounds simple to do, but I can't get it to work.

If I disable one, the other works perfectly. Can anybody help me? I have everything working except them at the same time.

---

### Post by godofmischief on 2011-03-19
Im actually having a very similar problem.  I use a wired lan for to a network storage device I have. By design this doesn't have internet connectivity.  I have a wireless LAN segment everything connects to the internet with.  In the past this hadn't been a problem, all I had to do is set the metric value for each adapter.  Lower the number the higher the priority in Windows 7.  Give the higher priority to the adapter that is intended to have internet connectivity.  Worked fine.  I found similar options in ubuntu, I have even had it working, but everytime i reboot the box it quits working and I have to play with it to get it working again.  Really a hassle. For my wired connection, I have to set it to auto DHCP to work initially, then after it connects, I can set it to Link-Local Only.  As long as that still works, then i can connect to my wifi.  This is ridiculous, there has to be an easier way.

---

### Post by furryboi69 on 2011-03-20
Just tried that. Had to play with it for a bit, but it worked.

I would just accept this but it would be annoying to have to toy around with my laptop's horrible trackpad every reboot. (I use Synergy for a windows <-> ubuntu mouse)

---

### Post by godofmischief on 2011-03-20
I have it working now stable through reboots.  Only issue im currently having is when i boot into XBMC rather than Gnome.  That's still a bit quirky.
 
Here's what mine looks like.
 
 
eth0 
IPv4 Settings
       Set manual IP        192.168.1.5
                   Gateway    192.168.1.1
                         DNS    192.168.1.1
     Now set Routes. 
                             IP   192.168.1.5
                      Subnet   255.255.255.0
                    Gateway   192.168.1.1
                        Metric   10
 
I also checked use this connection only for resources on its network.
 
wlan0
IPv4 Settings
Set manual     IP          192.168.43.100
            Gateway          192.168.43.1
                  DNS          192.168.43.1
Now set Routes. 
                     IP          192.168.43.100
               Subnet         255.255.255.0
             Gateway        192.168.43.1
                 Metric        1
 
With this configuration i have access to my lan segment that has the hard wired network storage, while maintaining an internet connection via my wifi lan segment.

---

### Post by furryboi69 on 2011-03-20
Awesome, thanks! :D

That worked perfectly. (Used 10.33.1.x for the network but thats just my preference and doesn't really matter. Easier to remember since my wifi is 10.32.1.x)

---

