---
title: "Help! Lost the Internet!"
date: 2006-10-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Kalinda on 2006-10-20
Okay.. this is all rather silly.. but.. I was having speed issues, so I downgraded to KDE 3.5.4 from 3.5.5. It fixed the issues, thankfully.. but I had to do it in an annoying way. My KDE is customized up the wazoo; I had removed Kubuntu-desktop and a load of programs that come with a standard Kubuntu install because I don't use them.. so I had no idea how to downgrade without the metapackage.

So I installed Gnome, booted into it, removed KDE, then installed KDE 3.5.4, then booted into it and removed Gnome. But there was a bunch of Gnome stuff left over... so I went through and deleted programs I didn't need.. then I rebooted.. and BAM! No Internet! I can connect to my Samba network and my router just fine, but opening Firefox takes me to a "not found" page straight away; it doesn't even try to load. I also can't download anything via apt.

My guess is I removed something.. I'm attaching a text file from my /var/log of all the packages I removed before the reboot. Maybe there's something in there I shouldn't have deleted... hopefully someone will know...

Or should I try something else? The ethernet card is installed and everything... ](*,)

In hindsight, I probably should've just installed kubuntu-desktop again.. and then tried downgrading.. but I looked around and couldn't find much info on a for sure/safe way to do it that wouldn't result in me having to reinstall >__<

Thanks!

---

### Post by soop on 2006-10-20
Can you ping external hosts? "ping www.google.com"

Can you ping an external ip address? "ping 72.14.203.99"

have you tried "/etc/init.d/networking restart"?

check your info in /etc/networking/interfaces and make sure it still makes sense ... "more /etc/networking/interfaces"

If you can ping an ip address but not the host then you're having name resolution issues, check to make sure you have dns servers identified in /etc/networking/interfaces

Aside from that let me know what else happens and we'll work it from there


Cheers,

M.

---

### Post by Kalinda on 2006-10-20
Alright, I fixed it.. with the help of your commands.. but the problem was really because it was set to static IP. So I changed it back to DHCP.

However, now I can't make it static again without going back to square one.. and I would like to because Azureus works best that way...

The interfaces file was all okay; I tried adding my DNS to it and that didn't work (unless I did it wrong)... I put it below all the other things for my eth0 card and wrote "dns *insertDNShere*" and then saved it and it didn't help. Previously, btw, the static IP stuff was defined via KControl, not the interfaces file itself and it worked well, so I don't have much experience messing around with the interfaces file.

Also, before changing it to DHCP, pinging google.com didn't work, but pinging the IP did.

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by lloyd_b on 2006-10-21
When you switch from DHCP to static IP's, you probably need to make a change to "/etc/resolv.conf" as well.  This is where the nameservers (DNS) are defined.

In "resolv.conf", delete any lines starting with "nameserver", then add in your correct nameserver:
**nameserver 192.168.0.1**

(assuming that your nameserver is in fact at 192.168.0.1)
(which it may be!)

Lloyd B.

---

### Post by Kalinda on 2006-10-21
Alright; thanks for reminding me about resolv.conf! However.. oh dear..

I already have one... I remember creating it to make this work in the first place, when it actually worked. The one I've got now, however, that is located in /etc/ is a link to /etc/resolvconf/run.. and the run folder is in turn linked to /var/run/resolvconf. I'm pretty sure it wasn't all weird like that when I originally set this up, that I merely created one file and it worked.. now that file is magically a link...

Regardless, I deleted the file.. and the link. Deleting the link in /etc messed up the Internet, even with dhcp turned on.. so I put it back, since it changes when I change the other file. The original file immediately recreated itself, of course.

Anyway, here are the contents of my resolv.conf, with DNS censored :)

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.***.***.***
```

That nameserver up there isn't my actual DNS (according to my router page), but it's my router's IP address instead... that's what it changes back to when I set it to DHCP, even if I'd modified it.

If I change it to static, it removes the nameserver line and adding one in doesn't do anything. I tried deleting the file and making a blank one and rebooting, but that didn't help, either. I then deleted everything in the file and added my own "nameserver" line, but no cigar.

That file seems to be designed for dynamic, judging by what it says at the top. Is it suppose to look like that?

Is there some way I can kill everything related to static IP and start from scratch, without reinstalling?

Thanks!

---

### Post by lloyd_b on 2006-10-21
First, that setup you have with resolv.conf linking to somewhere else is NOT what I would call normal - I've been playing with Linux boxes for over 10 years and have never seen that before.  But then again, I've always avoided DHCP (I prefer to have static addresses on all computers - makes it easier to hunt down the culprit when something goes wrong).

> That nameserver up there isn't my actual DNS (according to my router page), but it's my router's IP address instead... that's what it changes back to when I set it to DHCP, even if I'd modified it.


If you're using a DSL or a cable modem, it is quite normal to have the modem as the nameserver (I'm assuming you're talking about such a modem when you refer to a "router" - it's actually both a modem and a router).  The Cable/DSL modem takes the name lookup request, and forwards it to your ISP's real nameserver. 

BTW: Don't worry too much about posting 192.168.x.x IP addresses.  Those are "non-routable" addresses, used only within private networks.  When your requests hit the "router", it relays them using a different (routable) IP.  There's no way anyone can use that address to get to your machines unless he/she is connected on *your* side of the router.

> If I change it to static, it removes the nameserver line and adding one in doesn't do anything. I tried deleting the file and making a blank one and rebooting, but that didn't help, either. I then deleted everything in the file and added my own "nameserver" line, but no cigar.

When you tried adding your own nameserver line, did you use that 192.x.x.x IP (your router) or your ISP's nameserver (what the router page *probably* was referring to)?  As I said above, it's quite normal to have your router also serve as your nameserver (and DHCP server and firewall as well).  If it works with that IP in as a nameserver, I'd suggest leaving it that way!

> Is there some way I can kill everything related to static IP and start from scratch, without reinstalling?


From an earlier post, I thought you *wanted* your computer to use a static IP setup.  If so:

Modify the "/etc/network/interface" file so that the "iface eth0" entry looks like this:

iface eth0 inet static
address 192.x.x.x
network 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.x.x.x

Where "address" is the IP address you want for that machine, and "gateway" is the IP address of the router.

Delete "/etc/resolv.conf" (be it a link or a file), and create a new file of that name.  Edit one line into the blank file:
"nameserver 192.x.x.x"

With 192.x.x.x being whatever is currently in resolv.conf (probably your router's IP address).

If what you really want is dynamic (DHCP) addresses, then I'd say if it's working now then leave well enough alone (Maintainers Motto: If It Ain't Broke, Don't Fix It!).

Lloyd B.

---

### Post by Kalinda on 2006-10-22
Well, it appears that no matter what I do, it won't work.

I edited the Interfaces file, as per your solution, and it disabled my ethernet card in System Settings... I had to change it back to DHCP in order for it be enabled again. All along I've been using the GUI, as oppose to editing config files.

After that I tried deleting the offending folders (/etc/resolvconf and /var/resolvconf).. that didn't help, though it now says "starting resolvconf failed" at bootup.. but it still works on DHCP. The folders are still in root's trash, in case I need to put them back. I also created a new, blank resolv.conf..

As I recall, the steps I took to set this up in the first place were:
- Placing in the info on my Ethernet card in System Settings for Manual/Static IP.
- Creating a resolv.conf file in /etc because one doesn't exist prior to that.

Is that correct? I might be remembering wrong, but I'm certain that's all I had to do. I found that information on these forums as well.

I guess it doesn't matter so much, Edgy comes out Thursday.. and I've got other things wrong with my current install anyway... Azureus isn't working too terribly right now, I guess... so I could wait.

Thanks for trying to help me, though :)

---

