---
title: "12.04 wireless problems on HP-Compaq-6730b"
date: 2013-09-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by astephensb on 2013-09-14
I just recently installed 12.04 on this HP and I am having connecting to wireless networks.  I can detect the networks and when I am asked to authenticate the password it will not let me enter an 8 digit password only a 5 or 13 digit password.  Please help! 


lspci -vvnn | grep 14e4
85:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Broadcom Corporation NetLink BCM5787M Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express [14e4:1693] (rev 02)

lshw -C network

PCI (sysfs)  
  *-network               
       description: Wireless interface
       product: PRO/Wireless 5100 AGN [Shiloh] Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 00
       serial: 00:21:5d:ab:c1:cc
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwlwifi driverversion=3.8.0-29-generic firmware=8.83.5.1 build 33692 latency=0 link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abgn
       resources: irq:45 memory:98700000-98701fff
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: NetLink BCM5787M Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:85:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:22:64:5e:04:12
       capacity: 1Gbit/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm vpd msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=tg3 driverversion=3.128 firmware=sb v2.13 latency=0 link=no multicast=yes port=twisted pair
       resources: irq:48 memory:90600000-9060ffff

---

### Post by astephensb on 2013-09-14
WHOA! WHOA! WHOA!  It just let me connect! I am going to reboot and try again.  If all is good, I will consider this solved.

---

### Post by astephensb on 2013-09-14
NOPE! Same problem!

---

### Post by astephensb on 2013-09-14
I semi solved it. I think. After I rebooted, I tired to reconnect and was having the same issue.  Then I opened the Edit Connections tab and I saw I had 2 of the same wireless networks opened.  One said lat used 2 minutes ago and the other said never. Next, I checked the edit tab on each and found that one I connected to, under the wireless security tab, was WPA & WPA Personal was selected automatically.  While when I tired to connect to the other, the WEP40/128-bit Key was selected.  Therefore, I changed the second same wireless network and changed it to WPA & WPA2.  Then I got connected as off this writing.

---

