---
title: "9.04 Can't get wifi working using CISCO Aironet MP1350"
date: 2010-02-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by chuckie002 on 2010-02-23
I'm snookerd:confused:

I've tried to solve this off and on for a few months, but I just can't.  I am a windows engineer but wanted to expand my knowledge to Linux.   I deperately have tried to get WIFI working but it just wont connect.  I am using Ubuntu 9.04 as 9.10 was a problem with video driver.

Initially after build I could see my network on the list, but it was greyed out.  After trying a few things on the forum I have now installed a windows driver using ndisgtk which now means I can choose my wireless network from the list.   Although it does seem to try with the connecting message and asks for the password, it just doesn't connect on.

Things that may be of use
am using WPA/WPA2
hardware of machine is IBM Thinkpad T30 (not one of there better models)
I work from home and my work machine is working fine, along with all the other wireless kit in the house, it's just this machine.

Please help, I just want to now get on and try to use the machine in the real world and see if I can make a permanent switch.

p.s please understand I am a complete novice

---

### Post by chuckie002 on 2010-02-23
I'm snookerd:confused:
 
I've tried to solve this off and on for a few months, but I just can't. I am a windows engineer but wanted to expand my knowledge to Linux. I deperately have tried to get WIFI working but it just wont connect. I am using Ubuntu 9.04 as 9.10 was a problem with video driver.

Initially after build I could see my network on the list, but it was greyed out. After trying a few things on the forum I have now installed a windows driver using ndisgtk which now means I can choose my wireless network from the list. Although it does seem to try with the connecting message and asks for the password, it just doesn't connect on.

Things that may be of use
am using WPA/WPA2
hardware of machine is IBM Thinkpad T30 (not one of there better models)
I work from home and my work machine is working fine, along with all the other wireless kit in the house, it's just this machine.

Please help, I just want to now get on and try to use the machine in the real world and see if I can make a permanent switch.

p.s please understand I am a complete novice

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-02-23
First, let's see if the card has grabbed the appropriate driver, usually *airo*. When it does, a wireless interface is created, sometimes eth1. Please go to Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal and do:```
iwconfig
```If you see a wireless interface, something like this, we already almost done:```
 iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

irda0     no wireless extensions.

eth1      IEEE 802.11abg  ESSID:"mylilrouter"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.412 GHz  Access Point: 99:24:56:2A:97:29   
          Bit Rate:54 Mb/s   Tx-Power=20 dBm   Sensitivity=8/0  
          Retry limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=85/100  Signal level=-45 dBm  Noise level=-85 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0
```Next, assuming, you have a wireless interface, let's find out if the firmware in your Aironet supports WPA/WPA2. Please do:```
sudo iwlist eth1 auth
```Substitute the wireless interface you got, if not eth1. If WPA is supported, you should see something like:> eth1      Authentication capabilities :
		WPA
		WPA2
		CIPHER-TKIP
		CIPHER-CCMP
          Current WPA version :
		Unknown
          Current Key management :
		Unknown
          Current Pairwise cipher :
		Unknown
          Current Pairwise cipher :
		Unknown
          Current TKIP countermeasures : yes
          Current Drop unencrypted : yes
          Current Authentication algorithm :
          Current Receive unencrypted EAPOL : yes
          Current Roaming control : yes
          Current Privacy invoked : yes

If, on the other hand, you have no wireless interface because the card and driver have not matched up, please try to force it with:```
sudo modprobe airo
iwconfig
```Now do you have an interface? If not, we need to do some diagnostics. Please then post:```
dmesg | grep airo
```My little T30 worked fine for web surfing, email, instant messaging and light duty processes. My sister enjoys it today!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-02-24
Please don't create multiple threads on the same subject. I have merged your two threads.

---

### Post by headfirst_for_halos on 2010-03-17
Hey, I tried what chili555 said but I can't get the wifi to work and when I used the code ```
dmesg | grep airo
```

Here's what I got:

```
juanpa@juanpa-laptop:~$ dmesg | grep airo
[  118.566927] airo(): Probing for PCI adapters
[  118.567023] airo 0000:02:02.0: PCI INT A -> Link[LNKC] -> GSI 11 (level, low) -> IRQ 11
[  118.567061] airo(): Found an MPI350 card
[  119.584502] airo(eth1): Firmware version 5.60.07
[  119.584508] airo(eth1): WPA supported.
[  119.584513] airo(eth1): MAC enabled 00:02:8a:9e:12:92
[  119.584585] airo(): Finished probing for PCI adapters
[  119.963334] airo(eth1): set_wep_key: key length to set was zero
[  119.963347] airo(eth1): failed to set WEP key at index 0: -1.
[  119.964418] airo(eth1): set_wep_key: key length to set was zero
[  119.964433] airo(eth1): failed to set WEP key at index 1: -1.
[  119.964505] airo(eth1): set_wep_key: key length to set was zero
[  119.964514] airo(eth1): failed to set WEP key at index 2: -1.
[  119.964567] airo(eth1): set_wep_key: key length to set was zero
[  119.964576] airo(eth1): failed to set WEP key at index 3: -1.
[  119.972233] airo(eth1): cmd:1 status:7f01 rsp0:88 rsp1:ff10 rsp2:c0f0
[  119.972249] airo(eth1): Bad MAC enable reason=88, rid=ff10, offset=49392
[  120.051489] airo(eth1): cmd:103 status:7f03 rsp0:0 rsp1:ff10 rsp2:c0f0
[  125.477062] airo(eth1): cmd:103 status:7f03 rsp0:0 rsp1:ff10 rsp2:c0f0
[  145.476383] airo(eth1): cmd:103 status:7f03 rsp0:0 rsp1:ff10 rsp2:c0f0
```

Tell me, what should I do now?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-17
> set_wep_key: key length to set was zero
 airo(eth1): failed to set WEP key at index 0: -1.Let's try to solve the issues from top to bottom and maybe the later ones will go away.

When you tried to connect, were you prompted for an encryption key? Are you using WEP? It seems to think the key was not supplied as requested.

---

### Post by headfirst_for_halos on 2010-03-17
Ok, I'll explain what I did step by step to see if it helps.

First, I ran the command
```
iwconfig
```

And I got something like this:

[http://yfrog.com/6zscreen1slp]("http://yfrog.com/6zscreen1slp")

As the ethl part was missing I used the other code
```
sudo modprobe airo
iwconfig
```

And the result was:

[http://yfrog.com/6zscreen2hop]("http://yfrog.com/6zscreen2hop")

So to answer your questions in a simpe but honest way:
If by encryption key you mean my password for the computer: yes it asked for it. Terminal didn't showed anything else.

And how do I know if i'm using WEP?

Sorry, I don't know much about those terms

P.S: If there's another way to activate my wifi please let me know)

EDIT: 
I'll give you some of my computer specifications:
+IBM Thinkpad T30
+I've read that it has an integrated cisco aironet card wich should work with ubuntu
+Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala Installed and another partition with Windows XP (Windows works improperly so i'm going to have someone reinstall it)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-17
Did you click the Network Manager icon? Do you see your network? Can you select it and try to connect? Please see attached.

---

### Post by headfirst_for_halos on 2010-03-17
I can see the network manager but there are no wireless networks show up.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-18
Please try:```
sudo iwlist eth1 scan
```You don't have to post the whole thing, just tell me if you see your network or some error message.

If you see your network, do you see any indications of encryption? Here is an example:> eth1      Scan completed :
          Cell 01 - Address: 99:24:56:2A:D7:88
                    ESSID:"mylilrouter"
                    Protocol:IEEE 802.11bg
                    Mode:Master
                    Frequency:2.462 GHz (Channel 11)
                    [COLOR="Red"]Encryption key:on[/COLOR]
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s
                              9 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Quality=89/100  Signal level=-40 dBm  
                    IE: IEEE 802.11i/[COLOR="Red"]WPA2[/COLOR] Version 1
                        Group Cipher : CCMP
                        Pairwise Ciphers (1) : CCMP
                        Authentication Suites (1) : PSK
                    Extra: Last beacon: 16ms ago

---

### Post by headfirst_for_halos on 2010-03-18
It says: "No scan results"

---

### Post by tenwiseman on 2010-05-28
> **headfirst_for_halos said:**
> It says: "No scan results"

You have network-manager trying to talk to the card (probably repeat failing to connect to your access point) at the same time you've got a terminal window open.

Either stop use of NetworkManager and use /etc/network/interfaces or edit the current connections in NetworkManager to stop automatic connection of the wireless profile.

You'll then find terminal commands like 

```

sudo iwlist eth1 scan
iwconfig etc....

```

will work!

However, that's where I'm currently at with my Cisco Aironet 350 PCMCIA Card (different to your PCI one), and probably not too far away with getting WPA working without going through ndiswrapper.

Hopefully :-)

BTW I'm running Lubuntu 10.04 (uname -r = 2.6.32-22-generic) and attempting getting this going raw in terminal before getting gritty with NetworkManager which only finds WEP (not WPA).

Given that this post is for a different Cisco wireless card and OS, I'll start a new topic for mine.

---

### Post by telewatho on 2010-06-01
I have a Cisco Aironet PCI wireless card. Not sure it's the same one. However, I am getting exactly the same results as you. iwconfig shows *both* eth1 and wifi0 interfaces and my dmesg output is the same.

And yet "sudo iwlist eth1 scan" and "sudo iwlist wifi0 scan" BOTH say no scan results.
This happens regardless of whether nm-applet is running or not (nm-applet shows "disconnected" for both wired and wireless).

My /etc/network/interfaces file contains only the loopback interface.

/etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf shows "managed=false" for ifupdown (is this correct?)

The CISCO AIRONET PCI card has two lights on the back of it, green and amber.  The green is off, and the amber has a pattern: 2-flash...pause....1-flash...pause....
From the CISCO website,
[http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/wireless/wlan_adapter/350_cb20a/user/windows/1.0/configuration/guide/win5_c10.html#wp1020111](http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/wireless/wlan_adapter/350_cb20a/user/windows/1.0/configuration/guide/win5_c10.html#wp1020111)
I have interpretted this as meaning:
"A configuration error has occurred (for example,  static WEP is enabled in ACU, but the client adapter has not been  programmed with a valid WEP key). Recheck your client adapter's  configuration settings"

I do not think my card has WEP

Many thanks in advance for your help 8-[

(by the way, my card name is Cisco Aironet PC4800 :-) )

---

### Post by tenwiseman on 2010-06-20
See this thread.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1514304](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1514304)

---

