---
title: "8.04.3 LTS &amp; VLAN Support : Broken?"
date: 2009-12-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dmfh on 2009-12-28
All:

At a new company facility (I'm one of the sysadmins and also the network architect), I decided to configure up my Ubuntu 8.04.3 LTS box, a 32-bit Intel box with an Intel reference motherboard that uses the e100 driver, to use 802.1Q VLAN support.

After making sure the appropriate modules were indeed available and loaded, and also configuring up the Cisco Catalyst 6500 switch port to support trunking, I'm able to create my two Ethernet interfaces eth0.xxx and eth0.yyy, put the configuration for them in /etc/network/interfaces and have them configured up just fine.

That's where the oddness starts. 

I've found that only one of the VLAN interfaces will receive traffic at a time and process it, so, if I ifconfig down eth0.xxx, eth0.yyy will respond to PING and accept SSH traffic, etc. and vice-versa. 

There is indeed no host-based firewall active here, nor is UFW running nor configured.

A tcpdump of the interface being unresponsive actually shows the traffic arriving on the interface, but no traffic ever leaves the interface - bizarre.

I also considered maybe Linux is confused since the two VLAN interfaces have the same L2 MAC address - this shouldn't be a problem, L2 addresses are only L2 significant, but just in case, I changed one of the VLAN MAC addresses with macchanger, made sure the Cisco 6500 recognized it and had the correct ARP entry, and got the same result.

Another idiosyncracy I've noticed is that VLAN interfaces don't seem to work at all unless you ifconfig up the "root" eth0 interface.

Any suggestions? I've done enough troubleshooting here I feel that I'm ready to go post a bug report against this kernel version, or the network driver.

---

### Post by suseendranrb on 2009-12-29
Hi,
   Let me know if this link can solve your problem. Read carefully the Step #2 ..

[http://community.brocade.com/home/docs/DOC-1650;jsessionid=4C39FAAFC0A424610A23302994DB4961](http://community.brocade.com/home/docs/DOC-1650;jsessionid=4C39FAAFC0A424610A23302994DB4961)

I guess your problem must be related to ARP so you need to modify the /proc values using the /etc/sysctl.conf..

---

