---
title: "[8.10] Wireless Problem"
date: 2009-04-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Dale Hay on 2009-04-20
Hey,

You've probably had this asked a million times, however I'm going to make it a million and one.

**How do I get my wireless working on Unbuntu 8.10?**

I've followed the guides - but seem to be too thick to understand them. Also I _did_ get as far as installing the Windows Driver and it saying something about "Hardware Supported" - or something like that, but then I found somewhere that if you're using a certain type of Wireless Card then you need to have version 1.*blah* so I had to change it and nothing still is happening.

Just a basic run through of what I have...

eMachines E510 Laptop
Microsoft Windows Vista Home Basic [32bit] (with Ubuntu 8.10 [dual-booted])
Wireless Card (built-in): Atheros 5007EG

Also I've got the Wireless Driver too ("netathr.inf")

- Now luckily I have another laptop here with me that is able to get online, otherwise I would be stumped, so any advice would be great.

Also *please* don't put a link to the guide, because as I've said... I've tried following it but I'm too thick to understand it.

Thanks :D

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-04-20
Have a look at the [8.10 release notes](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810). Look at section 4-3: Atheros driver not enabled.

If you don't want to install the linux-backports-modules-intrepid-generic package, why not try Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty)? It will be released in 3 days, or you could get yourself the release candidate version and avoid the rush. With a newer kernel (and hence newer drivers) your wireless device will probably work out of the box with Jaunty.

Explanation. It was only just over a year ago that Atheros committed itself to working with the Linux community. But it takes time for newly-developed drivers to be incorporated into the kernel by the kernel devs, and for the newer kernels to trickle downstream to Ubuntu. Version 8.10 was a bit of an inbetween release for Atheros wireless for that reason. Hence the release note. The situation is much better for 9.04 and, hopefully, your particular Atheros chipset has a much better chance of working.

---

### Post by Dale Hay on 2009-04-20
> **coffeecat said:**
> Have a look at the [8.10 release notes](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810). Look at section 4-3: Atheros driver not enabled.

If you don't want to install the linux-backports-modules-intrepid-generic package, why not try Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty)? It will be released in 3 days, or you could get yourself the release candidate version and avoid the rush. With a newer kernel (and hence newer drivers) your wireless device will probably work out of the box with Jaunty.

Explanation. It was only just over a year ago that Atheros committed itself to working with the Linux community. But it takes time for newly-developed drivers to be incorporated into the kernel by the kernel devs, and for the newer kernels to trickle downstream to Ubuntu. Version 8.10 was a bit of an inbetween release for Atheros wireless for that reason. Hence the release note. The situation is much better for 9.04 and, hopefully, your particular Atheros chipset has a much better chance of working.
Ahh, well to save my hours of stressing that I've been enduring today, I'll wait till Jaunty is fully released and grab a copy of that and see if that works. :)

Thanks **coffeecat**

:)

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-04-20
Since I posted I did a forum search, and getting the Atheros 5007 chipset working in 8.10 does take a bit of hacking.

But I [have some good news for you!]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7003623&postcount=102") Isn't that nice? :) Sounds like you'll be installing Jaunty.

**Edit:** by the way, if you do get impatient, there's no real disadvantage to using the release candidate. If you keep it updated, by Thursday it will be the proper release version. I've been running Jaunty since the Beta release and I'm very impressed with it. I won't have to reinstall because with a properly upgraded system I will have the release version on release day. In fact a day or two before, because it takes at least a day for the Ubuntu team to finalise the CD and get it mirrored onto servers around the world.

---

