---
title: "14.04 - Wifi/Bluetooth key not working"
date: 2014-06-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by CwzJptG on 2014-06-24
Hello!!!

Two weeks ago I bought a new laptop. The laptop model is HP Spectre 13 3003es. I installed Ubuntu 14.04 and all works really good. Performance is amazing and I'm very happy with the results.

The only "problem" is that the F12 key "doesn't work" if I press it, nothing happens, even the Orange-White LED remains static; but if i press Fn+F12, the system recognize the key combination as "F12", but  nothing happens again. Brightness, sound, etc. keys works perfectly, without pressing the Fn key.

 F12 key is used to enable/dissable Wifi&Bluetooth, but for that reason i need to enable/dissable manually using the bar icon.

I have tried changing the default kernel for the Liquorix kernel, key reassignment, changing keyboard layout, etc. but without any progress. Does anyone have the same "problem"?

Thank you!!! =)

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2014-06-24
Moved to the **Networking & Wireless** sub-forum.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2014-06-24
Should be able to change in BIOS, look for function key.  As far as the wifi hotkey not working, open terminal and press the hotkey after ```
acpi_listen
``` and see if it registers

---

### Post by CwzJptG on 2014-06-24
The only option in BIOS for that is to alternate the Fn+FXX or FXX buttons. I have tried to change it to see the result, but nothing happens.

If I use that command and I press the F12 key, nothing happens

---

### Post by CwzJptG on 2014-06-27
Finally, I found a solution. Now, I can enable/disable Wi-fi with F12 key (Bluetooth must be enabled/disabled with the application) 

The solution is to add the option "acpi_osi=" to the grub.

$ sudo nano /etc/default/grub

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="acpi_osi="

The only "drawback" is that the brightness % is not displayed now, but this is not important really, because for the videos is really useful not to see the brightness bar :D

Solved.

---

