---
title: "Disable prompt for PUK/PIN for Broadband wireless at startup"
date: 2011-01-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by notafish on 2011-01-13
Hi all,

I've looked quite a bit, but didn't find an answer.

I have a Thinkpad x61s which comes with a "Sierra Wireless Mini Card module".

When I start up my computer, I get prompted for a PUK / PIN.

"Unlocking SIM PUK required" (sorry, this is a direct translation of the French, might not be the exact same words in English)
With three fields to fill:
Code PUK
New PIN Code
Reenter new PIN Code.

I don't have a card in my computer, and broadband mobile is not activated in networkmanager.

Does anyone have an idea how I can disable this prompt (I don't intend to put in a SIM card before some time).

I'm running maverick.

Thanks a lot for your help.

---

### Post by notafish on 2011-03-06
Trying to see if anyone has any idea about this... ?

---

### Post by edenz on 2011-03-16
I have exactly the same problem, although I can offer a few more informations. Perhaps someone could point us in the right direction.

As a setup I have a Dell Latitude E6500 Laptop with a UMTS module and a SIM Card. With Ubuntu 10.4 the Mobile Broadband connection over UMTS was working fine, the PIN for the SIM-Card was stored with the connection and was used automatically whenever I used the connection. I use more than one SIM depending on the country I'm in and, everything worked like it should. No entering of the PIN.

Last weekend I upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10 and now I'm greeted on every login to enter my PIN for the SIM. No matter whether I click that dialogue box away with the Cancel button or enter the correct PIN, I can't see any difference in functionality. In both cases, when I connect to the UMTS-Network manually from the NetworkManager applet, the connection is established correctly and works fine.

From the observation, I guess that the prompt is NOT generated by the NetworkManager when trying to connect to the network but by something else which tries to access the modem independently from data connection. This something has been added in Ubuntu 10.10.

My question now are:

What is trying to access the modem on login?
How can I either tell this thing to store the password in the keyring or disable it?

Thanks for any replies in advance.

Edenz

---

### Post by Abraxax on 2011-07-21
Hi Edenz.

Did you solved the problem?
I have the same prompt after every login.

I want to try to change the pin to nothing but I can't find any program to do this.

Thx
Abraxax

---

### Post by mackiecc on 2011-12-07
I think this is a recognized bug and was fixed in Version 0.9.2 of the network manager.
See [http://askubuntu.com/a/85984/20334](http://askubuntu.com/a/85984/20334)

---

### Post by pipelinepig on 2013-02-11
Unfortunately I also have this problem, despite the fact, that I have Network manger 0.9.4.1 installed at Ubuntu 12.04.1. Thanks for help.

---

