---
title: "10.04 Simple Samba problems"
date: 2010-06-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ptipton on 2010-06-04
I'm having a bit of a nightmare with samba in 10.O4. The machine is set up as a media server and I simply want to give all machines on the network read only access to the media folders with no password required.
I have a very simple smb.conf :
[global]
	workgroup = home
	security = share
	server string = Mediaserver
	guest account = nobody
	encrypt passwords = no
	guest ok = no



[musicmaster]
	comment = Musicmaster
	path = /mnt/musicmaster
	public = yes
	available = yes
	browseable = yes

When i try to access the share from  a windows machine the mediaserver is visible but when try to access get a message :

\\....mediaserver is not accessible. You might not have permission to use this network resource. Contact the administrator of this server to find out if you have access permissions.
The network path was not found

I believe the permissions on /mnt/musicmaster are set correctly and I am able to share this directory using slimserver.

I've looked at all sorts of guides and posts and tried changing many things but nothing works. 
This used to be so simple in previous versions has something changed in 10.04?

---

### Post by Zakhafr on 2010-06-04
Hi,

did you check the permissions of your mount (/mnt/musicmaster) and is it readable AND browsable by others.

---

### Post by ptipton on 2010-06-04
Permissions on /mnt/musicmaster are set at 755

Thanks

---

### Post by JimmieC on 2010-06-04
Did you configure your client hosts file to recognize your server? If not configure your /etc/hosts on your client machine by adding your servers ip address to a new line below the localhost line, something like this:

127.0.0.1 ................. localhost
server ip address ..........Mediaserver

I added the same line to my server /etc/hosts file.

Also, I set my share folder to 777 until I got everything working. 


Jim

---

### Post by ptipton on 2010-06-05
My client machines are windows xp so don't have an etc/host file.
Server has correct ip and name in etc/hosts
Nothing seems to work.
I tried removing all the samba packages, deleting the /etc/samba directory and reinstalling everything and if anything things now worse.
The windows machine cant even find the "home" workgroup.
One thing I don't understand is how the nautilus file sharing works with samba. Setting file sharing in Nautilus doesn't seem to change anything at all.
Very frustrating. Am wondering if there is some way I can reset everything and basically start from scratch.
Thanks

---

### Post by Zakhafr on 2010-06-05
> **ptipton said:**
> My client machines are windows xp so don't have an etc/host file.

XP has /etc/hosts ... it's just in other place, something like C:\Windows\System32\driver\hosts

First thing you want to try is ping between the machines, both ways. That should be done even before trying to samba-share.

If nothing seems to work, Wireshark on both Linux and Windows will give you a clue. Just look at packets coming out of your server and your client, and see where it breaks.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-06-05
Some observations:
In your smb.conf:
> security = share
encrypt passwords = no
    guest ok = noNot sure why you're using "share" level security, the default is "user".
"encrypt passwords" should be set to "yes"
There's nothing really incorrect about having "guest ok = no" in the global section but it is inconsistent with the "     public = yes" ( which translates to "guest ok = yes " ) you have in the share definition.

> One thing I don't understand is how the nautilus file sharing works with  samba. Setting file sharing in Nautilus doesn't seem to change anything  at all.2 different samba methods with two different locations for the share definitions:

Classic-share: shares are defined in [COLOR=Blue]/etc/samba/smb.conf[/COLOR]
Nautilus-share: shares are defined in [COLOR=Blue]/var/lib/samba/usershares[/COLOR] and have a different syntax.
[COLOR=Blue][B]
EDIT:[/B][/COLOR] I should note that it's generally not a good idea to use both Classic and Nautilus samba methods at the same time. It can be done but certainly not on the same target folder.

---

### Post by ptipton on 2010-06-05
I've checked that I can ping both ways between the Ubuntu mediaserver and the xp laptop.
I deleted all the files in /var/lib/usershares so should only be using classic samba.
Changed smb.conf to 
#======================= Global Settings =======================

[global]
	workgroup = home
	security = share
	server string = Mediaserve
	encrypt passwords = yes
	guest ok = yes
	usershare allow guests = yes
	guest account = administrator


[musicmaster]
	comment = Musicmaster
	path = /mnt/musicmaster
	guest ok = yes
	available = yes
	browseable = yes
	writeable = no

All to no avail, when I browse the network I can see another xp machine I have in the Home workgroup but cant see the mediaserver at all.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-06-05
This is a stupid question but you show your [global] section as just a few lines long. Where's the rest of it?

Post the output of the following command so we can see the whole thing:
```
testparm -s
```BTW: the following line in your smb.conf file is for Nautilus-share and will do nothing for Classic-share:
>      usershare allow guests = yesAlso, if that's all you have to smb.conf you have no mechanism to create a guest user ( among other things ). Where is "map to guest = Bad User" ?

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-06-05
You know the more I think about this it may be best to start over again and here's why. Your needs are really very simple:
> I simply want to give all machines on the network read only access to  the media folders with no password required.You should have been able to do this with Nautilus-share, literally, in less that 10 seconds.

Here's my recommendation: make a backup copy of the existing smb.conf file and start over with the original smb.conf.

**(1)** Make sure you have the following file: **/usr/share/samba/smb.conf**

**(2)** Make a copy of your existing smb.conf and replace it with the new one:
```
sudo cp /etc/samba/smb.conf /etc/samba/smb.confORIG 
sudo cp -a /usr/share/samba/smb.conf /etc/samba/ 
```**(3)** There's a mistake in the new smb.conf that needs to be corrected.
```
gksu gedit /etc/samba/smb.conf
``` Find the following line in the [global] section:
> encrypt passwords = falseand change it to true:
```
encrypt passwords = true
```While you're in there add one more line to the [global] section:
```
usershare owner only = False
```Save the file, exit gedit, and back in the terminal restart samba:
```
sudo service smbd restart
sudo service nmbd restart
```**(4)** Use nautilus to share /mnt/musicmaster

Select "Share this Folder" and "Guest Access" only and you should be good to go.

Anyway, something to consider.

---

### Post by ptipton on 2010-06-06
Morbius 1 thanks for your help. I followed you instructions and made some progress as I can now see "Workgroup" and "Tippomediacenter" however when I try and acces it I get the message:

//TIPPOMEDIASERVERtippomediaserver server samba ubuntu is not accessible. You might not have permission to use this resource. Contact the administrator of this server to find out if you have access permission.
The parameter is not correct.

I set /mnt/musicmaster  to 777 but didn't make any difference.

One other question once I get this working is it possible to change the workgroup name from " Workgroup" using the nautilus share ( is it just a matter of changing it in smb.conf?

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-06-06
I really don't know why testparm ( which does a basic test of the smb.conf file for errors ) doesn't flag this but your machine name is too long. 

"Tippomediacenter" is 16 characters long. Machine names have to be 15 characters or less.

The easiest way to correct this is to use smb.conf itself:

Add the following line in the [global] section:
```
netbios name = something
```[COLOR=Blue]*"something" can be anything but it must be 15 characters or less and contain no spaces or "weird" characters.*[/COLOR]

Unless your machines are in different subnets or you're part of a domain you don't have to have all the workgroup names match. But it does keep things "tidy" when they do, so to change it you can modify the "workgroup =" line in smb.conf. 

When you make the two changes above just restart samba and see if it finally fixes this problem [-o<

---

### Post by ptipton on 2010-06-06
Morbius1, that got it!
Thanks again for your help much appreciated.

---

### Post by ptipton on 2010-06-07
Not related to samba but for consistency I decided to change the machine name in /etc/hosts to tippomediaserv as well as in smb.conf
I must have missed something  because I now get the following message in terminal:
administrator@tippomediaserver:~$ sudo gedit /etc/hosts
sudo: unable to resolve host tippomediaserver
administrator@tippomediaserver:~$ 

Obvioulsy there is somewhere else I need to change the name as well as /etc/hosts ?

Thanks

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-06-07
I can never remember it either which is why I change it in samba and ignore the fact that it doesn't match :)

I have bookmarked this though in case anyone asks:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6854899&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6854899&postcount=4)

---

### Post by capscrew on 2010-06-07
The host is always named internally in the /etc/hostname file.  The /etc/hosts file is for external name mapping of the IP address.

OS hostname = /etc/hostname
IP address to name = /etc/hosts

---

### Post by ptipton on 2010-06-07
Thanks capscrew, sorted now.

---

