---
title: "Host name issue"
date: 2014-08-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by boopalan2 on 2014-08-03
Hi,

I'm a newbie. I just installed Ubuntu Server 14.04.1 in VMWare player from Windows 7. After installing I changed host name by editing /etc/hosts and /hosts/hostname and rebooted.
Later I tried to access Ubuntu from Putty.exe, I got this error -> "Unable to open connection to bn-ushna, Host does not exist"
Then I tried to access by Ubuntu's IP address, I was able to connect.
[B]
Here my query is, what I have to do, if I want to connect via host name also?[/B]

Few details are below:
--------------------------------------------------
bn-usuna@bn-ushna:/etc$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1    localhost
127.0.1.1       bn-ushna    

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
bn-usuna@bn-ushna:/etc$ 
--------------------------------------------------

bn-usuna@bn-ushna:/etc$ cat /etc/hostname
bn-ushna
bn-usuna@bn-ushna:/etc$ 
--------------------------------------------------
bn-usuna@bn-ushna:/etc$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.127.2
search localdomain
bn-usuna@bn-ushna:/etc$ 
------------------------------------------------
bn-usuna@bn-ushna:/etc$ host -v bn-ushna
Trying "bn-ushna.localdomain"
[COLOR=#ff0000];; connection timed out; no servers could be reached[/COLOR]
bn-usuna@bn-ushna:/etc$ 

-----------------------------------------------
bn-usuna@bn-ushna:/etc$ host 192.168.127.2
[COLOR=#ff0000]Host 2.127.168.192.in-addr.arpa. not found: 3(NXDOMAIN)[/COLOR]
bn-usuna@bn-ushna:/etc$ 

------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by zircon009 on 2014-08-04
Assuming you manage your own local dns resolver server, you need to add a "A" record to the dns server the remote machine using putty, is using. It will know nothing about the stuff you have done on the ubuntu machine.  You could also add a host entry, if you are not able to do this.  I would imagine this is your best option based on the question.  Since you mention you are using putty, that means you are on Windows. At a windows administrative privileges command prompt type in:
notepad %systemroot%\System32\drivers\etc\hosts

Most likely you will create the hosts file(no file extension) in this step. This works on 64/32bit windows.
In the file type the following one line:
1.1.1.1 bn-ushna.localdomain 

Replace the 1.1.1.1 with the ip address of the ubuntu machine, and save the file. You should then be able to putty to bn-ushna.localdomain.

Later.

---

