---
title: "16.04/xfce/xrdp GUI not showing when logging in"
date: 2016-08-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tschetschpi on 2016-08-29
I have a 16.04 box at home that has xfce and xrdp setup on it so I can RDP into it. I opened the owncloud GUI when RDP'd from my laptop on the local network. Now I have to connect from my laptop from on the local network to see it. If I connect from my laptop using my home public IP, I get a desktop but no client. If I try to use my Mac OSX 10.11 or MS official RDP client from my iPad from either local network or remote, I can't see the GUI but have a normal desktop. I would expect that as long as I'm using the same user account (which I am) I should see the GUI no matter what device or location I connect from. Thoughts?

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2016-08-29
*Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless**.*

---

### Post by tschetschpi on 2016-08-31
I'm not sure this is a networking or wireless issue. Is there another category that may get me more help?

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2016-08-31
I think it's the nature of RDP to start an independent session for each connection, isn't it?

If you want to share a desktop, it may be easier using one of the NX based or VNC based solutions

---

### Post by tschetschpi on 2016-08-31
With MS, when you connect via RDP with the same user account regardless of the computer you are using or where you are located you get the same desktop with the application(s) you have up. IE: I start a program on my Windows box while I'm physically in front of it. I walk to the other end of my house and use my iPad to RDP into said Windows box using my account and I see exactly what I saw when I was physically in front of it. I remote into my box from work using RDP and still see the same things I had been using from both physically in front of it and from my iPad. That is the behavior I expect as that is the official RDP behavior.

---

