---
title: "10.04 lts ltsp"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nolo on 2010-05-06
I've been running an LTSP server on 8.04 LTS for a couple of years, with a rag-tag bunch of Windows NT era PC's for Thin Clients booting with pxe. I've been looking forward to a clean new install for 10.04 LTS. I chose a Dell Dimesntion 9200 with 250 GB HD and 1 GB RAM for my new server. I did the LTSP install from the AMD64 Alternate install CD which completed error free. When I was done, I set up a static IP address, our network proxy, edited /etc/ltsp/dhcp.conf and ran "sudo ltsp-build-client --arch i386" to create the images for my older machines.

My older machines seemed to hangup on the splash screen while a newer machine (Dell Vostro 200) boots up nice and quick. With quiet splash disabled, I can see that my NT machines boot right up to "Start Thin Clent" but then every 2 minutes a new error message displays: task blocked for more than 120 seconds.

Did I mess up my installation? If so, why does my newer machine boot while the older ones won't (kinda thought adding life to aging PC's was one of LTSP goals).

BTW: both old and new machines are booting on the i386 images.

Thanks for any light you can shed on this,

Nolo

---

### Post by nolo on 2010-06-14
I've given up on LTSP in Lucid.  I was able to get all my old PC's booted up on it by moving some RAM around so they all had at least 96 MB (previously 64 MB was my low RAM machine).  But shortly after I achieved this, we had a brief power surge and all 5 PC's rebooted simultaneously(the server did not as it was on a UPS).  It took over 10 minutes for them to boot to the login screen.  It rarely takes over a minute or 2 to boot up from my 8.04 LTS server.  That convinced me that somehow the LTSP people have lost their way in the darkness.  I can't throw away old equipment just to load a newer, fatter boot image.

So it's back to my 8.04 server until I can test LTSP with a more streamlined distro.

I don't normally give up this easily, but I have spent a LOT of time on this and it's time to give it a rest.

Nolo

---

### Post by webkris on 2010-06-19
Oh man - 
This is totally disheartening.
I've 'almost' got 10.4 LTSP to work after making out of the box fixes to the DHCP config, etc. I dumped it for a few weeks because of a video issue with a brand new thin client.

I am willing to test and report bugs if I knew someone was working on it. [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ltsp](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ltsp)
LTSP is such a fundamental piece that more should be done to test that it installs and runs out of the box.

I discovered some new info - so I'm trying it again in a test environment (VirtualBox on a XP PC)

8.04 runs and installs like a champ?
I was hoping for a commercial grade solution that could really get Ubuntu in the hands of tons of NEW USERS.

- Kris

---

### Post by expendable_saint on 2010-06-27
I'm not sure this will fix the problem you are facing, but it sounds similar to what happened to me trying to configure ltsp on 9.10.  One of the threads mentioned that ltsp has a problem with compiz.  When I set "visual effects" to none the thin clients worked fine.  Hope this helps.

---

