---
title: "9.10 network share issue"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by quantum8 on 2009-11-02
Hi Guys,
I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 and have been having trouble viewing the contents of folders shared from my network server since the upgrade.

I can see all the folders, but when I go into them from nautilus there's nothing there! Sometimes it looks like it's trying to view the files (the mouse turns into the waiting cursor, and the Ubuntu logo is animating), but other times it gives up instantly and says there's 0 items.

I can see all the files if I navigate to the folder through the terminal however.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by callan79 on 2009-11-03
> **quantum8 said:**
> I can see all the folders, but when I go into them from nautilus there's nothing there! Sometimes it looks like it's trying to view the files (the mouse turns into the waiting cursor, and the Ubuntu logo is animating), but other times it gives up instantly and says there's 0 items.

I can see all the files if I navigate to the folder through the terminal however.


Hi quantum8,

I can't be 100% sure but I think you may be experiencing the same general strangeness as myself, related to networks and samba shares when using karmic.

Check out my thread - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1281411](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1281411)

Summary - the shares mount, but random files are missing in random directories. The shares are mounted with cifs, using the nounix mount option.

If this is the same problem you're having, add noserverino to your mount options - fixed it for me!

More info here - [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+source/linux/+bug/406466](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/+source/linux/+bug/406466)

If this isn't the same problem you're having, apologies in advance.

Cheers
Callan

---

### Post by quantum8 on 2009-11-03
hi callan,
It does seem like the same issue on the surface as I'm using CIFS as well, but unfortunately I never had the nounix option from the start!

here's my fstab:

```
//10.1.1.101/Volume_1    /media/feed_me        cifs    noperm,username=xxxx,password=xxxx,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0
```

I tried adding noserverino but that didn't seem to make a difference either.

After a little digging, it only seems to affect files that I've modified since I upgraded to 9.10..strange...

---

### Post by callan79 on 2009-11-03
> **quantum8 said:**
> After a little digging, it only seems to affect files that I've modified since I upgraded to 9.10..strange...

So you're running a 'real' samba server, as opposed to a NAS device, right?

What does the server show about these files? Is ownership/permissions of the affected files any different to the other files?

Cheers
Callan

---

### Post by wtremmel on 2009-11-04
"noserverino" fixed it for me - in my case **all** files were invisible (server being an Apple Airport).

cheers,
Wolfgang

---

### Post by quantum8 on 2009-11-04
> **callan79 said:**
> So you're running a 'real' samba server, as opposed to a NAS device, right?

What does the server show about these files? Is ownership/permissions of the affected files any different to the other files?

I'm connecting to a dlink 323 NAS server, which I'm pretty sure runs linux. I haven't had any issues with my other machines (win xp, OS X 10.5, ubuntu 9.04) so far

I had a look at the permissions and can see they're all the same:

```
-rwxrwxrwx 1 504 502 350M 2009-10-31 10:19 Chuck 1x01.avi
-rwxrwxrwx 1 504 502 349M 2009-10-31 10:20 Chuck 1x02.avi
-rwxrwxrwx 1 504 502 349M 2009-10-31 10:17 Chuck 1x03.avi
-rwxrwxrwx 1 504 502 349M 2009-10-31 10:18 Chuck 1x04.avi
-rwxrwxrwx 1 504 502 349M 2009-10-31 10:21 Chuck 1x05.avi
-rwxrwxrwx 1 504 502 350M 2009-10-31 10:20 Chuck 1x06.avi
-rwxrwxrwx 1 504 502 350M 2009-10-31 10:19 Chuck 1x07.avi

```

In the nautilus window, I can only see 1x01 and 1x02

---

### Post by callan79 on 2009-11-05
> **quantum8 said:**
> I'm connecting to a dlink 323 NAS server, which I'm pretty sure runs linux. I haven't had any issues with my other machines (win xp, OS X 10.5, ubuntu 9.04) so far


Hi quantum8,

Have you tried the nounix -AND- noserverino options in your fstab? Oh, and remove noperm, as nounix will replace that.

I, too, run a Linux-based NAS. The problem is, the NAS tries to talk Samba Unix Extensions to my machine. Then what ends up happening is the permissions get all messed up ....

eg if I am the FIRST user created on my machine, my user ID is 1001. But on my NAS if I'm the FIFTH user created my user id on the NAS is 1005. So when the unix extensions happen, the NAS tells my computer to set owner of the files to 1005, which it does. But on my machine there is no 1005, so I can't edit the files.

The nounix option tells your Ubuntu smbclient to just mount it, and use owner/permissions that you set manually.

If you've already tried it, apologies in advance. If you haven't, I suggest you remove noperm, and add nounix,noserverino instead.

Note that noserverino is temporary only, due to a kernel bug.

Cheers
Callan

---

### Post by quantum8 on 2009-11-06
thanks Callan, that seemed to do the trick!

---

