---
title: "11.04 Inrernet  EXTREMELY slow."
date: 2011-09-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Wille2113 on 2011-09-11
First of all, I'll probably have a lot of typos. I'm on an iPad. 

Second, I am a complete noob to ubuntu. I am only using it because windows is ugly and boring. 

I am going to give you all that I know. 

I am running 11.04 on a x64 bit system. The OS is fine and not slow but when  I get on the web it is mindblowingly slow. I have used Chrome and Firefox so the browser isnt the problem. 

Driver: rt2800pci 

You will probably need some more information to help me and I will me more than glad to give it to you if you tell me how. (I can not stress "noob" enough.)

---

### Post by shubham1 on 2011-09-11
> **Wille2113 said:**
> First of all, I'll probably have a lot of typos. I'm on an iPad. 

Second, I am a complete noob to ubuntu. I am only using it because windows is ugly and boring. 

I am going to give you all that I know. 

I am running 11.04 on a x64 bit system. The OS is fine and not slow but when  I get on the web it is mindblowingly slow. I have used Chrome and Firefox so the browser isnt the problem. 

Driver: rt2800pci 

You will probably need some more information to help me and I will me more than glad to give it to you if you tell me how. (I can not stress "noob" enough.)
i have the same problem

---

### Post by Linux_junkie on 2011-09-11
Is it just one or two websites that are slow?  I noticed yesterday these forums were running slow for me but other sites were faster.

Could be your internet connection have you contacted your ISP?

---

### Post by andy_spoo on 2011-09-11
If 11.04 is anything like 10.04 then my internet access got really quick when I selected 'restrictive by default' in the 'Firestarter' firewall.

Try it, and just allow HTTP and HTTPS just to try it. If it speeds up, then try to work out what's going on from this start point. 

Also you may need to disable IPV6, which is another common solution.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-09-11
Hi, welcome to the forum! please post the results of these commands here:
```
cat /etc/lsb-release; uname -a
```
```
sudo lshw -C network
```
```
lspci -nn | grep -e 0280 -e 0200
```
```
lsusb
```
```
iwconfig
```
```
rfkill list all
```
```
lsmod
```
```
sudo iwlist scan
```
by clicking on new reply and click # and paste the information between the brackets.
Thank you

---

