---
title: "[15.10] Can't print to synology shared printer"
date: 2016-04-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Taz8du29 on 2016-04-18
Hello !

I don't know why, but ubuntu [15.10] can't print from my shared printer.
Everytime i try to send a job to the printer, Cups says "The printer is in use" (who ? i don't know).
Once i got a "result" with the test page : 20 pages of ... UTF8 characters in a random order. Never worked again.

Here is my setup :

I have a HP Photosmart c5280 usb printer connected to my Synology (DS 415+) server, and setup as Network MFP in the synology UI (under control panel > peripherals > printer).
My printer address is [http://192.168.0.253/usbprinter1](http://192.168.0.253/usbprinter1)

I have two computers :
- a ubuntu 15.10 one, using the default hplip driver, setup to use the directjet protocol
- a windows 7 one, using windows default driver, and an unknown protocol (ipp ? not sure :/ ).

Only the windows PC can print.


Thanks for your help (or just reading this ^^)
Have a nice day !

---

### Post by chili555 on 2016-04-18
> setup to use the directjet protocolI'm not sure I quite understand this. On the Ubuntu computer, I think I'd try the Internet Printing Protocol and use the URI of ipp://192.168.0.253:631/lpr and then let the printer setup look for and use the specific driver for the c5280.

Did you try that?

---

### Post by Taz8du29 on 2016-04-19
I think i already tried with the IPP protocol ... I'll update this post tonight after some tests !

**Edit :**

I tried with driver auto-detection (it recognises an HP 910 printer, and uses hplip 3.15.7)
I tried with the following addresses : ipp://192.168.0.253:631/lpr, ipp://192.168.0.253:631/usbprinter1

No results, still the same error : "The printer configuration is incorrect or the printer no longer exists."
[B]

Edit 2 :

[/B]> 
[QUOTE]setup to use the directjet protocol
                           I'm not sure I quite understand this.
[/QUOTE]

Here is my CUPS' printer setup :
[IMG]http://image.noelshack.com/fichiers/2016/16/1461345362-screenshot-from-2016-04-19-19-37-04.png[/IMG]

Just after that, i get the "printer in use" error.

---

### Post by Taz8du29 on 2016-04-21
Bump ?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2016-04-21
Your image is far too small. We can't see or read it.

---

### Post by Taz8du29 on 2016-04-22
Edited !

---

