---
title: "14.04 64bit wifi connection drops realtek"
date: 2015-10-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by lefebvre2 on 2015-10-03
I recently installed ubuntu 14.04 (dual boot windows 10) for first time and I am having problems with my wifi connection. When I connect there is a connection and I can surf the internet. After some seconds when I try to load a page it keeps forever loading while the signal in the tray still says its connected. This is not a browser issue because the software center cannot make a connection too. Reconnecting solves it but it happens too often to be convenient. I have first searched these forums and tried some things but none of them seems to work (power manager settings and disabling 8.011n). Below are some diagnostic outputs for you guys. If I need to run some more commands in terminal and show you the output please ask. I hope you van help me. Enjoy!

SOLVED:
I had decided to reinstall ubuntu because I had tinkered a lot in wifi  settings following advice from threads dealing with similar problems and  I lost overview. After I reinstalled ubuntu the problem was obviously  still there because that's what got me started. I then turned of the  power management for the wifi running this command in terminal:[HR][/HR]sudo iwconfig wlan0 power off[HR][/HR]following praseodym's advice and now everything works fine. Thank you for the quick responses. The problem returns when rebooting or after relogin. Running iwconfig again states that power management is on again. 
I found a site that explains how to permanently disable power management for wifi: [https://itechscotland.wordpress.com/2011/09/25/how-to-permanently-turn-off-wi-fi-power-management-in-ubuntu/](https://itechscotland.wordpress.com/2011/09/25/how-to-permanently-turn-off-wi-fi-power-management-in-ubuntu/)

rfkill list all
1: acer-wireless: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
2: phy0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no

lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
02:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168/8411 PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet Controller [10ec:8168] (rev 0c)
    Subsystem: Acer Incorporated [ALI] Device [1025:0885]
    Kernel driver in use: r8169
03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation Wireless 3160 [8086:08b3] (rev 83)
    Subsystem: Intel Corporation Dual Band Wireless-AC 3160 [8086:0070]
    Kernel driver in use: iwlwifi

iwconfig
eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11abg  ESSID:"rightValueAndNoneOfYourBusiness"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.437 GHz  Access Point: 5C:35:3B:6C:40:A5   
          Bit Rate=1 Mb/s   Tx-Power=22 dBm   
          Retry short limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management: off
          Link Quality=38/70  Signal level=-72 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:49   Missed beacon:0

lo        no wireless extensions.


cat /etc/lsb-release; uname -a
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=14.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=trusty
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 14.04.3 LTS"
Linux name-Aspire-E5-771G 3.19.0-30-generic #33~14.04.1-Ubuntu SMP Tue Sep 22 09:27:00 UTC 2015 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by praseodym on 2015-10-03
Hi,

turn off the power management:
```

sudo iwconfig wlan0 power off
```

---

### Post by lefebvre2 on 2015-10-03
Thank you for replying. I have executed the command and iwconfig now says power management: off. I will change it in original post. The problem is not solved however.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2015-10-03
Try deactivating the queue of the driver:
```

echo "options iwlwifi wd_disable=1" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
sudo modprobe -rfv iwlwifi
sudo modprobe -v iwlwifi
```

---

### Post by lefebvre2 on 2015-10-04
I had decided to reinstall ubuntu because I had tinkered a lot in wifi settings following advice from threads dealing with similar problems and I lost overview. After I reinstalled ubuntu the problem was obviously still there because that's what got me started. I then turned of the power management for the wifi running this command in terminal:[HR][/HR]sudo iwconfig wlan0 power off[HR][/HR]following praseodym's advice and now everything works fine. Thank you for the quick responses.

---

