---
title: "9.04 - Unable to mount location: Failed to retrieve share list from server"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by NoExQQ on 2009-04-26
Upgraded this weekend to 9.04 and find that I am unable to browse any shares on my windows network. This was working pre-upgrade on 8.x. Tried to troubleshoot and changed my smb.conf file to read Workgroup = MSHOME. Installed gufw to confirm no firewall in place in eth:0. Still no luck. Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-04-26
Does **smbfind** reveal any servers?

---

### Post by johnsdagg on 2009-04-28
i have the same problem - recently installed 9.04 on a new drive but i can still boot into 7.10 off my older drive if i choose. 

samba installed, can see shared folders on 9.04 box from any windows xp box 
BUT 9.04 box is unable to resolve windows hostnames using nautilus 2.26.2. 
i get the following error:
Failed to retrieve share list from server
when i boot into 7.10 i do not have this problem.

i can work around by using ip address; i.e typing the following in nautilus:
smb://192.168.1.100/sharedfolder
but that is not a solution because i have other windows xp boxes on the network with dynamic ip addresses

i'm not using wins on my network. i turned off all firewalls. apparently 9.04 can not perform a netbios name broadcast but 7.10 can.

i've tried every relevant solution i could find on these boards - nothing has helped.

any new ideas would be appreciated,
thanks

---

### Post by DenysT on 2009-04-28
> **johnsdagg said:**
> i have the same problem - recently installed 9.04 on a new drive but i can still boot into 7.10 off my older drive if i choose. 

samba installed, can see shared folders on 9.04 box from any windows xp box 
BUT 9.04 box is unable to resolve windows hostnames using nautilus 2.26.2. 
i get the following error:
Failed to retrieve share list from server
when i boot into 7.10 i do not have this problem.

i can work around by using ip address; i.e typing the following in nautilus:
smb://192.168.1.100/sharedfolder
but that is not a solution because i have other windows xp boxes on the network with dynamic ip addresses

i'm not using wins on my network. i turned off all firewalls. apparently 9.04 can not perform a **netbios name broadcast **but 7.10 can.

i've tried every relevant solution i could find on these boards - nothing has helped.

any new ideas would be appreciated,
thanks

Check your smb.conf and see if name resolve order is commented out, if so uncomment it (i.e. delete the semi-colon) and restart smb. Worked for me.

---

### Post by johnsdagg on 2009-04-28
it is not commented out. it was when i installed samba, so i uncommented it and restarted samba - did not fix problem.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-04-28
> **johnsdagg said:**
> i can work around by using ip address; i.e typing the following in nautilus:
smb://192.168.1.100/sharedfolder
but that is not a solution because i have other windows xp boxes on the network with dynamic ip addresses
Sounds like the **gvfs** problem that began in Hardy.   [This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1135842") thread proposes a solution - in brief, install **winbind** and edit nsswitch.conf to include "wins" after "files" on the "host:" line.

---

### Post by XopherH on 2009-04-28
> **Iowan said:**
> Sounds like the **gvfs** problem that began in Hardy.   [This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1135842") thread proposes a solution - in brief, install **winbind** and edit nsswitch.conf to include "wins" after "files" on the "host:" line.

this did nothing for me.

---

### Post by johnsdagg on 2009-04-29
re: winbind etc. - i tried that, it did not fix my problem.

---

### Post by Yasero on 2009-04-29
I think I had the same problem as the two users/posts above me.

Activate Proposed updates and install nautilus and nautilus-data


Proposed can be activated under System >> Administration >> Software Sources

then choose only the nautilus update, and if you want to remove the proposed source again

worked for me


yasero

---

### Post by XopherH on 2009-04-29
> **Yasero said:**
> Proposed.  nautilus update.

nope.

---

### Post by johnsdagg on 2009-04-30
tried it, did not fix my problem. 
thanks for trying to help.

---

### Post by boofsterb on 2009-04-30
I just upgraded to 9.04 and the same thing happened to me, I can't access windows network. :guitar:

---

### Post by sixscrews on 2009-05-01
Same problem here - I'm not impressed

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-05-01
For more information on this problem (as well as solutions): [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157868&postcount=12](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157868&postcount=12)

If all else fails, you can solve the problem by following the directions in the 2nd link in my sig. This has been my solution since Breezy.

---

### Post by XopherH on 2009-05-07
I got this working with the following:

Places > Connect to Server

Windows Share, Server : LAN IP, Folder: shared folder on server, My server user name, and Domain: your samba workgroup.

smb4k still doesn't connect as well as Network, and this must be done after every reboot. Also, rebooting the server does not allow immediate access to all mounted folders and you have to use the link under Places before the desktop icon will work.

---

### Post by mattgyver83 on 2009-05-08
I had this problem also and tried a lot of whats on this post, though after adding my network computers to /etc/hosts i can now access them their server names as well. 
Granted they always appear connected (which might not be what you want) you can access them by name now too.
hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by RichTJ99 on 2009-05-10
Hi,

I am in the same boat as everyone else.  I tried all the steps & dont get why its not working.  I am doing a fresh install of 9.04 & while I was able to browse to networking then my "home" network, I get the same error messages as the above posters mentioned. 

Any suggestions or any reason why it doesnt work?

Thanks,
Rich

---

### Post by katzsper on 2009-05-12
If you have Firestarter installed, disable it and try again.If you can browse the network, then you need to make your network address range an exception on the firewall.

---

### Post by solonvip on 2009-05-15
I also had the same problem. But what I have to mark, is that when I get to the 2nd partition of the connected to Ubuntu computer I can properly see the included files.. 

maybe that means that the problem is not an ubuntu problem but a windows one!

---

### Post by mjones41 on 2009-05-19
Same problem as everyone else.  Worked fine, then after an update a few days back it stopped working.  Very annoying having to walk over to my colleges Windows computer all the time to access files on the server.

I can see the computers on the network, but cannot access them.

Unable to mount location  
Failed to retrieve share list from server

Would love the ability to roll back to just a few days back when everything was working!

---

### Post by mjones41 on 2009-05-19
However this does work typing in to Nautilus address bar;

smb://192.168.48.5/admin/ADMINISTRATOR 

admin/ADMINISTRATOR are obviously on my server you should use your own IP and server shares

YaY so now at least I don't have the embaressment of my colleges dumping on Ubuntu.

I have bookmarked these in Nautilus

---

### Post by toypilot on 2009-05-19
sudo ufw disable

worked for me... just need to configure the firewall now I guess.

---

### Post by thered on 2009-05-19
I upgraded my laptop and desktop to Jaunty 9.04 last month.

Yesterday I wanted to transfer some file to my desktop, however, Jaunty seems to have broken my LAN - it was working OK before before I upgraded. If I click on Places->Network the applet shows on task bar as 'starting' but doesn't display.  Opening Places->Documents opens ok and seems to kick the network GUI into action, it then displays.

However the problems just begin then, Network doesn't show my laptop (wired connection) or my desktop - just the Workgroup icon - clicking on this does nothing apart from bringing up an alert box telling me I can stop it opening by 'clicking on cancel' - leaving this, itthen changes to an alert box saying it doesn't receive a list of shares from the server.
"Unable to mount location
Failed to retrieve share list from server"

Other things I noticed is that the small icons telling me a folder is shared are missing - resharing and then restating samba doesn't help - when I reboot the machine the icons disappear again.  Strange or what?

My smb.conf tells me the folders are shared and browseable.

Even if samba isn't working (although I think it is) I should be able to see other machines and my laptop on the LAN - both are Ubuntu boxes.

Other tests: ping to desktop successful, ping from desktop successful.  Desktop can 'see' laptop but not shares.

Booting to windows allows network connection to desktop - so we can assume all the hardware is ok (I think)

sudo ufw disable doesn't help.

I can't believe, as others have mentioned in this thread that this has been allowed to happen. I'm at a loss now having tried everything.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-05-19
> **thered said:**
> I'm at a loss now having tried everything.

Did you try this? [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1169149](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1169149)

---

### Post by simonjamr on 2009-05-19
Thanks.  I've had similar problems and this fix worked for me. :)

---

### Post by thered on 2009-05-19
Dmizer: yes, I saw that link(s) on previous page. It doesn't help. My smb.conf was already setup don't forget.

Just forgetting wins, lmhost and samba for a second - why can't I see my laptop and desktop **and** workgroup icons as I always did. I still can on my desktop. 

Why do I need samba to connect two unbuntu machines?

Why do my shares icons 'disappear'.

Any answers most welcome.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-05-19
If you've addressed all three problems outlined in my link and you're still having problems with the shares, then you either have a unique bug or there is a firewall interfering somewhere (client side or server side).

You don't need samba to share files between Linux systems. If there are no Windows machines on your network, I highly suggest using NFS instead. It's faster, lower overhead, and dead simple to configure. Take a look at the 4th link in my sig (if you want sharing both ways, you'll have to configure both computers as both a server and a client).

---

### Post by thered on 2009-05-19
dmizer: Thanks for reply.  I'm fairly sure it has to be a firewall issue, can't think what else it can be.

I had firestarter installed a year or so ago but took it off.  I wonder if that is the problem. 

Any ideas, I've tried

```
sudo ufw disable
```

but it made no difference.  My router is as was, so shouldn't be a problem.

---

### Post by thered on 2009-05-19
OK :D it was the UFW firewall.

I installed the GUI frontend for it and stopped it from there - I can now see both machines and samba shares.  Not sure what happened before.

So, as toypilot, said, just need to sort firewall config.  Any ideas on this?  RTFM as I type.

---

### Post by campaigner444 on 2009-05-19
Shutting off the firewall under **System >> Administration >> Firewall Configuration** worked for me. I don't know how safe that is, but it is Ubuntu and not M$ Windows. I suppose I don't have to worry about a virus. :)

---

### Post by thered on 2009-05-19
install GUFW using synaptic.

Open it from System->admin->firewall configuration

on advanced tab set new rule to your network ip range

e.g. 192.168.0.0/24

Put this in From and to boxes -then 'Add' rule.

Seems to work for me.

Thsanks to all those who hep with my queries. :D

---

### Post by funsnail on 2009-05-19
I was having a similar problem with Samba shares that stopped working with a windows box after the upgrade to 9.04. The firewall was the solution. although in my case I had to turn the firewall on and set a rule to allow communication. Something is definitely wrong with the default firewall in 9.04

---

### Post by funsnail on 2009-05-19
Spoke too soon. At least I am now I have full access to smb shares from my windows box that are located on my Ubuntu boxes. I am not able to go the other way though. I can brows the shares on my windows box, but [COLOR=Red]*I cannot edit files in them *[/COLOR]Spoke too soon I can edit them I just can't create a document or folder from the Nautilus menus.

---

### Post by LeBurt on 2009-05-21
I had something similar happen to me (changed router, broke samba). It turned out to be that the new router had a different IP address range with DHCP (192.168.0.100 to .200) while the old had 192.168.0.2 to .100. On top of that, since I'm not using a fully qualified domain in my home network, I had listed the hosts on my network in the /etc/hosts file. So when I changed the router, I also had to change the IP addresses in the hosts file to match the new ones.

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by Nhorning on 2009-05-25
> **dmizer said:**
> Did you try this? [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157868&postcount=12](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157868&postcount=12)

Thank you!  SO MUCH.   Now I can print!   

I've been able to browse to myself from the work computers but unable to go the other way for months now.

---

### Post by solonvip on 2009-05-28
My problem was finally solved by following the answer #24!! I changed something in the file </etc/nsswitch.conf>
that link has everything we need to do... good luck!

```
hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4
```

you change this line with

```
hosts:          files wins mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4
```

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-05-28
Glad it works... but the suggestion was:```
hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] [COLOR="Red"]wins[/COLOR] dns mdns4
```

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-05-28
> **Iowan said:**
> Glad it works... but the suggestion was:```
hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] [COLOR="Red"]wins[/COLOR] dns mdns4
```
Yes, I noticed this too.

Putting it before [NOTFOUND=return] would probably slow down your internet (wins is queried twice before rolling to DNS). Wouldn't really hurt anything otherwise though.

---

### Post by conorturton on 2009-05-28
Please follow this thread I started:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7137547#post7137547](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7137547#post7137547)

Have a look at the smb.conf modification mentioned.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-05-28
> **conorturton said:**
> Please follow this thread I started:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7137547#post7137547](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7137547#post7137547)

Have a look at the smb.conf modification mentioned.

Here's a concise guide: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1169149](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1169149)

---

### Post by bu3askoor on 2009-07-09
> **Iowan said:**
> Glad it works... but the suggestion was:```
hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] [COLOR=Red]wins[/COLOR] dns mdns4
```


This worked for me also. thanks

---

### Post by lanchong on 2009-08-01
I just had my similar issue fixed. Ubuntu used to be able to browse through "Network" then see its own "workgroup" , then see its own computer name and when clicked in, I could see the one shared out folder from its own computer. For some reason it stopped working. Then, the solution, hmmm, sounds quite stupid. I stopped the share I had in Ubuntu. Then re-shared it out. some reason it's back to work. Not sure why, 'cause I had tried restarting smb etc other methods, all didn't work.

btw, regarding your issue, have you looked at he issue from the basic yet? say, can you ping the computers to each others? Just ensure the computers are actually communicating to each others before focusing on samba specifically.

Lanchong

---

### Post by love2learn on 2009-08-04
> **toypilot said:**
> sudo ufw disable

worked for me... just need to configure the firewall now I guess.



Toypilot you are a genius.  sudo ufw disable worked for me too!

---

### Post by digivore on 2009-08-29
> **love2learn said:**
> Toypilot you are a genius.  sudo ufw disable worked for me too!

Is this going to decrease security on systems?

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-08-29
> **digivore said:**
> Is this going to decrease security on systems?

It depends. Do you have a router between the computer and the internet? If so, generally that's more than adequate as a firewall. Since you have other computers you are trying to share files to, this generally means you do indeed have a router (multiple computers can't share the same WAN IP). So most likely, this will do nothing to decrease your security.

---

### Post by rpaco on 2009-09-04
Has anyone reported this as a bug?

We really should not need to go and install other apps and edit files after every update.

This is making Ubuntu very user unfriendly to any normal user (ie not us who meddle)

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-09-04
> **rpaco said:**
> Has anyone reported this as a bug?
I am not sure, but this isn't really a bug, it's more of a user misconfiguration issue. If you fail to correctly configure your firewall, then you'll have this problem.

> **rpaco said:**
> We really should not need to go and install other apps and edit files after every update.

This is making Ubuntu very user unfriendly to any normal user (ie not us who meddle)

If you don't want to meddle, stick with LTS releases rather than always upgrading to the latest and greatest.

---

### Post by salgiambruno on 2010-02-17
> **toypilot said:**
> sudo ufw disable

worked for me... just need to configure the firewall now I guess.


THANK YOU toypilot!!  I've been trying to resolve this problem for days . . . and lo and behold, it was the stinking firewall . . .

---

### Post by bergersau on 2010-02-27
Here's the solution for the UFW firewall issue.

[http://ubuntu.swerdna.org/ubulanprimer.html#firewall](http://ubuntu.swerdna.org/ubulanprimer.html#firewall)

---

### Post by tiosus on 2010-08-31
> **toypilot said:**
> sudo ufw disable

worked for me... just need to configure the firewall now I guess.
  worked for me toooo
tanks

---

### Post by eorisis on 2010-09-25
I have changed some things related to this thread,

now I can enter windows shares if I go like this:
smb://192.168.0.140/
(the windows machine)
I couldn't lately (I could in the past)

but if I go like Place >> Network >> Windows Network >> WORKGROUP >> MY-DESKTOP

I still get the msg:
[B]Unable to mount location
Failed to retrieve share list from server
[/B]
same as if I type:

smb://MY-DESKTOP

so solution for now is to ignore the menu function and just do a little typing, maybe add a shorcut[B] :)

[/B]So if you can enter the windows shares in the same way as I do, and want a fast way do this:
1. Create a launcher on desktop (right click on desktop and do it)
2. Type: change it to "Location" - Name "MY OTHER COMPUTER"
3. Location: smb://192.168.0.140/ ( enter your IP, this is mine :D )

test it with a double click
enjoy

---

