---
title: "8.04LTS change hostname - now no sudo"
date: 2009-01-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Jamina1 on 2009-01-15
I'm trying to get 8.04LTS server working on a virtual machine hosted in WinXP.

I installed it once, then duplicated the virtual drive, so now all I need to do is change the hostname on the 2nd image so I can run them both at the same time.

Problem is, once I change the hostname, I can't do anything else.

Example:

I do ```
hostname NEWNAME
```

and then do ```
sudo nano /etc/hostname
``` to make it permanent and I get the sudo: cannot resolve host NEWNAME

I try to change the hostname back and I get the same error.

All the google searching I have done says "Oh well add the new hostname to your hosts file!" But when I try ```
sudo nano /etc/hosts
``` I get the same error. Sooo.. what do I do to permanently change the hostname on this server? Thanks.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-15
> **Jamina1 said:**
>  I get the same error.  Which error - "sudo: cannot resolve host NEWNAME"?  You will probably need to boot with a rescue disk, then edit both /etc/hostname and /etc/hosts. Last time I had the issue, I used TOMSRTBT, but the install CD should work.

---

### Post by albinootje on 2009-01-15
> **Jamina1 said:**
> ```
sudo nano /etc/hostname
``` to make it permanent and I get the sudo: cannot resolve host NEWNAME


After successfully changing both /etc/hosts and /etc/hostname a reboot should be enough to have sudo back to normal.
If not, boot into recovery mode, and choose "drop to a root shell prompt", and edit /etc/hosts and /etc/hostname properly.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-15
> **albinootje said:**
> boot into recovery mode Yes, somehow, I couldn't get that phrase to escape the abyss that was my brain - that'd be my first choice if the server will let you access it.

---

### Post by Jamina1 on 2009-01-16
Well I finally figured out a way to fix it.
For those who may come after with the same problem:

ADD YOUR NEW HOSTNAME TO /etc/hosts FIRST!

As in ```
127.0.0.1 NEWHOSTNAME
```

Viola. Then you can still use sudo to change the /etc/hostname file and restart and you should be good to then remove the old hostname from the hosts file.

Whee.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-16
Usually, 127.0.0.1 is left as **localhost**. 127.0.1.1 gets the hostname.

---

### Post by albinootje on 2009-01-16
> **Iowan said:**
> Usually, 127.0.0.1 is left as **localhost**. 127.0.1.1 gets the hostname.

Indeed. It is actually important for some programs that localhost is available and correctly configured.

In the past the localhost entry would look like this (for example, depends on the Linux distribution, afair RedHat started with the localhost.localdomain many years ago) :
```

127.0.0.1       localhost localhost.localdomain my-desktop

```

Lately Ubunt switched to this solution :

```

127.0.0.1       localhost 
127.0.1.1       my-desktop

```

---

