---
title: "EDUP 802.11N wireless adapter"
date: 2010-07-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sbrbot on 2010-07-20
Recently I purchased for few bucks on eBay a wireless network adapter with name "EDUP 802.11N". This thread explains how to setup this device on Ubuntu.

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=164029&stc=1&d=1279624777[/IMG]

I inserted USB wireless adapter on Windows XP and it was recognized as "Realtek RTL8188SU Wireless LAN 802.11n USB 2.0 Network Adapter". Windows didn't have any problem to install its driver automatically but for Ubuntu I had to give some additional effort.

After that I went on Realtek official site ([www.realtek.com.tw](www.realtek.com.tw)) where I found that [this device is supported on linux platform]("http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=48&PFid=48&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true#RTL8188SU"), downloaded and compiled linux driver. This driver (kernel module) is for kernels from 2.6.18 ~ 2.6.33. Unzip this file and in "drivers" subfolder there is driver archive (tar.gz).

```
>cd rtl8712_8188_8191_8192SU_usb_linux_v2.6.0006.20100625/driver
>tar zxvf rtl8712_8188_8191_8192SU_usb_linux_v2.6.6.0.20100625.tar.gz
>cd rtl8712_8188_8191_8192SU_usb_linux_v2.6.6.0.20100625
>make
>./clean
```

After compilation I got driver "8712u.ko" which I had to start as

```
>sudo insmod 8712u.ko
```

After that my Network Manager recognized my wireless USB and I was able to setup wireless connection as usual.

In order this driver to be loaded at startup (boot), I copied it into /lib/firmware directory and setup startup command in /etc/rc.local file:

```
insmod /lib/firmware/8712u.ko &

exit 0
```

HTH

---

### Post by WyoDuner on 2010-08-06
Thanks, sbrbot.  You are my new hero!!!

---

### Post by sbrbot on 2010-08-06
You're welcome! The only catch with this is that one will have to compile it again for every new kernel.

---

### Post by weaponx69 on 2010-08-07
Ok, I may find the answer before you respond back but I have a EDUP wifi lan card that fits into my pci express but in my desktop.  I'm guessing I will find the drivers on the same website?

---

### Post by sbrbot on 2010-08-07
I'm guessing that too. But man, what's the point of this post that you are or I am guessing something. Have you tried to find it? If you cannot find it then say it and ask for help or sth, this "guessing" post has no value.

---

### Post by Anonymoose1 on 2010-10-04
i get stuck at the ./clean bit

ERROR: Module r8192s_usb does not exist in /proc/modules
ERROR: Module ieee80211_rsl does not exist in /proc modules
ERROR: Module ieee80211_crypt_ccmp does not exist in /proc/modules
ERROR: Module ieee80211_crypt_tkip does not exist in /proc/modules
ERROR: Module ieee80211_crypt_wep does not exist in /proc/modules
ERROR: Module ieee80211_crypt does not exist in /proc/modules

Any ideas? I'm running xbmclive from an aspire revo although im not sure why that should make a difference.
The revo has a built in wireless card (but its very poor), would that effect the usb one?

Good to see you got it working yourself anyway, it's looking likely I'll just have to get another card.
 been at this all day and there's not the slightest sign of life coming out of the usb stick when in the revo.

it works fine when tested on other systems running windows.
came across a few threads by the chili guy on here also but to no avail with his good work

---

### Post by Anonymoose1 on 2010-10-05
so having spent all day yesterday trying to fix this, trawling google, trying to use different commands in the terminal and rebooting god knows how many times I still had no joy.

Then today i plug the device into my desktop that runs windows vista 64bit, it updated its drivers (internet?) and was then ready to run on that machine.

I'd already tried it on a laptop running windows 7 and it installed drivers automatically without you having to click any command prompts.

Anyway quite amazingly I plugged it back into my acer aspire revo system running xbmc live (ubuntu) and when powered on I notice it's light starts flashing and suddenly everything is working fine.

I have no idea how it's working now but it is so maybe people that get stuck try the same(?

---

### Post by sbrbot on 2010-10-07
So, you inserted your EDUP into Win7 and it somehow "enabled" your device to work under Linux as well. OK, good one. However, I'm glad to see that it works now for you.

BTW, a driver for USB and other similar (PnP) devices should be installed before inserting device, after driver is installed only then device should be inserted. That's the general rule - fow Windows and Linux as well.

---

### Post by bp13 on 2010-10-12
When I do

>tar zxvf rtl8712_8188_8191_8192SU_usb_linux_v2.6.6.0.20100625.tar.gz
[FONT=monospace]
In the terminal I get unknown command zx[FONT=Verdana]vf.

Am I suppose to extract the zip, because I did and is there a specific location I need to put it?
[/FONT][/FONT]

---

### Post by bp13 on 2010-10-12
insmod: error inserting 8712u.ko': -1 file exists


Never mind I uninstalled it and gave up.

---

### Post by sbrbot on 2010-10-13
> **bp13 said:**
> When I do

>tar zxvf rtl8712_8188_8191_8192SU_usb_linux_v2.6.6.0.20100625.tar.gz

In the terminal I get unknown command zxvf.

Am I suppose to extract the zip, because I did and is there a specific location I need to put it?


First of all unzip downloaded archive and you'll get a folder with driver and instructions in it. Go (cd) inside "driver" subdirectory (cd rtl8712_8188_8191_8192SU_usb_linux_v2.6.0006.20100625/driver) and untar (with 'tar zxvf' command) driver's file, and finally 'make' it. After 'make' you'll get compiled driver '8712u.ko' that you can load with 'insmod' command (with sudo as a root).

---

### Post by sbrbot on 2010-11-09
If you get:

```
insmod: error inserting 8712u.ko': -1 file exists
```

then your mode is already loaded. You could remove it with:

```
sudo rmmod 8712u
```

but probably that's not the solution for your problem.

Start the following command:

```
dmesg
```

and look at what it says about loading your module.

Check if you have firmware **rtl8192sfw.bin** in your

```
/lib/firmware/RTL8192SU/
```

Maybe it is in /lib/firmware/RTL8192SE or another similar folder.

Firmware binary can be found here:

[http://launchpadlibrarian.net/37387612/rtl8192sfw.bin.gz](http://launchpadlibrarian.net/37387612/rtl8192sfw.bin.gz)

---

### Post by delfunk on 2010-11-09
how you do compile?

---

### Post by ecosseman on 2011-09-07
Thanks SBRBOT. Have been struggling with 8192 for EDUP usb mini.
(First problem I have cleared is that in navigating, names and terms are case sensitive)
Using dmesg, as you directed, I found RTL8192SE in /lib/firmware.
Don't see rtl8192sfw.bin
CORRECTION:
Navigating to RTL8192SE I have *fw.bin, *fw74.bin and *fw492.bin
EDUP still not recognised. What next?
UPDATE:
Not sure how I missed it ....unit is now responding. Works well.
Thanks again SBRBOT.

---

