---
title: "Using Nokia N8 for mobile internet on 10.10"
date: 2010-10-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by alexsmith2709 on 2010-10-30
Hi, I am new to linux so i have installed it on a laptop i have. I want to get mobile internet through using my mobile phone. I have a nokia N8. Yesterday i set up a connection in the Network Manager and it connected but nothing would load on the internet, so i disconnected and now the network manager doesnt have the connection listed as an option even though the settings are still there. Does anyone know why this is? I am using the vodafone network.  I attempted to use wvdial but got very confused trying to follow some intructions i found.  I would appreciate any help.  Thanks, Alex

---

### Post by alexsmith2709 on 2010-10-30
I have since tried wvdial again.
I am getting wvdial saying the  device or resource is busy and that no modem was detected when i try and run wvdialconf create.

Here is my wvdial.conf
```
[Dial Defaults]
Modem = /dev/ttyACM0
BAUD = 460800
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ISDN = 0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
Phone = *99#
Username = {myusername}
Password = {mypassword}
New PPPD = yes
Stupid Mode = 1
```

Any help would be great.

---

### Post by virgo977virgo on 2010-11-01
1) Install wvdial with the command ```
sudo apt-get install wvdial
```

2) Launch the command ```
ls /dev/tty*
```
   to find in #4 how your Nokia phone is recognized by Ubuntu

3) Connect your N8 via USB as "Nokia Ovi Suite"

4) Launch again the command ```
ls /dev/tty*
```
   and compare the result of the command in #2 with this command, searching for a new entry.
   The Nokia phone, recognized as a modem, will be showed as /dev/ttyACM0, /dev/ttyUSB0, ecc.

5) Create a file wvdial.conf with the following content

```
; generated by "sudo wvdialconf /etc/wvdial.conf" and edited by hands
; called with "sudo wvdial --config /etc/wvdial.conf N8"
;
; rev 2009-07-04 11:53

[Dialer Defaults]
Init1 = ATZ
ISDN = 0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
Carrier Check = no
Stupid Mode = 1
Username = ''
Password = ''
Auto Reconnect = no


[Dialer N8]

Modem = /dev/ttyACM0
Modem Type = USB Modem
Baud = 460800
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Init3 = AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","ibox.tim.it",,0,0
Phone = *99***1#

```

6) **Connect to the Internet with the command ```
sudo wvdial --config /etc/wvdial.conf N8
```**


Notes:

1) For future connection, you have to use only the command #6.

2) To prevent problems using the N8 as a modem, don't try to use the Nokia phone as a modem via the Connection Manager.
   If you have done it, reboot Ubuntu and the N8, and connect as stated above.

3) That the wvdial.conf file above is made to connect the N8 to the italian provider TIM with the APN "ibox.tim.it".
   Replace the TIM APN with yours in string Init3 (in Italy, internet.wind for Wind and web.omnitel.it for Vodafone).


Bye

Stefano Spinucci

---

### Post by virgo977virgo on 2010-11-01
For an easy connection to the web with my Nokia phones N8 and N95, in addition to USB connectivity I have used successfully (and more comfortably than USB) [JoikuSpot]("http://www.joikuspot.com/").

Available in premium and free version (the free version has some limitations), with JoikuSpot I converted my phones in wifi hotspots with WEP (no WPA/WPA2) security.


Bye


Stefano Spinucci

---

### Post by alexsmith2709 on 2010-11-02
Thank you.
While i can now connect and get a DNS address etc, i cannot do anything with the connection. I try browsing the internet and everything times out.
The "Enable Mobile Broadband" option has now reappeared in the network manager. is this related?

Anymore help would be great.

Thanks again

---

### Post by alexsmith2709 on 2010-11-06
JoikuSpot worked great. Thanks.
I'd prefer using a cable if anyone knows how to get that working but using wifi is a start

---

### Post by perdubug on 2010-11-23
I'm using Nokia C6-01 with China unicom 3G SIM card. Here's my wvdial.conf:
-------------------------------------------------------------------
[Dialer Defaults]
Init1 = ATZ
ISDN = 0
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Modem Type = USB Modem
Baud = 460800
New PPPD = yes
Modem = /dev/ttyACM0
; Phone = <Target Phone Number>
Password = ''
Username = ''

[Dialer C6]
Modem = /dev/ttyACM0
Modem Type = USB Modem
Baud = 460800
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Init3 = AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","**3gnet**",,0,0
Phone = ***99#**
-----------------------------------------------------------------

It works fine on my T60 with Ubuntu 9.10.....

:D

---

### Post by hsumini on 2011-01-19
> **virgo977virgo said:**
> For an easy connection to the web with my Nokia phones N8 and N95, in addition to USB connectivity I have used successfully (and more comfortably than USB) [JoikuSpot]("http://www.joikuspot.com/").

Available in premium and free version (the free version has some limitations), with JoikuSpot I converted my phones in wifi hotspots with WEP (no WPA/WPA2) security.


Bye


Stefano Spinucci

Joikuspot got problem in FTP while uploading... anyone got this problem?

---

### Post by rabonch on 2011-01-23
With JoikuSpot i can  connect to internet but when enter into any type of mail, after entering the password is blocking the connection, idem no access to facebook. Installed ubuntu 10.04. With win7 Joikuspot works fine :cry: and my netbook is samsung N150.

---

### Post by sarauw on 2011-03-06
> **rabonch said:**
> With JoikuSpot i can  connect to internet but when enter into any type of mail, after entering the password is blocking the connection, idem no access to facebook. Installed ubuntu 10.04. With win7 Joikuspot works fine :cry: and my netbook is samsung N150.

I seem to have the very same problem. Joikuspot Premium 3.1 works on Nokia N8 and I can load most pages except gmail, some parts of Facebook (ie Restaurant City). Also the Java applet of my internet bank cannot connect after loading the applet. Clients used is Ubuntu 10.10 with FF 3.6 and Chrome and LMDE 10 with Firefox. All have the same issue with loading certain sites.

---

