---
title: "How can I set dns permenent network program don't save permenent"
date: 2016-03-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jcer93705 on 2016-03-25
Hi on network always reset the dns when I restart the computer. I want to setup one of the opendns. So how can I set that up permenent ty.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2016-03-25
What version of Linux do you use? Do you use DHCP or a static IP address?

---

### Post by jcer93705 on 2016-03-25
> **gordintoronto said:**
> What version of Linux do you use? Do you use DHCP or a static IP address?

DHCP and currently well I started with a Ubuntu mate 15.10 but i install unity envirement. I have a router that is setup as a ap that router is connected to my landlord wifi. So their router is connected to my ddwrt router and then all my nas and other device on my router. Now I manually setup on my computer dns every boot. Then I connect with vpn.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2016-03-25
Sorry, I don't understand your setup. I think you are saying that the Wi-Fi on your router is used to connect to your landlord's router. That would mean all your devices are connected by Ethernet cable. I have no idea how VPN enters the picture.

In any case, if your computer used a static IP address -- in the range that your landlord's router won't assign to a DHCP client -- you could retain the DNS settings.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-03-26
Do you simply want to use OpenDNS servers to resolve names and addresses?  If so, try this:

Run the command "sudo nano /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head" to edit that file with root privileges and add the OpenDNS servers like this:
```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

```
The first two lines are comments that are already in that file.  Add the two "nameserver" directives, then save the file with Ctrl-X and "Y".  Now run the command
```
sudo service resolvconf restart
```
and take a look at the contents of /etc/resolv.conf.  You should see the lines you added at the top of the list of nameservers.  If so, you are now using the OpenDNS servers.

---

