---
title: "7.10 - Everything works except wireless"
date: 2007-11-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by d3adpoet on 2007-11-03
Today, having lost every ounce of patience with various versions of Windows (Vista in this case), I decided to see what this ubuntu fuss was all about. 

Downloaded the image, burned it, booted from the live CD, partitioned the drive and installed it. Now I'm at a point where I've explored and found great pleasures, but the net cant be accessed. 

Ubuntu detects my routers ESSID, explains the connection strength is 79% but firefox wont display webpages. I have WEP enabled and a fairly long code to enter too...



How about downgrading?
Fantastic OS by the looks of things...I'd hate to have to stick with vista now that I've seen this.

If I could get ubuntu operating properly I'd probably wipe Vista, which is why is such a shame that everything except the net is working. 
Any help appreciated.

---

### Post by martian643 on 2007-11-03
I have to concur.  I installed Ubuntu on two different desktops but never could get wireless adapter to be recognized.  Direct connection via the ethernet adapter worked without fuss, but not wireless.  Did the developers not plan for wireless use?
Does anyone have an answer?  I have two different wireless adapters, a Netgear USB WG111 and a Zytel internal adapter.  Neither works in Ubuntu.  Both work in Windows XP

---

### Post by d3adpoet on 2007-11-03
I'm using a Ralink Wireless LAN Card V2, if light can be shed...

---

### Post by sennep on 2007-11-05
Wireless is tricky that's for sure! It took me a week to figure it out. But now that it does work, using Ubuntu is just lovely!

martian643, I noticed you said you have a wg111 usb, that's what I'm using, and I even got it working with WPA. So all hope is not lost. Which version you have is vital to know to make it work in Ubuntu. They come in three versions, I have version 2. (but some of these are said to be mislabeled, so that a version 2 could actually be a version 1). 

d3adpoet, it would be wise to figure out what chipset your card has, (for example RT2561), then do a search in the forum for that chipset. Try typing this ```
lspci -nn | grep Network
``` in the terminal and see if it tells you what chipset you have.
I had the same problem you have, I could see the SSID and signal strength, but it didn't connect, it turned out that network manager was part of the problem, I had to choose manual configuration to get it working. (in the end I uninstalled network manager and installed wicd [http://wicd.sourceforge.net/](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/) )

---

