---
title: "How to find out network parameters"
date: 2015-02-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rdh61 on 2015-02-12
Hi,

How can I find out the following info for my local area connection:

IP Address
Subnet mask
Default gateway
DNS servers

Many thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-02-12
ifconfig
route
and
look in /etc/resolv.conf

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2015-02-12
The graphical way would be to click on the network icon and then select "Connection Information"

> **TheFu said:**
> look in /etc/resolv.conf

I also have that question but in recent versions resolve.conf only points the local instance of dnsmasq, confirmed by netstat showing it listening on that ip on the port for DNS.  How can we see which DNS servers dnsmasq is using?  It is apparently launched with the following options:

/usr/sbin/dnsmasq --no-resolv --keep-in-foreground --no-hosts --bind-interfaces --pid-file=/run/sendsigs.

The only configuration file I see, /etc/dnsmasq.d/network-manager, is more or less empty.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-02-12
resolv.conf was the way things worked the last 30 yrs, but for an edge case that a few users had, "they" decided to create a new program - resolvconf - to fix it.  On some of my systems, it points to the local DNS server (none point to localhost here) and on 1 of my VM servers, it looks like it did in 2003 with domain, search, and nameserver entries.

So ... what is the foolproof way to determine the DNS server used?  
```
$ dig google.com
.
.
.
;; Query time: 17 msec
;; SERVER: 172.22.22.1#53(172.22.22.1)
;; WHEN: Thu Feb 12 05:33:41 EST 2015
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 124
```

See the "SERVER" line at the bottom?  That's the actual DNS server used by the system.  172.22.22.1 in my case. That is the internal DNS caching server here.  Where it points, I'd have to log into that machine to see.

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2015-02-12
In 14.04 LTS dig still points to dnsmasq.  

```

...
;; Query time: 29 msec
;; SERVER: 127.0.1.1#53(127.0.1.1)
;; WHEN: Thu Feb 12 12:37:26 EET 2015
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 303

```

/run/resolvconf/resolv.conf and similar files there also point to dnsmasq.  

This is on a stock 14.04.1 LTS.  Ubuntu, perhaps GNU/Linux in general, seems like it's being killed with all the unecessary and undesirable complexity.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-02-12
/etc/dnsmasq.conf?

Lars, you're just getting old. ;)
Like many others here, me included.

Update:
So I've been looking through a DHCP client machine here (a netbook with a static lease on my network) to figure out how the DNS server(s) are selected.  I don't see it - it must be dynamic, from the DHCP server. 
Don't have
* /etc/NetworkManager/* <----file doesn't exist
* /etc/dnsmasq.conf <----file doesn't exist
* /etc/dhclient.conf <----file doesn't exist
* /etc/dhcp/* <---- no DNS references
* /etc/dnsmasq.d/* <---- no DNS references

/etc/network/interfaces only has 
```
auto eth0
 iface eth0 inet dhcp
```

Somehow, /etc/resolv.conf gets:```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 172.22.22.1
search thefu.lan
```

The only way I can see this working is that resolvconf get called whenever the network changes - ethernet cable plugged in or pulled or wifi enabled/disabled.

I guess what this shows is how extremely flexible Linux is.

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2015-02-12
Yep.  Old.  But then I never like complexity anyway.

For me (14.04.1 LTS) /etc/network/interfaces does not show eth0 or wlan0

```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```

I've been poking at this for days.  I finally stated grepping parts of the file system and see that NetworkManager is involved.  Through some trial and error, it is not nmcli but [nm-tool](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/en/man1/nm-tool.1.html) that gives a full status report, including DNS information.  

```

nm-tool | awk '$1 =="DNS:" { print $2 }'

```

However, I am still looking for a way to get dnsmasq to some how cough up that info.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-02-12
```
$ nm-tool | awk '$1 =="DNS:" { print $2 }'
The program 'nm-tool' is currently not installed. You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install network-manager
```

Ah - forgot, one of the first commands I run on every new install is:
```
sudo apt-get purge nano unity-asset-pool gedit leafpad chrome compiz geoclue-ubuntu-geoip network-manager
```
Can't stand to have certain things on the box screwing around with stuff that's worked correctly for 30+ years.  Actually I don't run that command, but my new-box Ansible playbook does. ;)

Flexible, I tell you!

And with that, it seems I cannot help the OP with my highly non-standard installation practices related to desktop networking. Off to the cafe to start a thread on purging...

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2015-02-12
Hi click the wifi signal icon...next to envelope upper top right
then click...Connection Information..

IP Address
Subnet mask
Default gateway
DNS servers        +driver,and speed and security

[ATTACH=CONFIG]259933[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by rdh61 on 2015-02-12
Thanks for your replies. Please now see my broader question here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2265091&p=13226988#post13226988](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2265091&p=13226988#post13226988)

---

### Post by bab1 on 2015-02-12
> **TheFu said:**
> 

The only way I can see this working is that resolvconf get called whenever the network changes - ethernet cable plugged in or pulled or wifi enabled/disabled.

I guess what this shows is how extremely flexible Linux is.
This is exactly why the change was made from *[COLOR="#0000FF"]resolv.conf [/COLOR]*to **resolvconf**.  Linux has grown from mostly server based use to a more dynamic desktop and laptop usage.

I , like you, also eliminate all of this dynamic stuff when setting up static based IP addressing.  I think of it as: I'm not about to move my workstation anytime soon, so I only need a static configuration on that desktop.  Server host always are statically configured.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-02-12
You can leave resolvconf alone for static addresses if you add the "dns-nameservers" and "dns-search" parameters to the relevant stanza in /etc/network/interfaces. See [https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/network-configuration.html#name-resolution](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/network-configuration.html#name-resolution).

---

