---
title: "UFW, OpenVPN and P2P"
date: 2018-03-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by c625702 on 2018-03-10
Hi all,

[B]tl;dr
[/B]I'm using UFW to to ensure all the connections from my computer are made only through my VPN and also to ensure if my VPN is down all connections are blocked. It's working, but I still have two minor issues.

But, I still have two problems:
[LIST=1]
[*]In my OpenVPN [FONT=courier new]*conf*[/FONT] files I need to use [FONT=courier new]*remote <VPN_IP> <VPN_PORT>*[/FONT] instead [FONT=courier new]*remote <VPN_DOMAIN> <VPN_PORT>*[/FONT]. If I use the domain instead of IP, the OpenVPN cannot connect, even though I'm using my VPN's DNS address in [FONT=courier new]/etc/resolv.conf[/FONT]. **Is there some missing configuration in UFW or connmanctl to allow me to use the domain instead of the IP?**
[*]When torrent, I get really low speeds and sometimes the torrent client doesn't even find seeds (for example, I wasn't able to download any Ubuntu or Debian images via torrent, but worked fine using wget). In my Macbook I use the VPN app, so the app ensures I'm not leaking the DNS and I don't need to do all this [FONT=courier new]OpenVPN + UFW + connmanctl[/FONT] configuration, but unfortunately on my Linux computer I need to do all of this. In my Macbook with the VPN app I can download the images via torrent, no problem with seeds or speed, but in my Linux computer I can't. I use qBittorrent on Linux and Mac and have the same qBittorrent configurations for both Mac and Linux. **Is there any missing configuration for UFW or connmanctl?**
[/LIST]

Configuration:
I've created a script to make it easier to configure UFW, so basically, that's how I'm doing:
```

sudo ufw reset

sudo ufw allow in to 192.168.2.0/24
sudo ufw allow out to 192.168.2.0/24

sudo ufw default deny outgoing
sudo ufw default deny incoming
sudo ufw allow out on tun0 from any to any

sudo ufw allow out to <VPN_IP> port <VPN_PORT> proto udp

sudo ufw enable

```

And that's the output for [FONT=courier new]sudo ufw status[/FONT]:
```
Status: active


To                         Action      From
--                         ------      ----
192.168.2.0/24             ALLOW       Anywhere


192.168.2.0/24             ALLOW OUT   Anywhere
Anywhere                   ALLOW OUT   Anywhere on tun0
<VPN_IP> <VPN_PORT>/udp    ALLOW OUT   Anywhere
Anywhere (v6)              ALLOW OUT   Anywhere (v6) on tun0

```

I've also used [FONT=courier new]connmanctl[/FONT] to set my VPN DNS, so I can prevent DNS leak. I checked in [FONT=courier new]/etc/resolv.conf[/FONT] and both DNSs are there:
```
# Generated by Connection Manager
nameserver <VPN_DNS_1>
nameserver <VPN_DNS_2>

```

It's working as expected. When OpenVPN is up and running I can navigate and check in ipleak.net that my IP and DNS are correctly setted, when I stop OpenVPN the connection is blocked. But I still have those two issues I don't know how to solve.

Thank you all in advance.

---

