---
title: "12.04 - automatic population of Cloned MAC address for wlan(0)"
date: 2014-03-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mark110 on 2014-03-03
I finally figured out how to use a startup script to change my wireless (wlan0) MAC address with macchanger during initial boot (I can verify that it has been changed using macchanger-gtk).

HOWEVER, how do I get the changed mac address to be AUTOMATICALLY populated in the Cloned MAC address field of the wireless device that is shown under Network Connection - Wireless for any particular wireless connection that I select to use.  Presently, after boot, up the Cloned MAC address field remains blank (despite macchanger-gtk showing it is changed).

ALSO, what would I need to set/change so that the default setting of Connect Automatically box for any previously used or new wireless connections is unchecked.

Having made the effort to change my MAC address, if I boot up next to wireless connection that I have previously connected to,  because the Cloned MAC address field is blank, I presume my original (uncloned) MAC address is what gets broadcast (because of a checked Connect Automatically box)

At boot up, at a minimum, I would like to ensure that any previously checked Connect Automatically boxes of previously used wireless connections get reset to being unchecked or or alternatively, to have the the Cloned MAC address be automatically populated with my changed MAC address.

Barring a solution to either one of the above,  my changing my wlan(0) MAC address at boot up to keep it from prying eyes is an exercise in futility

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-03-05
The command line control over Network Manager is provided via "nmcli" command. However, it does not offer such granular level controls as the GUI. As such, you'll have to rely on scripts to manually 'Inject' your desired settings into the 'Key File' of the connection.

The settings of a connection stored in Network Manager are stored in /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/ directory, with the same name as you have saved the profile by. Let's say, for example, your connection is saved by name "**MyWiFi**", then there should be a file named "**/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/MyWiFi**" in your system, which you'll have to modify using a script (running with root privileges).

To let you know which lines you need to 'Inject' or modify, here is an example file with a typical configuration, pay attention to parts in **bold** :
```

**[connection]**
id=*<The Name by which it appears in Network Manager menu>*
uuid=*<some random alpha-numeric characters>*
type=802-11-wireless
**[COLOR="#FF0000"]autoconnect=false[/COLOR]**
timestamp=1351003645

**[802-11-wireless]**
ssid=*<SSID of the Access-Point>*
mode=infrastructure
bssid=*<usually blank>*
mac-address=*<MAC ID of the card that will be used for this connection, maybe blank>*
**[COLOR="#0000CD"]cloned-mac-address=[/COLOR][COLOR="#FF0000"]00:1A:2B:3C:4D:5E[/COLOR]**
security=802-11-wireless-security

[802-11-wireless-security]
key-mgmt=wpa-psk
psk=*<your security password>*

[ipv4]
method=auto

[ipv6]
method=auto

```

The first line highlighted in [COLOR="#FF0000"]**red**[/COLOR] (**autoconnect=false**) does not exist if the connection is set to "Connect Automatically". So you don't modify its value, instead, you have to "Insert" that line if you need to change its autoconnect status from time to time. Although I don't think you really need that, so you can ignore that section.

The second line highlighted in **[COLOR="#0000CD"]Blue[/COLOR]/[COLOR="#FF0000"]Red[/COLOR]** (cloned-mac-address=00:1A:2B:3C:4D:5E) is the one you want to play with. You only have to change its value with your generated MAC ID to be 'spoofed'. How you do that is upto you, but *_it will have effect ONLY if it was changed before the connection is initiated_*. So you may start a connection, let it connect with its current "Cloned MAC address", and change it using your script afterwards. This changed address will be effective next time when it autoconnects, and the one you inject in that session (assuming it is injected AFTER the connection was already established) will take effect in the further next session.

Either that, or you can set it to NOT autoconnect > inject your "Cloned" address > start the connection using "***nmcli con up id <id of the connection>***" command - all using the same script.

A sample code to change the MAC address in the "cloned-mac-address" field -
```
CLONED=00:AA:BB:CC:22:44
sudo sed -i "s/cloned-mac-address.*/cloned-mac-address=$CLONED/" /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/MyWiFi
```

Try that, and let us know if it actually works. :p

---

### Post by pixel2 on 2014-03-05
just letting you @up know that in NUbuntu 1.x there is no /etc/NetworkManager/*
But, as stated in officeial Cisco Advisory Manual, you can easily update/install NM by means of apt.

---

### Post by mark110 on 2014-03-05
All your information below is appreciated and works - HOWEVER- my main issue still remains.  Each MyWiFi connection I make is typically different (i.e. different Starbucks), which implies that initially at a new Starbucks, the MyWifi file for that Starbucks will not exist.  During the creation of the file, because the Cloned MAC address field has not yet been populated, there is a danger that the hardwired wlan(0) MAC address will leak (by my forget fullness, by an automatically set "Connect Automatically" box, or otherwise).

That is why I was trying to set the wlan(0) MAC address with macchanger in a script at startup.  I am able to verify with ifconfig that the wlan(0) gets correctly changed by macchanger at startup.

Can I assume that if I am able to change the wlan(0) MAC address at startup, it doesn't matter that the Cloned MAC address field of the MyWifi connection is blank?  If so,  the reason why Cloned address field does not get populated by macchanger is an exercise I will stop obsessing about, however, if not,  for those that are into privacy, this is an issue that needs to find an answer.

As a side question, is there a 3rd party site that performs the same function as whatismyip.com (whatismymacaddress,com ?)?  Verification of what MAC address is being sensed externally is really the only way I can think that it could be absolutely verified that my blank wlan(0) Cloned MAC address field is not somehow overriding the wlan(0) address that is indicated by ifconfig as having been changed by macchanger.

Any more ideas/feedback will be appreciated.


> **varunendra said:**
> The command line control over Network Manager is provided via "nmcli" command. However, it does not offer such granular level controls as the GUI. As such, you'll have to rely on scripts to manually 'Inject' your desired settings into the 'Key File' of the connection.

The settings of a connection stored in Network Manager are stored in /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/ directory, with the same name as you have saved the profile by. Let's say, for example, your connection is saved by name "**MyWiFi**", then there should be a file named "**/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/MyWiFi**" in your system, which you'll have to modify using a script (running with root privileges).

To let you know which lines you need to 'Inject' or modify, here is an example file with a typical configuration, pay attention to parts in **bold** :
```

**[connection]**
id=*<The Name by which it appears in Network Manager menu>*
uuid=*<some random alpha-numeric characters>*
type=802-11-wireless
**[COLOR=#FF0000]autoconnect=false[/COLOR]**
timestamp=1351003645

**[802-11-wireless]**
ssid=*<SSID of the Access-Point>*
mode=infrastructure
bssid=*<usually blank>*
mac-address=*<MAC ID of the card that will be used for this connection, maybe blank>*
**[COLOR=#0000CD]cloned-mac-address=[/COLOR][COLOR=#FF0000]00:1A:2B:3C:4D:5E[/COLOR]**
security=802-11-wireless-security

[802-11-wireless-security]
key-mgmt=wpa-psk
psk=*<your security password>*

[ipv4]
method=auto

[ipv6]
method=auto

```

The first line highlighted in [COLOR=#FF0000]**red**[/COLOR] (**autoconnect=false**) does not exist if the connection is set to "Connect Automatically". So you don't modify its value, instead, you have to "Insert" that line if you need to change its autoconnect status from time to time. Although I don't think you really need that, so you can ignore that section.

The second line highlighted in **[COLOR=#0000CD]Blue[/COLOR]/[COLOR=#FF0000]Red[/COLOR]** (cloned-mac-address=00:1A:2B:3C:4D:5E) is the one you want to play with. You only have to change its value with your generated MAC ID to be 'spoofed'. How you do that is upto you, but *_it will have effect ONLY if it was changed before the connection is initiated_*. So you may start a connection, let it connect with its current "Cloned MAC address", and change it using your script afterwards. This changed address will be effective next time when it autoconnects, and the one you inject in that session (assuming it is injected AFTER the connection was already established) will take effect in the further next session.

Either that, or you can set it to NOT autoconnect > inject your "Cloned" address > start the connection using "***nmcli con up id <id of the connection>***" command - all using the same script.

A sample code to change the MAC address in the "cloned-mac-address" field -
```
CLONED=00:AA:BB:CC:22:44
sudo sed -i "s/cloned-mac-address.*/cloned-mac-address=$CLONED/" /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/MyWiFi
```

Try that, and let us know if it actually works. :p

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-03-06
> **mark110 said:**
> Any more ideas/feedback will be appreciated.
I doubt NM relies on information set by ifconfig. For instance, if you change the MAC id using ifconfig command, nm-tool still shows the real IP of the device, and I believe the same is used for establishing connection unless 'Spoofed' by NM itself.

I'm not very sure about this either, but if that is true, I don't think there is any way around for 'New' connections in NM.

You should be able to test the communicated MAC id from your access-point, they usually have the option to display the currently connected devices, shown by their communicated MAC id. I have none around to test myself.

---

### Post by pixel2 on 2014-03-06
NM shows real IP address until you reboot your OS. Of course there is simple way to make NM upgrading IP at-a-glance

---

### Post by mark110 on 2014-03-06
So it looks like there is no agreement as to whether wlan(0) communications via  access points that are connected via Wireless Manager use the MAC address that is selected by macchanger (unless the Cloned MAC address field is populated manually).

What other RELIABLE alternatives are there to  Network Manager?

---

