---
title: "amd 64 7.10/connection issue"
date: 2008-01-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tarzy on 2008-01-28
Hi, I'm very new to this; I have been working off and on for quite a few hours now, including searching/posting here, and I simply can't establish an Internet connection. I am now starting to think it may be a driver issue for my on-board NIC. I'm still looking. Tried pinging everything, created hosts all with the correct static IPs, etc. 

All I want to do is get on the web, so I can get my feet wet, and then I can slowly sort out the rest of it.

I really like how this OS responds, just gotta learn it. I am a refugee from MS Windows and the rest of their stuff.

Thanks, Craig........

---

### Post by YoungJim on 2008-01-28
Hi.  Could you give a little background?  Laptop, or if its a desktop, what sort of NIC?  Have you got a router, or are you connected directly to your modem?  One thing I found helpful was using [wicd]("http://wicd.sourceforge.net") instead of the default network manager because its a lot more user-friendly.

---

### Post by tarzy on 2008-01-29
My machine is an eMachine W34120, stock, and the on-board video is shared from RAM at 128MB. I've just looked at the referral link, and it looks good. One hint to someone more knowledgeable than I: I know not if my NIC is a "loopback" device. It seems to default to that even after I think I "saved" it. I am unfortunately ignorant of much of the command-line interface in Linux, but I have figured out how to be careful with it, and that every separation seems to have two spaces between. ?  Sure like what little Ubuntu experience I've had, surfing the machine, etc. I wish I could get it connected soon.

Thanks!:guitar:

---

