---
title: "9.10 - Samba speed weirdness"
date: 2010-11-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jooch on 2010-11-08
Hi,

I was setting up a file server for a friend of mine, who has two Windows XP computers in a network.

After the installation i got Samba to work and wanted to test the performance, i wasn't too exited with the results. When the server downloads or uploads a file from or to one of the Windows machines i get around 7MB's per second.

Now the weird thing:
When a Windows machine downloads or uploads to the Samba server it hits 9MB's per second. That's a lot better.

Just to be sure, i also ran some tests trough an FTP setup, it maxes out at 11.4MB's per second and it doesn't matter which way the traffic runs.

I already did some modifications to speed things up, but none really helped:

Added this to my smb.conf
```

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial][COLOR=#262626][FONT=monospace]    socket options = SO_RCVBUF=65536 SO_SNDBUF=65536 TCP_NODELAY
    min receivefile size = 16384
    use sendfile = true
    aio read size = 16384
    aio write size = 16384
    aio write behind = true[/FONT][/COLOR][/FONT][/COLOR]

```
Anyone have ideas on this one? :confused:

Cheers, Jochum

---

### Post by jooch on 2010-11-09
Did some more testing/tweaking:

Added some tweaks to sysctl.conf
```

kernel.sem = 250 32000 100 128
kernel.shmall = 2097152
kernel.shmmax = 2147483648
kernel.shmmni = 4096
fs.file-max = 65536
vm.swappiness = 0
vm.vfs_cache_pressure = 50

net.core.rmem_max = 16777216
net.core.wmem_max = 16777216
net.ipv4.tcp_rmem = 4096 87380 16777216
net.ipv4.tcp_wmem = 4096 65536 16777216
net.ipv4.tcp_no_metrics_save = 1

```

Hardware wise i tried a different switch and three different Network cards, no difference though... Could it be the kernel? I am running 2.6.32-15.

I also tested between two Linux machines on samba, that was even worse. Just 5MB's per second.

---

### Post by jooch on 2010-11-09
I installed Lubuntu 10.10 on the server today (different disk) because i wanted to know if a newer version of samba and a newer kernel could improve things.

_Lubuntu 10.10_
Kernel: 2.6.35-22
Samba: 3.5.4

So i mounted a share on a Windows machine, copied a large file and...
BAMM! 11.8MB/s continuously, no hiccups whatsoever. That's even better than FTP! Wow! :mrgreen:


So now what to do? Is there any way i can update Samba on Ubuntu 9.10 to the newer version? The package manager lists 3.4.0 as the latest.:roll:

---

### Post by Roasted on 2010-11-09
The only thing you could do is look for an updated repo or PPA for Samba, and then go into Synaptic, look for Samba, and upgrade it. Once done you should have the newest version.

---

### Post by jooch on 2010-11-10
> **Roasted said:**
> The only thing you could do is look for an updated repo or PPA for Samba, and then go into Synaptic, look for Samba, and upgrade it. Once done you should have the newest version.

I already did that. I found one PPA that was a bit newer, but it didn't work properly. The samba service wouldn't start afterwards.

**Outline:**
I wanted to get a server up and running quickly, but in the end choices like that always come back to haunt you.
Of course i could do an upgrade to maverick, but that gave me problems too.

**The actual problem:**
My problem IMHO is an excellent example why Ubuntu's version system causes trouble. In the end you are forced to upgrade Ubuntu or forced to run outdated packages.
Sure you can still compile software, but that's not something i want to be doing in Ubuntu. In Arch Linux this is really simple trough the AUR repositories, but Ubuntu doesn't look very appealing.
I think i finally understand why Ubuntu LTS exists.

**Possible Solutions:**
- Convert packages from Debian or Ubuntu maverick to 9.10?
- Start over on a rolling distribution like Debian, Arch, Mint LMDE, etc.

---

### Post by dragon99 on 2010-11-14
I have had the same slowdown with Samba shares & FTP on a wired lan since 9.04. The wan side of things is perfect, consistently averaging high download speed.

I have been troubleshooting this issue now for the last 2 versions of Ubuntu. I've changed cables, network cards, pc's, switches, hubs, all to no avail. It is very frustrating, that any solution I have tried has not resolved the problem.

The best I average is between 8-11 mbps transferring files between 10.04 desktop & other networked devices including the NAS, or win pc, Astone media player, Kenwood Home Theatre. Makes no difference whether the other network devices run windows, linux, or freebsd, its always a slow transfer. I've read on other threads that I s/b achieving around 90 mbps using Samba, and a little faster with FTP.

I've tried different NIC's, & no obvious improvement. Weird that I don't get the slow speed on LAN when using win pc's. It's become a major problem since building a NAS. Very, very slow transferring 2 TB worth of my media files from 10.04 desktop to the NAS. At first I thought it was the FreeNAS causing the problem, but I've proved its not the NAS by taking the NAS to work and connected via crossover cable to a win xp pc. It actually achieved a samba transfer rate of about 80 mbps.

I have also changed all my ethernet cables & repinned each cable exactly the same, and have tested the cables with a twisted pair MicroScanner - all good. Hardware wise I have also replaced my old netgear 10/100 switch with a brand new Dlink 10/100. The only other thing to try is to replace the netgear router, & I'm mot confident this will fix the problem.

Is there a fundemental flaw with the Ubuntu wired network software, or is it a problem with the kernel? It is looking like the problem is within Ubuntu?

dragon

---

