---
title: "9.10 killed my internet connection"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by duds2008 on 2009-11-02
Hello people! Hope all well with you. I recently installed 9.10 and I almost completely lost my internet connection. Pages would take up to 3 - 4 minutes to start loading (if they loaded at all). I blamed my service provider and said they were throttling my connection possibly due to the amount of downloading I had been doing (damn Hollywood!:) My connection is "supposed" to be 20Mib/s. I have Crunchbang 9.04 installed on my laptop and noticed that it was not being affected (internet was working fine) and so concluded that it was not the fault of my ISP. I installed 9.04 and all works fine again. I am in no way complaining, but would like to know if any other people have suffered slow or non existent internet after installing 9.10?
Thanks for your time:)
PS: Bittorrent speeds were as per normal, so maybe this was just a Firefox thing???

---

### Post by MasterNetra on 2009-11-02
> **duds2008 said:**
> Hello people! Hope all well with you. I recently installed 9.10 and I almost completely lost my internet connection. Pages would take up to 3 - 4 minutes to start loading (if they loaded at all). I blamed my service provider and said they were throttling my connection possibly due to the amount of downloading I had been doing (damn Hollywood!:) My connection is "supposed" to be 20Mib/s. I have Crunchbang 9.04 installed on my laptop and noticed that it was not being affected (internet was working fine) and so concluded that it was not the fault of my ISP. I installed 9.04 and all works fine again. I am in no way complaining, but would like to know if any other people have suffered slow or non existent internet after installing 9.10?
Thanks for your time:)
PS: Bittorrent speeds were as per normal, so maybe this was just a Firefox thing???

Well Karmic I suppose does have its issues. At times I do have a slower the usual connection but I've generally tributed the issues to the provider or the line itself sense if enough people in area get online and do stuff the connection can be slowed that way. Firefox though might not behaving nicely with karmic you could try a different browser in karmic to see for yourself.

---

### Post by PatrickBoyle on 2009-11-02
Are you behind a home/office router? I've seen issues with DNS when resolv.conf has your router at the top of the list. Use the network config utility to manually set your DNS servers. Use the public machines instead of your router.

P.S. Wrong forum

---

### Post by johnboy1313 on 2009-11-02
i had the same issue for the first couple days, but only when i was running bit torrent, when i reset my modom it pretty much cleared up, removing transmission helped me too, im using ktorrent now and have not really had a problem since wiith few excpitons. working for a internet provider i can tell you they probably wouldnt be much help, on the rare rare rare occaision i get a linux user im not even allowed to help them past making sure the modom is up.

---

### Post by Warpnow on 2009-11-02
I have the same problem. Its not because of any application in particular. Aptitude and wget, ping, ect, all take longer. Its an issue of it taking longer to begin trying. There is a delay before an attempt to reach the network is made.

I can't explain it. My downloads still come in at 600+ kb/s, yet I can't so much as load google in under a minute.

I think it has to do with ipv6 somehow, as that has been implemented in networking, yet I haven't had time to experiment further.

---

### Post by PatrickBoyle on 2009-11-02
> **Warpnow said:**
> I have the same problem. Its not because of any application in particular. Aptitude and wget, ping, ect, all take longer. Its an issue of it taking longer to begin trying. There is a delay before an attempt to reach the network is made.

I can't explain it. My downloads still come in at 600+ kb/s, yet I can't so much as load google in under a minute.

I think it has to do with ipv6 somehow, as that has been implemented in networking, yet I haven't had time to experiment further.

Or it could be a DNS issue.

---

### Post by Warpnow on 2009-11-02
> **PatrickBoyle said:**
> Or it could be a DNS issue.

I used DHCP on both 9.04 and 9.10. While I suppose DHCP could not be grabbing the right DNS, why would it change from 9.04 to 9.10?

---

### Post by PatrickBoyle on 2009-11-02
> **Warpnow said:**
> I used DHCP on both 9.04 and 9.10. While I suppose DHCP could not be grabbing the right DNS, why would it change from 9.04 to 9.10?

I don't know. Check /etc/resolv.conf What is at the top of the list?

---

### Post by moore.bryan on 2009-11-02
There are a number of threads in the fora showing strange networking behavior in Karmic. Tentatively ruled-out are NetworkManager and DNS; in fact, I'm beginning to lean towards a WPA issue because my network "hiccups" if I'm on my home WPA2-AES network and not when I'm on my work WEP one.

---

### Post by Crunchy the Headcrab on 2009-11-02
> **moore.bryan said:**
> There are a number of threads in the fora showing strange networking behavior in Karmic. Tentatively ruled-out are NetworkManager and DNS; in fact, I'm beginning to lean towards a WPA issue because my network "hiccups" if I'm on my home WPA2-AES network and not when I'm on my work WEP one.
That's not true at all.  DNS isn't tentatively ruled out.  I fixed my slow internet connection (which I didn't have in jaunty) by manually inputting my dns servers using network manager, because it was defaulting to my router as the primary dns server with my isp's dns server as the backup.  Obviously I am now using the 2 dns servers recommended by my isp.  Furthermore, I have seen many other people fix the problem the same way.  So how can you say DNS is ruled out?

Edit: Unless of course you were talking about your local network specifically, in which case your paragraph needs to be restructured.

Edit 2: I'm using WPA.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-11-02
+1, moore.bryan may have had a wpa problem, but the majority of Karmic networking problems are dns related.

---

### Post by moore.bryan on 2009-11-02
> **Crunchy the Headcrab said:**
> That's not true at all.  DNS isn't tentatively ruled out.  I fixed my slow internet connection (which I didn't have in jaunty) by manually inputting my dns servers using network manager, because it was defaulting to my router as the primary dns server with my isp's dns server as the backup.  Obviously I am now using the 2 dns servers recommended by my isp.  Furthermore, I have seen many other people fix the problem the same way.  So how can you say DNS is ruled out?

Edit: Unless of course you were talking about your local network specifically, in which case your paragraph needs to be restructured.

Edit 2: I'm using WPA.

> **cariboo907 said:**
> +1, moore.bryan may have had a wpa problem, but the majority of Karmic networking problems are dns related.

I was hinting that a group of us are having pretty regular networking issues and I used the word *tentative* to describe the fact it *does not* **seem** to be dns related. I didn't mean to convey the idea it was *conclusively* ruled-out, Crunchy. 

There are a group of us who have done all the "tricks" to fix the dns issue to no avail; e.g., editing /etc/nsswitch.conf, specifying dns servers in /etc/resolv.conf, etc. As per resolv.conf, I noticed it is constantly overwritten *each* time I log-in and even attempted the "sudo chattr -i /etc/resolv.conf" trick.

In my case, my router gives the OpenDNS servers to my machines, so I'm not sure where the hang-up is; any ideas Cariboo?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-11-02
The best way to fix the dns problem is to change the connection method on the IPv4 tab of Network-Manager to Automatic (DHCP) Adresses only and set dns addresses manually.

---

### Post by Crunchy the Headcrab on 2009-11-02
> **moore.bryan said:**
> I was hinting that a group of us are having pretty regular networking issues and I used the word *tentative* to describe the fact it *does not* seem to be dns related. There are a group of us who have done all the "tricks" to fix the dns issue to no avail; e.g., editing /etc/nsswitch.conf, specifying dns servers in /etc/resolv.conf, etc. As per resolv.conf, I noticed it is constantly overwritten *each* time I log-in and even attempted the "sudo chattr -i /etc/resolv.conf" trick.
Yeah it was overwriting resolv.conf when I tried to do it also.  That's why I used the network gui to do it.

My router is supposed to supply the dns servers for my machine also, but for whatever reason it doesn't work in karmic.

> **cariboo907 said:**
> The best way to fix the dns problem is to change the connection method on the IPv4 tab of Network-Manager to Automatic (DHCP) Adresses only and set dns addresses manually.

That's what I did.  Worked like a charm.

---

### Post by moore.bryan on 2009-11-02
> **cariboo907 said:**
> The best way to fix the dns problem is to change the connection method on the IPv4 tab of Network-Manager to Automatic (DHCP) Adresses only and set dns addresses manually.
Alas, I don't use Network-Manager; straight /etc/network/interfaces and /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf. Even when I had NM installed, though, and tried that it didn't work.

---

### Post by moore.bryan on 2009-11-02
Could somebody aim me in the direction of a good Wireshark tutorial? I'm trying to nail this down and it would seem Wireshark is the tool to use, but it's giving me **so** much information, I'm not sure what's important or useful and what's crap.

---

### Post by j7%&lt;RmUg on 2009-11-02
My net speed ,1.5Mib/s has not changed in karmic, but my net does seem alot more sluggish, my ping is also the same(35ms average), it is strange though, because i find that not all pages are slow to load, just some. I have no idea if its an x86_64 issue or not though.

---

### Post by Grant A. on 2009-11-02
Are you sure Colonel Mustard didn't do it with the knife, in the kitchen?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-11-02
This thread is becoming a Network & Wireless thread. Moved.

---

### Post by momist on 2009-11-03
+1 here.  I have just spent tonight hanging on the phone to my ISP (1 hr 40 mins!)to discover where the fault may lie.  Setup here is very standard old i386 machine wired to router but with WinXP laptop on wireless.  Both machines having repeated slow/non-available DNS resolution.  I had intermittent similar problems under Intrepid and Jaunty, but not this severe.  My (ISP supplied) router is not amedable to having the DNS server changed by the user, although "they" have a tool (currently broken) which could do so.

I have used Network Manager to set a manual DNS server to OpenDNS, and used the Windows equivalent to do the same, and the problem is currently fixed on both systems.

I suppose what I'm saying is that it may be a Karmic problem, which can somehow prevent the router DNS settings from working, or a network provider problem and we shouldn't be jumping to any conclusions yet.

Hope that's not too confusing?

---

### Post by saywot on 2009-11-03
> **PatrickBoyle said:**
> I don't know. Check /etc/resolv.conf What is at the top of the list?

this is the whole file

# generated by Network Manager

:mad:

---

### Post by PorcelainMouse on 2009-11-05
This is clearly related to Karmic 9.10; moving this thread was dismissive.

Yes, I too have a problem with DHCP DNS server settings.  Seems to happen on boot, but not when I use ifdown/ifup on the interface.

---

### Post by saywot on 2009-11-05
> **cariboo907 said:**
> The best way to fix the dns problem is to change the connection method on the IPv4 tab of Network-Manager to Automatic (DHCP) Adresses only and set dns addresses manually.

doesn't "stick" for me

the Fedora Forums had tremendous trouble with Networkmanager when Fedora 10 was released

I suspect this is being repeated here in the version shipped with karmic Koala

---

### Post by rajesh1136 on 2009-11-05
Can someone help me to use my Huawei EC1260 to use in 9.10 ?

it was working well till last night in 9.4 ? it was actually worked out of box for me

---

### Post by moore.bryan on 2009-11-05
Let me add to this mix even more... playing around with Wireshark showed me a lot of MDNS queries. Made me wonder something about the /etc/nsswitch.conf file, so I "man-ed" it. The [man page]("http://linux.die.net/man/5/nsswitch.conf") shows a different order from things on the host line in the generic Karmic file. 

My original nsswitch.conf has this line:
```

hosts: files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4

```The nsswitch.conf man page seems to say the "files" entry should happen **after** dns, like this:
```

hosts: files dns [!UNAVAIL=return]

```This *seems* to be a mix of the "original" nsswitch.conf "fix" of deleting the mdns4_minimal and mdns4 information and ordering.

I made this change and am testing response times; things seem to be resolving more quickly and I haven't, yet, had my connection go "dead." Perhaps a few more could try this one out and let me know? I'm also going to post this in the other threads to which I'm subscribed about similar networking issues. All together, we've got to come up with something!

---

### Post by momist on 2009-11-05
Just an afterthought to my post on Tuesday.  The guy I got through to at my ISP who suggested setting a manual DNS server said the phones were busier that night than he could ever remember, and that it was all about DNS issues.  I naturally thought then that this was an ISP problem.

Now, I am wondering how many of those calls were down to Ubuntu 9.10?

:?

Mine has been sound (so far) since I configured through Network Manager rather than relying on the router's service.

---

### Post by moore.bryan on 2009-11-06
So, it would seem my hopes were premature. Making the changes I suggested above did *seem* to speed-up my connection on a WEP connection, but has done *absolutely nothing* to protect my connection on my WPA2-AES home connection. Makes me wonder if it could be a WPA issue... Thoughts?

---

### Post by janosmucsi@verne.us on 2009-11-09
Yes, it's the DNS entry that's wrong.
If you don't have a UI (I use an Ubuntu server), you need to follow the instructions here:

[http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/dhclient-etcresolvconf-hooks/](http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/dhclient-etcresolvconf-hooks/)

Is this entered as a bug yet?

---

### Post by mrmnemo on 2009-11-24
i agree with crunchy the head crab. its a network manager issue. that can get really nasty on a modem / router intended for a small home network that may have a few wired and wireless clients and NAT running at the same time. not sure on that though. i have noticed that the problem ONLY occures while using a torrent client ( didnt matter which) set at any connection amount for peers. HOWEVER, I could use some help on figuring out how to force DNS to remain static AFTER connecting to a managed wireless AP.  I am assuming that i will need to set my network to static which will cause issues for guest. so am i going to have to set up the box to use another profile for remote dns manualy?

edit 1: this IS just a work around. Oddly, nothing shows in the logs regarding a dns look up error. is this a kernal issue? (i.e.: using network manager to get around a issue with ip6 implementation )

edit 2: almost forgot>>>same issue in lenny squezz and fc11 for what its worth.

---

