---
title: "7.04 problem with ethernet card driver"
date: 2007-09-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by koensayr on 2007-09-18
Hi, I've been having problems getting the network to work with my computer.  I've been trying to fix this for a while without much luck, hopefully, someone here can help me out.

My system has the Gigabyte GA965-DS3 motherboard with a built-in Marvell 10/100/1000 network card.  I was able to install Ubuntu 7.04 fine on the computer.  However, the network does not work.  It  would work for a second or so then just lose any kind of connection.  I did some search and people said to use the sk98lin driver provided by Marvell.  So I got the latest driver from their website:  v10.21.1.3,   ran the install.sh, selected installation with renaming the old drivers.

The installation script seemed to run fine except for the part when it tried to edit modprobe.conf since Ubuntu doesn't seem to use modprobe.conf.  I looked at the file the script created (modprobe.conf) and it was just blank, and sk98lin seems to be loaded when I use lsmod.

However, now, whenever I try to do something related to the network card, the computer would just freeze up.  Mouse and keyboard are non-responsive, and sometimes, the computer would just reboot by itself after half a minute or so, sometimes, I have to reset it myself.  This even happens ocassionally when I try to just do sudo ifdown eth0.

Does anyone have any ideas?

Thanks for your time.

---

### Post by ctothej on 2007-10-05
Bump.

I have the same NIC and it freezes. I disabled the sky2 driver and installed the sk98lin driver (same way as above). Still getting network freezes. What can we do?

---

