---
title: "DNS resolution in Ubuntu - standalone"
date: 2012-02-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by SteveHillier on 2012-02-22
I have an issue with DNS resolution.

Something in my local machine is hanging on to a DNS resolution that has been changed.

OK, let's start off with some results
The domain stephenhillier.co.uk has been is existence some time and was once hosted on a webserver we had on address 77.76.100.82.
In August 2011 we moved all the domains from this server to a rented server on 109.74.245.133 and during this process we changed the name servers at the registrar end to point to the new server, allowing the new server to do all name resolution internally.  On the server we parked this domain on top of another domain so we really have not tested it.

I now want to use that domain on its own so on our server I have unparked it and set it up as a real site.  We have uploaded a site to the server so it is all there.
Now tonight I just looked for it and got a timeout.  I have checked the router - it uses appropriate BT DNS servers.  I have changed the network settings to use OpenDNS servers but it would not resolve correctly - it keeps trying to access the old server address of 77.72.100.82.

I have run traceroute which gives this output. (1st lines only)
```
steve@lbox:~$ traceroute www.stephenhillier.co.uk
traceroute to www.stephenhillier.co.uk (77.76.100.82), 30 hops max, 60 byte packets
```
This is the old and incorrect server.

I have now set up my hosts file with a correct entry and traceroute gives me this result
```
steve@lbox:~$ traceroute www.stephenhillier.co.uk
traceroute to www.stephenhillier.co.uk (109.74.245.133), 30 hops max, 60 byte packets
```
This is the new and correct server.

the next lines from traceroute clearly show that it has picked up the ipaddress BEFORE it bumps to the router.  Line 1 - router address, line 2 BT DNS server address and then onwards.
> With this result
 1  192.168.0.1 (192.168.0.1)  1.570 ms  1.925 ms  2.310 ms
 2  217.32.146.64 (217.32.146.64)  23.230 ms  24.558 ms  24.961 ms
 3  217.32.146.94 (217.32.146.94)  25.441 ms  26.353 ms  27.233 ms

It is also clear that it has picked up (ie resolved) the IP address without reading the OpenDNS settings in resolve.conf which are as follows
> # Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220
I can only assume that somewhere on my local machine the name resolution is being cached but I don't know where.  If it were Firefox then I would expect to see a difference between the address resolution from Firefox and Ping.
In the words of Pink Floyd "Is there anybody out there" who knows anything about this?

Cheers
Steve

---

### Post by jonobr on 2012-02-23
Hello

Is this still occurring?

I notice that its resolving ok for me here and I am wondering if it is just a delay in your DNS server updating.

Sometimes it can take up to 24 hours.
Given you posted 24 hours ago I was thinking it may be resolved by the time you read this post?

---

### Post by SteveHillier on 2012-02-24
Mmmm...

Short answer is no it is not still happening, but...

I found a page in Firefox and cleared the offline cache and it cleared the problem but...

The problem initiated because I had to put mail.stephenhillier.co.uk into /etc/hosts in order for Evolution to deal with it.  However, since clearing the cache I have been able to remove all entries if /etc/hosts that I put in to make things work.

Why would a firefox cache have any influence over a mail server name?

In windows world of course there is a discrete dns resolver cache which can be cleared using the appropriate ipconfig /flushdns but I understand there is not a linux equivalent.

Nice though it is that it seems to be fixed I sometimes like to know why so that I can prevent it from happening again.

Steve

---

