---
title: "Intermittent web browsing &quot;failure to connect&quot;"
date: 2012-03-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by FLYcrash on 2012-03-13
Hi all!

I use a fairly recent dual boot Asus Ubuntu/Windows 7 U46E laptop and have been having trouble surfing the web at home through an Asus RT-N56U router behind an AT&T IP-DSLAM DSL modem. Intermittently, Firefox (or Opera) fails to load a web page or frame of a web page with a "failure to connect" or "connection was reset" error. No hang, no delay, no loss of connection, just an error page. Very annoying with many modern complicated web pages with content coming from everywhere. This happens both with wireless and ethernet. At first I thought it was a driver issue, and I upgraded the kernel ( to 2.6.38 ) and built and installed the most recent compat-wireless drivers. After some pain, I got my ethernet and wireless working again. Same problem; intermittent "failure to connect" or "connection was reset."

It seems that the problem is limited to using Ubuntu at home. Windows seems to let me surf fine. Networks at work also seem to work fine with both Windows and Ubuntu (but don't quote me on that). I vaguely remember plugging the machine straight into the AT&T modem and having the same problem, but again, don't quote me on that. Also, non-web sorts of data transfer (apt-get downloads, etc.) have never given me a problem at all.

I'm wondering if there's something in the TCP/IP stack that needs to be tuned or something. Here are the statistics from netstat:

```
~# netstat -s
Ip:
    77365 total packets received
    0 forwarded
    0 incoming packets discarded
    69493 incoming packets delivered
    65196 requests sent out
    1 dropped because of missing route
Icmp:
    706 ICMP messages received
    19 input ICMP message failed.
    ICMP input histogram:
        destination unreachable: 492
        echo requests: 214
    1989 ICMP messages sent
    0 ICMP messages failed
    ICMP output histogram:
        destination unreachable: 1775
        echo replies: 214
IcmpMsg:
        InType3: 492
        InType8: 214
        OutType0: 214
        OutType3: 1775
Tcp:
    2906 active connections openings
    1772 passive connection openings
    301 failed connection attempts
    273 connection resets received
    3 connections established
    61001 segments received
    59828 segments send out
    1436 segments retransmited
    0 bad segments received.
    6173 resets sent
Udp:
    5898 packets received
    1775 packets to unknown port received.
    0 packet receive errors
    4178 packets sent
UdpLite:
TcpExt:
    2826 TCP sockets finished time wait in fast timer
    1055 delayed acks sent
    Quick ack mode was activated 148 times
    412 packets directly queued to recvmsg prequeue.
    42804 bytes directly in process context from backlog
    123340 bytes directly received in process context from prequeue
    29055 packet headers predicted
    532 packets header predicted and directly queued to user
    7010 acknowledgments not containing data payload received
    1965 predicted acknowledgments
    12 congestion windows recovered without slow start by DSACK
    61 congestion windows recovered without slow start after partial ack
    1 timeouts after reno fast retransmit
    15 timeouts after SACK recovery
    4 timeouts in loss state
    58 retransmits in slow start
    480 other TCP timeouts
    141 DSACKs sent for old packets
    37 DSACKs received
    130 connections reset due to unexpected data
    228 connections reset due to early user close
    119 connections aborted due to timeout
    TCPDSACKIgnoredOld: 19
    TCPDSACKIgnoredNoUndo: 1
    TCPSackShiftFallback: 20
    TCPDeferAcceptDrop: 1770
    IPReversePathFilter: 6
IpExt:
    InMcastPkts: 3591
    OutMcastPkts: 53
    InBcastPkts: 2366
    InOctets: 48063179
    OutOctets: 10470390
    InMcastOctets: 2560540
    OutMcastOctets: 13590
    InBcastOctets: 655753

```There are so many details in terms of hardware/software/logs that I don't really know where else to start. I'm happy to offer more information in order to troubleshoot. Many thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Derek Karpinski on 2012-03-13
I had this problem a bit ago. I changed my DNS servers to OpenDNS, and haven't had a problem since.

---

### Post by FLYcrash on 2012-03-14
Thanks much!

FWIW, I've checked at work and can now confirm that I never get this problem except through my internet connection at home.

Is the DNS server something that I'd set in the router configuration? Sorry for my ignorance.

---

### Post by FLYcrash on 2012-03-15
So I changed my DNS server (in /etc/resolv.conf) from my router, which network-manager chooses by default, to the OpenDNS servers. In other words:

$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

became

$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Manually changed to OpenDNS
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

I had to lock /etc/resolv.conf against nework-manager by doing:

$ sudo chattr +i /etc/resolv.conf

After that,

$ sudo service network-manager restart

So far, so good! No browsing errors anymore, but this is from only half an hour of surfing. I'll surf normally for a few days and bump with the results of more extended use.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Derek Karpinski on 2012-03-15
It would be better for you if you changed the DNS servers in the router, and left the network-manager settings alone.
 
Manually editting the resolv.conf file will end in frustration, as the file will be overwritten at reboot I believe.
 
OR..........you can set network manager settings via the GUI, and choose automatic IP only, and choose your DNS servers separated by commas.
 
Either way, messing with resolv.conf manually is not the 'correct' thing to do.
 
I'd change your router.

---

### Post by FLYcrash on 2012-03-17
Hmm...OK. After a couple days, I can say that changing the DNS in resolv.conf did not fix the problem. I still get intermittent failed pages and frames. This is despite the name service verifiably going through OpenDNS (i.e. if I surf to a bogus website, I get the OpenDNS page).

I'll try changing the DNS in the router. If I change the router DNS, should the resolv.conf nameserver then be switched back to 192.168.1.1?

---

### Post by Derek Karpinski on 2012-03-19
Yes.
 
Set-up network manager to 'Automatic (DHCP)'. FYI, if you choose Automatic addresses only, that's where you should setup your DNS servers. Not changing resolv.conf manually. Although it would work, but it causes headaches.
 
[IMG]http://www.itcom.itd.umich.edu/wireless/connect/linuxwpa8.gif[/IMG]
 
If that doesn't work, try clicking on the IPv6 tab, and checking 'ignore'.  My computer didn't like IPv6 enabled.

---

### Post by FLYcrash on 2012-03-20
Thanks again, Derek, for all your help. I thought other folks might chime in to help you, but you've been really patient.

I unlocked the resolv.conf:

$ sudo chattr -i /etc/resolv.conf

so that network-manager rewrote it back to the original upon restart:

$ sudo mv /etc/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf.old
$ sudo service network-manager restart
network-manager start/running, process 6877
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

Then I specified the OpenDNS servers in the router configuration. The router previously had no specified DNS servers but was set to connect to a DNS server automatically.

My box is indeed set to DHCP and is ignoring IPv6.

So far so good. It always seems that the first half hour or so after changing something gives perfect surfing. Murphy's Law, perhaps, or maybe a cache issue or something. Again, I'll bump after a few days.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Derek Karpinski on 2012-03-21
If it works for you, mark the thread as 'SOLVED' using thread tools at the top.

But, i'm not sure it's so much 'solved' as much as we just found a 'workaround'.

I too had the same issue with using my ISP's DNS.  It worked great in Windows, but not linux........FF or Chromium.

---

### Post by FLYcrash on 2012-03-31
Yep, after many days of using the computer at home, I can report that  changing the DNS server in the router has solved the problem! Once this  issue was gone, a much more infrequent issue, which I believe was that  both the modem and the router thought they were 192.168.1.1, became  clear. I'm not sure why the internet would work >99% of the time  despite this seemingly major problem, but changing the router IP to  192.168.1.2 seemed to clear it up. As expected, network-manager silently  adjusted resolv.conf to reflect this.

After that was done, the actual reliability of service became clear.  Usually, things work just fine. But every so often the modem chokes up  and demands a power cycle to get internet back. So I'm at a state where I  think the configuration of everything is playing as well as possible  with a rather imperfect home internet setup.

Summary of the workaround/solution:
* In the router, I changed the DNS servers to OpenDNS - 208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220.
* I changed the router's static local IP to 192.168.1.2 because of what  looked like an IP conflict that caused occasional hiccups.
* I left the Ubuntu stuff well enough alone (well, I changed a lot of  things, but effectively changed them back except for a driver upgrade).

Morals:
* Ubuntu's Internet software stack works great if your internet service  is "good" (i.e. a professionally managed workplace network), but  potentially has problems if the internet service is less good. Pointing  my router to OpenDNS made my home internet service more good.
* The Asus U46E laptop seems to work fine with stock Ubuntu. A related  comment from my prior reading is that Linux kernels beyond 2.6.38 don't  play well with this laptop's Intel Centrino 6150 (rev 67) wireless card,  breaking the wireless until some detailed kernel-level fiddling is done  (cf. [http://bugzilla.intellinuxwireless.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2325](http://bugzilla.intellinuxwireless.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2325)).
* The Asus RT-N56U router seems to be a great piece of hardware.
* AT&T's IP-DSLAM service is lousy...it runs over often ancient  telephone copper (a tragedy of the commons in rental housing), AT&T  locks you into a proprietary, low-quality, high-cost Motorola modem with  many standard features intentionally "crippled," and their default DNS  service is just iffy enough to cause problems if you run Ubuntu "out of  the box" and expect everything to work.

Thanks one final time, Derek, and I will mark this thread as solved.

---

