---
title: "9.04 won't recognize my wireless card"
date: 2010-02-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tcinlo on 2010-02-16
I'm a total rookie.  I bought an Asus netbook with XP.  It was always slow...I mean painfully slow.  There was always something going on in the background...Avast anti virus or XP looking for updates.
 
I started thinking about Linux and bought 8.10 from this website a year ago but never got around to loading it.  Finally, I did load it and the I love Ubuntu.  My underpowered netbook now performs like a champ....except it doesn't recognize my wireless card.  The ethernet connection works perfectly.
 
So I tried some fixes suggested here but no success.  So my 8.10 system told me that there were updates available and I should upgrade to 9.04.  I took the line of least resistance and clicked "yes".  Now I have 9.04 and I love everything about it and how fast it is....but still no wireless.
 
I would really love to solve this problem because then I'm in heaven.  Question:  Is there a USB external wireless LAN card that I could buy and load the software and use that instead of using the internal card that obviously Ubuntu doesn't like?
 
I'm really a rookie at this so installing driver files is kind of intimidating for me and I already tried that with no success...probably I did something wrong.:)

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-02-16
One (relatively) easy way to find information on your wireless card is to open a terminal and enter:```
lshw -C network
``` Post the results - there are a few folks around who can help you set up the required driver.

---

### Post by tcinlo on 2010-02-16
Atheros AR242x
 
I've been reading other posts and people have had success by replacing that card with and Intel wifi link 5100 mini PCIe card.
 
My sense is that that the Atheros is junk.  I'd rather put in a better card.

---

