---
title: "bcm4328 on 10.04"
date: 2010-09-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Zwerdlds on 2010-09-15
Hello, and thank you all for the helpful posts I have used already.  My situation is thus:

I have a Broadcom 4328 card on an AppleTV running Ubuntu 10.04.  I installed 10.04 by running the Hardy netboot (mini) and upgraded to 10.04 by using the update manager.  I chose to do this because I wanted to run the current version of Boxee.

I have entered into an agreement with a friend so that we are sharing internet.  However, due to the wireless topology, the signal strength is insufficient in certain parts of my apartment.  The AppleTV is connected over ethernet to a (functional) bridge to connect to my subnet and the internet as a whole.  Speeds over the bridge are excellent with a directional antenna installed.  I would like to turn the AppleTV into a hotspot so that I can have an 5GHz range 802.11n network to access my local subnet and the internet from otherwise dead parts of the apartment.

To this end, I have been attempting to get the Broadcom chipset functional on the AppleTV (I would prefer to get it such or eliminate all potential leads before purchasing a USB wifi dongle.)  However, I have been unable to do so yet.

Really, I am new to Ubuntu, but use Unix on a semi-daily basis (though it would be hard to claim to be a networking tech for what I do, though I have a good understanding of such.)

I have been attempting to get the card functioning using ndiswrapper.  At this point in the process, I have attempted to blacklist the built-in drivers by appending the following lines to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf:
```
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist b43-pci-bridge
```

But [after issuing <sudo update-initramfs -k all -u> and a restart] apparently b43-pci-bridge continues to load:
```
sudo lshw -C Network
  *-network               
       description: Network controller
       product: BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       version: 05
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=b43-pci-bridge latency=0
       resources: irq:16 memory:22100000-22103fff
  #continues on to describe the ethernet controller...

```

Just to cover my bases, here is an output of ndiswrapper -l:
```
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base, it will be ignored in a future release.
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-modem, it will be ignored in a future release.
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper, it will be ignored in a future release.
bcmwl5 : driver installed
	device (14E4:4328) present (alternate driver: ssb)
```

The Broadcom STA driver included with the install still appears in the hardware driver manager.

Additionally, issuing sudo rmmod b43 results in the following:
```
ERROR: Module b43 does not exist in /proc/modules
```

Similarly, issuing sudo rmmod b43-pci-bridge results in:
```
ERROR: Module b43_pci_bridge does not exist in /proc/modules
```

For starters:
The correct device (14E4:4328) is listed, but the alternate driver statement indicates that the ssb driver is not appropriately blacklisted.  Is this correct, or can blacklisted drivers still be 'alternate drivers'?

Could the .conf warnings be playing into my issue?

Are the driver blacklist statements in the correct place?

Is there a way to determine what module loads the b43-pci-bridge driver - or, is there a way to prevent it from being loaded despite dependencies?

My ultimate goal is within sight, I think.  I appreciate any and all help contributed by you guys.

---

