---
title: "Sending Email in Ubuntu (Thunderbird) Keeps Failing - Fine in Windows though! Ideas??"
date: 2009-01-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by OzzyFrank on 2009-01-06
OK, this has become noticeable in the past week or two - any email with a bit of HTML as opposed to pure plain text almost invariably fails at least on the first attempt to send. I can hit send repeatedly, and with some I had to give up and remove the "offending" html. And we are talking some small and minor html, in the form of those little tables in eBay invoices. If I remove all that, then it usually sends immediately.

While I will add that I am also downloading stuff in the background, and that when I stop all those, I can then send those messages, I should also point out that this is not happening in Windows, even if downloads are using basically all my bandwidth. In Ubuntu this happens even if background downloads are only using half my bandwidth or even much less.

Any ideas on this (besides stopping all downloads or booting into Windows, hehe)? Besides it getting quite frustrating, I don't actually want to delete bits of html, as the emails make more sense to recipients if they know what I am replying to. I am trying to send one now with just one paragraph of text and an ebay invoice table, and it just says it is 84% through, but keeps failing. I've had this happen to emails I am replying to that are mostly plain text, but with a html signature, like either their own or one generated by an antivurs program... basically, if it has a link, it can cause this. Obviously, it isn't a bandwidth issue or related to Ubuntu's connection to the web (is it?) so is there some way to get Thunderbird to behave?

One last bit of info in case it helps... I started using Azureus/Vuze around the same time, but this happens evn if downloads are down to a trickle. But in case Vuze is a bandwidth hog or something, I thought I better mention it. In Windows, I use Bitlord and even if downloads are at full speed, I can send messages with html no problems in Outlook.

---

### Post by OzzyFrank on 2009-01-06
PS: I just tried to send another message (this time with only one word besides the html of the original message) and with all downloads completely stopped in Vuze... and it took 4 goes before it actually managed to leave. I also disabled TSL connection if avialable for the SMTP settings even though I figured it really shouldn't matter (hey, I'll try anything!).

---

### Post by OzzyFrank on 2009-01-07
OK, I might be wrong, but seems it is a Thunderbird-only thing, as I have set up Evolution and can send the "offending" messages immediately. While I've only spent a few minutes testing this, so far I have not been able to send at all a message with one line of text above the original html message, which is a PayPal receipt. Every time I forward it to myself in Evolution, it gets sent. Now I am trying to send a message through Thunderbird with no text at all, but it has an attachment, being another email containing a 1Mb .pps file. So it seems to me it is not so much a html thing... looks like anything over a kilobyte or two won't get sent, at least not until after a few tries.

And now that I've manually set up the email accounts in Evolution, I can say the settings are the same in both programs. So any ideas what could be causing Thunderbird to fail so miserably?

---

### Post by OzzyFrank on 2009-01-09
I installed updates to Thunderbird yesterday, and seems to have fixed it up. At least, none have failed to send since then. It was becoming a real worry... but at least it got me to set up Evolution again (hey, it doesn't hurt to have 2 working email clients). Now if Thunderbird plays up in the future, I can just open Evolution, and not have to reboot into Windows.

---

### Post by Svensk023 on 2009-01-09
one of the problems could have been that the older version of Thunderbird had HTML sending disabled by default for security reasons, but if it was failing only when you had downloads in the backround while logged into Ubuntu, then im not entirely sure what was happening there. But i have found Evolution to be more stable and less problematic than Thunderbird for the time being.

But im glad you got everything working :p

---

