---
title: "10.10 not connecting to ad hoc network"
date: 2010-10-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by arrimapirate on 2010-10-25
My problem is that one of my laptops can not seem to connect to an Ad-Hoc network properly.

I have two laptops:
A Compaq Presario v2000 running 9.10 (I will call it 9.10 from here on)
and an Acer Extensa 4420 running 10.10 (I will call it 10.10 from here on)

They have no way of connecting to the wireless network I use because said network is a public wifi network that, due to distance from me, can only be connected to by having either laptop held 4ft off the ground in a specific spot in my room. Any movement left, right, up, or down, will cause me to lose signal (dropping from about 600kb/s to about 5kb/s)

What I have done until now is simply put an antenna on my desktop computer exactly where it needs to be. If I needed the internet on 10.10 id just attach an ethernet cable between the two and share the connection. I was give 9.10 a few weeks ago and would like to turn it into a wireless router/backup server. However, after plugging the cable into 9.10 and creating an Ad-Hoc network for my 10.10 to connect to, 10.10 can not connect to the network its broadcasting. 

I would like to get this working so i can finally use my laptop (10.10) without having to keep it plugged into a cable. 
Any help would be greatly appreciated.

edit: I an actually running regular ubuntu, not the kde version. I dont know how to change the prefix for a thread though.

---

