---
title: "network-manager clobbers resolv.conf after 11.10 upgrade"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Horatio on 2011-10-19
So, I've upgraded from 11.04 to 11.10. After the upgrade the /etc/resolv.conf file was being overwritten with
```

# Generated by NetworkManager
~                                        

```

I had and still have the network interface configured through /etc/network/interfaces
```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.100
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
gateway 192.168.1.1
broadcast 192.168.1.255

```

So, I tried some suggestions. The one that seemed most reasonable was given by  luarwo in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1861105&highlight=resolv.conf]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1861105&highlight=resolv.conf")

> 
Hello, 
Thank you so much, I had the same problem I upgraded from 11.04 and dns wasn't working. This is what I did:

1. check
Code:
$ping [www.google.com](www.google.com)
ping: unknown host [www.google.com](www.google.com)
$ping 8.8.8.8
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_req=1 ttl=51 time=73.1 ms
this means it cannot resolve the domain, but it can ping google dns

2. I checked resolv.conf
Code:
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
no nameserver, so I followed the instructions above

3. Edited /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf 
Code:
$gksu gedit /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
After: [ifupdown], changed managed=false to managed=true

4. Then
Code:
$ sudo service network-manager stop
$ sudo rm /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.state 
$ sudo service network-manager start
Now the network icon changes to a pair of arrows.

5. Right click on the network icon and select Auto Ethernet



Although, I would rather have some default DNS. So the above didn't really work for me. 

So instead I've disable the network-manager from automatically starting at boot by creating a file in /etc/itit/

```

sudo sh -c "echo manual >> /etc/itit/network-manager.override"

```

and now the file /etc/resolv.conf is just the way I manually edited it before a reboot. But, beware that the file /etc/resove.conf will still be overwritten if you manually start network-manager.

Okay. So, does anybody know how to get network-manager to cooperate with a static interface configured in 11.10? Please share it here.

Thanks.

---

### Post by tors on 2011-10-20
Perhaps you can edit /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf to request or not request the specific fields you are or are not interested in.

In order to have my /etc/resolv.conf the way I want it I've added this line to /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf :

append domain-search "anotherdomain.com";

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-10-21
Here's how I fixed network-manager

```
sudo apt-get remove network-manager
```

Now it leaves resolv.conf alone.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-10-21
Hi

Your mixing and matching Network Manager and networking. Choose one or the other. 

Either remove it as suggested by slimodds and use your /etc/network/interfaces  files or set a static (called manual) ip address in Network Manager along with a dns server list (and possibly routes).

On my server i use networking and on my laptop i use Network Manager. Both currently use dns servers that i have set up.

Kind regards

---

