---
title: "network interfaces problem"
date: 2011-03-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by debd on 2011-03-19
I had to configure through pppoeconf, because configuring & cnnecting through the network manager gui , some sites just didn't open. probably those could not be resolved.
but if i connect through the pppoeconf config (i.e. pon dsl-pprovider) those sites open normally.

now my problem is ; sometimes the internet cnnection breaks (that's a problem with my ISP) pon dsl-pprovider fails to connect again.

i dont get the network manager applet in the indicator, when my /etc/network/interfaces looks like this:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


auto dsl-provider
iface dsl-provider inet ppp
pre-up /sbin/ifconfig eth0 up # line maintained by pppoeconf
provider dsl-provider

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet manual
```



nm-applet appears only if interfaces contain:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```

but then then dsl-provider wont work.

so..is there a way i can have both available in a session?

also I want to know how i can configure from the network manager gui, so that  
all sites can be opened.

btw, my ISP is BSNL

and my resolv.conf contains :

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 218.248.255.163
nameserver 218.248.255.162

thanks.

---

### Post by dineshs on 2011-03-20
> also I want to know how i can configure from the network manager gui, so that all sites can be opened.
Hope you have configured the connection like [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9611335&postcount=9")
If you are unable to open all sites the problem may be MTU.So change MTU to 1492 or 1482 .For this rightclick NM icon click edit connections-DSL-select connection-edit-click the tab wired and change MTU-apply (pl see attachment)
If you want to find the optimum MTU value try [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=872346")
> btw, my ISP is BSNL
Why dont you configure your modem in always ON (PPPoE) mode?What is the model name of your modem?(At present your modem is in Bridge mode that is why you need a dialler)

---

### Post by debd on 2011-03-20
> Why dont you configure your modem in always ON (PPPoE) mode?

i configured pppoeconf that way.
but the modem bsnl supplies has a  link availability indicator that, when stable means link is available. but at times it loses the link and blinks, and the connection is lost. Afterwards sometimes dsl-provider is able to automatically restore the connection after the indicator is stable again, but often can't. then I have noway but to reboot.

the modem type is :

Type I ADSL2 + CPE 

the model no is :

T1-B-DSL699E9.4U6-5

Thanks for your rply. :)

---

### Post by dineshs on 2011-03-20
> but the modem bsnl supplies has a link availability indicator that, when stable means link is available. but at times it loses the link and blinks, and the connection is lost. 
First make DSL stable.For this ensure that the phone is connected through splitter and there is no parellel phone/fax before splitter.Then contact BSNL to check telephone line. (if you enter modem menu you will see an SNR value upstream and downstream .It should be greater than 12 I think.If it is less you need to check your line/internal wiring for dry joint).How long is the telephone exchange from your office/residence?Because for DSL connection to work perfectly the distance should be less than 5km.

---

### Post by debd on 2011-03-20
> For this ensure that the phone is connected through splitter and there is no parellel phone/fax before splitter.

the broadband wiring in my home has been installed just as it should be.
But the problem is with the way the wires are managed outside, i.e on the road-side posts and junction boxes. Its cumbersome. The problem wasn't there in summertime. its just the rain season have started and so does the problem.

I only wanted that I could connect all the sites configuring through the NM gui.

You are also in India. Could your settings help me out?

Thanks for your efforts.

---

### Post by dineshs on 2011-03-21
> I only wanted that I could connect all the sites configuring through the NM gui.Did you try changing MTU as explained in post #2?
Another method :Configure your modem in PPPoE mode as explained in [http://www.calcuttatelephones.com/dataoneinstall/mu11.html](http://www.calcuttatelephones.com/dataoneinstall/mu11.html) (step-3 onwards)
If you do so the connection will be always ON and you need not use DSL connection.ie just open browser and proceed (whichever be the operating system) .

---

