---
title: "12.04 LTS Unable to connect to internet"
date: 2014-12-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by antony10 on 2014-12-30
Hi. I'm new to Ubuntu. Trying it for the first time in my DeskTop. 
Installation went smoothly from the CD. 
Everything works except the internet. (wired)
The modem is working fine since I'm able to access its wifi on my phone. 
Can see the message "Wired Network Disconnected" at the top right corner network icon in the screen 

Did a system testing and got the following report for "network"

[TABLE]
[TR]
[TD="class: label"]networking/detect[/TD]
[TD="bgcolor: #00FF00"]PASSED[/TD]
[TD]Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD][IMG]file:///H:/submission.xml_files/fail.png[/IMG][/TD]
[TD="class: label"]networking/internet[/TD]
[TD="bgcolor: #FF0000"]FAILED[/TD]
[TD]ERROR:root:Could not find def gateway info in /proc ERROR:root:Could not find default gateway by running route[/TD]
[/TR]
[TR]
[TD][/TD]
[TD="class: label"]wireless/wireless_connection[/TD]
[TD="bgcolor: #888888"]not required on this system[/TD]
[TD]Job requirement not met: 'device.category == 'WIRELESS''[/TD]
[/TR]
[/TABLE]


Can someone help me with this?

---

### Post by praseodym on 2014-12-30
Hi,
please run the wireless script from the sticky thread and show the outputs.

---

### Post by antony10 on 2015-01-02
Hi Praseodym, 

I have no clue on what is the "wireless script". Note that I'm a first time user of Ubuntu. 
It is a desktop and does not have wireless capability...

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2015-01-02
Hi, have you checked the obvious? cable,interior cable connectors
reseated the network card?
also try this,
```
sudo rfkill unblock all
```
you also can click the network icon
and make sure "Network Enabled" is checked.
was this a working computer to start with? and
what kind of computer is it???
thanks

---

### Post by praseodym on 2015-01-02
Please open a terminal with CTRL+ALT+T and show the outputs of these commands:
```

lspci -nnk
lsusb
lsmod
ifconfig -a
iwconfig
cat /etc/resolv.conf
route -n
```

---

