---
title: "Intel 536ep install Ubuntu 7.04 dependancy issue"
date: 2007-07-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by darkwave80 on 2007-07-20
I have ubuntu 7 and i finally downloaded a good set of drivers for my 56 intel 536ep modem.

Well when i use gnome-ppp i configure it and dail out and everything seems right except for 2 seconds
after i connect i get booted and this is the error.

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT2772110
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT2772110
CONNECT 50666
AUTHORIZED ACCESS ONLY.
gsvlflma-as-1
User Access Verification
Login: 
--> Carrier detected.  Starting PPP immediately.
--> Starting pppd at Fri Jul 20 11:06:29 2007
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 6709
--> Using interface ppp0
--> Disconnecting at Fri Jul 20 11:06:36 2007
--> The PPP daemon has died: Authentication error.
--> We failed to authenticate ourselves to the peer.
--> Maybe bad account or password? (exit code = 19)
--> man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
--> I guess that's it for now, exiting
--> The PPP daemon has died. (exit code = 19)


Im using the same username and password as I do when Im loged on to windows but I dont know that much about ubuntu to troubleshoot something like this.

Thanks

---

### Post by Bartender on 2007-07-20
> **darkwave80 said:**
> 
Well now im not sure what to try next...

Try shopping for a hardware modem.  The frustrating thing about this is even if you get the 536 modem to work, it'll only work within the existing kernel.  If you upgrade the kernel, or upgrade to the next version of Ubuntu, the modem will again be broken.

---

### Post by Sepero on 2007-09-12
> **Bartender said:**
> Try shopping for a hardware modem.  The frustrating thing about this is even if you get the 536 modem to work, it'll only work within the existing kernel.  If you upgrade the kernel, or upgrade to the next version of Ubuntu, the modem will again be broken.
True, but as I have stated, I plan on releasing the driver for Gutsy too. ;)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471503](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471503)

darkwave80, do you have 'stupidmode' enabled in the settings? It is vital for the 536ep.

---

### Post by darkwave80 on 2007-10-05
I did manage to find a great external modem, us robotics 56k hardware one, and a few weeks later got wireless high speed internet thru verizon.
but keep up the good work and thanks for the fast replays.

---

