---
title: "10.10 - Open Network (Ventrilo) Server"
date: 2010-10-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Elic on 2010-10-07
Hi guys, I'm new to the forums and fairly new to linux as well.  I've decided to attempt a project that so far has me stumped.  I have Ubuntu 10.10 setup on a spare pc that I'm using as a server to hold media.

 As a media player for music and movies it's working great.Ubuntu does a nice job bringing old hardware back to life. Running on an old P4 64bit 2.5ghz, 3gig of ram, and a Geforce 7800 GS, it's the old MSI K8Neo Platinum. Remember getting amped about that release in highschool lol.

My issue comes with networking and the packages that may or maybe not installed by default.  I want to be able to have open access from my PC ( LAN ) and two laptops (wireless) i have in the house. I've used a plethora of different packages during my reading. I went with samba, downloading the personal file sharing manager, swat, and a few I can't remember at the moment. My main goal is to make a Ventrilo server so  my friends and I can connect to while gaming. While I had my server set up that way I successfully installed and loaded up a ventrilo server. First I tested to see if I could connect within the network using the specified IP address through the router.  Once my Ventrilo client saw the server was live and connected I went to step 2.  I asked a few friends to see if they could join as well. Successfully they did, a few hours stable too. Then I decided to do a fresh install and reinstall everything.

My issue with the Ventrilo server now is once it's running no one can seem to see that it's there.  Even within the network after the fresh install I couldnt connect. I'm more than certain I'm missing packages but I'm unsure which ones I'm missing. I was hoping while I kept reading that someone with more knowledge than myself can pass some down. I've had this up and running once, I just need a nudge in the right direction to get back on my path. Thank you for taking the time to read this lengthy post. :popcorn:



   -Elicaris-

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-10-07
Sorry, I can't help -- other than to suggest putting "Ventrilo server" in the subject line.

---

### Post by Elic on 2010-10-07
it's ok, i should've put ventrilo help up instead of being so vague. i'll have to remake since i don't know how to rename this post or delete it. thank you

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-10-07
Closed - discussion continues here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1590416]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1590416")

---

