---
title: "10.04 LTS with Huawei e169 USB-modem."
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Hannu Mikael on 2010-05-02
Connection is possible only after few reboot.
Preferences I tried all.
What to do?

---

### Post by rsw1965 on 2010-05-07
I am having very little luck in getting my e169 to be recognised as a modem - it keeps mounting as a CD. Back in 9,04 it simply worked beautifully - but now?  Could try usb-modeswitch and lots of fiddling around with modprobe or wait for a solution to be arrived at.

rsw

---

### Post by Troken on 2010-05-08
I use Lubuntu and it only recognizes my e169 as a disk. Is there any solution to this?

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-05-08
does the E169 give an icon on the desktop?

if so, right-click and select "eject" from the menu

is it virgin australia that you are part of?

I guess if you tell us what

> lsusb gives you ... these modems, and their near-relations, the E220 used to work so well on ubuntu 8.04 and 8.10

---

### Post by novatillasku on 2010-05-11
I have a Huawei E1612 and needs install usb_modeswitch and usb_modeswitch-data.
I have a post in my blog: [http://novatillasku.com/2010/05/03/huawei-e1612-funciona-en-ubuntu-10-04/](http://novatillasku.com/2010/05/03/huawei-e1612-funciona-en-ubuntu-10-04/)

---

### Post by foresthill on 2010-05-11
> **Hannu Mikael said:**
> Connection is possible only after few reboot.
Preferences I tried all.
What to do?

Usb_modeswitch is not installed by default in 10.4. So if you do manage to get the modem working, the first thing you should do is run the Update Manager, then go to Synaptic Package Mgr and install usb_modeswitch.

I don't know why the devs left out usb_modeswitch, it's essential to getting on the net when your only internet connection is a 3G modem. :(

One way to get around the problem is to flip the modem in Windows, then immediately reboot in 10.4 while the device is working as a modem. It should stay flipped during the reboot, provided it get a steady stream of power.

Then go to Network Manager and look for "Unconfigured Mobile Broadband Connection" and configure as usual.

---

### Post by rundee_f on 2010-05-11
> **foresthill said:**
> Usb_modeswitch is not installed by default in 10.4. So if you do manage to get the modem working, the first thing you should do is run the Update Manager, then go to Synaptic Package Mgr and install usb_modeswitch.

I don't know why the devs left out usb_modeswitch, it's essential to getting on the net when your only internet connection is a 3G modem. :(

One way to get around the problem is to flip the modem in Windows, then immediately reboot in 10.4 while the device is working as a modem. It should stay flipped during the reboot, provided it get a steady stream of power.

Then go to Network Manager and look for "Unconfigured Mobile Broadband Connection" and configure as usual.

this is the best explanation i guess..

---

### Post by rsw1965 on 2010-06-06
I was finally able to solve this problem with the following thread about an e160 - I followed roughly the same solution - but the /etc/udev/rules.d directory rather than lib/udev.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9417965#post9417965](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9417965#post9417965)

This solution also worked for my Huawei e169 - although I took a slightly different path to the rule.

I created a file called "temp-e169-modem.rules" in the /etc/udev/rules.d directory. I used the same settingsline as in the post regarding the e160 in the forum linked above - except that I changed the product ID to 1001.

ATTRS{idVendor}=="12d1", ATTRS{idProduct}=="1001", RUN+="modem-modeswitch -v 0x%s{idVendor} -p 0x%s{idProduct} -t option-zerocd"

Nothing else in the file.

Rebooted and now the e169 has been picked up each time, unplugged and reconnected etc - all seems to work now.

The README in the /etc/udev/rules.d directory explained that rules written there would be persistent (while those in /lib/udev/ would be overwritten with any update. It also noted that simply using any text based name for the file was sufficient for it to be executed after all other rules.

Excellent outcome - Lucid was not happy with the e169 before this.

rsw1965

---

### Post by jao_madn on 2010-06-27
Mine is E169U chungwa taiwan,works fine but i encounter 1 not recognize i boot to windows use it and change to ubunutu and works. like someone seed above need to power up and reboot to linux 10.04. ill try your workaround if i will encounter permanently this problem. i try it in my EEEPC and asus u30j and works fine.

---

### Post by RonCam on 2010-06-28
> **rsw1965 said:**
> Excellent outcome - Lucid was not happy with the e169 before this.I am using Lucid in the form of Leeenux netbook remix v4, so I assume the fix for my E169 should be the same?  Unfortunately, it's still being recognized as "HAUWEI SD Storage" in Nautilus.

Which version of usb-modeswitch gave you the 'excellent' outcome?  I first tried the latest, only from a few days ago, in the Debian repository.  Seems to install fine, but I'm not seeing the connection in the NetworkManager Applet.  The light on the modem gives a double-flash followed by two seconds off.

I pulled that out, then went to the Ubuntu repository version, slightly older.  When that one didn't work, I viewed its configuration file, and it *does* have a line it is for the E169. 

However, the syntax in that line varies from the one you wrote.  Was your E169 configuration entry specific to a certain version of the modeswitch utility?

Is there possibly any small step you took, not listed in the posts, that I would have to do?  I've also posted on the Leeenux forum, but I don't know how much help I'll get there, because the developer may not have access to en E169.

System Info:
ASUS 701 4G
Leeenux v4 (Lucid)

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-06-29
Ron:

plug your modem in 

open a terminal; copy and paste

> dmesg | grep tty

and copy and paste back what you get

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-06-29
Ron:

when rsw1965 talks of "modem-modeswitch" in his udev rules

..... that it is not the usb_modeswitch you are talking of?

so with 10.04 one doesn't seem to need usb_modeswitch installed ...

but this E169 does seem to need a specific rule written, in the /etc/udev folder ..

---

### Post by oygle on 2010-06-29
Incredible that the devs would make such a mistake as this mot working in 10.04. I use a E169 on 9.04, and am sure glad I didn't upgrade to 10.04

With 9.04 I didn't have to make any changes at all, other than define the APN and DNS side of things. So, it seems network manager has taken a backwards step again, or is this problem all USB related ?

---

### Post by oygle on 2010-06-29
> **pdc said:**
> when rsw1965 talks of "modem-modeswitch" in his udev rules

..... that it is not the usb_modeswitch you are talking of?

so with 10.04 one doesn't seem to need usb_modeswitch installed ...

but this E169 does seem to need a specific rule written, in the /etc/udev folder ..

Seems like the bug is [usb-modeswitch](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/546728) related. I see the importance on the bug is 'undecided' and hasn't been assigned, even though it was first reported 3 months ago.  :mad:

---

### Post by RonCam on 2010-06-29
> **pdc said:**
> ... copy and paste back what you getThanks for helping.  By the way, the back of the modem has E169 printed on it, the box says the same, but you can see what lsusb says, below.  Here it is:

```
rc@rc-701:~$ cat /proc/version
Linux version 2.6.32-21-generic (buildd@rothera) (gcc version 4.4.3 (Ubuntu 4.4.3-4ubuntu5) ) #32-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 16 08:10:02 UTC 2010
rc@rc-701:~$ lsusb
...
Bus 003 Device 006: ID 12d1:1001 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. E620 USB Modem
...
rc@rc-701:~$ dmesg | grep tty
[    0.000000] console [tty0] enabled
[   13.366868] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB0
[   13.367624] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB1
[   13.368938] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB2
[ 4106.251474] option1 ttyUSB0: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB0
[ 4106.251714] option1 ttyUSB1: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB1
[ 4106.251931] option1 ttyUSB2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB2
[ 4106.253060] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB0
[ 4106.253510] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB1
[ 4106.253913] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB2
[ 6580.894449] option1 ttyUSB0: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB0
[ 6580.894701] option1 ttyUSB1: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB1
[ 6580.894919] option1 ttyUSB2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB2
[ 6581.156690] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB0
[ 6581.159027] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB1
[ 6581.159784] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB2
[ 6586.804940] option1 ttyUSB2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB2
[ 6586.807447] option1 ttyUSB1: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB1
[ 6586.809787] option1 ttyUSB0: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB0
[13251.471972] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB0
[13251.474817] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB1
[13251.477818] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB2
[14420.454555] option1 ttyUSB0: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB0
[14420.454794] option1 ttyUSB1: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB1
[14420.455005] option1 ttyUSB2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB2
[14420.712810] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB0
[14420.715114] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB1
[14420.715872] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB2
[14423.107430] option1 ttyUSB2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB2
[14423.110936] option1 ttyUSB1: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB1
[14423.114061] option1 ttyUSB0: GSM modem (1-port) converter now disconnected from ttyUSB0
[30903.371847] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB0
[30903.374830] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB1
[30903.377811] usb 3-2: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB2
```
Please let me know if you see anything to explain this.  At this time I have usb-modeswitch installed, the version in the Ubuntu repository.

---

### Post by RonCam on 2010-06-29
> **pdc said:**
> ... this E169 does seem to need a specific rule written, in the /etc/udev folder ...Yes, you're right.  I've run both the most recent (Debian repo), and the earlier version (Ubuntu repo) with the special rule I've seen on other postings.  I was putting the text in with copy-and-paste to rule out typos on my part.

It was first in a special directory as a single file (where it's said to be persistent) and then edited into the file with all the other rules (when I saw the modem wasn't working).  All this was before I posted here.  

Note that this modem shows itself as an E620.  Has this ever been seen before on a modem labeled E169?  This could just be a typo, or what?  I think usb-modeswitch identifies the models by a different code number, so this should not make a difference.

---

### Post by RonCam on 2010-06-29
> **pdc said:**
> ... when rsw1965 talks of "modem-modeswitch" in his udev rules ..... that it is not the usb_modeswitch you are talking of?Yes, and thanks for for taking the time to research the problem at the other thread.  

It is curious that rsw1965 (and others) have the problem miraculously fixed, while others (myself included) do not.  

I am hoping rsw1965 will respond to provide further information on his system.  If you look at the other thread, you will see I am making inquiries to learn if our kernels are completely identical, and likewise for the firmware in our E169's. 

:confused: Something must be different to account for trying the same remedy but having completely opposite results ...

---

