---
title: "8.04 Wired Network Problems"
date: 2008-05-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rmccarri on 2008-05-29
Hi,
I've been using 8.04 Hardy since it launched.  Everything is working really well, but every two-three days, the network connection is lost.  ifconfig gives normal results with the IP address and everything still listed properly.  I've tried restarting the network via "/etc/init.d/networking restart" and that does not work.  However, if I restart the computer, everything works perfectly again.  Is anyone else noticing this behavior?

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-05-29
is DHCP enabled in your router? and have you set it to DHCP in ubuntu?

---

### Post by rmccarri on 2008-06-15
Yes, I have DHCP enable on my router.  However, I have it set to assign a  specific IP address based on the hardware MAC address so that everything is "static" from the router side, but the computer should be seeing it as a typical DHCP setup.

I seem to have tracked the problem down to the proprietary nVidia driver for my video card.  If I disable these drivers, everything is OK, but if I enable them, I lose my network connection after a day or so.  It's really a pain since I would like to be able to use things like Google Earth and they require that the drivers be installed to work.  However, I host my web site from home so every time the connection goes down, my site is down.

Has anyone else experienced these kinds of problems with the nVidia drivers?  In Ubuntu 7.10, the problem was more severe in that the nVidia drivers immediately killed the network, while with 8.04, it works for a day or so and then quits.

Any ideas?  I'm afraid that I'm going to have to go back to hosting my site at GoDaddy, which would totally suck.

---

### Post by chip616 on 2008-08-27
rmccari:

FWIW I have two Dell Vostro laptops with similar problems.  Both are using the nVidia drivers.  However, my desktop machine downstairs, also running Kubuntu 8.04 does NOT have this problem, even through it too is running Kubuntu 8.04.

Both of my laptops quit accessing the network after a few hours of inactivity whether through the wired ethernet port, or from the wireless.  Unplugging and then replugging the ethernet cable forces the KDE Network Manager to reset, and then it works again.  Almost feels like the router is cutting them off after a set period of time, but I have nothing set at the router to do this.

All my machines use DHCP.  My D-Link router allows me to reserve addresses in the DHCP list according to MAC address.  The desktop machine uses a reserved address.  The two laptops don't, as they come and go during the day.  My two other desktop machines on the network (Win2K and Xandros 3) don't have these problems.  They too have reserved addresses.

FWIW, this is a new development.  I've been running Kubuntu 8.04 since June, but this dropping the network connection only started a few weeks ago.  I noticed that there was an update to the KDE Network Manager some time ago, but I don't remember the exact dates, and when this problem showed up.

So, this will 'bump' the message back up again.  Anyone have any ideas based on this new info?

Thanks.

Frank.

---

