---
title: "[SOLVED] Can ping router - no internet access"
date: 2008-12-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-09
Ubuntu 5.10
Works well except no internet access. (not _this_ machine!)
Have, for now, fixed address which the 2Wire 1800 router recognises.
Can ping the router OK on 192.168.1.1.

Have set DNS servers addresses and can ping both.

Can also ping 217.12.6.29 (yahoo.co.uk) but if I try to actually ping [color=red]yahoo.co.uk[/color] I get ".. address cannot be found".

Looks like a blockage in searching DNS?

Two NICs on machine, same problem with both.

Googled for similar problem but none match this.

_This_ machine on same router has no problems either in Windows or LINUX.

How to resolve? :confused:

---

### Post by MeURi on 2008-12-09
I think you meant Ubuntu 8.10 and not 5.10.

Anyway, you can try to edit by hand (you need to be root) your /etc/resolv.conf file, adding your DNS servers like this:
```

nameserver <ip>
nameserver <ip>

```
and so on, where <ip> stands for the actual ip of the DNS server you intend to use.

Then, from a terminal window, do a
```

sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

```
and see if ping works. If it works, then change the properties of the connection via NetworkManager o whatever you use (resolv.conf gets overwritten by that).

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-09
No, MeURi, I meant [COLOR="Red"]*5.10*[/COLOR] (five point one zero)
It works so, apart from a few probs, no reason to upgrade :)

I've already set the DNS IPs in resolv.conf and checking they're still there.  I used NetworkManager to set them.

---

### Post by MeURi on 2008-12-09
Uhm...

Maybe upgrading to the latest version will fix this :-P

Leaving jokes aside, have you tried the servers from OpenDNS? Just to be sure that there are no problems with your current configuration.

I've never had such problems with networking, so I'm quite useless to you right now...

---

### Post by Iowan on 2008-12-09
I have a server running 5.10 (Breezy). Still works - haven't gotten around to upgrading to LTS version. I've read that static addresses sometimes have a problem w/ DNS resolution.  Consider trying DHCP (if possible) to see if problem goes away.  If it does, you could configure router to issue static lease (based on MAC address).

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-12-09
post output of /etc/resolv.conf also post output of nslookup google.com

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-09
> **superprash2003 said:**
> post output of /etc/resolv.conf also post output of nslookup google.com```
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 195.74.113.58
nameserver 195.74.113.62
```

```
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ nslookup google.com
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
```

ping one DNS:```
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ ping 195.74.113.58
PING 195.74.113.58 (195.74.113.58) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 195.74.113.58: icmp_seq=1 ttl=58 time=33.7 ms
64 bytes from 195.74.113.58: icmp_seq=2 ttl=58 time=31.9 ms
64 bytes from 195.74.113.58: icmp_seq=3 ttl=58 time=33.3 ms
64 bytes from 195.74.113.58: icmp_seq=4 ttl=58 time=30.8 ms
64 bytes from 195.74.113.58: icmp_seq=5 ttl=58 time=34.3 ms

--- 195.74.113.58 ping statistics ---
5 packets transmitted, 5 received, 0% packet loss, time 3998ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 30.859/32.870/34.383/1.298 ms
```

---

### Post by Iowan on 2008-12-09
Never mind - brain slipped gear.

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-10
I had an e_mail to say someone had posted this message:> Also might check (post?) *route* to verify requests are actually getting to router.But the mail didn't say who from and I cannot see it here :shock:
So here's route:```
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ route
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
default         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
almeter@AL2ooo:~$
```Where did the [color=blue]192.168.1.0[/color] come from?  And no Gateway for it either?

---

### Post by MeURi on 2008-12-10
Well, if I remember properly, 192.168.1.0 is the local network, so there is no need to use the gateway.

Which is needed, instead, for every other address, which goes under the "default". More than that, I don't know :-(

---

### Post by madverb on 2008-12-10
Everything is looking fine to me so far.
Can you post you /etc/network/interfaces file?
Also maybe
> sudo iptables -L | grep domain

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-10
> **madverb said:**
> Everything is looking fine to me so far.
Can you post you /etc/network/interfaces file?
Also maybe```
almeter@AL2ooo:/etc/network$ cat interfaces
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo eth1
iface lo inet loopback

# This is a list of hotpluggable network interfaces.
# They will be activated automatically by the hotplug subsystem.
mapping hotplug
        script grep
        map eth0

# The primary network interface
iface eth0 inet static
      broadcast 192.168.255.255
      address 192.168.1.20
      netmask 255.255.255.0
      gateway 192.168.1.1

#iface eth1 inet dhcp

auto eth0

iface eth1 inet static
address 192.168.1.5
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1
almeter@AL2ooo:/etc/network$
```
```
almeter@AL2ooo:/etc/network$ sudo iptables -L | grep domain
FATAL: Module ip_tables not found.
iptables v1.3.1: can't initialize iptables table `filter': iptables who? (do you need to insmod?)
Perhaps iptables or your kernel needs to be upgraded.
almeter@AL2ooo:/etc/network$
```Ummm. That doesn't look right.
Maybe we've got something to hang onto?

---

### Post by MeURi on 2008-12-10
> **fopetesl said:**
>  ```

# The primary network interface
iface eth0 inet static
      broadcast 192.168.255.255
      address 192.168.1.20
      netmask 255.255.255.0
      gateway 192.168.1.1

```


The broadcast address is wrong, imho. It should be 192.168.1.255

Try and see if it works...

EDIT: I don't use iptables, but it just seems that neither you are using them, so the error (I could have said something stupid, be advised :-P)

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-10
> **MeURi said:**
> The broadcast address is wrong, imho. It should be 192.168.1.255

Try and see if it works...

EDIT: I don't use iptables, but it just seems that neither you are using them, so the error (I could have said something stupid, be advised :-P)Interesting. But it has no effect.  Can still ping the DNS but try any .com : cannot be found :(

---

### Post by MeURi on 2008-12-10
Ok, let's move on to the iptables! :-P

(and wait for someone who knows his/her way through that...:oops:)

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-12-10
open your web browser and type 74.125.45.100 .. basically open [http://74.125.45.100](http://74.125.45.100) .. does google page open?

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-10
> **superprash2003 said:**
> open your web browser and type 74.125.45.100 .. basically open [http://74.125.45.100](http://74.125.45.100) .. does google page open?Yes, Google (English) search page opens :)

---

### Post by jonobr on 2008-12-10
Hello


MeURi is right, your broadcast is wrong, it sets your box to Boradcast as a class B when your netmask is defining it as a class C address,
The difference between the two is that the IP address has a network and host portion.
The netmask (255.255.255.0) means that the network portion is 192.168.1.
and then it defines the host as the last octet,
in your case .20
This means on the 192.168.1 network, you can have 254 hosts numbered from .1 to .254.
.1 is usually your gateway.

The 255 in the last octet has a special meaning, by defining a number as .1 to .254 it means you want to talk to a specific machine, .255 means I want to talk to all machines on the 192.168.1 network

Your not going to see a huge problem in small networks where you are just doing internet access, however, if you start to expand your home network, and one device may need to broadcast to the rest (eg saying everybody here I am) it will cause problems for you.

There are many cases where broadcasts are required, 
such as a machine saying, ( putting it in english rather then machine code:-) ) hay everybody, pay attention, Im looking for someone with this.
Now that everyone gets the message the right one will respond,

Or another example would be , a device saying , hey everyone , here I am and heres what I do,


Expanding on superprash2003's  idea, got to a terminal window,
type nslookup google.com
You should see a few IP address returned from the DNS.
With that you should see the address he suggested below.
Try the others, do they work?

If yes, try google.com again in a browser, does it work?
As a last test, open the terminal window again and type,
w3m google.com

hopefully you will see a text based version of the google home page.

to quit the screen hit q and then y for yes.

Let us know the results of your efforts

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-10
> **jonobr said:**
>  . . . 
Expanding on superprash2003's  idea, got to a terminal window,
type nslookup google.com
You should see a few IP address returned from the DNS.
```
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ nslookup google.com
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
almeter@AL2ooo:~$
```
> **jonobr said:**
> As a last test, open the terminal window again and type,
w3m google.com
```
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ w3m google.com
w3m: Can't load google.com.
almeter@AL2ooo:~$
```

Broadcast address is still 192.168.1.255

I had a thought that it may be the DNS addresses are incorrect so I first set eth0 to DHCP and not static.  Problem remained.

Next I went over to a machine with Xubuntu 8.10 which does Internet connect OK, (not happy with the XFCE setup but that's another story).  I ran```
root@AL2ooo:/home/almeter# traceroute google.com
traceroute to google.com (72.14.205.100), 30 hops max, 40 byte packets
 1  home (192.168.1.1)  2.188 ms  10.020 ms  9.892 ms
 2  89.248.130.1 (89.248.130.1)  35.239 ms  37.012 ms  40.773 ms
 3  89.248.128.2 (89.248.128.2)  40.743 ms  42.685 ms  44.453 ms
 4  213.161.93.114 (213.161.93.114)  46.361 ms  48.224 ms  48.177 ms
 5  so-0-1-0.mpr1.dca2.us.above.net (64.125.27.57)  126.929 ms  126.969 ms  126.894 ms
 6  xe-1-1-0.er1.dca2.us.above.net (64.125.26.174)  130.380 ms  110.227 ms  111.975 ms
 7  64.125.31.206 (64.125.31.206)  111.926 ms  103.054 ms  108.063 ms
 8  above-google-3.iad10.us.above.net (64.125.13.162)  107.973 ms  111.652 ms  111.856 ms
 9  216.239.48.108 (216.239.48.108)  113.544 ms  121.329 ms 216.239.48.112 (216.239.48.112)  121.258 ms
10  209.85.248.217 (209.85.248.217)  146.639 ms 66.249.94.234 (66.249.94.234)  132.858 ms 209.85.248.217 (209.85.248.217)  152.378 ms
11  209.85.250.110 (209.85.250.110)  164.067 ms 72.14.233.113 (72.14.233.113)  156.086 ms 209.85.248.217 (209.85.248.217)  158.024 ms
12  66.249.94.92 (66.249.94.92)  165.758 ms 72.14.233.113 (72.14.233.113)  165.695 ms  165.039 ms
root@AL2ooo:/home/almeter#
```
I stopped the trace after 12 hops.
Which one of these addresses is likely to be a DNS?  Or none?

---

### Post by jonobr on 2008-12-10
Ok

Your tracert doesnt include your DNS address.


When you type the IP address it goes straight to that machine.
When you type the google.com, it asks the dns where google.com is and it responds , your machine then has an IP to connect.

What I would do is on your working machine,
nslookup google.com
it should respond with server xx.xx..xx..xx

thats your primary dns.

Next on the working I would type
cat /etc/resolv.conf

see what that says for name server/

Then do same for non working machine, you could probably statically add the DNS in there

---

### Post by madverb on 2008-12-11
The problem is either you have your DNS settings all wrong or something is blocking external requests on port 53 (DNS port).
It also wouldn't hurt to comment out the broadcast line in the interfaces file. Don't know why they bother with it in the first place.

You could also try wireshark and see if traffic on port 53 is being blocked.

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-11
> **jonobr said:**
> 
What I would do is on your working machine,
nslookup google.com
it should respond with server xx.xx..xx..xx
On the working machine, (DHCP):```
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ nslookup google.com
Server:		192.168.1.1
Address:	192.168.1.1#53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name:	google.com
Address: 74.125.45.100
Name:	google.com
Address: 209.85.171.100
Name:	google.com
Address: 72.14.205.100

almeter@AL2ooo:~$
```
On the non-working machine:```
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ nslookup google.com
Server:		192.168.1.1
Address:	192.168.1.1#53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name:	google.com
Address: 74.125.45.100
Name:	google.com
Address: 209.85.171.100
Name:	google.com
Address: 72.14.205.100

almeter@AL2ooo:~$
```Now it's bl**dy well working!!
Last night it couldn't access the Internet.  This morning I can google.
Somewhere down the line we've changed something, somewhere.
But what?
The working machine of yesterday doesn't have a fixed IP, it's on DHCP addressing.
The non-working machine of yesterday does have a fixed IP: 192.168.1.20
So I'm now baffled as to where was the root cause of the Internet access failure.
So now I'll try bringing up the second NIC and see if I can get that to work.  Stand by . . . .

Oh and grats for all your input.  Never too old to learn from experience.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-12-11
it was definetly a DNS problem.. i was going to tell you to change dns servers to opendns..anyways.. its working now.. please mark thread as SOLVED

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-11
Ah well, I _thought_ all was OK :(
I enabled the second NIC and set it up through system tools as DHCP.
Also set it to the default gateway device.
No Internet connection.

I did a port scan on the router and it gives me open ports as```
 80 open www
443 open https
```

Then I tried setting it with fixed address 192.168.1.28

Then attempted browsing to 74.125.45.100 (google) ... no connection.

I checked on the router and it knows my NIC is there.
I can ping the router successfully so the hardware seems OK.

I changed the Default Gateway to eth0, rebooted and I cannot now connect via that either.  No settings were altered for eth0.

Seems I'm back where I started ](*,)

superprash - why are you sure it was/is a DNS problem?  All the other computers connected to the router (4 off) have no problem.
How do I use"opendns" anyways?  Has it an IP address(es)?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2008-12-11
[OpenDNS]("http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2007/03/14/how-to-setup-opendns-on-ubuntu/")
[Another link]("http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2008/06/17/enhance-your-network-connection-with-opendns/")
[3's a charm]("http://blog.mypapit.net/2006/12/how-to-setup-opendns-using-ubuntu.html")

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-12
> **Iowan said:**
> [OpenDNS]("http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2007/03/14/how-to-setup-opendns-on-ubuntu/")
[Another link]("http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2008/06/17/enhance-your-network-connection-with-opendns/")
[3's a charm]("http://blog.mypapit.net/2006/12/how-to-setup-opendns-using-ubuntu.html")Iowan, that's _really_ impressive :)
Who pays for this service?

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-14
Well. I don't know quite how I did it but I now have two NICs up and running and can access the Internet from both if I wish.

I had to first shut down the on-board NIC and establish an Internet connection with plug-in NIC as eth0 since Networking insisted in naming the on-board NIC eth0.
Then open up the on-board NIC and set it up as eth1 with DHCP via Network Manager.

Now the plug-in NIC, eth0, is connected to a local Ethernet linked Controller and eth1 has DHCP connected to the internet.

Thanks for all your input :)

---

### Post by MeURi on 2008-12-14
Glad you solved your problems :-)

I've been very busy these days and seen the messages only now.

But now I'm curious :-P : does your setup use the OpenDNS or the one from your provider? Because maybe the problem was just related to NetworkManager naming your NICs in some conflicting way...

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2008-12-14
To get a successful internet connection, you need a number of things:
IPaddress
Router address
Subnet mask
DNS address
Default route

My guess is that your default route is wrong.  Check it with the 'route' command.

---

### Post by fopetesl on 2008-12-15
Can one mark this thread [UNSOLVED]?  This morning no Internet connect :(
```
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ route
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ 
```
What is _really_ puzzling is that I have set [color=blue]eth1[/color] as the Default Gateway.
However _where_ is the Default Gateway actually defined?
My interfaces```
almeter@AL2ooo:~$ cd /etc/network/
almeter@AL2ooo:/etc/network$ cat interfaces
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp

iface eth1 inet dhcp

auto eth1

iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.20
netmask 255.255.255.0
almeter@AL2ooo:/etc/network$ 
```However though it states 'primary' that's in a comment and says that whichever really is the gateway.

Using the router address, (in this case 192.168.1.1), would almost certainly give me problems in the future.  As I've said in another post this machine might end up in the wilds of Montana and the router there could easily be another address.  DHCP would be the only permanent solution?

On this machine I'm not using OpenDNS just relying on the router to supply it.  On me Windozs machine(s) the DNS is set to the router address and it works just fine.

---

