---
title: "Network connections randomly drop and restart"
date: 2023-05-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by shag00 on 2023-05-18
I have a server which runs Plex that I control using Kde connect. At various random times the connection to Plex and to Kde connect both disconnect for a short length of time before re-establishing their connections. To be sure I reinstalled both programs but this had no effect. I have not had an issue connecting to the server remotely via ethernet or has the router gone off line during these disconnections. I think the problem is the PC's local host (1.00.00.27, ? or similar) but I am not network literate and need some help to identify the problem.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-05-18
wifi being used by any of the systems involved?

1.00.00.27 wouldn't be a valid LAN IP address. If that is what is set, you have big issues.

---

### Post by shag00 on 2023-05-18
No, it is from memory, hence the question mark, a pointer that someone who knows network will recognise. Kde connect is wi-fi. The server has operated for several years without this problem being present and started about a month ago when 2 things occurred, a new mobile and upgrade to 23.04. The PC is not really touched or changed for any reason other than updating media content and I have use the bog standard network settings. The other network related piece is a viewer/player, Plex-mpv-shim, so I can view the movie.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-05-18
wifi devices often enable power savings by turning off the wifi radio. They do this automatically.  I'd check the phone first.  Mine does this too, so when I'm syncing data (I run a nextcloud server on the LAN), I need to ensure the power saving mode doesn't happen during long sync processing ... or just plan to do it again the next morning.  Saving battery on the phone is more important to me than having wifi enabled for 45 minutes straight. Your choice might be different.

If you need stability, only run LTS releases.

---

### Post by shag00 on 2023-05-19
Please correct me if I misunderstand - the mobile shuts off the wi-fi radio (I assume of the phone only) how does this effect the internal connection of Plex on the PC? The wi-fi connection is carried through a router not the PC directly (no onboard wi-fi on the PC). It is that the Plex connection dies that is my problem and I talk of Kde connect only because it happens at the same time and must be failing at the same point. How do I identify what that point is?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-05-19
Kde connect is for connecting Android to Linux, right?  It allows 2-way transfers, so any issue with it would be tied to the Android system, which uses wifi.

If you aren't using KDEConnect or any Android tablet/cell phone, then why is that mentioned?
If all devices involved are wired ethernet, why mention wifi?

See how I could be confused?

If Plex stops working between wired systems, that's a different issue in my mind.  I ran a plex server for a few years before finding that Jellyfin worked better for my needs/wants.  Every once in a while plex would become unresponsible, but the rest of the system and all networking with it kept working.  The solution was to restart plex most of the time. Every 3-6 months, I'd do plex DB maintenance manually.  One time, plex stopped working because the extra data generated by plex (periodic thumbnails for fwd/rev) and other captured images got too large and would fill the file system.  Eventually, I moved all that data to a dedicated file system to avoid the issue.
Jellyfin lacks some of the things plex has, but it includes a few things that we important to me.  Additionally, jellyfin's DB is about 1/10th the size of plex and jellyfin doesn't send any data back to the jellyfin project. Plex is almost as bad as a roku for sending watch/listen data to be sold.  Just another consideration.

Anyway, please clarify if the issue is with plex or KDEConnect or networking in general.  They are each very different.  What do the system log files show at the time of the failure?

---

### Post by shag00 on 2023-05-19
Kde connect does allow 2 way transfer and uses wi-fi. As I mentioned in my initial post I use it to control the server as it also has a remote input function that controls the mouse cursor with left & right click, password input and enter. I mention it because it is somehow connected. When Plex stops playing (sometimes with a slow connection speed pop-up) I grab my mobile (Kde connect) to restart Plex but I cannot move the cursor or left/right click (after a while my mobile gets a pop-up: Kde connect cannot connect to paired device). When I can eventually connect to the server (minutes) I can restart Plex. So when one cannot connect neither can the other one.

To clarify, when I say Plex stops working I mean the movie stops playing where the movie is being played on mpv through plex-mpv-shim, it is the mpv window that closes. The plex window (which is in a browser) remains open but unresponsive.

Also, in addition to Plex and Kde connect I think plex-mpv-shim is a contender as a problem as well as it uses a http interface.

Based on my limited ability to read a log, in this case the syslog it looks like the NIC is closing and connectivity is also lost. I have attached the syslog for the time around the last occurrence of the problem (Starts around line 32). [IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=292256&stc=1[/IMG]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-05-19
Thanks for the logs. Very helpful and small.

Ok, can you recreate this with all the devices being on the same LAN?
The logs show you are using the internet.  That's impossible to troubleshoot. Too many moving parts.  Get all the parts on the same subnet.
Does ssh work still?  ssh is the base way that Unix systems should be accessed when any sort of issue happens unless it is a full network outage. Then the console must be used.  With most Linux systems, installing "ssh" provides sftp too, which is a secure version of plain FTP (which shouldn't be used since around 2000).  Most Linux file managers support accessing sftp, using URLs with sftp://1.2.3.4/  or ssh://1.2.3.4/   There are good sftp clients for every OS.

I'm a little concerned about the types of storage connected based on the SMART messages.  SAT usually means they are USB, IME.  USB connections can be flaky.  Try reseating the cable. That might fix it.  Or get the full SMART data and see where the issue really is from what it says.

Basic troubleshooting methodology is to simplify and test, each time until the single thing remains that is determined to be faulty.  What we have now is "my car won't go". We need to get to "the battery isn't working" to know where the problem really is, so it can be solved.  Using intel NICs with the igb driver means that the NIC and drivers are almost 100% correct, so the problem is either with the disks slowing down plex, or with plex trying to transcode without sufficient CPU to handle the load or outside the system ... with network and firewall equipment upstream.

Those are my current thoughts.

---

### Post by shag00 on 2023-05-20
I deleted the majority of the log so you did not need to wade through pages of crap as I knew the time the problem occurred.

"On the same LAN and subnet" - I need help here as I thought everything was on the same LAN, subnets I just don't know. Perhaps I will describe what I have and ask if it qualifies. To manage the server from my main PC I manage content using samba and the Kubuntu file manager, Dolphin. To manage the various other things I use VNC (which I understand uses ssh but additionally adds a GUI).

Some of the hard drives are reported incorrectly as removable when in fact they are not, the issue arises because those drives are connected to a SATA port expansion card, that is I have more than 6 drives. I have had faulty SATA cables before and that leads to other obvious problems (eg nightly backup and bit rot integrity check, file tranfers) so I think cables are not the problem. In addition the problem arises from movies from different source disks.

Regards Plex, it connects to the Plex servers which is an internet connection. If the issue were with the servers there would be user riots and the problem fixed quickly. I am viewing the movies from the server on a TV physically connected to the server (HDMI) and they are played without transcoding so virtually no CPU load. I also occasionally stream shows through the server PC and can watch long shows without issue and I regularly do speed tests for my internet connection which report up and down speeds of around 90 Mbps.

So I assume the syslog was the correct log, if you want the whole file that is of course not a problem. If I understand you correctly the next thing would be to try watching a movie by starting it remotely via VNC?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-05-21
> **shag00 said:**
> 
"On the same LAN and subnet" - I need help here as I thought everything was on the same LAN, subnets I just don't know. Perhaps I will describe what I have and ask if it qualifies. To manage the server from my main PC I manage content using samba and the Kubuntu file manager, Dolphin. To manage the various other things I use VNC (which I understand uses ssh but additionally adds a GUI).


the log file says the IP address is a public IP, so it would be really strange if all the devices were on the same LAN and subnet.  Descriptions aren't likely to be sufficient.

VNC does NOT use ssh and shouldn't be considered secure.  To use VNC with ssh is a separate effort.  Using VNC on the public internet is asking to get cracked and have your system taken over.  It is usually easier to use NX tools like x2go (which use ssh for tunneling and authentication), but I don't know of an x2go client for Android.

> **shag00 said:**
> 
Some of the hard drives are reported incorrectly as removable when in fact they are not, the issue arises because those drives are connected to a SATA port expansion card, that is I have more than 6 drives. I have had faulty SATA cables before and that leads to other obvious problems (eg nightly backup and bit rot integrity check, file tranfers) so I think cables are not the problem. In addition the problem arises from movies from different source disks.


I use jellyfin and have many TB of storage connected across many different disks. None of the SATA connections (I have an extra, cheap, 4-port SATA + eSATA-PM adapter in the machine) seem slow.  My backup disks are USB connected and external.  Those report as SAT and need time to spin up, which causes issues from time to time.  If you have any doubts about the storage, run at least a SMART short test and look at the raw data for issues. Don't just look at the summary that always claims "disk passed test" ... that's useless and deceptive.

> **shag00 said:**
> Regards Plex, it connects to the Plex servers which is an internet connection. If the issue were with the servers there would be user riots and the problem fixed quickly. I am viewing the movies from the server on a TV physically connected to the server (HDMI) and they are played without transcoding so virtually no CPU load. I also occasionally stream shows through the server PC and can watch long shows without issue and I regularly do speed tests for my internet connection which report up and down speeds of around 90 Mbps.

As soon as you hit the internet, all bets are off.  Speed fluctuates wildly.  It is possible that your Android device is connecting over the internet unless you disable the cellular data connection. Are you doing that?  I'd go into airplane mode, then enable just wifi, if the wifi router is the same as the router used by the server.

> **shag00 said:**
> 
So I assume the syslog was the correct log, if you want the whole file that is of course not a problem. If I understand you correctly the next thing would be to try watching a movie by starting it remotely via VNC?

I look at log files daily. No, I don't want to see anyone else's log files ... and won't look if it isn't trivial to see exactly what is useful. 

I don't understand why VNC would be involved at all for anything related to Plex.  You've lost me.  You know that Plex has a web interface that can be accessed by any browser, right?

---

### Post by shag00 on 2023-05-21
The internet address in the log, I suspect that may be the Plex server, is there a way to check what it is?

My cellular is only using internet connection, mobile data is disabled.

I only mention VNC as it is an available interface and is rarely used on my mobile and infrequently on my main PC.

Yesterday, I tested running Plex remotely with no wi-fi connection using VNC from my main PC and suffered the same issue. After this I did more tests using a mouse attached to the server and did not see the problem. I will test this further today as the problem is random and occasionally I can see an entire movie.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-05-21
> **shag00 said:**
>  
My cellular is only using internet connection, mobile data is disabled.

That statement makes no sense to me.  What do you think the internet uses?  Or you could be using imprecise terms and confusing me.

To see LAN IP addresses, use **ip a**.  The **ip** command has many different possible options. Worth knowing the basics.

You do realize that if there's a desktop loaded, then the same issue from the other thread could be happening - the system going to sleep.  Servers don't have GUIs for a reason.

---

### Post by shag00 on 2023-05-22
Quite right, my last statement is incorrect, it should read:  [COLOR=#000000]My cellular is only using wi-fi connection...
[/COLOR]
Only tested 1 movie yesterday using the mouse attached to the server and again no issues and it is starting to look like Kde connect is causing the problem. Another day or 2 to confirm because it requires playing the movies to see if they stop or not. So it looks like any device connecting over wi-fi to the server causes Plex to stop playing on a random basis and making that interface unavailable for a short period of time (normally less than 4 minutes).

```
scott@scottlounge:~$ ip a1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1000
    link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00
    inet 127.0.0.1/8 scope host lo
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 ::1/128 scope host 
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
2: enp34s0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc mq state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether 00:d8:61:32:05:ea brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 192.168.77.3/24 brd 192.168.77.255 scope global noprefixroute enp34s0
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 2404:c804:b0d:e901:b74e:1af:73e1:cfce/64 scope global temporary dynamic 
       valid_lft 1727sec preferred_lft 1727sec
    inet6 2404:c804:b0d:e901:c15f:db8e:77be:402/64 scope global dynamic mngtmpaddr noprefixroute 
       valid_lft 1727sec preferred_lft 1727sec
    inet6 fe80::c18a:9573:5c4e:1a2/64 scope link noprefixroute 
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever



```

---

