---
title: "13.10 crossover cable (manual IP) seen as internet access (not connected)"
date: 2013-11-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Andrew F in Australia on 2013-11-26
Hi all,

I've just upgraded to Salamander from 12.04 32-bit as some programs crashed in 12.04 (soundconverter,) with later releases only working in 13.xx of this program.

The new installed system is 13.10 64 bit

I use a linux/windows dual boot server with a few TB of storage to run a computer as a dedicated music server.  It connects to a transport system (Slim Devices Transporter) through a crossover cable.  Of course, the D/A converter is not an internet router.

Now, whenever the crossover cable's connected, the computer uses this connection as the internet access point and hangs.

Is there a way to reset this the way that it used to be - so it acts simply as a crossover cable and not an internet access point?

Screenshots of setup [here]("http://s159.photobucket.com/user/Andrew_F_in_Australia/library/ubuntu13_10")

ifconfig
```
login@horacemusic-GA-970A-D3:~$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr f8:1a:67:00:66:f1  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:41 Base address:0xa000 

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 90:2b:34:a1:db:84  
          inet addr:10.0.0.1  Bcast:10.0.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::922b:34ff:fea1:db84/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:5397 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:2688 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:378732 (378.7 KB)  TX bytes:257692 (257.6 KB)
          Interrupt:42 Base address:0xc000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:65536  Metric:1
          RX packets:4707 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:4707 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:480526 (480.5 KB)  TX bytes:480526 (480.5 KB)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:12:0e:b1:ca:1f  
          inet addr:10.0.0.43  Bcast:10.0.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::212:eff:feb1:ca1f/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:43385 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:45411 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:29923310 (29.9 MB)  TX bytes:11826327 (11.8 MB)

login@horacemusic-GA-970A-D3:~$ 


```

Any help you could provide would be gratefully appreciated.

With thanks in advance and best regards,

Andrew F

---

### Post by Andrew F in Australia on 2013-11-27
bump

Is there more info needed?

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2013-11-27
Are you connecting directly to the computer with your Transporter or using a router? I have always used a router between PC and SB and I don't use a crossover cable just a standard Cat 5e ethernet cable

edit:I have read on other forums that what you are doing should work and beyond that I am afraid I can't help

---

### Post by Andrew F in Australia on 2013-11-27
Hi SF,

Thanks for the reply.

Directly connecting using a crossover as per original instructions - have had the Transporter since 2007 (?) so has worked in distros from (I think) about 9 - Lynx.

If I enable the crossover, the Transporter/SB works fine, but the internet doesn't - just hangs and times out.  As soon as I disable the ethernet link, the Wireless dongle is used as internet source and all goes well but then the music server doesn't have the connection.

I'm sure there's a setting somewhere - with Salamander, it' appears to be using the ethernet connection as primary internet source, not the wireless connection I have.

Oh... and the ethernet card is a Ralink 8168 - have had to install proprietary drivers from Ralink to get it working.

Regards,

AF

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-11-27
What IP address is everything and what IP addresses is router reserving for DHCP? And then is there any overlap?

My old router used to allocated 50 addresses starting at 100 which then could not be used anywhere else. My new Comcast router allocates everything to DHCP and you have to in the router turn off an address to make it manually useable. 
Any conflict will cause issues.

---

### Post by Andrew F in Australia on 2013-11-27
HI Fred.  

Thanks for the reply.

I'll go digging to find out.  Was working perfectly until yesterday, the change that broke it was the upgrade to Salamander.

The music server is manually set to 10.0.0.1
The D/a Transporter is manually set to 10.0.0.2
(these two are connected by a crossover cable.)

The wireless router is set to 10.0.0.138

Other than that, I'll have to dig to find out what the other wireless devices are setting themselves to.  Might be a case of turning everything off to find out where the conflict lies.

I'll also do a search to find out how to get a network map.

Thanks again for the help.

Cheers,

AF

---

### Post by Andrew F in Australia on 2013-11-27
Hi Fred,  

As I said, I've manually assigned IP addresses to 10.0.0.1 and 10.0.0.2

The "probook" with 10.0.0.2 assigned is turned off.  Might be the cause.  My Telco offered to let me know how to allocate a block of IP addresses for USD600, which I politely declined.

Full list of allocated addresses here:
[http://s159.photobucket.com/user/Andrew_F_in_Australia/media/ubuntu13_10/Screenshotfrom2013-11-28092044.png.html?sort=3&o=0](http://s159.photobucket.com/user/Andrew_F_in_Australia/media/ubuntu13_10/Screenshotfrom2013-11-28092044.png.html?sort=3&o=0)

I'll reset the router and report back.

Regards,

AF

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-27
I think it's normal for NetworkManager to prefer a wired connection anytime it's plugged in, since you have both interfaces in the same LAN segment that will become the default route

You may be able to get it to work the way you want by editing the IPv4 Settings --> Routes... and selecting the 'Use this connection only for resources on its network' checkbox for the crossover's interface - see this answer [How to set up dual wired and wireless connections?](http://askubuntu.com/questions/10741/how-to-set-up-dual-wired-and-wireless-connections) on AskUbuntu

If that doesn't work you could try setting up the wired interface via /etc/network/interfaces and just using NetworkManager for wifi. If that doesn't work you may need to set them up on different LAN segments and explicitly forward any traffic that needs to go across the server box (i.e. from the transporter to other devices on the LAN, or to the internet)

---

### Post by Andrew F in Australia on 2013-11-27
Hi Steeldriver and Fred.

Sorry for delayed reply.  Tried the local route only, no luck.  Then experienced woefully slow internet speed., have been looking at possible reasons for error.  Came up with a few things, tried them out but no luck as yet.

Fred -> same response after I deleted conflicting entries in network table and reset network, computer hang.[[IMG]http://s159.photobucket.com/user/Andrew_F_in_Australia/media/ubuntu13_10/afterreset.png.html?sort=3&o=0[/IMG]]("http://s159.photobucket.com/user/Andrew_F_in_Australia/media/ubuntu13_10/afterreset.png.html?sort=3&o=0")

[http://s159.photobucket.com/user/Andrew_F_in_Australia/media/ubuntu13_10/afterreset.png.html?sort=3&o=0](http://s159.photobucket.com/user/Andrew_F_in_Australia/media/ubuntu13_10/afterreset.png.html?sort=3&o=0)

Will keep on trying overnight

Regards,  AF

---

### Post by pbrane on 2013-11-27
Something else to make sure of is that the gateway IP is the one for the router that has internet access. If both interfaces have a different gateway IP or the same wrong one you may have to config the internet access interface manually.

---

### Post by Andrew F in Australia on 2013-11-28
Hi All,

The fix: Made the ethernet address (crossover cable) at the server 10.0.1.1 and the D/A converter 10.0.1.2 (ie: a different sub network to the internet.)

Never used to have the conflict between ethernet and wireless when they were specified the same.

No more conflicts now, all fixed and I've got the music running while I'm typing here.

Thank you all for your help.  

Regards,

AF

---

