---
title: "7.04 does not see my ethernet no internret"
date: 2007-04-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by TakisX on 2007-04-21
I made a clean instalation (is the 4th version of ubuntu i install) .I have an asus p5b mobo with a realtech ethernet on it .Ubuntu does not detect the etho interface and i have no internet.I have a thomson speedtouch 536 modem router.In windows you install the right driver what you do in Ubuntu ?

---

### Post by Mostro29 on 2007-04-21
I'm having the same problem, after installing 7.O4  no internet,  i think is detecting the network, but for some reason is not active, i'm new in ubuntu, so i don't have idea where  to go, but it was working fine with version 6

any advice?

---

### Post by obz on 2007-04-21
In the same boat. Everything fine in the previous version of kubuntu... this one. *blamo* no Internet.

Using D-Link DGE-530T (not that I think it matters have tried several NICs - all the same)

Can't reach DHCP Server or Gateway... other computers on the same LAN can....

---

### Post by kystorms on 2007-04-21
me as well.... .everything went fine, had internet while uploading fiesty , then after reboot nothing........
hope someone has an answer, and will this happen from the CD as well as the download?
I had to revert to XP as well, since I tried to go backwards to my ubuntu dapper, and still no internet!but all works well with xp .....
:KS

---

### Post by jstone00 on 2007-04-21
Yes, It'll happen with a clean install from the CD.  They broke it.
:oops:

---

### Post by obz on 2007-04-21
> **kystorms said:**
> me as well.... .everything went fine, had internet while uploading fiesty , then after reboot nothing........
hope someone has an answer, and will this happen from the CD as well as the download?
I had to revert to XP as well, since I tried to go backwards to my ubuntu dapper, and still no internet!but all works well with xp .....
:KS

Again, same as me, my XP box on the same LAN is fine. 

A guy on irc is trying to help me out... if I learn anything I'll let you know.

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2007-04-21
I am not sure if your problem is the same as mine, but when I log in I don't have a connection. I just have to click on the "monitor icon" at the top right and select my connection. After doing this everything works fine.

---

### Post by obz on 2007-04-21
Off of curiousity... is everyone that has this problem using a Router? If so which?

Mine is D-Link DGL-4300

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2007-04-21
Mine is a Linksys RTP300

---

### Post by kystorms on 2007-04-21
i am also using a linksys router, sorry dont know version right now, could this be the problem?
now that i did a clean install of XP, do you think if i re install dapper, that i can at least get that back running on the net again, will it reset the connection?

forgot to add that when i click the monitor icon , all i get is a box that asks me to set my connection, which i try to do but nothing happens.

---

### Post by obz on 2007-04-21
> **kystorms said:**
> i am also using a linksys router, sorry dont know version right now, could this be the problem?
now that i did a clean install of XP, do you think if i re install dapper, that i can at least get that back running on the net again, will it reset the connection?

forgot to add that when i click the monitor icon , all i get is a box that asks me to set my connection, which i try to do but nothing happens.


Hmm. My impression (and it isn't backed by much linux geekdom) is that something in the new build is causing this.... I think is you reinstalled an older version things would work again.

It was on a fresh install and after an update that this occurred for me. Seems reasonable to think reverting would *at least* get you back online... 

not that that is a long term solution?! :confused:

---

### Post by TakisX on 2007-04-22
Its not a router problem .It does not see the ethernet onboard the mobo

---

### Post by josephus on 2007-04-22
can you post 

```
sudo lshw -C network
```

---

### Post by Mostro29 on 2007-04-22
I'm using the airport of and iMac going to a macbook and then sharing the internet via a direct cable, this set up was working fine in previous version, anyway...

---

### Post by Mostro29 on 2007-04-22
Never MInd i just read this

--I am not sure if your problem is the same as mine, but when I log in I don't have a connection. I just have to click on the "monitor icon" at the top right and select my connection. After doing this everything works fine.--


and that was it... working like a charm now... thanks

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2007-04-22
> **Mostro29 said:**
> Never MInd i just read this

--I am not sure if your problem is the same as mine, but when I log in I don't have a connection. I just have to click on the "monitor icon" at the top right and select my connection. After doing this everything works fine.--


and that was it... working like a charm now... thanks

Glad to hear you are going now. I have to do that every time I log in. I am going to try to find a way to make it select my connection automatically when I log in, but I haven't had a chance yet. If I come up with a way I will post it here.

---

### Post by Treebeard on 2007-04-22
What does ```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
``` say ?

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2007-04-22
> **Treebeard said:**
> What does ```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
``` say ?

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp

auto eth2
iface eth2 inet dhcp

auto ath0
iface ath0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp

---

### Post by TakisX on 2007-04-22
How to post the replies you ask without internet ? Thanks god i have winXP 64 and i have internet

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2007-04-29
I seem to have found the solution.  I have commented out my interfaces in /etc/network/interfaces and it connects automatically at startup now.

Here is what I did:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```

Then I commented out all the interfaces except the loopback.  So my file now looks like this:

> auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

#auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp

#auto eth1
#iface eth1 inet dhcp

#auto eth2
#iface eth2 inet dhcp

#auto ath0
#iface ath0 inet dhcp

#auto wlan0
#iface wlan0 inet dhcp

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2007-04-30
When I logged in this morning I had to select my connection again.  I don't know what is different from yesterday because I didn't change anything, but I guess it is back to the drawing board.

---

### Post by dabioul on 2007-05-01
i have - maybe - the same problem - with dapper edgy 7.04, and with my debian etch too. It's all because of my "routeur sagem" (i live in France).

So every time i boot my computer and want to go on the internet, i have to open a terminal and do
sudo dhclient eth0

it activates my internet connection fine. 'Hope  it works for you!

---

