---
title: "7.10 Wireless not Working, Nothing Works"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by boozker on 2007-10-23
Alright, I have tried everything. 

First I changed the DNS numbers and that seemed to work as someone here on the forums said to. They were 208.66.200.200 or something like that and it worked for a couple days and now it wont work at all. 

I tried the little tutorial that the pillsbury dough boy guy wrote up and that does not work either.

I uninstalled and reinstalled my wireless driver, and still no luck. It is a restricted driver.

The weirdest thing is i can download and install updates (still no update for the wireless problems in 7.10 that so many of us are having), can download and install new applications through the add/remove apps, and even connect through a FTP. HTTP is where the problems seems to be if i can connect through an FTP or any other kind of protocol except through a browser on a HTTP.

This pisses me off because It worked fine for me from 6.05-7.04  Please can anyone help me. I'm on a Windows writing this and I would rather cut my wrists then be on this thing!


:-({|= yes play the violin for me. Feel Sorry...

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-10-23
What chipset do you have, what driver, etc.

lspci -nn
lshw -C network
iwlist scan
route -n

---

### Post by boozker on 2007-10-23
I have an Intel PRO/Wireless 3945
Bus Type is a PCI

And most other info is Unknown and I got this as a gift and it's a laptop, so everything is stock of a Sony VAIO PCG-7N2L

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-10-23
Thanks for being so thorough

Does lshw -C network show a driver associated with the card?

---

### Post by boozker on 2007-10-23
Driver=ipw3495 which is same as the module and it's wireless is an IEEE 802.11G i heard that might have some problems?

Any ideas?

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-10-23
Im not expert on the intel drivers so I cant say for sure.  Does iwlist scan give any output??

---

### Post by boozker on 2007-10-23
yah, I don't know what this means, but it just gave me:

[interface] scanning [essid NNN] [last]
[interface] frequency

and a lot more. Anything certain you wanted?

It's so weird how i can download updates and software. And not slow either. It's downloading firefox 3 at 162KBs

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-10-23
Just reread your post

So basically you can get a connection to the internet, so its most likely not a route or wireless driver problem.

As you surmised sounds like a name resolution problem.

Can you ping the following (it google)
64.233.187.99

If the answer is yes, can you:
[http://64.233.187.99](http://64.233.187.99)

---

### Post by boozker on 2007-10-23
Didn't even try that, but I can get to google through it's IP. How would I ever fix this? Do you think this might be some other peoples' problems?

Another thing that is weird is I can get to [http://oscargodson.com](http://oscargodson.com) but no other sites and to any site through it's IP, but to [http://oscargodson.com](http://oscargodson.com) I don't need it's IP

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-10-23
So you are having a problem with your dns server.

This thread might help you --- noob12 is really good with his tutorials:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=543659](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=543659)

---

### Post by boozker on 2007-10-23
OK thank, I will try that. Wonder why it would work on Feisty but not now.

>> That worked. All I had to change was the DNS only. No other steps. In case any one wants to know what I did. It's only 3 steps.<<

```
sudo gedit /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf
```

then

```
prepend domain-name-servers 208.67.222.222, 208.67.220.220;
``` 

That line isn't to far down. Then last thing:

```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```


It worked for about 20 mins then stopped.

---

### Post by boozker on 2007-10-23
Sorry for the double post, but this didn't work either. It worked for about 20 mins and then I went to bed after working on it for hours and then woke up and once again it stopped working. I guess I'm going to have to go back to Feisty ](*,)

This really makes me mad that they would totally break the wireless that worked perfectly fine before. I haven't see so many "wireless isn't working" for years, now they changed it and don't offer a good fix.

---

