---
title: "13.04, 13.10 unable to connect to secured networks with Centrino-N 130"
date: 2013-09-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Joe_Inglish on 2013-09-29
In the past week I've booted both Xubuntu 13.04 and the 13.10 Beta 2 with the intent to install, but I can't seem to connect to my home network.  My Intel Centrino Wireless-N chipset is recognized, but while it manages to find my network, it persistently fails to connect and prompts me for the password again.  After disabling WPA2-Personal security, the computer was able to connect to the network.  Here's my iwconfig wlan0 output:```
wlan0     IEEE 802.11bgn  ESSID:off/any  
          Mode:Managed  Access Point: Not-Associated   Tx-Power=15 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
```
And the relevant output from lspci:```
    Subsystem: Samsung Electronics Co Ltd Device c604
01:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N 130 (rev 34)
    Subsystem: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N 130 BGN
    Kernel driver in use: iwlwifi
```
Any ideas about what's up?

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2013-09-29
Hi, give this a try..
set your security back to wpa2
then do..
```
sudo modprobe -rf iwlwifi
sudo modprobe iwlwifi 11n_disable=1
```
dont boot and see if it connects correctly.
*to make it permenant do..
```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
```
add one line of code..
```
options iwlwifi 11n_disable=1
```
save and close gedit.

---

### Post by Joe_Inglish on 2013-09-29
I got the following error while running the modprobe -rf command:```
FATAL: Module iwlwifi is in use.
```I'd try the more permanent solution, but unless I'm mistaken there's no way for it to work since I'm currently only working from a live USB installation.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2013-09-29
ok.click the wireless icon, then uncheck Enable Wireless
then make the change to the iwilifi driver
renable..recheck enable wireless
. That should allow you to make the
change and test.

---

### Post by Joe_Inglish on 2013-09-29
No discernable improvement.  In fact, after making the edit, I wasn't even able to find any networks and had to try connecting by entering the information manually, although that may be because 1) my router has been acting up lately and my laptop is having more slightly more of a problem keeping the signal than my other devices and 2) there aren't any other networks within range.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2013-09-30
ok, the edit wasn't suppose to be made untill
there was an improvement in connection. so
if you havent alerady..remove that file. It only
has the one line in it.  ~options iwlwifi 11n_disable=1~
to remove do..
```
sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
```
It sounds as if you may have a router problem although
the N speeds also tend to make it behave the same way.

---

