---
title: "802.1x protocol for wired internet access. Help"
date: 2006-03-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by 2close on 2006-03-15
My Service provider has changed its internet access method from telnet to WPA (Yes, its a University network).

I have looked at some instructions that came with some files they provided, but I was unable to follow them. They were not intended for ubuntu, but rather som other distro. I need to do what this readme is doing, but in Ubuntu. 

If this is not posible to do in a short guide, what programs do I need to get a 802.1x login on wired network?

any help will apreachiated, and if fixed will help 5 (or more) ubuntu users to can get back online, and not abandon ubuntu

the readme:

[COLOR="Sienna"]How to install:

1: Open a terminal
2: Become root by writing:
	# su - 
	(you will be asked for your root password)

3: Open gui-network configuration:
	# system-config-network-gui
4: Double click on your network interface
	Remove Activation of the network device at startup
	Add the possibility for users to enable and disable device at startup

	Click OK twice (save configuration if asked)


5: Open the the gui usermanager:
	# system-config-users

6: Doubble click on your local user
	Go to the sheet called "Groups"
	Add your user(s) to the wheel group

	Click OK (save configuration if asked)
	Close the window

5: run the wpainstall shellscript
	# ./wpainstall.sh

	Be sure to read the onscreen information!

6: reboot
	or if you are not very found of rebooting:
	# ifconfig eth0 down
	# /usr/local/sbin/startwpa


The shellscript may be read with the command less wpainstall.sh

You may also compile your own version of the wpa_suppliant application.
There is no need to run the shellscript more than once, but it will not hurt
either. 

If you have trouble try to read the logfile from wpa_supplicant, it is
located at /var/log/wpa_supplicant.log

If you dont want to use the group wheel for your wpa connection then you may make your
own group and add your users to this group instead. Remember to edit /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf
to reflect the changes.
e.g:
ctrl_interface_group=<yourgroup>[/COLOR]

---

