---
title: "17.04 Update USN-3466-1 broke DNS"
date: 2017-10-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rykono on 2017-10-27
Hello, 

First time post and in urgent need of help. Sorry if im missing any rules or guidelines. 

I have an ubuntu server running 17.04.

My DNS server has stopped working as of 2:20am last night, and i believe it to be with the security update that rolled out last night. [h=2]USN-3466-1[/h]
I can ping ip addresses but can not ping URL's. 


I have tried:

sudo rm -f /etc/resolv.conf
sudo ln -s /run/systemd/resolve/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf
reboot

_____________________________________________

systemctl restart resolvconf

can't do any apt updates or upgrades because of dns failure. 

restarted server multiple times now. 


any ideas? Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by newsirchuck on 2017-10-27
Type:
cat /etc/resolv.conf

I had this problem today too after the update. My nameserver was set to 127.0.0.53.
I put nameserver 8.8.8.8 instead and it fixed it, but it's not a permanent change. Rebooting means have to type it again.
If you find a more permanent solution let me know :)

> **frostcandy@frostcore**:**/etc**$ cat resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
# 127.0.0.53 is the systemd-resolved stub resolver.
# run "systemd-resolve --status" to see details about the actual nameservers.


nameserver 8.8.8.8
[FONT=Menlo]nameserver 127.0.0.53[/FONT]

---

### Post by newsirchuck on 2017-10-27
Haven't tried this yet, but might work in certain cases. I expect a lot of people are having this issue this week. 

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/907246/how-to-disable-systemd-resolved-in-ubuntu](https://askubuntu.com/questions/907246/how-to-disable-systemd-resolved-in-ubuntu)

> [COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]Caution! Be aware that disabling systemd-resolvd might break name resolution in VPN for some users. See [/FONT][/COLOR][this bug on launchpad]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd/+bug/1624317")[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu] (Thanks, Vincent).[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]Disable the systemd-resolved service and stop it:[/FONT][/COLOR]
sudo systemctl disable systemd-resolved.service
sudo service systemd-resolved stop
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]Put the following line in the [main] section of your /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf:[/FONT][/COLOR]
dns=default
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]Delete the symlink /etc/resolv.conf[/FONT][/COLOR]
rm /etc/resolv.conf
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]Restart network-manager[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Consolas]sudo service network-manager restart[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by sdrabot on 2017-11-04
I have the same problem after an update yesterday

solutions I have seen so far seem to involve replacing systemd-resolved (with dnsmasq or unbound) as with the one above

does anyone have a solution for systemd-resolved?

---

### Post by sdrabot on 2017-11-04
I checked my notes after 16.10 and found I had to redirect /etc/resolv.conf to /var/run/resolvconf/resolv.conf which solved the problem

it appears that /var/run/resolvconf/resolv.conf no longer exists after the most recent update (just an update, not an upgrade)

can anyone tell me where the DNS address I specify in NetworkManager would be stored?

---

### Post by sdrabot on 2017-11-05
I got DNS working by explicitly specifying the DNS server in /etc/systemd/resolved.conf

still looking for a solution to get systemd-resolved to get the Name Server from NetworkManager

---

