---
title: "D-Link Wireless DWL-G510 will not work with WPA, PLEASE HELP"
date: 2007-04-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-04-26
I need help getting my wireless pci adapter to work with WPA1 security.  I followed the directions in the sticky post, but still no luck.  I can't even ping my router.  The card is a Dlink DWL-G510 with an Atheros chipset.  I think the madwifi driver is installed.  Does "driver=ath_pci" mean that my system is using the madwifi driver?  Something weird that I have noticed is that if I load Network Tools and look at the network devices available I have, (loopback) lo, wifi0, ath0, and ath0:avahi all available.  As far as I can tell lo and ath0 are the only two legitimate devices.  I can post whatever configuration files you need.  Just let me know.  Here's a start.

/etc/network/interfaces

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto ath0
iface ath0 inet dhcp
wpa-driver madwifi
wpa-ssid Stay Out
wpa-ap-scan 2
wpa-proto Wpa
wpa-pairwise TKIP
wpa-group TKIP
wpa-key-mgmt WPA-PSK
wpa-psk <my key generated by wpasupplicant <essid> <key>



Thank you everyone's help in advance!!

---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-04-27
Does anyone out there have any ideas at all??  I guess it would help if you knew which version I am using.  I am using Feisty and so far I am impressed with it except for the fact that I can't get my wireless adapter to work with WPA enabled.  I could probably get it to work with WEP, but you may as well have no security at all then.  I have changed the /etc/network/interfaces file from the last time I posted.  Now it is empty except for the lines necessary for loopback, ath0, and some lines added for wpa_supplicant.  I followed a procedure in Ubuntu's Documentation trying to get this thing to work.  One other thing I am confused about is Network Manager.  I removed per recommendation of some other posts and guides because they said it can cause problems, so I am trying to manually configure everything.  I have verified that the correct driver is installed.  My Dlink card has the Atheros 5005G chipset.  It is a DWL-G510 revision B card, which according to everything I have read should work with the madwifi driver and wpa_supplicant.  When I attempt to connect with the router I get an error message that says "4 way handshake failed, PSK may be incorrect", "Driver recognition failed" or something like that.  I have followed procedures about using wpa_passphrase and the copying the output into /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf.  That is about all I can think of right now.  Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-04-28
Bump.  Any ideas??

---

### Post by demsei on 2007-05-01
I too am having this same issue.  I am actively researching.  Will post if I find an answer.

---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-05-01
Nice to know I am not the only one.  :)   I am about ready to give up getting WPA to work with the madwifi driver.  I am considering just installing ndiswrapper like everyone else.

---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-05-03
Problem fixed!!  :guitar:  I uninstalled Network Manager like everyone says to.  I agree with them, it is not up to the task of handling anyone's wireless needs right now.  I could only get WEP to work with Network Manager.  I uninstalled it and installed WCID instead and it works perfectly so far.  Instant access to my wireless with WPA encryption, no tedious configuring to do at all.  I'm not 100% sure, but I think all WCID does is automatically configure wpa_supplicant and what not for you, there isn't too much magical about it, but for a Linux newbie like me that is what I need so I can see what a working configuration looks like.  Recommend giving WCID a try for anyone having troubles getting a wireless connection with encryption.

---

### Post by VorDesigns on 2007-05-10
> **skywarp04 said:**
> Problem fixed!!  :guitar:  I uninstalled Network Manager like everyone says to.  I agree with them, it is not up to the task of handling anyone's wireless needs right now.  I could only get WEP to work with Network Manager.  I uninstalled it and installed WCID instead and it works perfectly so far.  Instant access to my wireless with WPA encryption, no tedious configuring to do at all.  I'm not 100% sure, but I think all WCID does is automatically configure wpa_supplicant and what not for you, there isn't too much magical about it, but for a Linux newbie like me that is what I need so I can see what a working configuration looks like.  Recommend giving WCID a try for anyone having troubles getting a wireless connection with encryption.

Hi there, 

So you uninstalled Network manager using what process?

So you installed WCID using what process?

So you access and run WCID how?

---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-05-10
Uninstalled Network Manager by loading Synaptic Package Manager.  Do a search for "network manager".  On a default Feisty install there should be two packages named "network-manager" and "network-manager-gnome" installed.  I did a complete removal of both those packages.  Not sure if it matters, ( I'm still used to Windows ), but it might not be a bad idea to restart your computer at this point.  I did just to be safe.

For Wicd I went to the new homepage [http://wicd.sourceforge.net/](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/) and followed the download link.  Open a console terminal and browse to where you downloaded the file to.  Then type "sudo dpkg -i wicd_1.2.7-all.deb.  After that you should have "Wicd" listed under Applications - Internet.  Then just load the program and configure it for your network.  Few quirks that I have noticed so far.  My network SSID does not always show at first when you first load the program.  Just hit the refresh button and it should show up.  Quirk #2 which I am still trying to figure out is Wicd will not automatically connect when I first boot up.  This seems to be a common problem that might be fixable just by going to Wicd forum on the webite posted above.  I just haven't taken the time to fix it yet.  :)   It is only a minor annoyance with a simple work around.  Just load Wicd after you boot.  Connect to your network and then hit the quit button.

That's all there was to it.  After installed Wicd all I had to do was configure it for my network and under preferences I had to select the madwifi driver because I have an Atheros chipset and make sure that ath0 is selected as your ethernet device.  Wicd automatically gave me selections for WPA 1/2 where as Network Manager did not and Wicd works great other than the minor annoyance of the boot problem.  Make sure you enter your WPA passphrase as ascii text and not the string that is generated by wpa_passphrase.  Wicd automatically takes your ascii phrase and generates the wpa_passphrase for you.

Good luck!! Hope this helps!!

---

### Post by skywarp04 on 2007-05-10
P.S.  If you don't a working internet connection at all with your Linux installation you will have to do something like what I did.  I downloaded the file using Windows ( I dual boot ) and then using Linux just browsed to where I downloaded file on Windows to copy it to a Linux directory.

---

