---
title: "9.10 - How to rename my computer"
date: 2010-01-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by temporos on 2010-01-26
[SIZE=2][FONT=Verdana]On the login screen after startup, my computer's name appears above all the possible login names.  I just noticed (a week after-the-fact) that I misspelled the name, and I'd like to change it.

I come from a Windows background, and in Windows, the computer's name is actually just how the machine appears in the Windows workgroup.  I assume the computer's name is something similar in Ubuntu (hence this forum).

How do I go about changing this name to correct the spelling?  Since I'm using the netbook remix, I don't have the versatility of a full-fledged desktop and control panels (that I know of), so I'm limited to the "System" tab on the desktop and the applications in there.

Note: Linux user level == beginner
[/FONT][/SIZE]

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-01-26
There are probably ways to change it from the desktop - I'm more familiar with the CLI version. Edit */etc/hosts* and */etc/hostname*. You must change it in both places or **sudo** complains. I don't remember if you need to edit the file with **sudo**, but if so, use ```
sudo nano filename
``` or ```
gksudo gedit
```

---

### Post by temporos on 2010-01-28
Thanks, Iowan.  That worked.  After a bit of research on those two files, however, I discovered that you must edit them in a particular order.  That is...
```
username@hostname:~$ gksudo gedit /etc/hosts
username@hostname:~$ gksudo gedit /etc/hostname
```Otherwise, *sudo* complains when you try to edit */etc/hostname*.  After editing the two files, restart the machine, and all should be well.  Welcome to your new host (well, the same one, just named differently).

---

