---
title: "How to create a wireless DSL connection in Ubuntu"
date: 2010-11-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by umeshnk on 2010-11-01
Hi All,

Under DSL tab in network connection we can create DSL connections, but they only allow wired connections(eth0). I need to connect using wireless connection(wlan0). I migrated to Ubuntu recently. With windows I was able to connect with wireless connection. I'm sure there is a way to achieve this in Ubuntu as well. Greatly appreciate if somebody can help..

I'm using Ubuntu 10.10 (using since 9.10)

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-11-01
Please try this
1)Run
```
sudo pppoeconf wlan0
```to configure DSL via wifi .Follow instructions.
2)Backup your /etc/network/interfaces
```
sudo cp /etc/network/interfaces /etc/network/interfaces.bak

```
3) Now edit  */etc/network/interfaces* using
```
gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```
so that it contains only these two lines
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```
To connect DSL run```
sudo pon dsl-provider
```
To disconnect use ```
sudo poff dsl-provider
```

---

### Post by umeshnk on 2010-11-01
Thank you very much for the quick response. 

I followed your instructions. After running 

sudo pppoeconf wlan0

my /etc/network/interfaces file looked like following; 

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

iface dsl-provider inet ppp
pre-up /sbin/ifconfig wlan0 up # line maintained by pppoeconf
provider dsl-provider

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet manual

So I edited it as you had mentioned. After that when I run 

sudo pon dsl-provider 

I got 

Plugin rp-pppoe.so loaded.
RP-PPPoE plugin version 3.8p compiled against pppd 2.4.5

How can I make sure I got the connection?

ifconfig -a 

gives me nothing about a DSL connection.

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-11-02
Do you get reply for
```
ping 4.2.2.1 -c3
```

---

### Post by umeshnk on 2010-11-02
yes. I do

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-11-03
Then it should work.Please post the contents of```
sudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf
```
You may try editing this file so that it reads only```
nameserver 4.2.2.1
```save and try if pages are loading

---

### Post by umeshnk on 2010-11-05
Sorry for not being able to post. Content of /etc/resolv.conf

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 119.203.0.4

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-11-05
Make it ```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 4.2.2.1
```and try

---

