---
title: "eth1 wireless connected but browser says ERR_name_not_resolved"
date: 2011-04-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ub_untu on 2011-04-26
Hi,
installed UB10.10 on a dell d800 laptop with a built in wireless.

The eth1 wireless device/connection shows up on the little radio icon as connected .

but the chrome browser says "ERR_name_not_resolved" when I enter a common url.

What's the next step or hint for  gaining full internet access ?

Thanks,

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-04-26
This often means that valid DNS nameservers were not provided. Did you configure the address, gateway and DNS manually or did you let (hopefully) Network Manager do all the work?

Sometimes, even NM trips up. Please open Applications > Accessories > Terminal and run and post:```
route -n
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```Thanks.

---

### Post by ub_untu on 2011-04-26
Thanks for getting back. 
AFAIK, I didn't touch the DNS stuff.
Here's the info:


ub@ub:~$ route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
10.42.43.0      0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     2      0        0 eth1
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth1
ub@ub:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
ub@ub:~$

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-04-26
> Kernel IP routing table
Destination Gateway Genmask Flags Metric Ref Use Iface
[COLOR="Red"]10.42.43.0[/COLOR] 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.0 U 2 0 0 eth1
169.254.0.0 0.0.0.0 255.255.0.0 U 1000 0 0 eth1Your IP address is typical of an ad-hoc connection; that is, computer to computer. Typically, a computer to router connection would be 192.168.x.x.

Is that what you have? If not, if you are trying to connect to your router, right-click the Network Manager icon and edit connections. Select Wireless and edit. Make sure the connection is set to Infrastructure and not Ad Hoc. Please see attached.

Then try again.

---

### Post by ub_untu on 2011-04-26
manual setting  of my entry to infrastructure vs Ad-Hoc  prevented it from connecting at all. 
BUT
in the interim I'd installed a utility call WiFi Radar that found my public wifi and autoconnected.

So I think this an alternate route to the answer you've called out.
Thanks again for your help!

---

