---
title: "18.04 Network Failure after dhclient DHCPACK"
date: 2018-05-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by csete on 2018-05-13
Hello,

I updated my "server" machine yesterday from 16.04 to 18.04.  While I call it a server machine, it does have a full desktop installation even though it is primarily acting as a server in my house.  

Unfortunately, since then my networking has been a bit unstable.  This machine is a dual-NIC configuration with Shorewall configuring the firewall in between the networks.  Up until yesterday, I had been using /etc/network/interfaces to statically configure my network.  When I had trouble with that, I attempted to rework the interfaces file to an appropriate Netplan YAML file.  After building out that file and running "apply", things started working.  However, when I woke up this morning, I found that external (internet) data was not flowing.  Restarting the machine cleared it up, but my guess is that it is only temporary.

I don't know a ton about the new networking relative to Netplan.  My working theory is that this may be related to potential conflict between NetworkManager and systemd, but not sure if that makes any sense?  Here is my current netplan configuration file:

```

network:
  ethernets:
    dmz0:
      match:
        macaddress: 'xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx'
      set-name: dmz0
    inet0:
      match:
        macaddress: 'yy:yy:yy:yy:yy:yy'
      set-name: inet0
      dhcp4: true
  bridges:
    br0:
      interfaces:
        - dmz0
      addresses: [192.168.0.1/24]

```

Thanks for any insights,
Craig

---

### Post by csete on 2018-05-13
A quick follow up to this... I had the same thing happen this afternoon.  I came in after working outside for a while and the external network was down.  Running "netplan apply" brought it right back up.  Can anyone offer any thoughts?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-05-13
See if pinging the router keeps the connection alive.  Suppose the router has address 192.168.1.1.  Then you can use:

```
ping -c 10000000 -i 15 192.168.1.1 &
```

That will ping the router every fifteen seconds ten million times.  The ampersand puts the process in the background.

---

### Post by csete on 2018-05-13
Which router are you suggesting? The upstream (ISP) or the Ubuntu server?  Also, ping from where in the network?

ISP <-> Ubuntu Server <-> Client

If it stays up, what would that mean?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-05-14
Don't you have a router between the server and the ISP, or is the server dual-homed and connected directly to the ISP?  Since you mention Shorewall, I'm guessing the latter.  If so, how is it connected to the ISP?  A direct Ethernet connection?  Some kind of DSL or similar service?  PPP?

The ping should target the ISP's router.  Run the command "route -n" to determine the address of the upstream "default gateway."  It will be the address associated with the 0.0.0.0 subnet like this:

```

Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    600    0        0 wlan0

```

Alternatively you could ping any public address like 8.8.8.8, the address of Google's DNS server.

I'd run the ping from the server since that's what connected to the ISP.

I'm trying to see if there's some type of timeout that happens, maybe on the ISP's end, when the connection remains idle for some period of time.

---

### Post by csete on 2018-05-14
OK.  I guessed correctly at what you were going for.  Unfortunately, it died over night again.  My first attempt to "netplan apply" didn't seem to resolve it.  I rebooted the machine (which is incredibly slow) and that didn't seem to clear the issue either.  Finally, one more "netplan apply" seemed to get things going, although I have no idea for how long.

In terms of the remote ISP hanging up on me due to lack of traffic, I'm not sure why that would have changed due to my Ubuntu upgrade to 18.04.  I've never had disconnects from my ISP in the past and given that none of the hardware changed at the same time, I have to believe that this is somehow software related.  

This is a bad situation for me to be in, given that I work from home and am entirely dependent on my internet access.  Unfortunately, I really have no idea where to even start looking.  How often would DHCP renewal happen and could this align with that?  Is there anything in the logs somewhere that might help me start to unravel this mystery?

Thanks again,
Craig

---

### Post by csete on 2018-05-14
Unfortunately, it just happened again.  I was streaming and working with the connection when it died, so definitely not an disconnect due to any timeout.  I had a ping running with timestamp and was able to correlate that with the syslog output.  Here is what I saw around that time:

```

p/sessionclean; fi)
May 14 06:39:04 chef dhclient[1137]: DHCPREQUEST of 206.146.86.169 on inet0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 (xid=0x5a9cf5a7)
May 14 06:39:04 chef kernel: [ 3195.686459] Shorewall:FORWARD:REJECT:IN=inet0 OUT=inet0 MAC=48:0f:cf:c0:ba:c9:00:1b:0d:e6:65:00:08:00 SRC=206.146.86.1 DST=206.146.86.169 LEN=328 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=254 ID=46270 PROTO=UDP SPT=67 DPT=68 LEN=308
May 14 06:39:04 chef dhclient[1137]: DHCPACK of 206.146.86.169 from 206.146.86.1
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd[1]: Starting Clean php session files...
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd[1]: Reloading Samba SMB Daemon.
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd[1]: Reloaded Samba SMB Daemon.
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd[1]: Stopping Network Name Resolution...
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd[1]: Stopped Network Name Resolution.
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd[1]: Starting Network Name Resolution...
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd-resolved[10498]: Positive Trust Anchors:
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd-resolved[10498]: . IN DS 19036 8 2 49aac11d7b6f6446702e54a1607371607a1a41855200fd2ce1cdde32f24e8fb5
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd-resolved[10498]: . IN DS 20326 8 2 e06d44b80b8f1d39a95c0b0d7c65d08458e880409bbc683457104237c7f8ec8d
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd-resolved[10498]: Negative trust anchors: 10.in-addr.arpa 16.172.in-addr.arpa 17.172.in-addr.arpa 18.172.in-addr.arpa 19.172.in-addr.arpa 20.172.in-addr.arpa 21.172.in-addr.arpa 22.172.in-addr.arpa 23.172.in-addr.arpa 24.172.in-addr.arpa 25.172.in-addr.arpa 26.172.in-addr.arpa 27.172.in-addr.arpa 28.172.in-addr.arpa 29.172.in-addr.arpa 30.172.in-addr.arpa 31.172.in-addr.arpa 168.May 14 06:39:05 chef systemd[1]: Started resolvconf-pull-resolved.service.
May 14 06:39:05 chef dhclient[1137]: bound to 206.146.86.169 -- renewal in 5025 seconds.
May 14 06:39:05 chef systemd[1]: Started Clean php session files.
192.in-addr.arpa d.f.ip6.arpa corp home internal intranet lan local private test
May 14 06:39:04 chef systemd-resolved[10498]: Using system hostname 'chef'.
May 14 06:39:05 chef systemd[1]: Started Network Name Resolution.
May 14 06:39:05 chef systemd[1]: Starting resolvconf-pull-resolved.service...

```

A couple of questions to anyone that can potentially answer.   First, I *think* that the PHP stuff is a red herring and unrelated?  I'm actually not using PHP for anything at the moment and could remove it, but something tells me that won't help.

It appears that this might be related to DNS resolution (systemd-resolved)?  If so, how do I debug what is going on here?  Also, is there any reason that this should be happening as often as it is?

Thanks again for any help.
Craig

---

### Post by csete on 2018-05-14
This bug looks potentially interesting...

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd/+bug/1699660](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd/+bug/1699660)

With that said, I'm not sure I understand why DNS resolution issues would crater an already in progress video stream?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-05-14
I'm not sure I see the relevance of that bug.  It concerns resolving hostnames that are not part of a domain, e.g., "harry" versus "harry.example.com".

---

### Post by csete on 2018-05-14
Fair enough.  I'm still stumped on what is going on or how to proceed.  It happened again about 20 minutes ago.  Looking in the logs, I see the same series of log messages.  It *seems* to be tied to DHCP renewal.  It appears that the networking subsystem (or part of it anyway) restarts on a DHCP renewal notice.  I don't know why DHCP is renewing so often, nor do I know why it would mess up the network in the process.  I do know that it is not a purely DNS related issue because the ping I have running is direct IP address to the router and that stops working when this happens.

I appreciate the help thus far and would love any other thoughts or directions you might be able to give.

Craig

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-05-14
See how long your lease time is with "sudo dhclient -v".  My DHCP server is contained in my TP-Link Archer router.  My lease expires after 2147483648 seconds, or essentially never.  

```

DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.100.53 on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 
DHCPOFFER of 192.168.100.53 from 192.168.100.1
DHCPACK of 192.168.100.53 from 192.168.100.1
bound to 192.168.100.53 -- renewal in 2147483648 seconds.

```

Do you always get the same public address from your ISP, or does it change from time to time?  If it stays fixed, I'd consider using static addressing on your end instead of DHCP.

---

### Post by csete on 2018-05-14
I'm checking with the networking folks at my ISP to see how stable my IP address should be and whether I can get away with static address at least in the short term.  Running that check on dhclient tells me that my renewal is 

bound to 206.146.86.169 -- renewal in 5352 seconds.

So, not very long at all.  What's worse, the act of running dhclient -v does a renewal and kicks the network out from under me.  At least it gives me a good recreation scenario when I'm not trying to work!

Now that I know I can force it to fail by running that command, what else can I start to look at to determine the underlying cause?

---

### Post by csete on 2018-05-14
Multiple attempts later and I attempted to convert things to a static configuration for the time being.  However, it failed miserably.  I couldn't get anything routing or resolving at all.  What would be the easiest/quickest way to convert the configuration provided by DHCP into a netplan configuration file?  From there, I can tweak.

---

### Post by csete on 2018-05-15
I'm still fighting with this and really hoping someone can help.  I've now collected a lot of information about the state of my networking both when things are working and also when they are not working.  I captured:
[LIST]
[*]ethtool output
[*]ip route output
[*]arp -an output
[*]ifconfig output
[*]ip route output
[*]iptable-save output
[*]resolve.conf
[*]
[/LIST]

When doing a diff across these files, the only "interesting" difference between them is in the output from arp.  In the working case, I'm seeing this (within the file):

```
? (206.146.86.1) at 00:1b:0d:e6:65:00 [ether] on inet0
```

While the broken state looks like this:
```
? (206.146.86.1) at <incomplete> on inet0
```

I'm stumped at this point and do not know where to go next.  Does anyone have any ideas to suggest?  If not, do you have any suggestions for other places I could go for help?

Thanks again,
Craig

---

