---
title: "9.10 lost ability to remember WEP keys."
date: 2009-11-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ee4oi on 2009-11-08
When I would select a previous setup in 9.04, the Connect to Hidden Network utility would have all information previously entered and only required clicking Connect.  On 9.10, doing the same thing gets me a similar display with all the fields protected from change, the WEP key is missing and the Connect button is disabled.
I have to click "New" and put in everything all over again to make a wireless connection.

Tried resetting the password through the Preferences menu to no avail.  All it seems useful for is deleting duplicate entries of the connections I had to create each time.

Thinking about just going back to 9.04.

---

### Post by darkmire on 2009-11-08
> **ee4oi said:**
> When I would select a previous setup in 9.04, the Connect to Hidden Network utility would have all information previously entered and only required clicking Connect.  On 9.10, doing the same thing gets me a similar display with all the fields protected from change, the WEP key is missing and the Connect button is disabled.
I have to click "New" and put in everything all over again to make a wireless connection.

Tried resetting the password through the Preferences menu to no avail.  All it seems useful for is deleting duplicate entries of the connections I had to create each time.

Thinking about just going back to 9.04.

I gave up on the Gnome network management software many upgrades ago and installed WiCD which imho is easier to use.  That said, I still haven't upgraded from jaunty yet and it may have the same issues.    However, if you're thinking of reverting, it may be worth a try before you do.

---

### Post by alan_b on 2009-11-09
> **darkmire said:**
> I gave up on the Gnome network management software many upgrades ago and installed WiCD which imho is easier to use.  That said, I still haven't upgraded from jaunty yet and it may have the same issues.    However, if you're thinking of reverting, it may be worth a try before you do.

I had the same problem as the OP on upgrading from Jaunty to Karmic on an EeePc 901. Network Manager stopped remembering WEP keys between reboots.  WiCD works well on Karmic, but unfortunately does not support 3G usb modems (which don't work anyway withe the released kernel).

---

