---
title: "internet connection absent in guest OS"
date: 2010-10-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tapas_mishra on 2010-10-22
I have removed Network Manager Gnome from my Ubuntu which is a virtual machine(Guest OS),I see the internet is no more running inside this Virtual Machine.
While in other Virtual Machines (Other Linux) I had not removed Network Manager Gnome and I see internet is running fine in them.

I am able to do an ssh into the vm in question irrespective of the fact that it is not having any entry in /etc/network/interfaces
here are my firewall rules
> 
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.1.1 on Fri Oct 22 13:00:09 2010
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [287:55516]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j DROP
-A INPUT -m limit --limit 5/min -j LOG --log-prefix "iptables denied: " --log-level 7
-A INPUT -j DROP
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Oct 22 13:00:09 2010


in the VM.I do not have any firewall on host machine and connected without any proxy to internet.
> auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.4
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1
pre-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules

ifconfig
> ifconfig 
lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

What could be the problem?

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-10-22
Why would you remove network manager?

Anyway, you dont have a eth0 interface anymore now. Try adding this to /etc/network/interfaces:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
**auto eth0**
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.4
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1
pre-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules 
```

---

### Post by tapas_mishra on 2010-10-22
I sit in different networks some place I have a dynamic IP while for  some other time I am having a static IP.I usually do not specify the  gateway and dns entries on both the networks.
I would be testing some network related programs I had read some where network manager gnome had some bug (The VM is Jaunty) 


That was indeed a good suggestion and changing the file as you said gives following now
```

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:0c:29:47:2a:2d  
          inet addr:192.168.1.4  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::20c:29ff:fe47:2a2d/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:2 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:22 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:152 (152.0 B)  TX bytes:3383 (3.3 KB)
          Interrupt:19 Base address:0x2024 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:8 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:8 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:592 (592.0 B)  TX bytes:592 (592.0 B)


```But internet is still not active also I am not able to do an ssh to the host OS.
ssh is installed on host OS and on guest OS before removing network manager gnome ssh was installed.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-10-22
That all looks quite healthy to me.

Are you sure the gateway is correct? You have it set at 192.168.1.1, that should match what you configured in your VM. If thats not it, perhaps try commenting out the iptables line, but I dont know much about that.

---

### Post by tapas_mishra on 2010-10-22
Ok.I disabled the iptables line as you said.
The gateway is correct 192.168.1.1 which is also the gateway in /etc/resolv.conf on the host machine.
Neither the ssh nor the internet connection in and out of the VM could be established.
I also tried putting the IP of the Host OS in guest in /etc/resolv.conf but then also there was no difference.
So I have put it back to the actual gateway which is 192.168.1.1 
I would like to mention that other virtual machines are connected to internet and I can ssh also in them.On the same host.
Only this one is in problem.

---

### Post by tapas_mishra on 2010-10-22
Ok I just did some small changes
```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp


```Internet and ssh every thing is back on VM but the only problem is my desired IP is gone in it.
It appears inspite of uninstalling network manager gnome it is there and doing what ever it wants.It has changed the resolv.conf file definition also.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-10-22
network-manager-gnome is just the GUI front end to network-manager

---

### Post by tapas_mishra on 2010-10-22
That is correct but it is over writing my settings.
Ok I also have one more observation when I disable the firewall I am able to do an outgoing ssh connection from the virtual machine to host and vice versa.
If the firewall is enabled internet on the VM does not work also any one from VM can not do an ssh to outside
```

# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.1.1 on Fri Oct 22 13:00:09 2010
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [287:55516]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j DROP
-A INPUT -m limit --limit 5/min -j LOG --log-prefix "iptables denied: " --log-level 7
-A INPUT -j DROP
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Oct 22 13:00:09 2010

```
Seems there is some problem with my firewall.
What port do I need to open so that internet keeps running on VM and outgoing ssh connections are allowed?

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-10-22
> That is correct but it is over writing my settings.

It isnt, since you removed network-manager-gnome. But you didnt remove network-manager or did you? Its probably still running.

edit: missed your edit. I cant help you with that Im afraid.

---

### Post by tapas_mishra on 2010-10-22
> **P4man said:**
> It isnt, since you removed network-manager-gnome. But you didnt remove network-manager or did you? Its probably still running.

How can I verify network-manager running?
> **P4man said:**
> 
edit: missed your edit. I cant help you with that Im afraid.
No problem I will wait for some one to reply on firewall part.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-10-22
assuming you are on 10.04 or 10.10

```
sudo service --status-all
```

(dont ask what the signs mean, I have no idea)
To stop network-manager if its running

```
sudo service network-manager stop
```

If its not running that will give an error.

---

### Post by tapas_mishra on 2010-10-23
It is 9.04

---

