---
title: "7.10 Wireless Extenstions &amp; Orinoco 0.15x driver"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by firephish on 2007-10-20
Hello,

Just upgraded to 7.10, it seems the default orinoco driver does not support mode. No problem i thought, i'll just download Orinoco 0.15x source, make recommended changes according to [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OrinocoMonitorMode](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OrinocoMonitorMode) & compile.

However, make generates the following error: "*** Wireless extensions are not enabled. "

So, it seems the Ubuntu kernel 2.6.22-14-generic does not support wireless extensions ... is this possible? (i am hoping to avoid recompiling my kernel!)

Anyone point me to a workaround/good howto?

Thanks

---

### Post by eugo on 2007-10-24
Hi. I have the same problem as you.

I have a fresh Gutsy 7.10 install, all is well except for my USB Wireless dongle. I don't know if it's the same unit as yours (mine has a cord and stands like a tower, says SpeedTouch 120.) My PC is a AMD Athlon64 3ghz.

It simply isn't recognized by the kernel. Running 'dmesg' shows this, and only this, when inserting the device:

```
[  929.321139] usb 5-1: new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 3
[  929.486718] usb 5-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
```

Also, 'lsmod' shows no wireless drivers (orinoco, hermes, hostap, wifi)

Searching around led me to download the orinoco-0.15 driver from [http://www.nongnu.org/orinoco](http://www.nongnu.org/orinoco). I run 'make' and get exactly the same error as you do.

Next I recompiled the kernel following [these instructions](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=311158). I took the latest version (2.6.23), made sure to change "Wireless extensions" to 'yes'. The compile took about an hour and after that, I reinstalled my Nvidia drivers, restarted, went and compiled the driver but when I run 'make' I still get the same error:

```
/usr/src/orinoco-0.15/Kbuild:34: *** Wireless extensions are not enabled.  Stop.
```

The 'Hardware Information' tool shows the usb device when inserted, but it doesn't recognize the device correctly. See this [screenshot](http://bayimg.com/JaHLfAABL).

I think the next thing to do is to try with a lower kernel version. But one kernel recompile is enough for one day.

Help is needed!

---

### Post by devil404 on 2008-01-10
> **firephish said:**
> Hello,

Just upgraded to 7.10, it seems the default orinoco driver does not support mode. No problem i thought, i'll just download Orinoco 0.15x source, make recommended changes according to [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OrinocoMonitorMode](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OrinocoMonitorMode) & compile.

However, make generates the following error: "*** Wireless extensions are not enabled. "

So, it seems the Ubuntu kernel 2.6.22-14-generic does not support wireless extensions ... is this possible? (i am hoping to avoid recompiling my kernel!)

Anyone point me to a workaround/good howto?

Thanks

Having the same problem, too. Can't get the older drivers to compile either (0.13a-e). Any idea when the newer drivers will be in future Ubuntu kernels?

UPDATE: Just figured out I AM using the newer version (0.15) and I can't find out what the Wireless Extensions thingie is all about. If the kernel is pre-compiled with wireless modules, doesn't that mean wireless extensions _are_ enabled? Anyone out there know what that "Wireless Extensions" means?

---

### Post by devil404 on 2008-01-26
Here's what I've discovered. In the version of Ubuntu I'm running right now, I'm using kernel 2.6.22 and Orinoco driver 0.15. The Wireless extensions configuration in the kernel is labeled as CFG80211, whereas the Orinoco driver looks for CONFIG_NET_WIRELESS. I discovered this while looking in the Kconfig file for the Orinoco driver. Anybody know the syntax for the Kconfig file?

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-01-26
When you compile the drivers, during the ./config statement, is there an option to specify the wireless extensions path?

---

### Post by devil404 on 2008-02-02
> **kevdog said:**
> When you compile the drivers, during the ./config statement, is there an option to specify the wireless extensions path?

There is no ./config file. It seems that kernel development is proceeding at it's usual pace, while the orinoco driver is not moving as quickly. The references in the Kernel, like CONFIG_NET_WIRELESS no longer exist, or have been changed to something else, like CONFIG80211. This creates a broken reference in the Kconfig file, where the driver compilation references required kernel settings. I'm still working on the matter, and I'll post any solutions I find here to the list. 

BTW, I tried compiling and installing the latest orinoco drivers from their development site. It compiled and installed just like it should, but when I modprobed it, my system locked up. :|

---

### Post by lasivian on 2008-03-04
I have the same problem, and no idea where to start on a solution. :(

---

### Post by tremmert on 2008-03-05
You can add me to the list also...same error...  Does anyone know if the earlier versions of ubuntu support this patch?

---

### Post by wkimberly on 2008-03-09
You can add another user to the list.

I Found a solution to the **"Wireless extensions are not enabled"** message. But still did not manage to compile the Orinoco driver. You have to enter in the *Kbuild* file in the orinoco source code folder and change the line of code

```
ifndef CONFIG_NET_RADIO
```
for:```

ifndef CONFIG_WIRELESS_EXT
```
This information was found in Source Forge orinoco email archive [ [COLOR="Blue"]Source Forge orinoco email archive[/COLOR] ]("http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/forum.php?thread_name=cff1d91c0708252156l72031an7b7112d87f5b901c%40mail.gmail.com&forum_name=orinoco-users")

After this the error **"This driver is already enabled in the kernel."** appeared when doing make. By comenting the 3 lines with # we can suppress the checking and error message.In the file *Kbuild* from:
```
ifdef CONFIG_HERMES
$(error This driver is already enabled in the kernel)
endif
```
to
```
#ifdef CONFIG_HERMES
#$(error This driver is already enabled in the kernel)
#endif
```

Now when I do a make I get the following errors:
```
/orinoco.c: In function ‘orinoco_stat_gather’:
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c:720: error: ‘struct sk_buff’ has no member named ‘mac’
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c: In function ‘orinoco_rx_monitor’:
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c:801: error: ‘struct sk_buff’ has no member named ‘mac’
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c:2466:67: error: macro "INIT_WORK" passed 3 arguments, but takes just 2
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c: In function ‘alloc_orinocodev’:
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c:2466: error: ‘INIT_WORK’ undeclared (first use in this function)
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c:2466: error: (Each undeclared identifier is reported only once
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c:2466: error: for each function it appears in.)
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c:2467:68: error: macro "INIT_WORK" passed 3 arguments, but takes just 2
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c:2468:75: error: macro "INIT_WORK" passed 3 arguments, but takes just 2
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c: In function ‘orinoco_get_drvinfo’:
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c:4330: error: ‘struct net_device’ has no member named ‘class_dev’
/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.c:4331: error: ‘struct net_device’ has no member named ‘class_dev’
make[2]: *** [/orinoco-0.15/orinoco.o] Error 1
make[1]: *** [_module_/orinoco-0.15] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.22-14-generic'
make: *** [modules] Error 2
```

Does anybody has a clue where to go from here?

---

