---
title: "9.10 WifI Issue"
date: 2010-02-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Advait on 2010-02-26
Hi All,

I'm using 9.10 on a laptop that has Win7 in another partition. Within Win7 I get strong full bars for the wifi signal strength. On the same laptop in the same location, I get only 2 bars (low) wifi signal strength when I'm in Ubuntu 9.10.

I'm using the wifi transceiver built into my Acer Aspire 5732Z laptop.

Anyone heard of this problem? Any solutions?

Thanks,

Tom

---

### Post by Scrubru on 2010-02-26
Install these two packages
linux-backports-modules-karmic-generic
linux-backports-modules-wireless-karmic-generic

#sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-karmic-generic
#sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-wireless-karmic-generic

Reboot and we'll see the effect.

---

### Post by Advait on 2010-02-27
Wow. Worked perfectly. Problem solved.

Note to Forum Admin: Please give scrubru some bonus beans.

Cheers,

Tom the Uber Newbie

---

### Post by vlc_marcos on 2010-02-27
hy, how did you install the things, because i dont now how to do it.

---

### Post by Advait on 2010-02-27
Hi,

I clicked on "Applications" in the upper left hand corner. Then I clicked on "Accessories", then I clicked on "Terminal". Then I copy and pasted just the first command into the terminal and hit Enter.

The first command entered is sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-karmic-generic

Notice that I left out the "#". I don't know why that was in the command line that scrubru sent me. I'm sure there's some good reason. I had a guess that it wasn't needed and the guess seemed to be correct.

It then asked me for my admin password which I entered. Then the first command executed.

Then I did the same thing for the second command:

sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-wireless-karmic-generic

Once again I left out the "#" symbol.

Then I rebooted and now my wifi signal indicator is showing full strength. Yay! After dancing around my room for a moment I sent a "thank you" post to scrubru.

Hope this helps!

Cheers,

Tom

---

### Post by vlc_marcos on 2010-02-27
but you need to have already internet, because i iam using wifi in the seven, and when i turn to linux i canot use the wifi and i dont have any cables with me at the moment

---

### Post by Advait on 2010-02-27
If I understand correctly Wifi works when you're in Win7, but not when you're in Ubuntu? Do I have that right? Does your Win7 and Ubuntu reside on the same hard drive? Or on different machines? Can you move your Ubuntu closer to the source of the wifi signal?

Thanks,

Tom

---

### Post by vlc_marcos on 2010-02-27
i have the two in the same notebook, i the same hard drive.

---

### Post by Advait on 2010-02-27
Can you move your computer closer to the source of the wifi signal?

---

### Post by vlc_marcos on 2010-02-27
yes of course, i am about 3 meters of the source. but i can see the signal. i think that the drivers of the notebook arent instale, is a acer 6930g and the wireless card is a intel 5100n

---

### Post by Nuxer-India on 2010-03-31
@ [Scrubru]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=982369")

Thanks, your solution solved my wifi problem :)

---

