---
title: "10.10 Broadcom bcm4312 xubuntu no wireless - help?"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by videodrome on 2010-10-11
I just did a fresh Xubuntu 10.10 64bit install and I have no wireless whatsoever.

Wireless worked great previously out of the box under Xubuntu 10.04 64bit.

The STA driver is installed right out of the box, and the wired connection works, but the wireless bcm4312 (rev 1) does not work.

In fact, although it says that Gnome Network Manager is installed with this Xubuntu distro, it seems like it's messed up somehow. Its tray icon isn't even appearing for me, and so I can't even select a wireless network, as if the software isn't even running. But it is running, because the wired connection works once I plug in the ethernet cable.

So I just went ahead and installed wicd 1.70 from the repository.

WICD sees the wireless network, but just sits there when I try to connect and never gets an IP address.

Please help. Thanks, Loomis

loomis@1505:~$ lspci | grep -i net   
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX (rev 02)
0b:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11a/b/g (rev 01)

SOLVED 

For me, right out of the box, Network Manager was not working right, which is pretty amateurish and does not reflect well on the Xubuntu project at all.

Anyhow, after wasting 4 hours doing all of the complicated things, such as a complete reinstall, a ton of driver installations, blacklisting stuff, using fwcutter and soforth, I finally got the bcm4312 wireless to work on 64 bit xubuntu.

You must simply install wicd 1.70 from the repository and then do this:
sudo apt-get purge network-manager network-manager-gnome

Also I would imagine that a reinstall of Network Manager would fix the problem too, if you didn't want to use wicd. This seems to be because Network Manager is broken in this distro.

That's it. Thanks

---

