---
title: "16.04 no linux-firmware-nonfree package?"
date: 2016-05-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by BloodyIron on 2016-05-25
So I'm trying to get wifi going on a Dell D531, so I need linux-firmware-nonfree. But the repos show it as deleted, even though earlier versions say it's there ( [https://www.howtoinstall.co/en/ubuntu/xenial/linux-firmware-nonfree](https://www.howtoinstall.co/en/ubuntu/xenial/linux-firmware-nonfree) ).

What's going on here? :(

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2016-05-25
I just had to check and yes you are right.
```
$ apt-file --package-only search /lib/firmware/
amd64-microcode
atmel-firmware
dahdi-firmware-nonfree
firmware-crystalhd
intel-microcode
libsbigudrv2
linux-firmware
linux-image-4.4.0-23-generic
linux-image-4.4.0-23-lowlatency
nouveau-firmware
prism2-usb-firmware-installer

```
And then I remember some conflict it was having with "linux-firmware 1.7" so maybe it is still a work in progress...but this is just a guess from me ATM.
But I did find a link for .deb file but mind you...[SIZE=4][COLOR=#ff0000]_**you are on your own here if you choose to install it**_[/COLOR][/SIZE]
It may be just fine or it could break your system into an unusable paper weight.
So Proceed at your own riskLink here:[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/amd64/linux-firmware-nonfree/1.16](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/amd64/linux-firmware-nonfree/1.16)
Kind Regards
PS If you do install it please let us know how it goes.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-05-25
If you are trying to get a broadcom wireless card working, try
```
sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer
```

The firmware was part of another package until late 2014

---

### Post by BloodyIron on 2016-05-26
Okay so I got it working, but let me outline what I had to do.

1. The kernel was panicing when trying to shut down. This was only resolved by blacklisting the "wl" module.

2. Then I had to:

> apt install **b43-fwcutter firmware-b43-installer**

Seemed to work properly, and survive a reboot. Wifi switch works too! Aww yeah! But step #2 was not working for me without blacklisting "wl"

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2016-05-26
So did you _just_ install "b43-fwcutter firmware-b43-installer"? 			 		
 	 		 			 			 				 Or did you also install the firmware?
Just to keep it clear on your solution. So others are not confused. Plus could be important.
But Glad it is now working.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-05-26
Don't blacklist wl, uninstall it ```
sudo apt-get remove bcmwl-kernel-source
```

---

### Post by BloodyIron on 2016-05-26
I actually did both, forgot to mention that, so that the wl driver couldn't accidentally get re-installed and activated.

> **jeremy31 said:**
> Don't blacklist wl, uninstall it ```
sudo apt-get remove bcmwl-kernel-source
```

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-05-26
*Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless** as the more appropriate forum.*

*Please mark thread **solved** using *Thread Tools* in the top toolbar for the benefit of others searching for solutions*.

---

