---
title: "11.10 Can't Get IP Address - Barnacle WiFi Tether"
date: 2011-12-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by The Wanlorn on 2011-12-23
So, this is a super annoying problem!  I'm trying to use Barnacle so that I and the other passengers can surf the internet on a road trip when we get bored of each other.  I start up Barnacle and everyone can connect except for me, so I know that the problem is with Ubuntu and not Barnacle.

I've been screwing around with it (and not letting any of them connect, either, to make sure I'm not overloading it somehow) for the better part of two hours now, with zero results.  This is especially frustrating because I have definitely used Barnacle with this laptop before but, well, like everyone says.  That was back in 10.10.

Currently, it gets as far as the point where it's trying to get an IP address and then just fails miserable.  I've tried to set up manually to no avail, and I think part of the reason for that may be that when I try to manually set my card's mode to ad-hoc it fails:

```
$ sudo iwconfig wlan0 mode ad-hoc
Error for wireless request "Set Mode" (8B06) :
    SET failed on device wlan0 ; Operation not supported.
```

If it weren't for the fact that it used to work, I would totally blame it on the wireless card, but... I've also disabled IPv6 for that connection, no dice.

I'm currently using EasyTether, but I would much, much rather be using Barnacle so that everyone else in the car can share in the glory that is the internet.  So, my question is two-fold:

1. If I install a VM with 10.10 on it, will I be able to connect to that somehow?  Or am I just plain old screwed because the laptop won't connect.

2. Has anyone figured out anything to fix this?  I've googled the crap out of it and haven't yet found a fix that worked for me, and most of the posts I've found are people saying "Yes I have this issue!" without any solutions.

---

### Post by t.n.a. on 2012-02-06
I believe I have the same problem.

What puzzles me most is how specific the problem is. Namely, I have tested with my laptop and 2 other machines (Windows 7 and Ubuntu 9.04) connecting to 2 android hotspots and a WiFi ADSL router. Apparently, all combinations work **except** my laptop and the barnacle-powered android phone (the other phone has a built in network sharing feature), which just happens to be the connection I need most.

Would love to know what causes it...

---

