---
title: "Problem migrating IPTables config from Gentoo, servers not accessible from internet"
date: 2007-08-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by locovaca on 2007-08-19
I'm in the process of migrating my server from Gentoo to Ubuntu Server 7.04.  I have all of my services configured, so the next step was getting iptables set up.  I thought I could simply copy my configuration from Gentoo and use it.  I have everything set up and the tables are getting loaded, but my services (http, smtp, etc.) are not accessible from eth0, aka the internet.  Here's my set up:

eth0: internet
eth1: local network
tun0: openvpn server

```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Fri Aug 17 21:14:38 2007
*raw
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Aug 17 21:14:38 2007
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Fri Aug 17 21:14:38 2007
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
-A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 31000:32000 -j DNAT --to-destination 192.168.0.30 
-A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 33000:34000 -j DNAT --to-destination 192.168.0.34
-A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 8080 -j DNAT --to-destination 192.168.128.1:20002 
-A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE 
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Aug 17 21:14:38 2007
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Fri Aug 17 21:14:38 2007
*mangle
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Aug 17 21:14:38 2007
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.6 on Fri Aug 17 21:14:38 2007
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD DROP [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p udp -m udp --dport 68 -j DROP 
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 67 -j DROP 
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 68 -j DROP 
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -i tun0 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -i eth0 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -p tcp -m tcp --dport 31000:32000 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -p tcp -m tcp --dport 33000:34000 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -d 192.168.128.1 -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 20002 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -j LOG 
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Aug 17 21:14:38 2007

```

That was a verbatim copy from Gentoo, except that I reset the counters.  

Every time someone hits one of my services it gets logged to Syslog, so there's something not happening on the filter chain I'm guessing.  On Gentoo I have everything compiled statically in the kernel, so my hunch is that I'm missing a module that should be loaded.

The only other thing that caused me concern is that the servers are binding to what appears to be the IPv6 stack.  Under Gentoo, for example, I have this in netstat:

```
tcp        0      0 *:imap                  *:*                     LISTEN
```
whereas under Ubuntu I get something like this (not the exact line since it's booted into Gentoo right now)

```

tcp6        0      0 *:imap                  *:*                     LISTEN

```

So I'm not sure if that means it's open to both v4 and v6 traffic, or if that's only v6 traffic.  That too might be the problem.

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by nixfaced on 2007-08-19
Weird.  I stared at this for 20 minutes trying to make sense of it.

Well, first off, the fact that ipv6 is running shouldn't break anything.  However, note that it's "shouldn't" instead of "won't" or "didn't."  I can tell you that I've got services listening on ipv6 sockets, and they work with ipv4.

On to the problem...

If requests to your server are showing in syslog, yet stuff doesn't work, that suggests to me that there's something happening on the output side.  

This, to me, stands out:

-A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE

So I'm guessing that you're using the ubuntu server as a nat/router box for your lan as well.  That rule is an odd way of doing this, in my opinion.  I usually use a rule like: 

-A POSTROUTING -i (internal interface) -s (localnet) -j MASQUERADE.  

later in the iptables.save:

*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD DROP [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]

...followed by explicit allows for stuff in the nat table.

So you've got a default drop of forwarded traffic, and if I read this correctly, that includes *everything* headed out eth0 due to the aforementioned "-o eth0 -j MASQUERADE" rule.  Which is all traffic destined for the internet.  Which includes responses to attempts to access your server.  There is no explicit ACCEPT rule to allow syn/acks out to the client hosts, and I suspect one is needed. 

Oddly, this setup works on your Gentoo server.  I have no idea why.  There's clearly some difference in the way netfilter processes this stuff under ubuntu vs gentoo.  

As a workaround, try the MASQUERADE rule I suggested above, rather than "-o eth0 -j MASQUERADE".  Alternately, change FORWARD's default policy to ACCEPT.  Or add a rule to your FORWARD chain to allow outbound traffic originating from the server, like:

-I FORWARD -s (eth0's IP) -p tcp -j ACCEPT.

In summary, your problem broke my brain, and I hope you're as confused as I am now.

Also, hope this helps.  I suspect that one of these suggestions will work, though.

---

### Post by locovaca on 2007-08-19
Thanks for the suggestions.  Fortunately, I figured it out, and it was stupider than I could've imagined.  Despite using the same MAC address my ISP (Road Runner) gave me a different IP address between Ubuntu and Gentoo installs, so the drops I saw were the routers forwarding packets to my mac address with the Gentoo IP as the destination.  I reset my dns and ran some test e-mails and these worked.  It also explains why I had trouble last night using the dns name which still resolved to the old IP, and the routers said was my machine even though my machine didn't believe them...

Thanks again!  I will be redoing my IPTables config at some point so I'll take into consideration your points.  I believe I pulled my config from an old gentoo-wiki or gentoo forum post many years ago, although a google for the masquerade option revealed that I'm not the only one using it.

---

