---
title: "12.04 LTS Server - SSH outside LAN?"
date: 2013-02-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by szczurcio on 2013-02-08
Hi,
I'm having issues connecting to my Ubuntu 12.04 LTS server via SSH when using the external IP. If I try to connect locally, inside the network, no problems, running smoothly. 
However, if I use the WAN IP, I get the "connection refused" error. I have forwarded port 22 in the router to the correct internal IP, however I noticed (sorry if this is a noob's question) a (disabled) option marked "SSH Daemon" in Tomato when changing router settings. 

Now, when I enable this, if I try to login like this: ssh xxx.xxx.x.xxx I get "permission denied" even though I am using the correct password. However, if I do: [EMAIL="root@xxx.xxx.x.xxx"]root@xxx.xxx.x.xxx[/EMAIL] (root access is enabled in sshd_conf) and enter the credentials, I gain access to some kind of a weird Tomato console, which says "Type help to view available commands". 

I'm quite confused, what's this about? Why does it refuse the connection because of the SSH Daemon being disabled?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by PowerBarry43 on 2013-02-08
Hi 

It sounds to me like you're connecting to the router's ssh server, try adding a ruule that forwards port 22 on your server to something like 8022 on your external ip then when you ssh in from outside connect to that port so it might go something like 

```
ssh root@xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx -p 8022
```

Hope this helps!

Barry

---

### Post by szczurcio on 2013-02-08
I tried, still the same though. That's the message I get:

Tomato v1.27.1798
BusyBox v1.14.4 (2009-11-29 06:50:47 PST) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

I don't know if I got you right though; should I just forward Ext Port 8022 to internal port 22?

---

### Post by szczurcio on 2013-02-08
Did it again, solved my problem minutes after submitting question. In case anyone has a similar problem: I'm not certain what eventually helped because I tampered with the settings a lot, but I think uncommeting the ListenAddress line is what you wanna do.

---

