---
title: "14.04LTS and RTL8723BE [10ec:b723] WiFi drops - only reboot fixes"
date: 2014-04-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by themaninthewoods on 2014-04-30
[TABLE]
[TR]
[TD="class: votecell"][/TD]
[TD="class: postcell"]                I have a fresh Ubuntu 14.04LTS  install on a new laptop with a Realtek RTL8723BE wireless adapter in it.  Initially  after installation I had no wireless, but I was able to get it working  after following the instructions on this thread (thanks Chili555 and hyunil227 ;)): [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2205497](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2205497) .  I had to checkout an earlier version of the driver from git as the thread says in order to get it to compile on my system.

  The problem is that the connection eventually is lost within an hour  or so, although Network Manager still shows it as connected.  The problem seems pretty random, sometimes it's during active web  browsing, sometimes not.  Doesn't matter if I'm plugged in to AC power  or battery.  If I  disable and re-enable the Wi-Fi or Networking it doesn't work.  The wifi  just endlessly tries to connect, but it never does, just times out.  

  If I reboot it works fine again for a while.

  I ran the wireless diagnostic script after it went down and uploaded my results here:

  [http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/7355768/](http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/7355768/)


  I've been digging for a while and haven't found anything that works.  Is the driver just wonky?  I haven't tried ndiswrapper, but is that something I should give a shot?  

I could use some help.  Thanks!
[/TD]
[/TR]
[/TABLE]

---

### Post by Eklipze1229 on 2014-05-14
Sorry for the late response, but I may have a fix.  Make a file:

$ sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/rtl8723be.conf

When the terminal window opens, copy paste this in:

#Prevents the WiFi card from automatically sleeping and halting connection
options rtl8723be fwlps=0 swlps=0

Tell me how it works.  The drivers for this card are horrid at best, I'm trying to find a good replacement.  The above fix works for me during browsing, but I lose connection a lot during gaming.  At least it's better.

---

### Post by gilbertstuart on 2014-06-22
I was having the same issues with the wireless, it was disconnecting after some time with no avail but to restart the system. I got my wireless card to work continously in a similar fashion as described by Eklipse1229, in summary this are the steps I followed in a  terminal (minus the hashtag comments). 

Eklipze1229: I'm only following directions here, so for everyone's reference: can you explain why are you using "swlps=0"? The instructions I found don't have this extra command but they work.




```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic build-essential git[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]    # needed only if you don't have yet that package[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]git clone[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#1155cc]_[http://github.com/lwfinger/rtl8723be](http://github.com/lwfinger/rtl8723be)_[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]    # needed only if you don't have yet downloaded rtl8723be[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]cd rtl8723be[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]git checkout 604aa9058fb9e5bb1cf571c99989d081f8fc8b9[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial] # because of older kernel issues[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]make clean[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]make[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]sudo make install[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]sudo modprobe rtl8723be[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]echo "options rtl8723be fwlps=0" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/rtl8723be.conf[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]   # Prevents the WiFi card from automatically sleeping and halting connection[/FONT][/COLOR]
```



from:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1320070](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1320070)    post # 29

related post:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1240940](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1240940)

I'm on a clevo W740SU / Sager NP2740 / Galago UltraPro with rtl8723be wireless card Ubuntu 14.04 64bit

---

### Post by LinuXXuniL on 2014-06-30
Many thanks Eklipze, this works like a charm on my Ideapad Z50-70. This is the only fix that worked for me.

---

### Post by o0larry0o on 2014-07-01
Hi,
I'm running on 14.04
I had to compile the driver manualy and I set the options, but the wifi continued dropping the connection.
2 days ago I did an update with the software updater, and I had an official upgrade for the driver.
Still dropping connection ...

How can I check the version of the driver, and how can I check that it actually uses the rtl8723be.conf file ?
because at first the file did not exist and I had to create it, and I don't know but maybe the permissions are wrong for now it's : -rw-r--r--   1 root root

thx

---

### Post by marko_tikvic on 2015-03-12
This fix works for Lenovo B50-70 with RTL8723BE adapter.

Thanks for sharing :)

---

### Post by dainus on 2015-05-16
Eklipze1229's fix worked for me. 14.04 LTS, RTL8723BE.
Thanks for the tip!

---

