---
title: "6.06 Wireless works, anything &gt;6.06, it doesn't."
date: 2007-05-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Aar0n on 2007-05-13
Hi, I have an old Acer laptop, and am using a D-Link DWL-G650+ WiFi card. With Ubuntu/Xubuntu 6.06 I used the mod on [http://guillermoesteves.com/blog/2006/06/08/how-to-get-a-d-link-dwl-g650-wi-fi-adapter-to-work-in-ubuntu-linux-6-06](http://guillermoesteves.com/blog/2006/06/08/how-to-get-a-d-link-dwl-g650-wi-fi-adapter-to-work-in-ubuntu-linux-6-06) to get it work, no problems at all. It seems that with any release of Xubuntu/Ubuntu after 6.06, it doesn't work. I know the solution is probably really simple, and just requires changing one more parameter or something, but I have no idea.

Any help would really, really be appriciated, then I can finally ditch Windows on my laptop!

Thanks.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2007-05-13
Please open up a terminal, plug in the card and then do:```
dmesg | grep acx
```Please let us know the result. Thanks.

---

### Post by Aar0n on 2007-05-13
Just to let you know, I booted using pci=noacpi so my laptop would actually boot. This card is a PCMCIA one, btw.

I booted the Ubuntu 6.10 Live CD, and ran the command ```
dmesg | grep acx
``` and it output ```
[171.79729.028000] acx: Loaded combined PCI/USB driver, firmware_ver=default
[171.79729.028000] acx: compiled to use 32bit I/O access. I/O timing issues might occur, such as non-working firmware upload. Report them
[171.79729.760000] usbcore: registered new driver acx_usb
```

Thanks

---

### Post by chili555 on 2007-05-13
Now do you see a wireless interface under *iwconfig*, possibly wlan0? If so, you should now be able to configure it under System -> Administration -> Network.

---

### Post by Aar0n on 2007-05-13
After running *iwconfig* it says 

```

lo      no wireless extentions
sit0   no wireless extentions

```

And it doesn't appear in Network Settings. Any other ideas?
Thanks again.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2007-05-21
Reading the link you referred us to includes this:> open a terminal, and type:
sudo pico /etc/modprobe.d/options
Your system will ask your password; provide it. Now add the following line to the file you’re editing:
options acx firmware_ver=1.2.1.34However, in kernel 2.6.20-15 (Feisty), there is no firmware version 1.2.1.34. Here is part of /lib/firmware/2.6.20-15-generic/acx/readme.txt:> The acx loads the firmware marked "default", unless you pass it another
version using the firmware_ver=XXXX module parameter.      
........
acx111 PCI              0.1.0.11
acx111 PCI              0.4.11.4
acx111 PCI              0.4.11.9
acx111 PCI              1.2.0.30
acx111 PCI              2.3.1.31        (default)Please try editing */etc/modprobe.d/options* to add:```
options acx firmware_ver=2.3.1.31
```Reboot and then see if your card springs to life.

---

