---
title: "12.04 LTS Server Automatically Connect to Wi-Fi"
date: 2013-04-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rkearns on 2013-04-09
I've spent countless hours the last few days trying to fix this problem myself, and reading all the documentation and forums I could find. I've finally decided to throw in the towel and appeal to the forum for help!

I recently set up my server, and upon boot it automatically and successfully conect to my wifi. However, upon disconnect, the server would not automatically reconnect to the network (manually reconnect worked fine). To fix this problem, I installed wicd, and eventually wicd-curses. I removed "auto wlan0" from /etc/networking/interfaces. wicd successfully scans and detects my network, connects to it, and is successfully authenticated, but always hangs at "Obtaining IP Address" (when viewing wicd-curses). After viewing the wicd debug logs, it recommended dhcpcd over dhclient, so Installed that, but it doesnt help. By looking at the debug log, here is where the connection attempt fails:

Putting Interface up...
ifconfig wlan0 up
iwconfig wlan0
enctype is wep-passphrase
Attempting to authenticate...
['wpa_supplicant', '-b', '-i', 'wlan0', '-c', '/var/lib/wicd/configuration/<mybssidcode>', '-Dwext']
ioctl[SIOCSIWENCODEEXT]: Invalid argument
ioctl[SIOCSIWENCODEEXT]: Invalid argument
['iwconfig', 'wlan0', 'essis', '--', 'mynetwork']
iwconfig wlan0 channel 6
iwconfig wlan0 ap <mybssidcode>
WPA_CLI RESULT IS DISCONNECTED
iwconfig wlan0
WPA_CLI RESULT IS COMPLETED
Running DHCP with hostname myhostname
/sbin/dhcpcd -h myhostname --noipv4ll wlan0
iwconfig wlan0
... (more iwconfig wlan0's)
iwconfig wlan0
err, wlan0: timed out

DHCP connection failed
exiting connection thread
ifconfig eth0
ifconfig wlan0
Sending connection attempt result dhcp_failed
Forced disconnect on
<some clean-up scripts and so on here>

Its pretty clear that its a problem with the DHCP connection, but it failed using both dhclient AND dhcpcd.....  
I have no idea what to do at this point, and im tempted uninstall wicd and just write a hackish script to continually call ifup wlan0, but thats clearly a terrible solution.

Any help would be MUCH appreciated!!

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-04-09
Hello and welcome

I don't think wicd should be necessary at all in this (server) scenario - you should be able to define the interface including SSID and credentials in the /etc/network/interfaces file e.g. this works for my WPA-PSK access point:

```

$ cat /etc/network/interfaces 
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
[B]auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
    wpa-ssid *MYSSID*
    wpa-psk *mypassphrase*
dns-nameservers 192.168.1.1
[/B]$ 
```

```

$ apt-cache policy wicd
wicd:
**  Installed: (none)**
  Candidate: 1.7.2.3-1ubuntu0.1
  Version table:
     1.7.2.3-1ubuntu0.1 0
        500 http://ca.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ precise-updates/universe i386 Packages
        500 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ precise-security/universe i386 Packages
     1.7.2.3-1 0
        500 http://ca.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ precise/universe i386 Packages
$ 
```

If you do it this way, you should 'chmod 600' the file to prevent  snooping of your credentials. For WEP, iirc the equivalent fields are  'wireless-essid' and 'wireless-key' (but you shouldn't really be using  WEP any more). For a server you may want to use static instead of DHCP or (as I do) use  address reservation at the router to always assign the same IP based on  the interface's MAC.

AFAIK the default dhcp client for 12.04 Server is provided by the isc-dhcp-client package (as dhclient3) so I'd suggest removing any others in case they are conflicting

```

$ ps -ef | grep dhc
root       919     1  0 21:44 ?        00:00:00 dhclient3 -e IF_METRIC=100 -pf /var/run/dhclient.wlan0.pid -lf /var/lib/dhcp/dhclient.wlan0.leases -1 wlan0
$ 
$ 
$ apt-file search dhclient3
isc-dhcp-client: /sbin/dhclient3
isc-dhcp-client: /usr/share/man/man8/dhclient3.8.gz

```

There may be other issues that are preventing DHCP from working but I'd start from there and if it still doesn't auto-connect see if you can diagnose why (there should be some DHCP related messages in dmesg - or if you really need to get down in the muck and bullets you can sniff the DHCP negotiation using tcpdump etc.)

Hope this helps

---

### Post by rkearns on 2013-04-09
Originally, I was not using wicd. The interface was defined as part of the ubuntu installation process and was working fine with manual controls. The only problem was, it would not reconnect to the network after a dropped connection. That is where wicd came in. I would welcome a solution without wicd too!!

/etc/network/interface

audo lo
iface lo inet loopback

# auto wlan0 <- commented out to try wicd
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wireless-mode managed
wireless-essied <my essid>
wireless-key1 <my key>

I realize WEP is not the best, and I will probably switch it later, but right now authentication is not the problem.

dmesg reveals this information:
wlan0: authenticate with <bssid>
wlan0: sent auth to <bssid> (try 1/3)
wlan0: authenticated
wlan0: associate with <bssid> (try 1/3)
wlan0: RX AssocResp from <bssid> (capab=0x431 status=0 aid=4)
wlan0: associated
IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): wlan0: link becomes ready
wlan0: deauthenticating from <bssid> by local choice (reason=3)
cfg80211: all devices are disconnected, going to restore regulatory settings

I am unable to make sense of this, except for the successful authentication and association.

After listening to the tcpdump for the connection cycle, the relevant lines seem to be
IP 0.0.0.0.bootpc > 255.255.255.255.bootps:BOOTP/DHCP, Request from mybssid (oui unknown), length 300
routerbssid (oui unknown) Unknown SSAP 0xe2 > unknownbssid (oui Unknown) Unknown DSAP 0x86  Supervisory, Reject, rcv seq 0, Flags [Command], length 409

Unfortunately, that means almost nothing to me. My understanding is that tcpdumb is acting as a packet sniffer? And my server is making a request which the router is rejecting. That is all that appears, except for a section sent by the router containing about 50 lines of the form:
0x05340: followed by 8 four digit alphanumeric characters, followed by  a series of random characters separated by dots : ..."...oH....=..~", which I can only assume is some binary code translated into ascii. 

Hopefully that tells you more experienced users something, but it does not point to where the issue is for me! :(

Thank you for your help!

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-04-09
IIRC that 'deauthentication' error can sometimes be caused by wireless card / driver limitations (e.g. 802.11n problems with some Intel cards) - what hardware do you have?

```
lspci -vnn | grep -e '\[0200\]' -e '\[0280\]'
```

Have you purged wicd?

---

### Post by rkearns on 2013-04-09
Atheros Communications Inc. AR2413/AR2414 Wireless Network Adapter [AR5005G(S) 802.11bg] [168c:001a] (rev 1)
The other controller is for my wired network controller, but Im only running wireless right now

Can you elaborate on purging wicd? I have installed/removed it several times as I searched for a solution.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-04-09
well that's about the limit of my knowledge about these things - let's wait for one of the wireless experts to chime in

---

### Post by rkearns on 2013-04-09
Thanks anyway, I appreciate the effort

---

