---
title: "Network Backup.... NAS..... ?"
date: 2010-06-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by CarbineReloaded on 2010-06-18
Running 10.04

I have a NAS that I would like to backup a folder on my computer to.  While the GUI for the NAS doesn't directly support linux, I'm able to either FTP ([ftp://user@192.168.1.xxx/folder](ftp://user@192.168.1.xxx/folder)) into the folders where I want to back the data up to.... or access through samba (smb://192.168.1.xxx/folder)


Apparently I either forgot how to do this, or I ate a box of stupid today....... What I'm looking to do (1) is have the NAS mount every time I boot up the computer and (2) have "Back in Time" (or similar program) back up the data weekly to the NAS.


I switched to Linux exclusively 2 months ago.... Previously my backups were completed via a script run in Windows Vista with Task Scheduler, once a week.  The script would copy the specified folder (and contents within) to a specified path with an incremental folder name.

Example:
Folder1\blah.txt would copy to NAS:\\04-18-2010\Folder1\blah.txt

The incremental naming structure was quite important to me and how/why I do my backups.  If there is a way to replicate this with Ubuntu, tha'd be greeeeeeeeeeat.

---

### Post by CarbineReloaded on 2010-06-26
8-[

---

### Post by HankB on 2010-07-01
I fould this post helpful: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9420617&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9420617&postcount=4)

I think you can do something with rsync that will duplicate what you did under Windows, including the directory naming.

HTH,
hank

---

### Post by CarbineReloaded on 2010-07-04
Well.... I'm at a loss.

I've tried:
*rsync - it apparently doesn't like my ftp/smb share.
*back in time - doesn't even give me an option for a non-local backup (how does a local backup help in a drive failure recovery?)
*keep - won't talk to my ftp/smb share
*Simple backup - pretends to work, no error messages... but no data backed up.

---

### Post by HankB on 2010-07-04
Why not focus on one solution and post more about the details of what is not working. When you post something like "doesn't like my ftp/smb share" it is difficult for anyone to offer a suggestion because we don't know what that means.

Personally, I'd choose rsync because it more or less mirrors directories, making recovery of files almost trivially easy.

Any should work if you have the file system mounted. Did you sort that part out?

---

### Post by CarbineReloaded on 2010-07-04
> **HankB said:**
> Why not focus on one solution and post more about the details of what is not working. When you post something like "doesn't like my ftp/smb share" it is difficult for anyone to offer a suggestion because we don't know what that means.

Personally, I'd choose rsync because it more or less mirrors directories, making recovery of files almost trivially easy.

Any should work if you have the file system mounted. Did you sort that part out?


Sorry, the above was posted after 4 hours of sleep due to a non computer related issue... came on the computer to try to solve things and got even more frustrated.

I actually have resolved the issue where the backup programs were not seeing the network drive.... So they are playing nicely there now.

I've tried GRsync (rsync gui), Back in Time, Keep, Simple Backup and Deja Dup

So far, Simple Backup has proven to be simply useless :D ...... I configure it, tell it to run (NOW!) and get the process ID.  When I check my system monitor, the process ID is not running and there are no backups in the virgin folder I specified.... no error messages generated by the software either.

The other apps work..... however they don't do what I had in windows.  I would love a program/script that simply copies \blah\important files in here to \\nas\backup\important file backup\7-4-10 when it is run today and 7-11-10 when it's run on the 11th.

I really need backing up to work this way, as a few files I work with are required to be backed up weekly in a way that I or someone else could easily access past versions to view changes/mods.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2010-07-04
> **CarbineReloaded said:**
> 
*back in time - doesn't even give me an option for a non-local backup (how does a local backup help in a drive failure recovery?)


Simple. I have 2 internal hard drives - 1 main - 1 rsync'd copy. If a drive goes down, I still have a 2nd drive of all of my data.

---

