---
title: "12.04 Ethernet problems"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Bainesy on 2012-04-29
Hey guys, new to the forums, and still pretty new to Ubuntu. I first started using Ubuntu in 10.04, but because of my minimal experiences with it and not being able to run my windows applications/games on Ubuntu It went unused apart from downloading/surfing the net etc.
Now onto the problem. I can put in the 10.04 Live CD and boot into Ubuntu and gain instant access to the network/Internet, (The router/modem are in my brothers room and I connect via Ethernet to the rest of the network.) but ever since Unity came out (I doubt that's the problem it just seemed to start from the release when Unity came into play, which one that is I don't know off the top of my head.) I have been unable to connect to the network/Internet. My brother set up the network and gave me the details on how it should be set up in Ubuntu but no luck. 
In 12.04 under, system settings/All settings/Network, It's saying for the Wired Connection that the cable is unplugged (which is wrong seeing as how Windows 7 and 10.04 can both connect to the network.

I really want Ubuntu to work and succeed but If this kind of thing happens to less computer literate persons than myself then it's going to be a long and bumpy road for Ubuntu.
I now wish I had been a part of the Beta so I could tell them this problem.

Any help is greatly appreciated and please give clear instructions (especially if I need to do anything terminal related still getting used to the Ubuntu world.)
Thanks guys.
Bainesy

---

### Post by Bainesy on 2012-04-29
If it makes any difference I installed 12.04 on a USB stick.
And if it also helps My brother can boot from the USB on his computer and automatically connect to the network. He tried getting some generic drivers but they didn't work properly.

---

### Post by Bainesy on 2012-04-29
Just been to the realtek website, I'm running a GA P55 USB3 motherboard, using a realtek onboard LAN, and looking at the drivers, it only goes up to Linux kernel 2.6.x.
Have e-mailed Realtek and am awaiting their response.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-30
Details! We need details! In all cases I only need and want readings from the *not-working* system. Please open a terminal and run and post:```
lspci -nn | grep 0280
sudo nm-tool
lsmod | grep r8
```The pipe symbol | is on the right side of my US keyboard on the same key with \.

Is the system dual-booting with Windows 7? Thanks.

---

### Post by Bainesy on 2012-05-01
Well let me start off by saying I fixed it. Long story short I re plugged my router thats under my bed (long cable setup) which I unplugged a while ago (probably what caused 11.04/11.10 to stop networking) because there was little to no difference in windows performance.
It's all working now, posting this from 12.04 as well.

The system was triple booting in the end. Win7 on the SSD, Ubuntu 11.04/11.10 (can't remember which one.) on an old HDD and now the 12.04 on a USB.

Thankyou for your effort anyway.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-05-01
I am happy to help and glad it's working.

---

### Post by Bainesy on 2012-05-01
Just strange really why the network would be fine for 2 OS's, windows and 10.04 but not fine for 12.04?

---

### Post by flightrisk on 2012-05-03
Apologies if I'm going about this the wrong way.  I got a fresh install of 12.04 and things are rolling along just fine to include the network connections.  The problem is the control panel icon.  On occassion, after starting up, the icon will only show me "Enable networking/Wireless" without the other stuff.  I need the other stuff because my VPN is there and in my noobness I'm unable to launch it without the link.  A restart typically resolves this but it's a drag so if anyone has any suggestions I'd be much obliged.

---

### Post by RuanV on 2012-05-19
Hi

I'm having exactly the same problem. The cable is plugged in but it says that the cable is unplugged. My wireless didn't work, but i fixed that with rfkill unblock all. Here's are the det's requested

ruan@ruan:~$ lspci -nn | grep 0280
12:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM43224 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:4353] (rev 01)
ruan@ruan:~$ sudo nm-tool
[sudo] password for ruan: 

NetworkManager Tool

State: connected (global)

- Device: eth0 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Type:              Wired
  Driver:            r8169
  State:             unavailable
  Default:           no
  HW Address:        F0:4D:A2:AC:8C:93

  Capabilities:
    Carrier Detect:  yes

  Wired Properties
    Carrier:         off


- Device: wlan0  [MatiesWifi] --------------------------------------------------
  Type:              802.11 WiFi
  Driver:            brcmsmac
  State:             connected
  Default:           yes
  HW Address:        C0:CB:38:39:8B:CE

  Capabilities:
    Speed:           54 Mb/s

  Wireless Properties
    WEP Encryption:  yes
    WPA Encryption:  yes
    WPA2 Encryption: yes

  Wireless Access Points (* = current AP)
    MatiesWifi:      Infra, 00:23:AB:27:92:B0, Freq 2447 MHz, Rate 54 Mb/s, Strength 19
    *MatiesWifi:     Infra, 00:25:46:83:8E:20, Freq 2432 MHz, Rate 54 Mb/s, Strength 74

  IPv4 Settings:
    Address:         10.110.66.219
    Prefix:          18 (255.255.192.0)
    Gateway:         10.110.64.1

    DNS:             146.232.20.10
    DNS:             146.232.20.11


ruan@ruan:~$ lsmod | grep r8
r8169                  62099  0

Thank you

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-05-20
Is your computer dual-booted with Windows? Please see post #12 here.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1816095&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1816095&page=2)

---

### Post by RuanV on 2012-05-20
Yes it is, but this morning it magically fixed itself! Don't understand this stuff :|

Thank you for you reply though :D

---

