---
title: "11.10 missing option to disconnect wireless"
date: 2011-12-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Karl1982 on 2011-12-16
Hello,

One of my main uses for Ubuntu is network diagnostics, and I'm currently having an ease-of-use issue with Oneiric.  In past versions, when connected to wireless, I could click the tray icon and disconnect from the access point.  That option appears to be missing from Oneiric.

I'll give you a real-world example.  Yesterday I was troubleshooting wireless connectivity and throughput at a site with three access points.  I needed to be able to 1.) scan for access points using airodump-ng and 2.) connect to specific access points where the ESSID is the same.  Basically I had to create several new networks in network-manager with each one tied to a specific BSSID, but then found I couldn't switch between them without turning my wireless off and back on with auto-connect disabled on all of them.  I was using airodump-ng to scan for access points and clients in real time, which normally channel-hops, but it gets locked into one channel when I actually associate with an AP.  The only way I could free it was to turn the wireless completely off, which crashes airodump-ng because the interface goes completely down, and then restart it.

That's annoying.  I used to be able to just click the network manager tray icon and click disconnect.  I could do the same for wired connections (and there were some situations where I needed to deconfigure the wired interface during troubleshooting).  Now there is no disconnect option up there.  **Is there any way to get it back, or am I going to have to switch to WICD to get back the features I need?**

Also note I am using GNOME 3, if that makes any difference.  I can't use Unity in Oneiric due to broken touchpad support.  Not that I really want to.

---

### Post by Karl1982 on 2011-12-19
Also, can anyone tell me if WICD has any known issue in 11.10 GNOME 3?

Edit: I decided to go ahead and swap it anyway.  Uninstalled network-manager and installed wicd.  It's working, and I have my lovely disconnect button, but GNOME 3 is doing something strange.  Rather than in the top right, the icon for it is in the bottom right corner and only shows up if I mouse over it or open the dash.  Seems I can't drag it or anything.  Is there a way I can put it up top?

---

### Post by stephan.brubaker on 2012-02-14
> **Karl1982 said:**
> Also, can anyone tell me if WICD has any known issue in 11.10 GNOME 3?

Edit: I decided to go ahead and swap it anyway.  Uninstalled network-manager and installed wicd.  It's working, and I have my lovely disconnect button, but GNOME 3 is doing something strange.  Rather than in the top right, the icon for it is in the bottom right corner and only shows up if I mouse over it or open the dash.  Seems I can't drag it or anything.  Is there a way I can put it up top?

The reason you can't move the icon to the top is because it's not part of 'Gnome Shell', that bottom panel is basically the "notification area" for apps that don't have gnome-shell intergration

---

