---
title: "Strange Traffic"
date: 2008-04-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dedtr9 on 2008-04-13
I am posting here because when i look at my network traffic with wireshark, i see an odd thing. I am far from an expert on networking, I'm not even an armature, but this is odd. I'm getting packets sent from this machine, at a rate of about one every few seconds.
an example packet description is:
> "20335","2749.830087","10.0.2.3","4.2.2.1","DNS","Standard query PTR 22.15.125.74.in-addr.arpa"
where the first number is packet number, then time, source, destination, protocol, info

I'm not doing anything that i'd think does DNS requsts. The ip before "in-addr.arpa" varies, but it always comes back as "no such name". If you need more information on one, just tell me what to press in wireshark, i have plenty of packets.

As a side note, my ISP has a cap on my internet traffic, and if i go over it they limit my bandwidth. I dont think i'm really using up 17000 MB a month (567 Mb a day on a 30 day moth?), so i need a tool to monitor my traffic, preferable only the out/inbound, most i've seen include local network. i have access to both windows and linux, so whatever works.

---

### Post by sammy_pal on 2008-04-13
The traffic is being generated by Wireshark itself. When the "network name resolution" option is enabled in Wireshark, it is wireshark itself which queries the DNS server to get the hostnames of ip addresses, i.e. DNS reverse name resolution using the IN-ADDR.ARPA Domain. So there is nothing to worry. :)  Hope this helps you.

---

### Post by dedtr9 on 2008-04-13
I thought it could be that, but when i disable all of the name resolution check boxes, they are still there. Could it still be wireshark?

---

### Post by sammy_pal on 2008-04-13
:confused:
In my case, disabling network name resolution in wireshark makes those packets totally disappear.

---

### Post by dedtr9 on 2008-04-14
Its strange. If i run wireshark on another box with the same settings, none of those show up, but they do if i enable resolution. In Ubuntu they are there no matter what i do.  Is there a way to tell what is sending the packets, or at least get more information?

---

### Post by sammy_pal on 2008-04-14
Are those packets being generated from your machine, i.e. is the source ip same as yours ?

---

### Post by dedtr9 on 2008-04-14
I am completely sure that they are not coming from any other machine. It is the right ip. plus, when i turn it off, they stop. it is strange how they are IPs like 166.69.75.24, and 46.237.138.24 before in-addr.arpa 
After it does a dns query to the dns server i set, i notice it also does a mdns query to 224.0.0.251 with the same address
also, when i don't run wireshark on my Ubuntu box, but on my laptop, i still see the queries from ubuntu.

---

