---
title: "10.04.1 network"
date: 2010-09-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wombil on 2010-09-16
Hey Guys,
I have loaded ubuntu Lynx 10.04.1 as a dual boot behind XP home.
I have wireless connection to the XP os via netgear wireless G router and USB 2.0 adapter. The network connection works well with the XP side.
When I boot into ubuntu I am sure I have configured the network properly with the wep key and password and the network signal is alive in the work bar at the top of the screen.
When I open Fire fox and try to browse to ,say, ebay it asks for the passphrase again then tells me that FF is in work offline mode. when I correct this I get asked for the pass phrase again and the connection is disengaged.
It just keeps asking for the passphrase and disconnecting.
When I reboot into XP everything works perfectly again.
Does anyone have any clues about this problem or have a similar situation?
Would really appreciate some help on this.

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-09-16
What do you get for ```
iwconfig
```
Does [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9680300&postcount=14") help?

---

### Post by wombil on 2010-09-16
Hi dineshs,printout of iwconfig is,

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2010-09-16
My guess is that you have the wrong password or authentication key. Network manager will try to connect for many seconds before giving up but it does not inform you that it could not connect because the password was wrong. It will just ask for authentication again and again. It seems that you are connecting and being asked repeatedly for a password when in fact you are not getting a connection because the password does not match. This is my guess from experience.

Regards

---

### Post by wombil on 2010-09-16
Thanks Graham,thats my thoughts too but I am sure I am using the same password that I used to set it up with the XP system on the same disk.

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-09-17
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9767936&postcount=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9767936&postcount=11)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2010-09-17
If you're using 128-bit WEP, I found I needed to enter the hashed network key rather than the plain=text version.  Your router should display the hashed version somewhere in the setup files.

It should look something like this:

442CC7E053071C695DF985E469

Give that a try.

---

### Post by wombil on 2010-09-20
Hey Fellers,couple more questions,
Security is set at WEP,If I change that to WPA will I have to get a new network key?
 I am using a netgear WGA 3111v adapter,It looks like lots of people have the same trouble as me with this.
 Is there an adapter that just works with this system and also XP?

---

### Post by wombil on 2010-09-20
Sorry,the adapter is WG111v.Don't know where I got the wrong model from.Brain out of gear probably.

---

### Post by wombil on 2010-09-20
All fixed guys.I just changed the security to WPA and all is ok.looks like ubuntu doesn't like WEP.Simple.
 Many thanks for all the replies,I am sending this from the 10.04.1 system.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-09-20
> **wombil said:**
> ...looks like ubuntu doesn't like WEP. Probably just as well... Glad you got it fixed. :)

---

