---
title: "8.10 gnome network manager"
date: 2008-11-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sv1cdn on 2008-11-03
FYI
Running fine in 8.04 but been having problem with new gnome network manager in 8.10
Found out that leaving only

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

in /etc/network/interfaces file made network manager pop up in notification area.

But this way network manager didn't keep the eth0 settings I was inputting! So, erased the auto eth0 interface that I found in edit connections and added a new one. Got asked for password and it worked, settings were kept.

This happened in my IBM R52 laptop. Still to upgrade my PC. BUT, there I am running Virtualbox with bridge interface all showing up in /etc/network/interface file. So, the question is, how can the new network manager use these settings (bridge) if it doesn't "like" the interfaces file settings?

Take care!

---

### Post by inkrypted on 2008-11-03
I feel your pain.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=969061](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=969061)

---

### Post by tzarot on 2008-11-03
> **sv1cdn said:**
> FYI
Running fine in 8.04 but been having problem with new gnome network manager in 8.10
Found out that leaving only

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

in /etc/network/interfaces file made network manager pop up in notification area.

But this way network manager didn't keep the eth0 settings I was inputting! So, erased the auto eth0 interface that I found in edit connections and added a new one. Got asked for password and it worked, settings were kept.

This happened in my IBM R52 laptop. Still to upgrade my PC. BUT, there I am running Virtualbox with bridge interface all showing up in /etc/network/interface file. So, the question is, how can the new network manager use these settings (bridge) if it doesn't "like" the interfaces file settings?

Take care!

exactly the same for me, (created a new "Auto eth1" connection with Manual settings). But in my case I did not delete the "Auto eth0" entry. I just clicked the icon of Network Manager and selected "Auto eth1" (The newly created connection) to connect.

By this way after restart nothing was lost and NM worked fine. ;)

---

### Post by sv1cdn on 2008-11-05
Managed to upgrade 8.10 in me 8.04 PC.
Well, problems with gnome network manager once again!
This time I left all my settings in /etc/network/interfaces file as they were before. I had them setup for interface bridge!
So with 8.10 up and running, I was able to ping LAN host but had no DNS resolving! Workaround, edit /etc/resolv.conf with a line like:

nameserver 100.100.100.1

where the IP address is the one of DNS server you are using. And things worked fine, bridging was working.
Yet, no icon of network manager appears in panel (ok for me), and in >systems>preferences>network configuration nothing seems to be setup for dns (?) and if I go change even the address in one interface, get a warning message...
Any fix?

---

### Post by karlatsaic on 2008-11-05
The new NetworkManager 0.7 works best with a minimal /etc/network/interfaces - see [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=962287&page=2"), reply #11, for details. If you can afford to do a fresh install, your old network settings will not get in the way. Try running off the live CD just to make sure the network works fine and look at what the key files look like running afresh. My NM0.7 also did not work as expected (no icon) until I cleaned that out. Also, you should no longer need to edit /etc/resolv.conf. NM 0.7 now does it all for you.

---

### Post by karlatsaic on 2008-11-05
some other information in [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6108965#post6108965")

---

### Post by sv1cdn on 2008-11-08
karlatsaic I booted from live cd and gnome network manager icon appeared in information panel.
So I bet there is some setting in old network manager that causes updates to installed system to fail...
Updated to Intrepid me old pc as well, had just one static lan IP address setup, nothing weird or demanding. Yet this update had gnome network manager fail again. After installing lot of updates to Intrepid, gnm never worked.
Is anybody out there that has gnm working after an update?

---

### Post by karlatsaic on 2008-11-21
After being fairly enamored with NM 0.7 above, my wireless no longer connects. I thought it was my WEP authentication, so I disabled authentication at the wireless router to test it out. Now, no matter how I manually edit my network configuration through the applet, it keeps saying "Passwords or encryption keys are required to access the wireless network 'xxxxxx'". even though the dialog box for Wireless Security says "None". There must be a setting *somewhere *which is incorrectly thinking authentication is required. With the new NM 0.7, it is not clear to me how I can change this - there doesn't seem to be a file which I can edit. Anyone have a clue?

[added] in my /var/log/syslog, I see a line like:
```

...hplaptop NetworkManager: <info> Activation (eth1/wireless): access point 'xxxxxx' has security, but secrets are required.

```later on it says:
```

...hplaptop NetworkManager: <WARN> get_secrets_cb(): Couldn't get connection secrets: applet-device-wifi.c.1512 (get_secrets_dialog_response_cb): canceled.
...
...hplaptop NetworkManager: <info> Marking connection 'xxxxxx' invalid.

```thanx in advance

---

### Post by karlatsaic on 2008-11-21
I love it when I somehow stumble upon an answer to my own question - maybe it will help someone else if I explain.

I reenabled WEP at my wireless router. I right clicked on the NetworkManager icon, selected "Edit Connections..." and deleted out all my manually entered wireless connections for my wireless router and left the one which NetworkManager creates automatically, 'Auto xxxxxx'. I then went to "Applications / Accessories / Passwords and Encryption Keys" from the upper left gnome pull-down. I selected the Passwords tab and noticed a saved password for 'Network secret for Auto xxxxxx/802.11-wireless-security/wep-key0'. I then right clicked on that saved password and selected Properties. I then clicked on Password and checked "Show Password" and, much to my chagrin, noticed a [COLOR=Red]typo [/COLOR]in the saved password. I don't know whether it was NM or the process which saves the passwords, but it seems like once I enter it correctly in the nm-applet, it *should *override/reset the saved setting in my encryption keyring (or wherever) - but evidently not.

 I repaired the password and now I like NM 0.7 again. ;-)

---

