---
title: "12.10 kernel panic occurs when trying to install Broadcom STA wireless driver"
date: 2013-10-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by texhnowizard on 2013-10-27
Hi,
I've installed ubuntu from a USB stick without using internet. 
Then I thought it would be nice to get WiFi working, so I plugged in an ethernet cable and clicked "Additional Hardware" under "System settings". Then I was asked whether I wanted to "activate" proprietary "Broadcom STA wireless driver". I clicked on the "activate" (or was it install? Pretty sure it was "activate"), things continued to happen for a while and then I had that black kernel panic window. 
After restarting the PC I tried connecting to WiFi, but to no avail (not able to search for wireless networks). I am able to check that "enable wireless" menu-item under tray-connectivity-menu and after running ```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 net
``` (found that in some thread in ubuntu forums semi-related to the problem)

```

02:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM43224 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:0576] (rev 01)    Subsystem: Broadcom Corporation BCM43224 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:0576]
    Kernel driver in use: wl
    Kernel modules: wl, bcma

```

I took a picture with my smartphone of the kernel-panic window, but it's crappy and incomplete, should I post it? Is there a way to get kernel-panic-text from some file?

What should I do? And how should I try to solve the problem? (:

---

### Post by texhnowizard on 2013-10-28
Reinstalled ubuntu 12.4. No kernel panic happened installing broadcom sta wireless drivers, but I was still not able to connect to WiFi networks.

After running iwconfig/ifconfig I found out that I had no wlan interface, but had two eth instead. 

I followed [this solution]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/55868/how-to-install-broadcom-wireless-drivers-bcm43xx/38700#38700"). Had no idea what I was doing, would be greatful for explanation.

Then I found out I can't run "iwconfig wlan0 up" because my wireless interface was hard-blocked in rfkill (?).

Can't seem to find the link now, but someplace it was said that getting into bios and pressing "F9" to reset settings, saving those and restarting would solve the problem. And it did. After restarting I was able to connect to wireless networks.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-10-28
> I followed this solution. Had no idea what I was doing, would be greatful for explanation.The 'Additional Drivers' tool sometimes offers the wrong driver for some Broadcom cards, including, evidently, yours. I suspect the kernel panic or freeze-up was your system complaining about the wrong thing being done. The fix you linked was, in effect, *removing* the STA driver, also known as bcmwl-kernel-source, and installing the firmware your card requires. 

The correct fix depends entirely on the specific card. You searchers can find it with:```
lspci -nn -d 14e4:
```Then look here for a solution: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BroadcomSTA%28Wireless%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BroadcomSTA%28Wireless%29)

---

