---
title: "Do you use 3 Mobile Broadband, OpenDNS and ddclient?"
date: 2011-06-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tpprynn on 2011-06-23
If you do, do you think you can give me some foolproof, jargon-free or jargon-lite, step-by-step moves to configuring my setup like yours?

I have used the OpenDNS nameservers since late 2008, it was a no-brainer to set that up of course. But now I want to block adult sites of the obvious type, and have not found configuring ddclient to keep the dynamic DNS updated that easy. I am quite in the dark about it, and have not got far using the OpenDNS forum. Both the people giving me advice do not seem to realise how jargon-laden their advice has been and I don't seem to be able to get them to break their advice down further for my non-IT brain.

I've looked into other means of blocking sites through Ubuntu but 'nanny' for example in the repos does not seem very practical as it seems to want the sites entered one by one, which is madness. The foxfilter extension in Firefox did not block 2 of the first three adult sites I tested it with and I saw no Preferences box to click so I got rid of that immediately.

I thought I was near to solving this this morning, entering some of the correct settings into ddclient, but I was not sure if ppp0 is the correct thing to enter for Mobile Broadband, as opposed ot wlan0 and eth0. If ppp0 is wrong, what's correct?

I'd be very pleased to have this solved here or at the very least find some software in .deb form, no compliling, that will block all pornographic sites with the least and simplest layman-friendly configuration.

Thanks.

(32 bit 11.04 netbook and 64 bit pc, both with Unity)

---

### Post by tpprynn on 2011-06-24
I carried on thrashing at this, reading up on it and trying things for about twelve hours over three days. I've solved it. The file etc/ddclient.conf needs ot have this content (where xxx@xxx is the email address you signed up to OpenDNS with, xxx is the password you chose, and the last line is the name you gave your network:




# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

daemon=300
syslog=yes
mail=root
mail-failure=root
pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
ssl=yes
use=web, web=myip.dnsomatic.com
protocol=dyndns2
server=updates.opendns.com
login=xxx@xxx
password=xxx
Home




...ddclient, in the repositories, seems pretty useless during its GUI setup, and I just filled in its boxes ot go through the motions and then add the above file manually. The service does work with Mobile Broadband and Linux, though there is a slight lag as dynamic ips are updated which doesn't in practice spoil its functions.

---

