---
title: "9.04 Dell XPS m1530 Wireless Fix"
date: 2009-07-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by K_REY_C on 2009-07-09
I have a Dell XPS m1530 with this wireless card:

Broadcom Corporation BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n

I was having terrible trouble getting the wireless card to even be recognized and operational. There is a switch on the side of the computer which, in Vista, controlled both wireless and bluetooth, but in Ubuntu 9.04 only seemed to control bluetooth. 

After scouring the forums and trying a number of different things I found [this web page]("https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/74180") which has, so far, been the solution to my inability to connect. I've copy/pasted here for clarity. 

> Mark Rijckenberg  said on 2009-06-14:

Hi,

Please first connect your network card to the wireless router using an ethernet cable (also known as a LAN cable).

Then please follow this procedure:

Step 1: Open Terminal from "Applications->Accessories->
Terminal"

Step 2: Run the following commands (copy-paste the lines below into a Terminal, press enter after each line)

sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude dist-upgrade
sudo aptitude install linux-backports-modules-jaunty

Step 3: Run the following command

gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

# Add the following line to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf:

blacklist ssb

Step 4: Run the following command

gksudo gedit /etc/modules

# Add the following 2 lines to the /etc/modules file:

wl
wl0

Step 5: Save changes, reboot pc and retest wireless

Step 6: If wireless still does not work after this reboot, please resend output of the following command:

sudo lshw -C network; sudo iwlist scanning; cat /etc/network/interfaces; cat /etc/lsb-release; lspci -nn; lsusb; uname -a; dmesg | grep ound; dmesg | grep b43; iwconfig

Regards,

Mark

I have no idea if this is the appropriate place for this or not, so please forgive if it isn't. I just wanted to post what worked for me after a tireless search. If, however, I encounter problems with this method I'll let you know in the future. 

Also, if others who actually understand what the commands listed are doing (I don't) and there are problems with this method please do post below.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-07-10
post output of the following from the terminal
1)lshw -C network
2)iwconfig
3)sudo iwlist scanning

---

### Post by NeatBee on 2009-07-11
Wow I'm a noob and I managed to get it working. Great post. Thanks

---

### Post by K_REY_C on 2009-07-24
Dell XPS M1530
Dual Boot Vista 64-bit / Ubuntu 9.04 64-bit
Intel Core 2 Duo
6 GB ram

There seems to be a problem – perhaps unrelated but I offer it here just in case. 

Wireless had been working flawlessly until this morning. I boot up, no wireless. I reboot and get the following message:

> Could not start the X server (your graphical environment) due to some internal error.
Please contact your system administrator or check your syslog to diagnose.
In the meantime this display will be disabled.
Please restart GDM when the problem is corrected.

Logging in through recovery and running “fsck” seemed to do the trick, however I'm without wireless access again (and was immediately prior to rebooting and finding the X server problem).

Below is the requested output (though it's not working anymore):

> 1)lshw -C network
 
 *-network               

       description: Ethernet interface

       product: 88E8040 PCI-E Fast Ethernet Controller

       vendor: Marvell Technology Group Ltd.

       physical id: 0

       bus info: pci@0000:09:00.0

       logical name: eth0

       version: 12

       serial: 00:23:ae:00:27:41

       size: 100MB/s

       capacity: 100MB/s

       width: 64 bits

       clock: 33MHz

       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation

       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=sky2 driverversion=1.22 duplex=full firmware=N/A ip=192.168.1.74 latency=0 link=yes module=sky2 multicast=yes port=twisted pair speed=100MB/s

  *-network UNCLAIMED

       description: Network controller

       product: BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n

       vendor: Broadcom Corporation

       physical id: 0

       bus info: pci@0000:0b:00.0

       version: 03

       width: 64 bits

       clock: 33MHz

       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list

       configuration: latency=0

  *-network DISABLED

       description: Ethernet interface

       physical id: 2

       logical name: pan0

       serial: e2:28:0e:cf:ca:bb

       capabilities: ethernet physical

       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=bridge driverversion=2.3 firmware=N/A link=yes multicast=yes


2)iwconfig

 lo        no wireless extensions.



eth0      no wireless extensions.



pan0      no wireless extensions.


3)sudo iwlist scanning

lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.



eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.



pan0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

Any help sincerely appreciated. Not sure if the X server and wireless fix above are related but I have no other theories to entertain. Thanks in advance! KYLE

---

### Post by martinbaselier on 2009-07-24
First thing to do is check if your driver is loaded:

**lsmod | grep wl**

If it isn't do a **sudo modprobe wl** to load the driver

If this is the problem you can try **find /etc/modprobe.d/ -exec cat {} \; | grep wl** to see if the modules is blacklisted (prevented from loading automatically)

---

### Post by K_REY_C on 2009-07-24
> **martinbaselier said:**
> First thing to do is check if your driver is loaded:

**lsmod | grep wl**

If it isn't do a **sudo modprobe wl** to load the driver

If this is the problem you can try **find /etc/modprobe.d/ -exec cat {} \; | grep wl** to see if the modules is blacklisted (prevented from loading automatically)

**lsmod | grep wl** produces nothing for output in the terminal

**sudo modprobe wl** produces:
FATAL: Could not open '/lib/modules/2.6.28-13-generic/volatile/wl.ko': No such file or directory

**find /etc/modprobe.d/ -exec cat {} \; | grep wl** produces:
cat: /etc/modprobe.d/: Is a directory

See 1st post to see what I did in the past to get things working. Thanks very much for your help. KYLE

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-07-24
have you looked at system->admin->hardware drivers ? if you dont find any try this [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Feisty_No-Fluff](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Feisty_No-Fluff)

---

### Post by K_REY_C on 2009-07-24
Shows "Broadcom STA Wireless Driver" but when I activate it it won't turn green and actually activate. Can I do this from the terminal?

Thanks!

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-07-26
you may require a wired internet connection for this , it may require you to download some packages

---

### Post by ac4000 on 2009-09-16
Worked perfectly on my friend's XPS M1530 without any of the later problems.  Noted that the dist-upgrade step was essential (and probably a good idea anyway) since I tried it without before just to test.  Thank you!

---

### Post by warfy on 2009-10-04
Thank You! This worked great for me! I used ```
sudo /ect/init.d/networking reset
``` afterward, then rebooted and i was finally able to connect to wifi! Thanks ubuntu community!

---

