---
title: "8.10 boot halts at Configuring Network Interfaces"
date: 2008-11-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by korgman on 2008-11-15
I upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10.  During boot, the splash screen was freezing when the progress bar was just under half done.  Hitting Ctrl-Alt-Del bypassed the halt and the boot continued and everything worked.

I booted in recovery and saw that it was halting indefinitely at "Configuring Network Interfaces".  I edited /etc/network/interfaces and commented out the "auto eth0" line.  

The boot worked, but when I get to Ubuntu I don't have a working network, makes sense. Now I know where the problem is, right?.  If I leave that "auto eth0" line in the interfaces file, I can't boot unless I hit Ctrl-Alt-Del, but when I get to Ubuntu at least everything is working.  So what is causing that auto eth0 line to halt the boot, yet still set up a working network configuration?

My interfaces file looks like this:
[B]auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.2
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1

auto eth0[/B]

ifconfig shows:
[B]eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1d:7d:00:28:4c  
          inet addr:192.168.1.2  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::21d:7dff:fe00:284c/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1251 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1393 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:991313 (991.3 KB)  TX bytes:343872 (343.8 KB)
          Interrupt:253 Base address:0xe000 [/B]

Matt Brown

---

### Post by mockdeep on 2008-11-16
I'm having this same problem.  The difference for me is that it will boot without incident if I am in the presence of my home wireless network.  Anywhere else I have to hit Ctrl-Alt-Del during the start up and I get no wireless when it's all booted up.  Is there any way to remedy this?

---

### Post by korgman on 2008-11-17
Interesting.  I don't have a wireless connection so that hasn't happened.  Perhaps I'll get a wireless adapter and see what happens.

---

### Post by korgman on 2008-11-18
Update, It boots OK when I boot into Ubuntu from the Live CD.  Is there a way to reinstall just the Ubuntu system files?  I don't want to do a full reformat/create accounts install.

Korgman

---

### Post by korgman on 2008-11-18
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=957237](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=957237)

I commented out the line : #iface eth0 inet static
in my /etc/network/interfaces file and it worked.

---

### Post by mockdeep on 2008-11-19
Ok, that helps.  I had to comment out the lines:

#iface wlan0 inet dhcp
#wireless-key **********
#wireless-essid 2WIRE***

which identify my home network.  It seems to be looking for my home connection and locks up when it doesn't find it.  When I comment out my home connection it boots up just fine and finds all of the other nearby networks.  Thanks!  Now if I can figure out how to get it to automatically log onto whatever network I am in range of...

---

### Post by 80aless on 2008-12-18
Hi, 
same problem here but even worse. My laptop (esprimo v5535) had already problems with the wireless, but now I cannot boot at all. The laptop stops at "configuring network interfaces" and Ctrl+Alt+Del does not work either.  I can only force the laptop to shut down :(
A week ago the same was appening and only a few days after after the 4th or 5th reboot I managed to log in (and then i used to hybernate without having to shut down the laptop).
Please help!
Regards
Ale

---

### Post by Kristopher on 2009-01-16
Just did a 8.04 to 8.10 update and i have this....is there a fix?

---

### Post by t0mc4t on 2009-01-16
Hello,

I do have the same issue.. But it happened randomly. Sometimes it halt, sometime it's not...
Any solution?
Thanks...

---

