---
title: "14.04 Wireless keeps disconnecting (Broadcom BCM4309 14e4:4324 rev 03)"
date: 2015-02-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jonathan_darch on 2015-02-24
Hello, I've just managed to upgrade Dell Inspiron 9100 laptop from Kubuntu 10.04 to 14.04 (using a USB drive), but am having big problems with the Wireless (which worked fine in 10.04). To start with, I wasn't getting any Wireless connection and had errors when updating software using the ethernet cable. I read the instructions here to remove the bcmwl-kernel-source drivers and install the linux-firmware-nonfree (which seems to use fwcutter and broadcom-wl-5.100.138). Now wireless is working, but it keeps disconnecting. I've tried a couple of things: setting the BSSID to the address of my wireless router, and setting IPv6 method to 'Ignored' and IPv4 method to 'Automatic (Only addresses) with DNS servers '8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4' but it still keeps disconnecting. It acutally reconnects very quickly, but something's not quite right.

Attached is the output of running the 'wireless script'.

Any help would be much appreciated.

Thanks!

---

### Post by jonathan_darch on 2015-08-27
Hi, this is still happening, can anyone help please?

Many thanks!

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2015-08-27
Change the wifi router encryption setting to WPA2-AES(may be listed as WPA2-PSK or WPA2 only) and disable TKIP

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2015-08-27
also please do..
```
sudo iw reg set GB
sudo sed -i 's/^REG.*=$/&GB/' /etc/default/crda
```
thanks

---

### Post by jonathan_darch on 2015-08-27
Thanks Jeremy,

I've tried setting Encryption to 'WPA-PSK' which uses AES (other options were 'WEP' or 'Disable'), and the WPA-PSK version to 'WPA2', but this doesn't help unfortunately. There isn't anything about TKIP, but I think doing what I've done disables TKIP.

I've also set the channel to '1' and tried setting the Interface to be 802.11b, 802.11b(legacy)/g, 802.11b/g, and 802.11g in turn, but it still keeps disconnecting then immediately reconnecting again.

Thanks Hadaka, I've implemented your suggestions, but it's still disconnecting and re-connecting.

Could it be because it's quite an old computer and when other programs are running there are not enough resources for it to keep the wireless connection alive? Is there a way of giving a higher priority for wireless over other things?

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2015-08-27
Hi, give this a try...it will be good till the first boot.
```
sudo modprobe -rf b43
sudo modprobe b43 nohwcrypt=1
```
if that works for you,make it permanate with
```
sudo modprobe -rf b43 
echo "options b43 nohwcrypt=1" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/b43.conf
```

---

### Post by jonathan_darch on 2015-08-27
Thanks, I tried doing that, but it won't reconnect at all now.

Network Manager gives the error:

Wireless interface (wlan0)
The WiFi network could not be found

(Although it still displays all the WiFi networks available.)

In fact, doing
```
sudo modprobe -rf b43
sudo modprobe b43
```

doesn't reconnect either. (Only rebooting allows it to reconnect again.)

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2015-08-27
as you can see,both are valid commands and when issued..just do it..
```
hadaka@the-beach:~$ sudo modprobe b43 nohwcrypt=1
[sudo] password for hadaka: 
hadaka@the-beach:~$ 
hadaka@the-beach:~$ echo "options b43 nohwcrypt=1" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/b43.confoptions b43 nohwcrypt=1

```
You stated you upgraded from 10.04 or something, did you upgrade or load new? upgrades more than one version rarely
work, infact upgrades usualy have issues. hopefully you loaded new??
something is askew,btw, linux-firmwaree-nonfree is no longer valid, and the wl driver is not the correct driver for your card.
From a working wired connection
let's try this...and ignore any file not found or minor error messages,,run them one at a time anyway,
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge bcmwl-kernel-source
sudo apt-get remove --purge firmware-b43-installer
```
BOOT, then do
```
sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer
sudo modprobe b43
```
report good news

---

### Post by jonathan_darch on 2015-08-30
Thanks, I've tried 
sudo modprobe b43 nohwcrypt=1

but then wireless stops working completely.

I've since done as you suggested and done

sudo apt-get remove --purge bcmwl-kernel-source              (it said there was nothing to remove)
sudo apt-get remove --purge firmware-b43-installer

rebooted and done

sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer
sudo modprobe b43

But now although it can see WiFi networks, it won't connect to one at all.

I installed 14.04 from scratch (rather than upgrade 10.10).

I'm attaching the wireless-info.txt file.[ATTACH]264119[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by jonathan_darch on 2015-08-30
It seems to try to connect when starting with sudo modprobe b43 -nohwcrypt=1 in that it tries to connect.

When it's started using sudo modprobe b43 it doesn't seem to try.

Attached is another wireless-info.txt when it has been started using nohwcrypt and is trying to connect.[ATTACH]264120[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2015-08-31
Hi, please try this ..
```
echo "options b43 hwtkip=1" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/b43.conf
```
thanks

---

### Post by jonathan_darch on 2016-08-26
Thanks, I tried that and it still didn't work.

What has got WiFI to work though, is using [Wicd]("https://launchpad.net/wicd") instead of KNetworkManager.

But thanks for all your help - it might have needed all the settings you suggested as well as Wicd.

---

