---
title: "8.10 Server, r8169: All networking stall on large scp"
date: 2009-06-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rituraj_tiwari on 2009-06-15
I am encountering an issue with all networking freezing on my 8.10 server when I try to do large file transfers with pretty much any protocol: scp, HTTP etc. Searching about this problem leads me to believe that there might be issues with driver r8169 from RealTek. I heeded advise on this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=805863&highlight=network+stall]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=805863&highlight=network+stall") and reduced mtu to 1490. This addressed the problem for smaller files (around 50MB). But larger files still cause networking to stall.

What does the community recommend: 
[LIST=1]
[*]Should I upgrade to newer r8169 released in May 2009?
[*]Should I go to r8168?
[*]What is the procedude for simply upgrading to newer 8169 if that is the suggestion ( I have found handy steps for reverting to 8168 )
[*]My machine is in a data center with limited physical access. Do the driver change steps require physical console access?
[/LIST]

Thanks for your time and help.
-Raj

---

### Post by scrooge_74 on 2009-06-15
Driver updates could do wonders, remember some manufacturers are slow to produce drivers for us poor souls using linux.

If the drivers dont come in a package you may have to compile it and then install it, either by copying files or doing a make install (which I think is the way to go)

About access you proly can do it by console, download the driver files into that server and then go about compiling or installing no need to have physical access to it.


Good luck

---

### Post by rituraj_tiwari on 2009-06-15
Scrooge,
Thanks for your response. This is more of a driver downgrade from r8169 to r8168. I was wondering if someone else has had the problem that I am having with regards to large file transfers with RealTek hardware and can comment.

-Raj

---

### Post by scrooge_74 on 2009-06-15
I feel your pain, I used to have issues with the broadcom on this laptop, I kept jumping from Debian to ubuntu depending on who got it working the easiest

---

