---
title: "Wireless: Skype works, browsing does not"
date: 2008-12-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Quaxo76 on 2008-12-21
Hello,
I have a Hp Pavilion laptop. Fully updated Ubuntu Intrepid. I usually connect to the Internet using a 3G USB modem, which works OK.
At home though, I would like to connect through my wireless router (which is correctly configured, as I can go online through it with my sister's laptop and with my iPod). But when I try to connect to it, I get the "connected" message, and the icon on the panel changes to the signal bars (95% signal); and if I open Skype, it connects, and I can chat; but if I open Firefox I can't browse the Internet. On the Console, I can not ping websites.
Any idea what's happening?

Thanks in advance,
Cristian

---

### Post by larsemil on 2008-12-21
could it be dns problems? maybe skype connects to a ip number. try pinging a ip number instead...

---

### Post by Quaxo76 on 2008-12-21
Ok. I'll try as soon as I get back home. Any IP? How do I know the IP address of a given web site?

Cristian

---

### Post by Quaxo76 on 2008-12-21
I tried pinging the IP. It works. But the laptop uses DHCP, si it should configure automatically; and the "connection information" screen shows the same configuration between the laptop and the other computers. So? What can I try?

Thanks
Cristian

UPDATE: I tried connecting the laptop to the router with a cable... It still doesn't work! It doesn't "see" the computer as connected (I get the "disconnected" icon on the taskbar), but Skype works and I can ping. If I left-click on the networking icon, under "Wired Network" there's nothing...

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-12-21
tyr this.. open firefox and type 72.14.205.100 basically open [http://72.14.205.100](http://72.14.205.100) .. if this opens google page.. then its a dns issue.. use opendns servers [http://prash-babu.blogspot.com/2008/04/how-to-configure-dns-servers-in-linux.html](http://prash-babu.blogspot.com/2008/04/how-to-configure-dns-servers-in-linux.html)

---

### Post by Quaxo76 on 2008-12-21
If I enter the IP address in Firefox, it loads the page. So I added the opendns servers.
But if I try to ping [www.google.com](www.google.com) in the terminal, I get a "unknown host" error, and no response...

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-12-23
post output of cat /etc/resolv.conf from the terminal

---

### Post by Quaxo76 on 2008-12-23
I clean-booted the machine, joined the wireless network (by the way, is it normal that the computer always asks me the root password to "unlock the default keyring" everytime I want to connect?)
Here's the result of the command you told me:

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.254
```

That IP address is the address of my router.
Incidentally, my desktop (which has no wireless, but works perfectly on wired) gives the same output.

Cristian

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-12-24
well your output says that you arent using opendns servers.. you might have done something wrong there.. try following that tutorial again..its mostly a dns issue..

---

### Post by Quaxo76 on 2008-12-24
OK, I had forgotten the semicolon at the end of the line. Now I added it, and the output is:

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 62.13.171.5
nameserver 62.13.171.4

```

I'll try if it works as soon as I get back home. I wonder, though... If that is the problem, why is it working perfectly with my 3G USB modem, on this laptop? I know the router is configured correctly, because other computers connecting to it can go online without problems...

Cristian

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-12-26
it still shows some other DNS servers..opendns server ips are 208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220 .. its mostly due to the DNS servers..

---

### Post by Quaxo76 on 2008-12-27
Hmmm... I don't know where it found those IPs (I'm not really understanding how networking in Intrepid works at all), but it seems to work now. I could go online yesterday. I didn't have the time to test it thoroughly - I will as soon as possible - but for now it seems to be OK. But I still wonder: why did I have to do this trick on this laptop, while my sister's laptop and my iPod work without problems? (and my sister's laptop has the exact same version of Linux installed...)

Cristian

---

