---
title: "802.11n tip - WMM/QoS"
date: 2014-09-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Erik_Persson on 2014-09-12
I have an old Netgear WNR3500L router which I use as an AP.  I have a laptop  which is a couple of years old as well as a bit newer latop. Both laptops support 802.11n and run ubuntu (12.04 and 14.04, respectively).
The old laptop has an atheros wifi card while the newer one has an intel 7260.
My wife has a Macbook.

The last couple of days I've been struggling to get 802.11n to work on my ubuntu laptops. It has been impossible to make them use 802.11n and I've tried so many things, but I could only make them connect with 802.11g and 54 Mbps.
However, my wifes macbook connected with 802.11n speeds. Highly strange.

Suddenly today I noticed the problem in the dmesg output. For the linux drivers to connect with 802.11n, WMM/QoS had to be enabled on the AP. No WMM/QoS in the AP, then no 802.11n, at least if you use linux/ubuntu.

After enabling WMM/QoS on the router both my laptops connected with 802.11n. Thus, if you have a wifi card with support for 802.11n, be sure to enable WMM/QoS in the AP otherwise you will only get 802.11g.
This probably goes the other way around as well, and if you need 802.11g (802.11n seems to be unstable with certain hardware) it is possible that you could change the settings in the AP rather than the settings on the computer. Changing the settings on the AP would of course downgrade the whole network (except at least macbooks). 

The remaining strange thing is why the apple hardware connected with 802.11n even though WMM/QoS was disabled.

For more information, see for example:
[http://mobilesociety.typepad.com/mobile_life/2007/07/draft-80211n-de.html](http://mobilesociety.typepad.com/mobile_life/2007/07/draft-80211n-de.html)
[https://supportforums.cisco.com/document/72451/how-enable-or-disable-80211n-access-guest-network-open-authentication-cisco-access](https://supportforums.cisco.com/document/72451/how-enable-or-disable-80211n-access-guest-network-open-authentication-cisco-access)
[http://www.smallnetbuilder.com/wireless/wireless-features/30938-dont-mess-with-wmm](http://www.smallnetbuilder.com/wireless/wireless-features/30938-dont-mess-with-wmm)

Added later:
[http://www.juniper.net/techpubs/en_US/junos-space-apps12.3/network-director/topics/concept/wireless-wmm-powersave.html](http://www.juniper.net/techpubs/en_US/junos-space-apps12.3/network-director/topics/concept/wireless-wmm-powersave.html)
[http://www.terra-wave.com/pdf/802.11n%20Design%20and%20Deployment%20Guidelines.pdf](http://www.terra-wave.com/pdf/802.11n%20Design%20and%20Deployment%20Guidelines.pdf)  - "802.11n requires that stations support the WMM/11e quality of service (QoS) protocol"

/erik

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-09-13
Hi Erik! Welcome to the forums!

As far as I have observed on the forums here and with the N-150Mb/s router of my office, I don't think WMM/QoS is necessary to connect at N-speeds. I am currently unable to log into it to confirm that (some weird and unrelated login issue, can't check right now), but I think I made sure it is disabled (WMM for sure, perhaps QoS too) the first day I logged into it. And I can connect at full 150 Mbps speed and can use that speed to almost its full capacity when transferring files between my laptops and desktops connected via its Ethernet.

So not only I am connected, I am getting full speed too, and I am using Atheros AR9285 card with ath9k driver (kernel is quite old though, 3.2.0-36-generic).

I'll confirm the state of WMM/QoS after fixing the login issue in the evening.

Both QoS and WMM are supposed to just 'prioritize' the traffic based on certain criteria _AFTER_ a connection has been established. They shouldn't interfere with connectivity at all. If what you say is a problem that really exists, I believe and hope it is a temporary bug that should get fixed soon.

---

### Post by Erik_Persson on 2014-09-13
It could be. However my dmesg clearly states that HT was disabled due to lack of WMM/QoS, and, as far as I have read, the 802.11n specs, at least initially, required WMM/QoS. It may be more about what the router advertises and if the drivers follows the specs than a strict technical requirement - the macbook connected with 802.11n even though WMM/QoS  was disabled.

From dmesg:
```

[48169.134778] iwlwifi 0000:02:00.0 wlan0: disabling HT as WMM/QoS is not supported by the AP
[48169.134781] iwlwifi 0000:02:00.0 wlan0: disabling VHT as WMM/QoS is not supported by the AP

```

I do not see the same thing in the dmesg output from the ath9k driver, but with both laptops I can't connect with 802.11n speeds when WMM/QoS is disabled in the AP, and 802.11n is enabled directly when WMM/QoS is enabled in the AP.
I can repeat the behaviour. When I disable WMM/QoS on the AP the connections on both laptops immediately falls back to 802.11g speed, and when I enable it both laptops get 802.11n. I have done this a couple of times, without changing any other settings, to verify the behaviour. Of course, it could be some other setting that forces this behaviour but then it is probably a default setting, at least on the laptops, since my setup is very much "default". The only things that are not default is a: 
```

options iwlwifi 11n_disable=0

```
in the relevant modprobe.d file (the 11n_disable=0 "behaviour" is however the default for the driver - the setting it is a left over from when I tried to force 802.11n by explicitly setting 11n_disable to 0 even though 0 is the default) on the computer with intel 7260, and a setting of SE as the regulatory domain.
I do not have any WMM/QoS rules, but WMM/QoS is enabled in the AP.

/erik

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-09-13
Couldn't get time yesterday to reset the router (a 24x7 helpline team temporarily using it) and today may be even busier. But this is certainly something worth digging in and confirmations -> **Erik_Persson said:**
> ..as far as I have read, the 802.11n specs, at least initially, required WMM/QoS.

Could you find and post the link where you read that? Somethings sometimes could be difficult to find even if they are important.

The WMM/QoS messages in iwlwifi are normal, I never gave much attention to it, but now you've got me thinking. :) Thanks for noticing it and posting the heads up! If I couldn't find any authentic references to it, I'd certainly try the setting at least as experiments in my future posts.

Can you also test just enabling the QoS and not WMM in it please? Because the "WMM" part has been proved to be problematic in some cases here on the forums. QoS, as far as I know, is okay, although is disabled by default in many routers (which is what also emphasizes the point - why would vendors disable it by default if it is required for N speeds?).

---

### Post by Erik_Persson on 2014-09-14
> **varunendra said:**
> 
Could you find and post the link where you read that? Somethings sometimes could be difficult to find even if they are important.



I haven't found any normative documents. Just texts referring to the normative documents (the links to the normative documents are dead). See for example the links in my original post.
I can't find any recent posts, with links to normative documents, about the matter.
I have however added a link to a CISCO document "802.11n Design and Deployment Guidelines" that states that WMM/QoS/80211.e is required for 802.11n.


> **varunendra said:**
> 
Can you also test just enabling the QoS and not WMM in it please? Because the "WMM" part has been proved to be problematic in some cases here on the forums. QoS, as far as I know, is okay, although is disabled by default in many routers (which is what also emphasizes the point - why would vendors disable it by default if it is required for N speeds?).


My AP (a netgear wnr3500L v1 "router", which is really a combinations of 1. a router, 2. a switch and 3. an AP, but I'm not using the router functionality - thus not using the "WAN"=internet port - and not much of the switch functionality either) has WMM/QoS for the wireless connection, that is the WMM part of 802.11e as I understand it. It has "Internet access QoS" but I guess that's just some sort of QoS just for the "WAN"-port, and something that is ***unrelated*** to WMM/QoS and to the wifi connection.
Thus the only QoS I have for wifi on the AP is WMM/QoS/802.11e = WMM, and that is the setting that I can use to turn off and turn on 802.11n speeds.
I can test to disable WMM and enable the other QoS, but I doubt it has anything to do with the wifi at all, and it has always been disabled in my AP.

Are wendors really disabling **WMM/QoS** by default in 802.11n products? I understand if they disable other forms of QoS, but are they really disabling WMM/802.11e? Couldn't it be that the terminology is confusing? WMM/QoS = WMM = WMM/802.11e != QoS generally. Are they really disabling WMM by default? In apple airport products for example, there is not even a setting for WMM/QoS ( [http://support.apple.com/kb/TS3727](http://support.apple.com/kb/TS3727) ). 

/erik

---

### Post by daaxix2 on 2015-01-16
I can confirm that this is indeed the case for Ubuntu 14.04 and Kodibuntu 14.04.

I spent days mucking around blacklisting drivers, attempting to increase speeds on my linux boxes, etc., only to find out that enabling WMM/QoS on the router allowed n speeds to finally be achieved.

My router is a WNDR3800 by Netgear.

---

