---
title: "14.04 LTS Wifi not work on toshiba laptop Satellite C55-A5300"
date: 2014-05-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by eatbone on 2014-05-16
Hi i am new this forums and i need help solve with Wi-fi on toshiba laptop Satellite C55-A5300   i am use Ubuntu 14.04 LTS on laptop

 I belevie it Realtek RTL8188EE for Wifi

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-16
I just bought a C55 series myself and someone posted the solution for me in [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2219952") post.  Until changes are made in the delivered driver, the make and make install must be done each time the kernel is re-made - you'll notice when things go to heck again.  When running the "make" itself, I had to use "sudo make" to get around some permissions problems.  If you have any questions just post back.

---

### Post by eatbone on 2014-05-16
i did try seem not work.    remeber i am new with linux =(

---

### Post by eatbone on 2014-05-17
anyone will help me solve with it??

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-18
Did you do everything in that link?  All the prerequisite installs, the download of the driver package, the unpacking of the driver package, the automake or configure (can't remember which it was), the make and the make install?  Did you use sudo where indicated and also on the make?  Did you get error messages?

Need copies of the terminal screen as you do each step.  When you post back here, use the Adv Reply option or select "Go Advanced" at the bottom.  Create your reply there and paste the terminal screen copies for each step separately.  For each, highlight the and press the "#" option on menu for the editor.

Can't be of much help without a lot of detail.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-18
Please tell me where your confusion is.  Please include all steps you have tried, where things failed, and any error messages.

---

