---
title: "Jaunty , network, dhclient and ifconfig"
date: 2009-05-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by watchwolf on 2009-05-18
Hello, :D

Since I have upgraded my Ubuntu into the last version (jaunty) I can't configure my network manually, without network manager. For some reasons I can't and don't want use Network Manager.

My probleme is simple, with a wired connection and with network manager I have no problem, the configuration is:

> eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1a:4d:5f:5d:95  
          inet addr:192.168.1.2  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::21a:4dff:fe5f:5d95/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:3801792 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:4002888 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:1793057832 (1.7 GB)  TX bytes:3181858954 (3.1 GB)
          Interrupt:219 Base address:0xa000 

cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1


Then if I shutdown network manager and configure my network manually:

> 
sudo /etc/init.d/NetworkManager stop
sudo ifconfig eth0 up
sudo ifconfig eth0 192.168.1.2
sudo echo "nameserver 192.168.1.1" > /etc/resolv.conf


ifconfig and /etc/resolv.conf return the same configuration than networkmanager use.
With this configuration my connection didn't works :(

> ping google.fr
connect: Network is unreachable


What happend to Ubuntu with this last release ? Do we need to do some extra configuration ?


Second problems which is link to the first I guess. If I run dhclient, it seems working but if config return a configuration without ip address and of course I can't ping.

> 
sudo ifconfig eth0 up
sudo dhclient eth0

...
DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.2 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
DHCPACK of 192.168.1.2 from 192.168.1.1
bound to 192.168.1.2 -- renewal in 36403 seconds.


It seems than dhclinet doesn't update the configuration of eth0. My dhclient configuration (without commented lines):

> option rfc3442-classless-static-routes code 121 = array of unsigned integer 8;

send host-name "<hostname>";
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
	domain-name, domain-name-servers, domain-search, host-name,
	netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope, interface-mtu,
	rfc3442-classless-static-routes, ntp-servers;



Have you any ideas? solutions ?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-05-18
> if I shutdown network managerHow, exactly? In my experience, NM and manual configuration fight each other, as if NM just can't keep its hands off the steering wheel.> I can't and don't want use Network Manager.If that's the case, I suggest you open up Synaptic and remove it. Then add to */etc/network/interfaces* the following:```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```Leave the *lo* stanza as is. Proofread your changes, save and close your text editor. Reboot and I strongly suspect you will be connected.

---

### Post by watchwolf on 2009-05-18
> **chili555 said:**
> How, exactly? In my experience, NM and manual configuration fight each other, as if NM just can't keep its hands off the steering wheel.If that's the case, I suggest you open up Synaptic and remove it. Then add to */etc/network/interfaces* the following:```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```Leave the *lo* stanza as is. Proofread your changes, save and close your text editor. Reboot and I strongly suspect you will be connected.

I want apply my configuration with dhclient/ifconfig. I can remove and test but if I don't have the internet I will have a problem (except if I save the list of packages remove in my computer ok).

I disable nm with /etc/init.d/NetworkManager stop.

Someone can do a fast test to see if the problem is on my computer (maybe a problem with the update) or if it is in the last release of ubuntu.

---

