---
title: "16.04 &amp; Alfa AWUS036AC - Wireless connection drops packets spontaneously"
date: 2017-07-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Metacity on 2017-07-12
Hi folks,

It seems my system has developed an irrational hatred for my USB Wi-Fi dongle. It's suddenly started acting very strangely - after only a short period of inactivity on the connection, it will suddenly refuse to send or receive much of anything. Any connections that are already open (e.g. IRC, or a Minecraft server) will hang on at a crawl, but trying to do anything else, whether it be browsing the internet or just pinging my router, times out. The problem appeared at random - I run package updates on the command line, and I hadn't done so recently when it first started yesterday. Disconnecting from the hotspot and reconnecting works as a temporary fix, but only for a few minutes at a time.

Is there any hope, or am I just going to have to hold out until a bug gets patched or I can reconnect my Ethernet?

[Here's a link to the Pastebin the wireless script generated.]("https://pastebin.com/yd18iytf")

Thanks so much in advance!

---

### Post by BenginM on 2017-07-12
[FONT=Courier New]Salutations!

First of always make sure the system is up-to-date! ## sudo apt update && sudo apt-get upgrade . sudo apt dist-upgrade .

a quick check .. about the physical part ... are you using a USB 3.0 port! what's the condition of the USB cable! ..  and the antenna connected properly!

in the root router , is the channel mode set to auto ! I see from the wifi script you have TKIP , change it to AES .. you might want to try and disable security from the root router and test the connection behavior with the an open network connection.. see if it behave the same!
[/FONT]

---

### Post by Metacity on 2017-07-12
Thanks for the quick response!

I did a quick package update just before posting - no dice there.

I am using a USB 3.0 port, with the dongle directly into the port - no cable. Antennas are firmly seated as they should be.

The channel is set to auto, but no other devices on the network are having issues. The router's interface also lists this... "[COLOR=#5F5F5F][FONT=tahoma]Current: 1 (interference: acceptable)"
[/FONT][/COLOR]
I've changed it to AES...nothing changed. Disabling the security entirely isn't something I can easily do - we have a lot of other devices that wouldn't appreciate it.[COLOR=#5F5F5F][FONT=tahoma]
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#5F5F5F][FONT=tahoma]
[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by BenginM on 2017-07-14
is your bandwidth link adequate! are you receiving the link you paid for. ... i'd do a test at beta.speedtest.net i might need to report to the ISP.

also note that the Realtek chipset in most USB adapter is quite power hungry .. I would check by openin' up the case and look at the condition of the diodes on the PCB ..! hopeful it's not milted .. but either way if the device is till under warranty i'll take advantage of it and get it replaced. also I would pruchase a USB 4-Port Hub w/Power Supply to Improves performance of the wifi adapter.

i would also try to update or re-flash the original router firmware and test the behavior! 
now on the software side ...

looking at:

[https://www.alfa.com.tw/download_show.php?combo_0=11&PageID=2](https://www.alfa.com.tw/download_show.php?combo_0=11&PageID=2)

for your device the driver version is at rtl8812AU_linux_v4.3.8_12175.20140902

looking at
[https://github.com/diederikdehaas/rtl8812AU](https://github.com/diederikdehaas/rtl8812AU)


and from the script result we see ..

```

GENERAL.DEVICE:                         wlx<IF from MAC [IF4]>

 GENERAL.TYPE:                           wifi
 GENERAL.NM-TYPE:                        NMDeviceWifi
 GENERAL.VENDOR:                         Realtek
 GENERAL.PRODUCT:                        802.11n NIC
 GENERAL.DRIVER:                         rtl8812au

 GENERAL.DRIVER-VERSION:                 
 GENERAL.FIRMWARE-VERSION:  

```   

it's not shown th driver and firmware versions, so maybe it will show you from $  dmesg | grep rtl8812au

## found this 

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2345309](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2345309)

---

