---
title: "How to set my own DNS servers in 18.04?"
date: 2019-03-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by SagaciousKJB on 2019-03-30
This is driving me nuts.  I have looked up several different guides pertaining to how to set my own DNS servers in 18.04, but every 15 minutes it gets set back to some default that I can't even locate a configuration for.  Somehow the DNS server gets changed and I have to re-enable to connection through NetworkManager's nm-applet for it to be changed back.  I have tried deleting the symlink /etc/resolv.conf and just adding my own, but then NetworkManager overwrote it, and only has one nameserver in it which doesn't make sense because with the nm-applet I have added my own.  I also found a TechRepublic article describing how to configure it with NetPlan, but my configuration files didn't match what I was seeing at all, and seemed to be setup to use NetworkManager.

So how the hell can I choose a DNS server to use and make it permanent and not have to reset NetworkManager every 15 minutes?  I'm so infuriated by this.  Such a great "upgrade" from 16.04.

Here's resolv.conf

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 127.0.0.53
kenny@ryzen:~$ ls -lah /etc/resolv.conf 
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 52 Mar 30 13:45 /etc/resolv.conf

```

Here's my netplan

```
# Let NetworkManager manage all devices on this system
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: NetworkManager

```

I don't know what else to show.  I would REALLY appreciate the ability to just add them to /etc/resolv.conf like I use to.  Can someone tell me how to re-enable that ability?

If I can't do that, can I just replace the NetPlan configuration with what I saw in the TechRepublic article and expect it to work or is there some other conflicting network management service that's going to contradict the settings I make there too?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2019-03-30
I suggest that you set your preferred DNS nameservers in Network Manager: [https://i.stack.imgur.com/Cumpo.png](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Cumpo.png)

---

### Post by SagaciousKJB on 2019-03-30
> **chili555 said:**
> I suggest that you set your preferred DNS nameservers in Network Manager: [https://i.stack.imgur.com/Cumpo.png](https://i.stack.imgur.com/Cumpo.png)

That is what I tried, but for some reason every few minutes ( maybe 15? ) the configuration gets reset back to using my ISP's default DNS server.  When I right click the nm-applet and reconnect my connection, it re-establishes the DNS server I set, so something must be over-riding Network Manager.  I thought it was NetPlan, but according to the config, it's using Network Manager.


So far the only thing that works is to make my own /etc/resolv.conf file and then set its file attributes to immutable so that whatever is resetting it can no longer over-write it.  Been working so far, but I'd kind of like to find out why NetworkManager and NetPlan weren't playing well together before I upgrade my other systems from 16.04.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2019-03-31
> every few minutes ( maybe 15? ) the configuration gets reset back to using my ISP's default DNS server. How is this apparent? Where, exactly, do you see this? Are you, perhaps, seeing the effects of dnsmasq?

---

### Post by SagaciousKJB on 2019-03-31
> **chili555 said:**
> How is this apparent? Where, exactly, do you see this? Are you, perhaps, seeing the effects of dnsmasq?

I have a custom DNS server with rules that I have defined on the network which I want to use.  So whenever it switches back to the default DNS provided by my ISP, the hostnames I have defined will no longer resolve.  It's as if something is overwriting Network Manager's settings, and then by disconnecting and reconnecting the connection through the nm-applet it re-establishes that configuration and the hostnames I have defined will work again.

---

### Post by SagaciousKJB on 2019-04-12
Still having issues with this.  Setting the file as immutable is only good so long as I don't need to use resolvconf, which some packages are apparently dependent upon.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-04-12
Here's another approach.  Edit the file /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head and add the nameservers there.  That file is read first, so these servers will take precedence.

Because the developers seem to feel the need to change DNS management with every new release, that directory does not exist on my 19.04 machine.

---

### Post by robert-kormar on 2019-04-14
Hi, I've also been having problems and have finally decided to [ aptitude purge resolvconf ]. My question now is - does one really need to have the resolvconf package installed at all? I mean, there is systemd-resolve and I have BIND9 installed and there seems to be no obvious loss or need for resolvconf, but I cannot imagine it was installed for no real reason. I have an Xubuntu 18.04.2 client and Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS Server machines, from which I uninstalled resolvconf from both. So to avoid any possible future problems, I'd like to know why have the resolvconf package installed.

---

