---
title: "8.10 wireless with Broadcom BCM4318  card - SUCCESS!"
date: 2009-02-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by 2scott on 2009-02-19
For some of the new users - Here's how we got our wireless working.

1) Loaded 8.10 from a purchased DVD.  
-- connected to the internet via Ethernet cable --
2) Found a Linux driver for our wireless card here at Ubuntu ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Broadcom_BCM4318](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Broadcom_BCM4318)) - you MUST do this, otherwise, your hardware will not know what to do.
3) The driver linked to a site with some good directions (link below) - just remember that if the text is in ITALICS, you must enter it at the terminal.
4) I saved the files from the site to my Documents folder.

[http://blog.sampbar.com/2009/01/broadcom-bcm4318-ubuntu-intrepid/comment-page-1/#comment-41](http://blog.sampbar.com/2009/01/broadcom-bcm4318-ubuntu-intrepid/comment-page-1/#comment-41)

I moved the wifi.sh file with this command:  sudo mv ~/Documents/wifi.sh /etc/init.d

Step 5 - eror using " sudo cd" get "command not found"
ubuntu@ubuntu-NASCAR:~$ sudo cd ~/Desktop
[sudo] password for ubuntu: 
sudo: cd: command not found (so omit the "sudo" when using the "cd" command)

Ran step5.sh in both modes - got error msg: (sorry, did not capture)

After ruunning step5.sh, typed in the following code (per blog instructions)
ubuntu@ubuntu-NASCAR:~$ sudo cp /etc/network/interfaces /etc/interfaces.orig
[sudo] password for ubuntu: 
ubuntu@ubuntu-NASCAR:~$ sudo cp /etc/network/interfaces /etc/interfaces.orig
ubuntu@ubuntu-NASCAR:~$ echo -e 'auto lionface lo inet loopbackn'| sudo tee /etc/network/interfacesauto lionface lo inet loopbackn
ubuntu@ubuntu-NASCAR:~$ sudo ndiswrapper -m
WARNING: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist line 46: ignoring bad line starting with '-e'
module configuration already contains alias directive
ubuntu@ubuntu-NASCAR:~$ echo 'ndiswrapper'| sudo tee -a /etc/modules
ndiswrapper
ubuntu@ubuntu-NASCAR:~$ echo 'ENABLE=0'| sudo tee -a /etc/default/wpasupplicant
ENABLE=0

Remember:  "terminal entries in ITALICS"

A hint: be sure the power light on the wireless card is "ON".

Even now, I am telling you more than I know, but it worked for me.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2009-02-19
another ndiswrapper success story,  == how about using the b43 or wl driver?

---

### Post by sampbar on 2009-04-08
Thats great! Well done!

---

