---
title: "802.11AC and Ubuntu"
date: 2013-08-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-08-29
Are there any available drivers or a potential work around that will enable the AC wireless on Ubuntu. I plan on buying a laptop and upgrading the cheap wireless card on it and since I just recently purchased an AC router I fugured why not get the latest options available. 

But looking into the issue it might not be that simple, am I better off sticking with N for the time being? Or is there a work around/drivers that will enable this feature? 

The card I'm looking at is 
[http://www.amazon.com/Intel-Network-7260-HMWG-Wireless-AC-Bluetooth/dp/B00DMCVKMU/ref=sr_1_6?ie=UTF8&qid=1377812723&sr=8-6&keywords=802.11+ac](http://www.amazon.com/Intel-Network-7260-HMWG-Wireless-AC-Bluetooth/dp/B00DMCVKMU/ref=sr_1_6?ie=UTF8&qid=1377812723&sr=8-6&keywords=802.11+ac)

But if there's another option please, I'm all ears. Thanks!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-08-29
This may be helpful to you: [http://wikidevi.com/wiki/List_of_802.11ac_Hardware](http://wikidevi.com/wiki/List_of_802.11ac_Hardware) 

Although I specialize in wireless here and on other forums, I haven't encountered any of the devices mentioned in the link. Remarkably, I *have* encountered the device you linked; check here: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/331667/no-wireless-for-intel-corporation-7260-version-63](http://askubuntu.com/questions/331667/no-wireless-for-intel-corporation-7260-version-63) > +1 This worked for me. – [COLOR="#FF0000"]Peter Lawrey[/COLOR] Aug 14 at 6:25I assume he means that it connects and passes traffic. Whether he includes 802.11ac, I do not know.

Be very careful about swapping wireless cards. Many manufacturers include a whitelist in the BIOS allowing only specific cards. Lenovo is a good example. I suggest you Google the laptop manufacturer and 'whiteliist' before you proceed.

---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-08-30
I looked up the specs on [Intel's site]("http://ark.intel.com/products/75439/Intel-Dual-Band-Wireless-AC-7260") and it does state Win and Linux compatible. Question is will it be operating on the AC or the N protocol once I boot Ubuntu?! I guess I'll find out. 

Yes I'm aware of the white list Lenovo implements, I plan on installing an unlocked BIOS I've also looked up and seems to be working for people. Thanks for the heads up though.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-08-30
> **danny7 said:**
>  Question is will it be operating on the AC or the N protocol once I boot Ubuntu?! I guess I'll find out.Please post back and let us know.

---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-08-30
It will be at least a week or so before I get the hardware but I'll definitely bump this and let you guys know what happens. Thanks again!

---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-09-23
Finally got my system, a Sager 7330 with the wireless card mentioned above. However Wifi is still not an option for connectivity. This is what I get when following the last step on that [link.](http://askubuntu.com/questions/331667/no-wireless-for-intel-corporation-7260-version-63) 

```
danny@Jarvis:~$ sudo cp Desktop/iwlwifi-7260-7.ucode /lib/firmware/danny@Jarvis:~$ sudo modprobe -r iwldvm  <--If it is not loaded, OK, please proceed
bash: --If: No such file or directory
danny@Jarvis:~$ sudo modprobe -r iwlwifi <--If it is not loaded, OK, please proceed
bash: --If: No such file or directory
danny@Jarvis:~$ sudo modprobe iwlwifi

```

---

### Post by westie457 on 2013-09-23
The bash error of 'If no such file' I think may be caused by this part of the commands '[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]<--If it is not loaded, OK, please proceed'.

I suggest that you try again leaving out the '[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]<--If it is not loaded, OK, please proceed'.

That might be all you need to do to get wireless working.

Other than the above I cannot be of further help to you, sorry.

Hopefully chili555 will see this and confirm things.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-09-23
> **westie457 said:**
> The bash error of 'If no such file' I think may be caused by this part of the commands '[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]<--If it is not loaded, OK, please proceed'.

I suggest that you try again leaving out the '[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]<--If it is not loaded, OK, please proceed'.

That might be all you need to do to get wireless working.

Other than the above I cannot be of further help to you, sorry.

Hopefully chili555 will see this and confirm things.[/FONT][/COLOR]Yes, indeed. The parts here: [COLOR="#FF0000"]<--If it is not loaded, OK, please proceed[/COLOR] are simply my explanatory notes, not a part of the actual terminal command. 

If you correct the command, does it work?

---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-09-23
So this is what I'm entering:

```

 [FONT=Ubuntu Mono]sudo cp Desktop/iwlwifi-7260-7.ucode /lib/firmware/[/FONT]sudo modprobe -r iwldvm  
sudo modprobe -r iwlwifi 
sudo modprobe iwlwifi

```

nothing really happened though. So I restarted and just entered it again to no avail. The network drop down menu doesn't scan or show any wifi networks.

Edit: Though I must say my bluetooth is working which is on the same intel 7270 card.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-09-24
> sudo cp Desktop/iwlwifi-7260-7.ucode /lib/firmware/sudo modprobe -r iwldvm  This is two separate commands:```
sudo cp Desktop/iwlwifi-7260-7.ucode /lib/firmware/
sudo modprobe -r iwldvm  
```Did the firmware get copied to /lib/firmware? Check:```
ls /lib/firmware |  grep 7260
```If it is there, load the driver manually:```
sudo modprobe iwlwifi
```Is a wireless interface created, ideally wlan0?```
iwconfig
```Are there any clues as to what's wrong in the message log?```
dmesg | grep iwl
```Is the switch set to enable or disable wireless?```
rfkill list all
```

---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-09-24
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/ZoDWxpX.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by howefield on 2013-09-24
Try entering the commands separately as you were advised.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-24
Hi danny7,

Looks like the firmware is now copied correctly, even though you tried the command in a wrong way.

Now just do -
```
sudo modprobe -rv iwldvm
```

Then -
```
sudo modprobe -v iwlwifi
```

Then please post the outputs of -
```
iwconfig
```
and..
```
rfkill list all
```

If your wireless is still not active, then also the output of -
```
dmesg | grep iwl
```

---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-09-24
oops, sorry about that


edit:

[img]http://i26.photobucket.com/albums/c142/dannywhitemoney/Screenshotfrom2013-09-24081714.png[/img]

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-24
danny7,

It doesn't look like you followed the exact solution you linked to ([http://askubuntu.com/a/331696](http://askubuntu.com/a/331696)).

Please tell us in detail how and from which package did you exactly install the driver. I just tried the recommended package here and it does not need the firmware version that is giving error. Instead, it depends on the version that you just copied to your /lib/firmware directory.

Please also show us the output of -
```
modinfo iwlwifi
```


**PS:**
You can copy the output to a text file and attach it here. Since the output of above will be larger than screen size, it won't fit in a screenshot.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-09-24
As you can see, the driver iwlwifi wants to use iwlwifi-7260-[COLOR="#FF0000"]6[/COLOR].ucode. You copied over -[COLOR="#FF0000"]7[/COLOR].ucode. If you have compiled the later driver as described above, it will accept -7.ucode. Did you compile as described here? [http://askubuntu.com/questions/331667/no-wireless-for-intel-corporation-7260-version-63](http://askubuntu.com/questions/331667/no-wireless-for-intel-corporation-7260-version-63)

Find out which version of the driver you are using:```
modinfo iwlwifi | grep -i version
```It ought to be:> version:        backported from Linux (v3.11-rc3-0-g5ae90d8) using backports v3.11-rc3-1-0-g4e81a94It specifically mentions:> firmware:       iwlwifi-7260-[COLOR="#FF0000"]7[/COLOR].ucode

---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-09-24
Alright thanks. I've gotta go to work before I'm late. I'll try again later and post back.

---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-09-24
> **chili555 said:**
> As you can see, the driver iwlwifi wants to use iwlwifi-7260-[COLOR=#FF0000]6[/COLOR].ucode. You copied over -[COLOR=#FF0000]7[/COLOR].ucode. If you have compiled the later driver as described above, it will accept -7.ucode. Did you compile as described here? [http://askubuntu.com/questions/331667/no-wireless-for-intel-corporation-7260-version-63](http://askubuntu.com/questions/331667/no-wireless-for-intel-corporation-7260-version-63)


I thought I did, I downloaded the kernel from the link, then extract, then

```
[FONT=Ubuntu Mono]cd Desktop/backports-3.11-rc3-1/[/FONT]make defconfig-iwlwifi
make [FONT=Ubuntu Mono]sudo make install[/FONT]
```

then the firmware was from [https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/58267392/iwlwifi-7260-7.ucode.zip](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/58267392/iwlwifi-7260-7.ucode.zip)
I have no other files on my desktop.

Not sure where 6 is coming from. I'll try again from scratch, it may be possible I missed a step I guess.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-09-24
The firmware is correct, the compact driver package seems to be an older one, although the name seems to be exactly what is expected (backports-3.11-rc3-1.tar.bz2)

Double-click the .tar.bz2 file to open it on Archive manager, then within the archive manager, browse to "/backports-3.11-rc3-1/drivers/net/wireless/iwlwifi/" and extract the file "iwl-7000.c" from it. Attach this file here so we can confirm if you have the right package.

In the file I've got here, line #70 says - "**#define IWL7260_UCODE_API_MAX	7**"
line #74 - "**#define IWL7260_UCODE_API_OK	7**"
line #78 - "**#define IWL7260_UCODE_API_MIN	7**"

If any of the lines differ or don't exist in your file, it means you have a wrong version. Re-download it.

---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-09-24
So I deleted all the files and started over. Followed the directions from the link chilli555 had originally provided and...


[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/hh3nk2e.png[/IMG]


Word of advice, don't try to do something you're not familiar with fresh out of bed lol 


The connection properties shows a link speed of 300Mb/s, that's on the 5GHz band. Given that I'm right next to the Asus RT-AC66U, that's as good as 802.11N will get. I don't know how to check the actual protocol being used so I'm going by the speed here. 

I just want to say thanks to all who've helped and to this community, you guys are great!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-09-24
Awesome! Glad it's working.

---

### Post by danny7 on 2013-10-07
So I installed LinSSID and now I'm back to square one. Should I run the same commands in order to get the wireless back? 



[IMG]http://www.ludumdare.com/compo/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/i-have-no-idea-what-im-doing-dog.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-10-07
> **danny7 said:**
> So I installed LinSSID and now I'm back to square one. Should I run the same commands in order to get the wireless back? I doubt one has anything to do with the other. Doesn't it start if you simply load the driver?```
sudo modprobe iwlwifi
```If that does it, we'll amend one file and make it persistent.

---

