---
title: "bcm4318 on dv8000"
date: 2007-11-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tmolina on 2007-11-05
After installing Gutsy Gibbon I did not have wireless connectivity, which was expected I guess.  After reading some of the forums I've tried several different workarounds.  The first was installing the restricted bcm43xx drivers and firmware.  When I installed the drivers the first time wireless connectivity worked.  However, when I rebooted the laptop, the connection would not reactivate.  The wireless light would come on, seemingly showing the driver was loaded and the radio was active.  However, I could not get an address.  If i deleted the restricted drivers and reloaded them I could get wireless to work, but would have to go through the whole routine once again.

The second attempt was following the advice at:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Feisty_No-Fluff](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx/Feisty_No-Fluff)
and interpolating for Gibbon as best as I could.  This is essentially blacklisting the builtin drivers and using ndiswrapper to use the Windows XP driver.  This also didn't work very well.  I could still see the light lit but no connection.  

I decided to load KWifiManager and the Wireless Assistant to scope things out.  KWifFiManager could see that the wireless was transmitting, but could not see my access point.  Wireless Assistant could see my access point.  It would attempt to make the connection and would come back with a failure message, and would offer to show diagnostics.  However when it tries to show the diagnostics it would crash.  However, now I had a connection and an ip address.  It seems even though it said the connection failed, something got kicked into gear and I got a connection.  I still could not get this to happen automatically on a reboot.

I may have to go back to Feisty, where at least the kludge worked automatcially through reboots.  However, I will stick it out if anyone has suggestions or would like me to try something.  Thanks for any help you can provide.

---

### Post by blu3ness on 2007-11-05
Hi there, I do not have DV8000 but I do have BCM4318

What I did was installing ndiswrapper and using the BCM4315 wireless driver, this has been very sucessfully lately and I am even able to turn on wireless after the system boots in ubuntu, unlike using the 4318 driver, which requires your wireless to be On by default when you boot.

Also, make sure you blacklist the BCM43XX kernel module and load the ndiswrapper at boot.
That might have messed you up.

If you have everything working, it's just a matter of modifying the /etc/network/interfaces file to suit your needs, search around, there's a ton of help on that

---

