---
title: "8.04 - intel 2100 wireless was working, then broken after update"
date: 2008-05-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by styrofoam cup on 2008-05-07
Hi,
I'm using ubuntu 8.04 on an old laptop. it was working fine until i did an update (a whole bunch of packages) now eth1 is not even showing up at all.
The wireless card is an intel 2100 from memory.

Any ideas why it might have broken or how to better find out what is wrong and fix it ???

Thanks.

*edit, iwconfig shows eth1 as not associated.

 it was fine and working 'out of the box' in roaming mode, then I updated some packages and reboot. now not working.

sad.....

** second edit
$ lspci | grep '2100'
02:04.0 Newtwork controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless LAN 2100 3B Mini PCI Adapter (rev 04)

$ demsg | grep '2100'
[     31.008696] ipw2100: Intel(R) PRO/Wireless 2100 Newtork Driver, git-1.2.2
[     31.008702] ipw2100: Copyright(c) 2003-2006 Intel Corporation
[     31.065313] ipw2100: Detected Intel PRO/Wireless 2100 Newtork Connection


I just cant work this out, I did a fresh install and its still not working. Originally it was working on a fresh install.
the card is now picked up with ifconfig.

If your card has stopped working lately could you please make a short post below so I'm not going crazy.

Cheers,


*** third edit


Holy cr*p batman, ITS WORKING !!!!


I was browsing around the forums looking for other commands I could try to find out what is up and I think the one that did it was
$ dmesg | grep 'eth1'
(now strangely enough I have not been able to get the exact same error message to come up but it was something like)
  eth1: link is not ready
  eth1: (something) disabled by RF switch

Now my laptop has a button on the front that has never caused me a problem before. The button has a light next to it that blinks when not wireless is not associated, and is on when associated. 
So I gave the button a push, did a reboot and its working

mixed emotions, happy its working. sad that something so silly took so long to fix, sad that others will probably fall into the same problem and blame ubuntu.

Lastly,
I have marked the post as solved, but I am yet to do the updates. So fingers crossed I don't have to post here again.

the end

---

### Post by styrofoam cup on 2008-05-08
still working

had to enter my ssid and wpa2 key again. must have been lost in the update i guess. maybe that's how this whole thing started......

---

