---
title: "Internet connection with GUI problems"
date: 2014-01-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by de Bacon on 2014-01-02
Back in November, my isp converted their network now using PPPoE for connecting to their wireless (point to point radio system).  Their tech support folks don't care about any linux users, period.  I talked with their head guy for about an hour today trying to get this GUI network system to work with no luck.  I have been connected by using the CLI method of configuration and for all but KXStudio it works.  (I have Ubuntu Studio 12.04, Kubuntu 12.04, and Ubuntu 10.10 set up and working in this box (all on separate HDDs).  

Today by chance I checked my Firestarter (firewall program) to discover that it does not work because the network setup for eth0 is disconnected.  It is disconnected because of the use of the CLI and pppoeconf the configuration script for pppoe networking run through the CLI, I think.  This is no good!  It is seldom that I need the firewall but I like it running in the background.  

If I can't use the GUI for network connection, why is it there?  How do you all who use this type of connection (pppoe) get connected to the net through the network settings.  Firestarter, when "opened" spits out a message, "The device eth0 is not ready.  Please check your network device settings and make sure your Internet connection is active".  

Since I initially used the CLI command pppoeconf, it seems the connections GUI has changed, although I can't actually recall how it used to be, I note it being different.  When clicking on the icon for networking, in the panel, the menu list has its top two items blanked out (no access) "Wired Networks," and "device not managed".  I have attempted to connect through the next option in that list, "VPN Connections" -> "Configure VPN", but I really don't know how to set it up.  Thus the call to my ISP which eventually produced nothing more than "we don't support that Linux, so you're on your own".  I wanted to get them to assist me with configuring the network from my computer to the wireless radio, as if it were a router, but they are insistent that such a thing can't be done.  

I am now alarmed that the firewall doesn't work.  This proves that ignorance is bliss, because I have apparently been without it for going on two months now.  

I have been through tutorials I have found on YouTube and numerous documents from "askubuntu", this forum and other net sources.  Although the one showing how to setup PPPoE succeeded in getting me connected, though now I see incorrectly, as it only covered the CLI aspects of setting up the system as stated above.  There is another tutorial which shows the GUI setup, but that doesn't work for me as when I go through that, I get to the last step, switching to the newly created connection in the menu list, that newly created item is not showing up on the list to connect to.

Any ideas

---

### Post by de Bacon on 2014-01-04
Follow up several days later.
I got a router to deal with this problem.  This issue arose due to the PPPoE brought to me by my ISP, where it converged with my desire to try a new flavor of kubuntu, called KXStudio.  That isn't actually Kubuntu, but Kubuntu is the core OS of this system.  

When I tried installing this system, it would not connect to the internet through its networking gui, or the cli using pppoe.  After finding that the firewall was not working through the cli process on the other OS's I've been using, i had to act, thus I got a router and was then able to successfully connect in KXStudio.  But now I can't access the internet through my other three OS's (Ubuntu Studio 12.04 (32 bit), Kubuntu 12.04 (64 bit), and Ubuntu 10.10 (64 bit).  

Yesterday, on the Ubuntu Studio OS, I tried re-installing every package related to networking, through synaptic.  There was no change.  I can access the net on these OS's through the CLI but that involves taking the router out of the system, and the firewall can't work because it runs through eth0 rather than the back-door PPPoE process (CLI).  It is not only insecure, but is a large hassle logistically with the way the box is in the room and the wires involved.  

Does anyone know how I might be able to recover from the complications generated by running the command: pppoeconf ?  Doing so somehow eliminated access to the networking system and its eth0 connection point.

Thanks for reading.  I'd really like to recover the malfunction without reloading these systems and taking all that time to redo each setup.  I just don't know how to do it.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-01-05
So does this router/modem connect to the network (internet) wirelessly, and connects to the computer via cable?

Usually the best way to establish a PPPoE connection is to configure it in the modem/router itself which connects to the ISP. It is supported in all DSL/ADSL modems that connect to the ISP through a cable, not sure about yours if it connects wirelessly. Log into its configuration interface and see if there is an option to configure PPPoE in itself. If there is, that should be the best option and fairly easy to set up (refer to its user manual).

In such a setup, the modem/router gets connected as soon as you power it on (plus the time it takes to negotiate/get authenticated), and the local devices simply connect to it as an 'Always On' internet connection, getting IP from its DHCP or configured locally.

However if there is no such option in the modem/router it can also be configured in the default Network Manager in Ubuntu. I haven't used Kubuntu in a very long time so don't know if its network manager offers a similar interface/option or not, but in default Ubuntu, it is the "DSL" tab of Network Manager settings where you can configure the PPPoE settings to establish the connection. Just save the user ID, Password, Service Name (whatever you like to call it) and leave the rest at defaults. Save and close the settings, then just click on its name in the NM menu to establish the connection.

---

### Post by de Bacon on 2014-01-05
I guess I have to write this out again in a  different way, seems you don't get the complete picture due to the events progression.

Today, I have a working copy of KXStudio in this box.  I also have three systems that do not work.  When this process began back in November, I didn't have a router as I have no need for Wifi.  I had always used the straight eth0 connection and all worked well.  When my ISP brought out a new wireless radio (Point to point, line of sight internet connection technology, actual terminology of this system type by name, I don't know) in November they introduced PPPoE.  Having no router, the systems I was using couldn't access the net.  Due to their ignorance and my own as to how to connect a box directly to the Ethernet cable with out a modem using the PPPoE, they found a youtube tutorial that shows connecting through CLI, using the command -$ pppoeconf.  This allows connection but bypasses the GUI connection method.  It's this so called bypass of the GUI, that running the command -$ pppoeconf that now is a problem.  

I have now three OS's which since November, I have run this command line script on.  Since gaining a router to place in the mix this past Friday resolved the issue of connecting with a fresh install of KXStudio 12.04.3 after connecting the router, the other three OS's will not connect due to the issue that I am calling a bypass of the GUI and what it does.  On those systems, I have attempted to reconfigure their setup information, first by changing the settings, then by deleting each setup and creating new ones.  These setups are blocked access somewhere.  Now when I boot to one of these OS's the start-up hangs while the configuration begins. That is after selecting an OS in grub and before the initial log-in screen.  A series of message shows up before the log-in appears.

Waiting for Network Configuration...
Waiting up to 60 more seconds for Network Configuration...
Booting System Without Full Network Configuration...

Then the login shows.  As previously described, none of these systems can connect to the network configuration eth0 at present.  I know what you mean when you say, 
> Save and close the settings, then just click on its name in the NM menu to establish the connection.   There is no possibility of doing that with the way these GUI's now function.  That possibility of "just click on its name" is not available.  I tried to explain that previously, though seemingly I failed to establish communication with readers.  

Thanks

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-01-05
Have you tried running ppoeconf again? there should be an option to delete connections

Failing that, I *think* it should just be a matter of reverting the contents of your /etc/network/interfaces file (if you want the GUI network manager to have full control of all your interfaces, it should contain only the loopback (lo) interface definition). You might also want to delete any non-default connection files from /etc/ppp/peers/ but I don't think that step is strictly necessary.

However it's a long time since I've used ppp so ymmv

---

### Post by praseodym on 2014-01-05
> **steeldriver said:**
> Failing that, I *think* it should just be a matter of reverting the contents of your /etc/network/interfaces file (if you want the GUI network manager to have full control of all your interfaces, it should contain only the loopback (lo) interface definition). 

Thats right, the "interfaces" should only read:
```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```
Reboot after that.

---

### Post by de Bacon on 2014-01-06
I have not yet attempted to reboot and attempt the above recommendations.  I may do that during this day.  I can but hope this is an actual method of resolving this issue completely.  As soon as I have gone through the process, I shall report back, hopefully by adding the solved tag to the thread.  

> Failing that, I *think* it should just be a matter of reverting the contents of your /etc/network/interfaces file (if you want the GUI network manager to have full control of all your interfaces, it should contain only the loopback (lo) interface definition).

It may become apparent to what you are referring here as I look at the file tree and some of the files in it.  At this moment I have only a slight idea of what you are saying.  I don't know what a loopback (lo) interface is, where it is or what it might be.  I know that when I was in the midst of working at this, when I issued the command "ifconfig" the result showed something containing (lo) followed by a list of specific gibberish.  Above that I think there was (eth0) followed by a list and below (lo) was maybe (ppp) and a different list.  I somewhat gathered that these have to do with connections but that is all that I could infer.  I am not trained in computer anything.  

> Thats right, the "interfaces" should only read:
Code:

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback



I know you are trying here, and I appreciate the effort, but I don't understand what you wrote.  I mean I don't know what "interfaces" in this statement, is representative of, where it might be found, or otherwise.  The "Code" may be correct?  I wouldn't know, nor do I know where it might belong.

My ability to fully understand a lot of the communications delivered in this forum is somewhat hampered by my own ignorance and the general heavy use of acronyms. Acronyms are only useful to someone who knows what they represent.

Thanks though!  I do appreciate the assistance.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2014-01-06
Please check
```

cat /etc/network/interfaces
```

This is how it should look like when using a router with the ISP Login/PW stored in the router directly:
```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```

If it is not looking like this, modify the file via
```

gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```
Save, close the editor and reboot. You can easily run

```
sudo pppoeconf
```

again, if necessary.

---

### Post by de Bacon on 2014-01-06
Thanks so much :)

I went through all the OS's and repaired the improper code in file /etc/network/interfaces,  rebooted each to find all are again restored to what works.  That was much easier then trying to re-invent my preferences after a re-install.  

:)  :)

Onward and upward

---

