---
title: "20.04 LTS Server - ethernet randomly stopped working &amp; I don't know how to restart it"
date: 2021-04-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by markthegoose on 2021-04-09
My system boots OK, I can only access it via command line terminal keyboard/monitor as the ethernet connection is completely down. If I boot from USB, the hardware is fine and it gets allocated an IP address, so this is a config issue. I have no GUI's or copy/paste from another system, just what I can type on the terminal.

```
lshw -C network
```
reports
```
*-network DISABLED
```

```
ip link set enp4s0 up
```
enables it - at least DISABLED goes away and the lights start flashing on the ethernet port

```
ip addr
```
tells me that enp4s0 has no inet4 IP address

```
netplan --debug get all
```
reports:
```
DEBUG:enp4s0 not found in {}
DEBUG:Merged config:
network:
  ethernets:
    enp4s0:
      dhcp: true
  version: 2

network:
  ethernets:
    enp4s0:
      dhcp: true
  version: 2
```
Note - it's not {} above, but I don't know how to create the weird curly brackets that are there!

As it's a 20.04 server, the renderer is systemd-networkd, but I'm not sure how to check if the files created there are correct. I've also read some stuff about needing to tell network that my ethernet is 'unmanaged'. 

```
systemctl status systemd-networkd.service
```
 is running and restarting it doesn't change anything

```
netplan --debug try
```
reports (sorry pasted image, as it's too much typing!)
[IMG]https://goossens.uk.net/network.jpg[/IMG]

Clearly, I could just rebuild the server from scratch, but given that it's fundamentally working, there must be a simpler way to solve my problem?

The system doesn't have WiFi and I don't have a PCI or USB network adapter to try either.

Help gratefully received. Thanks, Mark

---

### Post by markthegoose on 2021-04-09
Just read some more about this and it seems I'm not alone and it's down to a netplan.io and libnetplan0 update, where one updates to v.102 and not the other and being out of sync breaks things. If I download both to a USB stick, copy to my server and install both, it should fix my problem

---

### Post by praseodym on 2021-04-10
What hardware is it? Please show
```

lspci -nnk
lsmod
```

---

