---
title: "WG111 found but not connecting :("
date: 2007-03-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by timcs on 2007-03-29
Right tried a different usb wireless adapter after failing to get the Belkin to work.

Edgy (as I have read numerous times else where) will find & install this device. However connecting to my linksys WAG54G ADSL router is another matter. I have tried to understand the security sticky post but I am lost to what I am doing.

Firstly I am running Edgy from the CD as I have re-installed it too many times and it takes ages on this old PC. 

Secondly my gut feeling here is the security that it causing this unit not to connect.

Originally running iwlist wlan0 scanning gave me details of the WAG54G but since then I have tried to change the WEP key from 128bit to 64bit. On doing this I am getting no scan results found now.

ifconfig sees wlan0 as does iwconfig but the wlan0 does not see my WAG54G . I am using a static IP as well but am failing to connect.

HELP!

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2007-03-29
Best to do the basics first, then move onto the tricky stuff:

Does it work without the security (WEP)?

Can you set the static IP / Mac address on the router as a reserved IP, or try with DHCP?

Why reduce from 128 to 64 if it was working on 128?

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-03-29
> **Jose Catre-Vandis said:**
> Best to do the basics first, then move onto the tricky stuff:

Does it work without the security (WEP)?

Can you set the static IP / Mac address on the router as a reserved IP, or try with DHCP?

Why reduce from 128 to 64 if it was working on 128?

Not keen on switching security off but I will give it a go ;)

Not sure if I can set the Mac/IP as reserved , no bothered with DHCP it will effect other PCS on the network

I only reduced it to 64bit because although 128bit gave me info via iwlist I still couldn't ping the router so I tried a less complicated encryption.

Back to your suggestions, I will switch off the encryption and report back

Cheers

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-03-30
As I have been using a slow PC i decided to try Xubuntu instead. Still got the same results as ubuntu and when I switched off the security I still could not get a scan result via iwlist. 

Infact I think Xubuntu didn't give me iwlist scan results from the start whereas ubuntu did.

My main confusion here is that I am using the key from the WAG54G which was generated by the passphrase as a 128bit Hex. Is the key itself hex or plain ASCII?

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-03-30
Back on with ubuntu, just got this adapter running as per before (which is ubuntu finds it set it wlan0 but no connection to the WAG54G). I have set the key in the networking GUI control to hex and put in the key from the WAG54G.

At the moment it is not finding the WAG and I can see it scan the different channels. As the WAG is in the same room & that another wireless connection is already working on another PC , I cannot understand why this one does not find it :confused: 

Any help would be appreciated otherwise I will have to resort to M$ :shock: :shock: :shock:

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2007-03-30
TimCS

You keep adding in too many different options/alternatives. Keep it simple and work your way up.

Still with ubuntu and remove security from the router
Set router and PC to work on dhcp
Ensure you know your ESSID
Enusre your wireless driver is properly loaded  (ifconfig should show wlan0)

Check your interfaces file  /etc/network/interfaces

try everything in this thread [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=300346](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=300346)

Once it is up and running, then you can move to static IP and start getting the security running

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-03-30
> **Jose Catre-Vandis said:**
> TimCS

You keep adding in too many different options/alternatives. Keep it simple and work your way up.

Still with ubuntu and remove security from the router
Set router and PC to work on dhcp
Ensure you know your ESSID
Enusre your wireless driver is properly loaded  (ifconfig should show wlan0)

Check your interfaces file  /etc/network/interfaces

try everything in this thread [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=300346](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=300346)

Once it is up and running, then you can move to static IP and start getting the security running

Sorry Jose Catre-Vandis just that I have spent some time on another adapter that didn't want to work and I hoped this one would have been easier but I was mistaken :(

I have tried switching off security with no luck . Question though why does it make a difference to whether its DHCP or static? I really do not want to change to DHCP as it will required re-configuring other PCs especially if I need to post here again.

My ESSID I presume is my routers SSID broadcast ID which I know. My wlan0 shows in both ifconfig and iwconfig.

The /etc/network/interfaces looks alright to me . 

I will check the thread you have posted and go through that also

As I have been doing this on a live CD I have decided to install it to the HDD and then I do not loose any changes on reboot.


Thanks Jose Catre-Vandis for your input , your right about keeping it simple. My problems I am doing too many different things on different PCs and in between all of that, taking down a wardrobe and putting another up :shock: :shock: :shock:

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-03-31
Right this is where I am and what I have done so far:

I have set up DHCP on the router now. MY eth0 (lan wired connection) works as I am posting this message using that connection :) . 

However my wlan0 (Wg111) still does not want to connect to my WAG54G :( .

When I type sudo ifup wlan0 this happens :

> 
There is already a pid file /var/run/dhclient.wlan0.pid with pid 134993416
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.0.4
Copyright 2004-2006 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/](http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/)

Listening on LPF/wlan0/00:18:4d:c8:ce:29
Sending on   LPF/wlan0/00:18:4d:c8:ce:29
Sending on   Socket/fallback
DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 5
DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 10
DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 11
DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 8
DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 15
DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 8
DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 1
No DHCPOFFERS received.
No working leases in persistent database - sleeping.


This is my /etc/network/interfaces :
> 
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


iface eth0 inet dhcp

#auto eth1
#iface eth1 inet dhcp

#auto eth2
#iface eth2 inet dhcp

#auto ath0
#iface ath0 inet dhcp


iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wireless-essid linksys   # routers id
wireless-key <MY KEY 1 AS HEX> # this is what is on my router
auto wlan0

auto eth0


My iwconfig output :
> 
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     802.11b/g  ESSID:"linksys"  
          Mode:Managed  Channel=8  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Bit Rate=11 Mb/s   Sensitivity=4/6  
          Retry:on   Fragment thr:off
          Encryption key:<MY KEY>   Security mode:open
          Link Quality:0  Signal level:0  Noise level:0
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

sit0      no wireless extensions.



when I run sudo iwlist scan I get this :
> 
sudo iwlist scan
lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

wlan0     No scan results
sit0      Interface doesn't support scanning.


Hope this is of some help

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2007-03-31
OK, I see you still have your WEP up :-) Oh well.

Using dhcp because you don't have to worry about IP addresses whilst trying to get connected, and indicating a mode-managed state helps the router.

I use this in my interfaces file

```
#the wireless interface
auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wireless-essid mynetwork
wireless-mode managed
```

although it looks as if your mode is managed

Have a look in your dmesg to check if the correct driver is loading up for your adapter?

You may need to blacklist a few drivers to stop them interfering.

```
 sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```

Add to file: for example (check lsmod for what is loaded)

```
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist islsm
blacklist islsm_usb
```

Also look here:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=281844](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=281844)


finally, get connected, then sort out security :-)

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-04-01
Jose Catre-Vandis 

Sorry again for leading you astray, I did try this setup I have listed above without security also. 

I will try your other suggestions and come back to you, I am on a roll as I have now got my other wireless adapter working (the belkin one) so now its netgears turn ;)

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-04-01
> **Jose Catre-Vandis said:**
> OK, I see you still have your WEP up :-) Oh well.

Using dhcp because you don't have to worry about IP addresses whilst trying to get connected, and indicating a mode-managed state helps the router.

I use this in my interfaces file

```
#the wireless interface
auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wireless-essid mynetwork
wireless-mode managed
```

although it looks as if your mode is managed

Have a look in your dmesg to check if the correct driver is loading up for your adapter?

You may need to blacklist a few drivers to stop them interfering.

```
 sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```

Add to file: for example (check lsmod for what is loaded)

```
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist islsm
blacklist islsm_usb
```

Also look here:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=281844](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=281844)


finally, get connected, then sort out security :-)

Hi again Jose Catre-Vandis

Right I took Wireless security off as you suggested, changed the /etc/network/interfaces as you have stated - no change from my post with it not finding my router.

I then checked for those drivers via lsmod by typing:
 lsmod | grep bcm ; result not running
lsmod | grep isl ; result not running

therefore I have not put these in the black list file as they are not starting up.

Your final suggestion relates to the link, does this mean I need to use ndiswrapper? if so can ndiswrapper operate for 2 different drivers (currently have the beklin running) or am I best testing the netgear on a LiveCD boot up?

I was considering to use ndiswrapper but I wanted to see what you suggested first. Also with ndiswrapper are there any other drivers that need blacklisting?

In the mean time ,I will try the Live CD option and see if I can get it working that way as I do not know if ndiswrapper was have problems with two drivers running on the same system.

Cheers

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2007-04-01
That link post was in early days of Edgy, when i did not know it had built in driver support, so was basing the comments on experiences in dapper (needed ndiswrapper then)

If your netgear adapter is not working using the built in driver: r8187 (you should see this setting itself up in dmesg) then it is worth a try with ndiswrapper. However you will need to blacklist as above and also the r8187 driver.

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-04-02
I need a stable driver for this as I have tried the one from the netgear site and it does not seem to find this device is there any other drivers that I can use for this with ndiswrapper?

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2007-04-03
Is it a WG111 v1 or v2 (this makes a difference with the windows drivers) often v1's are labelled as v2s, so you need to plug it in and run:
```
lsusb | grep Netgear
```
at the terminal to find the device ID.

see this post: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1957546&postcount=5](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1957546&postcount=5)

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-04-04
> **Jose Catre-Vandis said:**
> Is it a WG111 v1 or v2 (this makes a difference with the windows drivers) often v1's are labelled as v2s, so you need to plug it in and run:
```
lsusb | grep Netgear
```
at the terminal to find the device ID.

see this post: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1957546&postcount=5](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1957546&postcount=5)

Jose

  I have read that thread ( the whole thing) however I cannot access the link given by the person who started the post now :(. As with the part of the thread you mentioned, I get a slightly different readout:

>  
lsusb | grep Net
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 0846:6a00 NetGear, Inc. WG111 WiFi (v2)
musicpc@musicpc-desktop:~$ 

Those drivers in that post are the ones I have tried. However I am now wondering if I did it correctly. I will try again and report the outcome .

Thanks again for your help

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-04-04
Jose 

I am getting no where with this now, I tried the drivers from this link :

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=212365&highlight=ndiswrapper+wg111](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=212365&highlight=ndiswrapper+wg111)

Although the netgear light kept flashing (I have turned off security on the router) It could not see the router at all.

I then removed the ndiswrapper driver by typing :
ndiswrapper -e <driver name from typing ndiswrapper -l>
sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper
sudo modprobe -r ndiswrapper

Rebooted and then tried the driver you mentioned in this link :
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1957546#post1957546](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1957546#post1957546)

This has made it worse as the system doesn't even think there is a wlan0 now even though ndiswrapper is running as a module and that the file is there that it creates from ndiswrapper -m. However the system is detecting through lsusb | grep NetGear

:( :( :( :(

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2007-04-04
what does the command
```
ndiswrapper -l
```
tell you about your driver?

BTW, I have the exact same report from lsusb and used the driver from the WINXP folder on the Netgear CD. (copy over the whole folder and run the ndiswrapper installation command from within this folder)

There is something basic going wrong that I am/you are missing. With your Belkin adapter you have no problems connecting to the router, right? Have you tried connecting with the Netgear under windows (using the netgear install). At least we will know that it works!

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-04-05
> **Jose Catre-Vandis said:**
> what does the command
```
ndiswrapper -l
```
tell you about your driver?

BTW, I have the exact same report from lsusb and used the driver from the WINXP folder on the Netgear CD. (copy over the whole folder and run the ndiswrapper installation command from within this folder)

There is something basic going wrong that I am/you are missing. With your Belkin adapter you have no problems connecting to the router, right? Have you tried connecting with the Netgear under windows (using the netgear install). At least we will know that it works!

Not near the PC at the moment but the ndiswrapper -l does show that the driver is loaded as I did this when I had the problems. 

I got the netgear working in windows Okay as I wondered that myself. The drivers on the CD I have (from what I can remember) didn't seem to have a inf driver in them :confused: . I will look again when I get chance.

The driver from the first link I mentioned seem to bring the netgear alive as the light flashes all of the time, whereas the native one only makes the light flash once when it starts it up. I am aware that this is how the native one works.

Thanks again for your help. Also what does your /etc/network/interface file look like (including any unused devices)

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-04-05
> **Jose Catre-Vandis said:**
> what does the command
```
ndiswrapper -l
```
tell you about your driver?

BTW, I have the exact same report from lsusb and used the driver from the WINXP folder on the Netgear CD. (copy over the whole folder and run the ndiswrapper installation command from within this folder)

There is something basic going wrong that I am/you are missing. With your Belkin adapter you have no problems connecting to the router, right? Have you tried connecting with the Netgear under windows (using the netgear install). At least we will know that it works!

Update on the info you requested Jose ndiswrapper -l does this :

> Installed drivers:
netwg111                driver installed 


Also on my netgear CD driver there is no XP or WINXP folder to locate the drivers :(.

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-04-05
Good news! :) without the security I have finally got this to work. 

I read around the forums again and found that some users ended up using the win98
driver instead of the XP one. This is what I have done and have used version 1.3.0 from the netgear site.

I am now going to attempt to get this to work with security - wish me luck!

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-04-06
Well getting it to work under WEP was a challenge ;) . It seemed for a while that even if I turned WEP off until a reboot the settings where not changing :confused:  .

In the end still using the WIN98 driver from netgear driver version v2 1.3.0 has worked. If gives activity on the light as well.

To apply the key setting I had to type : 

sudo iwconfig wlan0 essid <my_routers_essid> key restricted <my routers wep key>

I then typed :

dhclient wlan0

Thanks Jose for your help on this BTW

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2007-04-07
Hi TimCS

Glad you got there in the end

---

### Post by timcs on 2007-04-07
> **Jose Catre-Vandis said:**
> Hi TimCS

Glad you got there in the end

Yeah took several re-installs before I realized that it was down to the driver. Even now its not 100% as I booted up today and it had lost the wlan0. I then had to unplug the Wg111 and plug back in, on doing this it started working okay again :confused:

---

### Post by EvanPMeth on 2007-04-11
timcs, 
i seem to be having the same problem you were having, can you please post the complete steps you went through to get to your solution, it would be greatly appriciated.

-EvanPMeth

---

