---
title: "24.04 WiFi not working after upgrade - is this reported as a bug?"
date: 2024-11-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by iamtheeggman2 on 2024-11-24
Dear All,

OK so my computer was running flawlessly on Ubuntu 22.04 in addition to other Ubuntu versions since about 2009 but upon upgrading to 24.04.1 I am having issues connecting to the WiFi router we have. Sometimes it connects before I even log into MATE desktop, sometimes it won't, sometimes it connects after a few reboots and sometimes it won't. Sometimes it will connect and stay connected for a few minutes or 20 minutes and sometimes it will stay connected the entire day until I turn it off at night. It seems random given no settings are messed with between sessions of using the computer. The hardware is exactly the same as when I used 22.04 and I dual boot with windows and windows runs fine using the same hardware. 

From what I have read this is a new problem and it's possibly related to Ubuntu now using another networking software called Netplan. I can see many others have had this issue on 24.04 and it may have something to do with a WPA supplicant change, but nobody seems to have provided a solution that has worked for me. I am willing to help log a bug if this is possible but I don't know how to do this. I can give some tech details of my setup but was just wondering if anyone had heard of a bug fix first? I ran update and upgrade immediately after install and oddly the computer ran ok for about a week before I first encountered this issue. I had working WiFi the other day, ran update again and then rebooted and it stopped connecting again. Thanks for any help.

edit: It's worth mentioning it sees the network, knows it has a password,  knows it knows the password but doesn't connect anyway and it cycles  this.

---

### Post by kali99 on 2024-12-29
It seems you have the same *iwlwifi* driver issue as I have, so please take a look how to recover the *iwlwifi* driver without a complete system reboot: 

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1535977/iwlwifi-driver-crashes-after-the-upgrade-to-ubuntu-24-04?noredirect=1&lq=1](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1535977/iwlwifi-driver-crashes-after-the-upgrade-to-ubuntu-24-04?noredirect=1&lq=1)

---

