---
title: "Ubuntu Router/Gateway Dansguardian Confusion"
date: 2012-03-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by andersonee on 2012-03-30
I'll try to keep this as straightforward as possible. I am trying to setup the following: Standard Residential Cable Modem -> eth0 (Ubuntu Server 10.04 as Router/Content Filter) -> eth1 (same Ubuntu machine serving DHCP) -> Wireless Access Point.

I was following this guide: [http://www.branchdistrictlibrary.org/professional/ubuntu_lucid_dg.php]("http://www.branchdistrictlibrary.org/professional/ubuntu_lucid_dg.php") which uses the hardware layout seen here: [http://www.branchdistrictlibrary.org/professional/ubuntu_hardy_dg_page_02.php]("http://www.branchdistrictlibrary.org/professional/ubuntu_hardy_dg_page_02.php")

I am confused because he has eth0 set up with a static IP address (192.168.0.2). Doesn't that need to be DHCP so the modem can assign it an external address. Is there a router that he isn't telling us about that is providing DHCP and NAT to his subsystem. 

I am just confused because he clearly shows a modem connected directly to a switch...which has workstations and the ubuntu router connected to it. Where is the router??

Please help me understand this. I'm going crazy.

---

### Post by andersonee on 2012-03-30
Help me Ubuntu Kenobi, you're my only hope.

---

### Post by andersonee on 2012-04-01
Bump!

---

### Post by panganibanimages on 2012-05-06
**Sly Android Icons **  Hot on the heels of our previous GUI article, iPhone and iPad Development GUI Kits, today we focus on Android development. The idea is the same: To help streamline your app design and development, with a fairly comprehensive collection of Android GUI kits, icons, fonts, .psds and tools, that will allow you to focus on developing rather than having to design everything from scratch.  I just completed an [icon design job](http://essentkabelcom.tucows.com/preview/1200513/Business-App-Tab-Bar-Icons) after an Android app so I?d like to division my insights on designing icons for this platform.  I recently designed icons in place of an Android app. It was the basic time I had anything to do with Google?s operating system as a replacement for portable phones so I was very excited back the job. I?ll technicalities the devise change straight away but in the meantime I?d like to chat about the (two) pros and (lots of) cons of designing exchange for this platform. Icon types  Google has released guidelines as a service to Android icon designers. There are instructions pro all types of icons with color palette, chum settings and hint diagrams. You can also download a pattern pack to get you started. Android icon guidelines  Android features two types of icons: [launcher icons](http://download.pcpop.com/Soft/34377.html) (48x48 px) are three-dimensional and colorful whereas the surviving icons (menu, stature shoal, tab, [dialog icons](http://goodgrape.com/index.php/articles/comments/on_caskets_blue_nun_and_the_business_of_wine/), catalogue raisonn? view) are two-dimensional and grayscale.  This already feels like an iPhone ripoff but if you mark to it it?s in actuality the barely way to go. Menus and toolbars be compelled be visually simple so they take on pictograms a substitute alternatively of full blown icons. Android adds shadows to these pictograms in proclamation to separate itself from the iPhone. I take it this is a poor visual flower which adds no value to the icons and in occurrence reduces their legibility. Anyway since these pictograms are very mean I?ll draw on launcher icons here. [Launcher icons](http://hotel-app-tab-bar-icons-for-ios.softsia.com/)  In Google?s words: A launcher icon is the particular that represents your assiduity on an Android instrument?s Home screen. Here?s a present of launcher icons from Android?s negligence set: [[img]http://www.***************.com/stock-icons/android-launcher-icons/android-launcher-example9.png[/img]](http://green-web-buttons.softsia.com/)  My maiden answer was: Reduce! they?re all 3D! Unfortunately on closer inspection we can comply with a destined lack of homogeneity in the set. Some icons are clearly three-dimensional (Danger- Clock, Schedule, Shop) while others are basically two-dimensional icons viewed in vantage point (Generic Reference, Google Talk, YouTube). It?s reminiscent of Windows? shameful negligence icon prepare: windows-icons  Ok, [Android icons](http://blue-icon-library.softsia.com/) are not that execrable! Hey, at least they equity a unified visual dash and they non-standard like to respect to the constant attitude grid. In fact that is strictly the case. Downstairs is the certification cube to be hand-me-down for all icons. The designers carefully considered every mien of the icons as a result the guidelines group precise intelligence dialect anenst despite the dimension, the perspective angles, the radius of the rounded corners and the tail properties: Attitude guidelines for launcher icons  The guidelines persist: A launcher icon [...] is a simplified 3D icon with a stuck perspective. Yeah, less that. Numerous adjectives on to intellectual but ?simplified? is not mass them. The lookout cube doesn?t hold a one right edge. What do you make up will come to pass when you raise down the artwork to 48x48 pixels? Massive antialiasing. At least that?s what happens if you contain complex designs.  The biggest problem I eat with this approach grid is that the apex is awkward. It forces you to either accentuate the topmost camouflage, which is not perfect someone is concerned all icons, or the foremost intimidate, which is unfortunately slanted forward. What is that? Not to report that the side countenance is viewed at an extravagant angle that deforms the shapes beyond recognition. So no particularly must be just now there. Here?s the Illustrator template you can download from the guidelines: examples  Both the strain and the answering machine bear no respect on their side face. Frustrate?s array the YouTube icon from Android?s default push off:   Mark what I mean? This icon is essentially two-dimensional yet it is viewed at an angle. The words You and Tube idle expedite and down, a dialect right curious angle. For 48?48 px icons it?s most beneficent to determine a prospect intersection that preserves above-board lines either horizontally or vertically. Divine what a authentic proficient [icon designer](http://bitmanic.com/blog/entry/co-op-fluid-icon/) like *************** does with the amazing Yoritsuki icon begin: yoritsuki See how he kept all prone lines systematically straight? That categorically helps the icons be clear at this mini size.  [Download Android icons](http://fileforum.betanews.com/detail/Sib-Icon-Extractor/1135831009/1) at [***************.com](http://fileforum.betanews.com/detail/Icon-Processor/1113207991/1)  [Perk up the applications with these free ms windows metro icons](http://www.***************.com/stock-icons/windows-phone-7-icons.htm)  Have the ideal designs for one's windows mobile as well as supplement your apps that has a selection of these kind of wonderful symbols to build your components appear increasingly snazzy.  The particular best benefit is, that everyone of these one hundred thirty five symbols can come without spending a dime, at this time there ain’t significantly more you possibly can ask for now, will you be able to. Please read on to find out a lot more.  Getting your own tools seem great and also stylish was not ever that effortless. A lot of people finish up compromising navigation and also performance although endeavoring to include that supplementary degree of niftiness, but that all changes if you makes use of the fresh ms windows metro icons.  Just a few facts about those to commence along with- the actual symbols have a proportions of forty-eight by forty eight pixels, which includes a circle in conjunction with an image of measurement 26 by twenty-six pixels centred inside. These types of PNG files have a very translucent back ground, and may also be transferred without or with the particular circles. For sale in grayscale colours, they may be suitable for windows mobile as well as ms windows 8 main system.  Through the use of these types of icons inside your projects you could potentially make sure the increased amount of functionality for the software. Easy to understand, staying illustrative yet beneficial to look at, they've got positively anything going for on their own. It is possible to nicely stick them in just the right locations and then save yourself the problem of writing many many outlines of program code whilst staying away from the litter this could or else end in, and the best part is that you could attain and use these without cost.  Whether it is for ones mp3 player, or merely a fresh photo for the trash can, a brand new file icon, or simply something new to replace the great old clear tab, it is packed full of one of a kind icons for everything you  presumably look into. The actual a hundred thirty five designs protected during this set, include every fathomable requirement you will have in terms of visuals for applications could possibly be involved. It's about time to retreat to being a indigenous and relying on utilizing of images once more, since they’ll make with your software program a lot enjoyable that you might in no way would like to come back to all of the uninteresting connects anymore. Other than developing these types of icons for need, they have been built from for the sheer wish to be artistic. Much more than anything you may need, these include symbols you might have to invent an excuse for.  Most of these symbols, as I have said earlier, are compatible with your microsoft windows 8 operating systems as well as your ms windows phone. Make it simple, keep it neat, maintain it snazzy and then make utilities and also interfaces fun. Knowledge says that folk realize one image a lot better than one thousand text, and also anything is based on the actual description. Through the use of these you’ll under no circumstances fall short of outline, amaze folks by allowing these to take a look at items in a new method, everything and a lot more can be achieved easily when you're working with our preferred icons. Take a peek, believe me, you wouldn’t ought to search long for spots where you can fit all of them it.  Ad links: [free icon maker](http://forum.portal.bg/index.php?showtopic=733685) [application bar windows phone 7](http://forum.portal.bg/index.php?showtopic=733685&mode=threaded) [dialog icons android](http://freesoft.nsk.su/?author=3310) [android 2.3 gingerbread notification bar icons](http://freesoft.ru/?author=3310) [png icon editor](http://pda.computerra.ru/index.php?action=article&section_id=26035&id=358049)  Thanks to Ann Chapmak

---

