---
title: "18.04 -&gt; 18.10. Server can see gateway but can't access internet."
date: 2019-02-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jonathanese on 2019-02-27
I'm running Ubuntu Server 18.10.

Quick info on the update: During my upgrade from 18.04, it asked about a file and offered to show me a comparison. I looked at the comparison but couldn't resume the update. After rebooting, the update seemed to continue and it had 601 packages to update. So after the packages were updated and I rebooted again, I lost my internet connection.

I can ping certain local IPs. Namely the gateway, but I can't ping something external like 8.8.8.8. I was looking around in my netplan config and things looked fine. So I ran "netplan apply" and was able to ping 8.8.8.8 about 5 times before it stopped working again. This is something I can repeat: "netplan apply" and then "ping 8.8.8.8" yields about 5 successes before the rest fail. (Desination host unreachable) It's strange behavior because you figure it would either work or it wouldn't.

Originally, the server was also my DNS server. I run PiHole on it (built on dnsmasq). But I went ahead and changed the nameserver settings to point to google (8.8.8.8) until I could get things straightened out.

I have a feeling it may be related to the routing configuration. Normally I configure this using WebMin, but I can't access it now. 

I don't necessarily need a specific solution to this particular problem, though that would be handy. I would say it would be useful if I could reset my routing configuration to some sort of default or known-good configuration. I used to use my server as my gateway so some of the routing configuration is left over from that.

---

### Post by jonathanese on 2019-03-03
I'll bump this thread real quick to give it one more shot before I delete this message and just wipe my server and rebuild from scratch. If I do this, I will be installing the desktop this time or just getting a copy of Windows Server.

I've been trying everything, but searches generally yield very limited results and they almost always refer to "ifconfig" which does not exist on 18.xx version of Ubuntu, since they switched to netplan.

Again, here's a list of main points:
- I can ping my gateway and it's fine. So the network card seems to be functioning.
- I can't ping anything on the other side of the gateway in most cases.
- If I punch in "netplan apply", I CAN ping 8.8.8.8, but only for around 10s before connections fail again. (DHCP forcing some configuration changes or something?)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2019-03-03
May we see:```
cat /etc/netplan/*.yaml
```I suspect a faulty setting there.

If you have a public IP address in there, please redact the first part like, for example, this:> [COLOR="#FF0000"]xx[/COLOR].51.128.141

Also, let's have a look at:```
ls -al /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by jonathanese on 2019-03-03
I was rather disgruntled last night, as is par for the course when hanging out in a terminal window for hours.

In the interim I did discover by bonded round-robin connection was causing issues. After disabling it and letting the connections operate stand-alone, I can SSH into it and connect to a few of my services again. I can get DNS working for some services on occasion, though DNS still seems somewhat broken.

But indeed you were right about the culprit existing in netplan's config, even though this config was unchanged across the update.

Here is my latest netplan yaml config:
```
network:    ethernets:
        enp3s0:
            optional: true
            dhcp4: true
            nameservers:
                addresses: [8.8.8.8,8.8.4.4,192.168.1.2]
    version: 2
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  ethernets:
        enp1s0f0:
            dhcp4: true
            optional: true
            mtu: 9000
        enp1s0f1:
            dhcp4: true
            optional: true
            mtu: 9000
        enp3s0:
            dhcp4: true
            optional: false
            mtu: 9000
#  bonds:
#    bond-lan:
#      dhcp4: no
#      addresses: [192.168.1.1/24]
#      nameservers:
#        addresses: [8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4]
#      interfaces: [enp1s0f0,enp1s0f1]
#      parameters:
#        mode: balance-rr



```
It does reveal a potential issue in that enp3s0 was already configured elsewhere.
Also, for external sources I used DuckDNS so I can keep a dynamic IP.

Here is a result of ls -al /etc/resolv.conf

```
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 27 Mar  3 02:54 /etc/resolv.conf -> /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf
```

I assume this is listing permissions and showing that it is a symbolic link.

Though I did look at this location in particular and it revealed something very informative:

In my base config file, **/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base**, I have "nameserver 8.8.8.8" so that I can use google's DNS until I get dnsmasq up and running again.
But in /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf, it is configured to point to itself, "nameserver 127.0.0.1".

---

### Post by chili555 on 2019-03-03
> It does reveal a potential issue in that enp3s0 was already configured elsewhere.Where, exactly? In Ubuntu 18.10, netplan is the only effective method unless you have taken many tedious and affirmative steps to remove netplan altogether,

Netplan is quite specific about spacing and indentation; I recommend that you consult, for example:```

cat /usr/share/doc/netplan.io/examples/dhcp.yaml

```Please make certain that your spacing, indentation, etc., are perfect.> 
network:    ethernets:
        enp3s0:
            optional: true
            dhcp4: true
            nameservers:
                addresses: [8.8.8.8,8.8.4.4,192.168.1.2]
I am fairly certain that you cannot yet in netplan use DHCP but specify DNS nameservers. I am not sure at all why one would want DHCP for a server making it difficult to guess the IP address in order to ftp and ssh into it.> lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 27 Mar  3 02:54 /etc/resolv.conf -> /run/resolvconf/resolv.confIf you are running systemd, and I am quite certain that you are, this is incorrect. I suggest that you correct it:```
sudo rm /etc/resolv.conf
sudo ln -s /run/systemd/resolve/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf
```> until I get dnsmasq up and running again.Did you do something specific to stop it? If not, I suspect that the changes I suggest above and a reboot will be helpful.

---

### Post by jonathanese on 2019-03-03
> [COLOR=#000000]Where, exactly?[/COLOR]

It was showing enp3s0 being configured twice in netplan. Unless this is normal.

> [COLOR=#000000]I am not sure at all why one would want DHCP for a server making it difficult to guess the IP address in order to ftp and ssh into it.[/COLOR]

This was something I tried to see if DNS settings would work if it were trying to pull them from the router/gateway. On the router, I have the IP reserved by mac address and out of the range of auto-assignment.

> [COLOR=#000000]this is incorrect. I suggest that you correct it.[/COLOR]

Thanks for the tip. I'll do that right away.

> [COLOR=#000000]Did you do something specific to stop it?[/COLOR]

To be more specific, I was referring to the network-wide Pi-Hole setup. Right now, for troubleshooting purposes, the DHCP settings on my router assign google as the default dns. Normally my server is my primary DNS using PiHole, which runs on top of dnsmasq.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2019-03-03
> It was showing enp3s0 being configured twice in netplan. Unless this is normal.
No; please correct it.

---

### Post by jonathanese on 2019-03-03
> [COLOR=#000000]No; please correct it.[/COLOR]

It isn't anywhere in the config.yaml is the thing. That's why I said it must be coming from some other file or application that's tacking that on to the beginning.

But yeah, my main issue right now is DNS is totally broken. I tried the symlink correction you posted but it pointed to a non-existent file in a non-existent folder. So I pointed it back to the original location where the base, head, original, and tail files exist.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2019-03-04
```
network:    ethernets:
        [COLOR="#FF0000"]enp3s0:[/COLOR]
            optional: true
            dhcp4: true
            nameservers:
                addresses: [8.8.8.8,8.8.4.4,192.168.1.2]
    version: 2
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  ethernets:
        enp1s0f0:
            dhcp4: true
            optional: true
            mtu: 9000
        enp1s0f1:
            dhcp4: true
            optional: true
            mtu: 9000
        [COLOR="#FF0000"]enp3s0:[/COLOR]
            dhcp4: true
            optional: false
            mtu: 9000
```But it *does *exist two places in the yaml file. Please remove the first one:


```
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: networkd
  ethernets:
        enp1s0f0:
            dhcp4: true
            optional: true
            mtu: 9000
        enp1s0f1:
            dhcp4: true
            optional: true
            mtu: 9000
        enp3s0:
            dhcp4: true
            optional: false
            mtu: 9000
```Next:```
sudo netplan generate
sudo netplan apply
```> 
I tried the symlink correction you posted but it pointed to a non-existent file in a non-existent folder. So I pointed it back to the original location where the base, head, original, and tail files exist.
I'm not quite sure what to make of this. By default, 18.10 uses systemd and resolvconf. Have you removed any probably crucial systems?

---

### Post by jonathanese on 2019-03-04
> [COLOR=#000000]But it [/COLOR]*does exist two places in the yaml file. Please remove the first one:*

Except it doesn't. I was actually able to verify that the first section is coming from 50-cloud-init.yaml, which it says is an auto-generated file. But either way, I can simply remove it from config.yaml. Regardless, the interface configuration works fine. It's just the lack of name resolution that is the remaining issue.

> [COLOR=#000000]I'm not quite sure what to make of this. By default, 18.10 uses systemd and resolvconf. Have you removed any probably crucial systems?[/COLOR]

The only thing I can think of is that WebMin changed something. Also keep in mind this was an upgrade from 18.04. So something may have changed between subversions.

BTW, thank's your help in this. I really do appreciate it.

---

