---
title: "DNS doesn't work in 11.10"
date: 2012-07-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Chromatix on 2012-07-13
Hi. I came across same threads in the internet and this forum; apparently many of them were left unsolved or were resolved by themselves automatically.

My Kubuntu 11.10 is suddenly unable to resolve addresses into ip addresses. I didn't do anything that I think could cause this. After doing a clean install, the new one seems to be unable to resolve too! Actually I'm able to open a single page in my browser, but the next addresses refuse to open. I can't do any "apt-get install" either.

I'm using ADSL (not wireless) and have a MaxNet router with IP address 192.168.1.1 that is normally recognized and can ping it and access its configuration page via browser. I have put my PPPoE username and password in it so the router alone is enough to access internet. I have also reset it to factory, but no chance.

So when i connect, contents of /etc/resolv.conf becomes:

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1
```Still ping 8.8.8.8 is ok, but ping [www.google.com]("http://www.google.com") says 'unknown host'.

I manually configured my router to use google's DNS addresses instead of ISP ones. Now when I connect /etc/resolve.conf says:

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
 nameserver 8.8.8.8
 nameserver 8.8.4.4
```Still the same problem. ping, nslookup and dig fail for any address.

What can I do to identify the problem further and to fix it?

P.S Windows is working fine.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2012-07-13
Can you execute these commands and post the output here?

```
time host nu.nl
time host nu.nl 8.8.8.8
time host nu.nl 192.168.1.1
ping 192.168.1.1

```

---

