---
title: "9.0.4 RDP to Win2003 SP2 not working"
date: 2009-06-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by JoH Ubnt on 2009-06-19
Trying out Ubuntu 9.0.4 in VMWare. I have a 2003 AD domain in a VMWare Team. Added the Ubuntu VM to the team and trying to take over 2003 server with the installed Terminal Server client.
 
I get the login screen but logging on doesn't work... I always get the "System could not log you on, make sure your username and domain are correct".
 
I tried RDP, RDPv5, checked keyboard settings are ok so password is correctly typed... I'm using the account that I created as domain administrator to connect. At the exact same time, I can use these credentials (username&domainname)without problems for RDP from a XP SP2 virtual machine. 
 
I'm sure this is rather simple (some limitation?) but couldn't find it in the first 25 RDP threads that I searched :)

---

### Post by JoH Ubnt on 2009-06-19
Hmmm.. does it have something to do with the Ubuntu PC having to be member of the AD domain or something?

---

### Post by JoH Ubnt on 2009-06-19
As happens so often, you first post and then find out the problem (or at least how to get around it).  :D
 
I thought my keyboard was behaving normal, but it wasn't!! Usually it's enough to test AZERTY vs QWERTY, and that was ok. But my password contains a "1", and for some reason this is turned into a "!" in the RDP window??? So in other words my keyboard is normal within Ubuntu in the VM, but within the RDP window the upper row of keyboard keys is behing strangely. This is on a DELL laptop, and when I press the "1" it produces "7", a "2" produces "2e" and other strange stuff ??? As soon as I use the numeric keypad on the laptop (via fn key) , behaviour is normal.
 
So I can now logon to the Win2003 SP2 machine, but the upper row of keys is not usable it seems...

---

