---
title: "8.04 cant find vista shared folders"
date: 2008-07-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nightanole on 2008-07-02
Im new at this.  I got my wireless working on my notebook using the ndiswrapper.  Everything works.

I cant access my windows network to get to my shared folders.
When i try places/connect to a server/windows share, i get smb://192.168.1.3/ no application is registered as handling this file

When in terminal and i type smb://192.168.1.3/
I get bash smb: command not found.

i can stop and start samba, and i reinstalled it.

---

### Post by lisati on 2008-07-02
Is file sharing and networking enabled at the Windows end?

---

### Post by nightanole on 2008-07-03
yes and if i reboot the notebook back into vista i can access the shared folders.  Its like samba isnt there.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-07-03
then install samba.. are you able to ping 192.168.1.3?

---

### Post by nightanole on 2008-07-03
I reinstalled samba, its running(or at least i can stop/start the server) but smb is not a usable command.  I might as well be typing in "butter".  Do i have to run anything to start the samba services?

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-07-03
sudo /etc/init.d/samba start .. also try installing smbfs .. sudo apt-get install smbfs

---

### Post by nightanole on 2008-07-03
I can ping 192.168.1.3 fine.  I reinstalled samba, smbclient and smbfs.  still any smb commands come up with no program to run the command.

---

### Post by nightanole on 2008-07-04
Ok i did some more experiments

I tryed just the boot cd, and tryed to find a shared folder on a fresh vista sp1 install, no luck.  This is with all default settings.

From vista i can get to the shared folders on ubuntu.

If i do smbclient to the vista machine, it tells me all sorts of stuff like workgroup and even lists the shared folders.

I still have no luck accessing or even seeing the vista shared folders in the network browser.  And smb ://192.168.1.3/ or what ever still says command not found.  Connect to server gives a similar remark.

Shouldnt ubuntu work with just the boot cd and be able to browse vista folders in 8.04?  Hell i can even see the computers in the file browser, just when i click on the pc it just times out.

---

### Post by GepettoBR on 2008-08-02
smb isn't a command, it's a protocol. Try typing this in the terminal: **nautilus smb://192.168.1.3** and it should work.

---

### Post by Steve H on 2010-01-13
> **GepettoBR said:**
> smb isn't a command, it's a protocol. Try typing this in the terminal: **nautilus smb://192.168.1.3** and it should work.

I was having a few problems working out how to access a Windows share, thanks for that it got me sorted.

---

