---
title: "Windows fast, Linux slow....."
date: 2010-10-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Rismi on 2010-10-01
Hi all,

I'm experiencing a very strange (for me...) phenomena on my network. 
During a new installation of an Ubuntu Lucid Server I noted a strange very low Internet speed getting  packages from the local repository (it.archive.ubuntu.com).
Initially I supposed a congestion or a mirrors problem but the speed was so low to be really strange. I was downloading at about 6 kBs while normal speed is around 1 MBs and more. To investigate on this trouble I used my windows workstation to understand what happening to the mirror and SURPRISE (!!!) everything was absolutely "normal" (1,2 MBs).
Further investigations revealed that ALL Ubuntu (or simply Linux) machines, servers or workstations, any version, on the network suffers the same problem. :confused:
If I try to download the same file from the same repository at the same time, from any Linux machine I got 6 kBs or less while on any windows (any version) wks always more than 1 MBs.
This slowness affect any other traffic thru Internet of the same computers and it's really (for me) inexplicable.
Does anybody have an idea on where can be the problem that cause this curious phenomena ?

Thanks in advance to you all for any help.


Pino.

---

### Post by Lifeis on 2010-10-01
What is the speed like elsewhere when using your Linux machines? (not downloading from the Repository)
Speed test and check

---

### Post by Lifeis on 2010-10-01
Also, if you try to share files across your Network (Linux machine to Linux machine or Linux > Windows vice versa) what is the speed like for the file transfer?
-Lifeis

---

### Post by arvevans on 2010-10-01
Linux networking runs faster than Windows networking, so if you have intermittent packet loss the NAKs and resends can eat up all your bandwidth.  Use something like EtherApe to monitor your local LAN connection to see how many packets are being dropped and resent.  This problem shows up frequently on WiFi connected machines.

---

### Post by Rismi on 2010-10-04
Thanks for all reply,

following yours suggestions I've done some transfer tests between Linux-Linux and Linux-windows machines, all inside the network, without any apparent trouble. Speed range from 10MBs to 80MBs depending on interfaces speed and involved subsystems.
The problem appear only when crossing a Cisco 7100 router going to Internet.
Packet sniffing with WireShark does not reveal any NAK nor dropping activities. Windows just have a ACK spoofing system that can teoretically speedup a bit the connection.
I'm now looking on Cisco side to understand which difference can exist between the packets generated by both OS.
I'm really surprised by what happening :confused:

Any further help or suggestion will be very appreciated.

Pino.

---

### Post by tdayal on 2010-10-05
Rismi,

I'm having the same issue too. 

I've got an old HP server on which I've put 10.04 Server. Downloads start at around 300kbps and then it drops down to 2-3kbps. 

Plug in my Windows laptop with the same network settings, and downloading the same files will net me a MUCH faster speeds...

---

### Post by maclenin on 2010-10-05
Ditto with any (wireless) networking processes. MAC is FAST. (Lucid) Penguin is SLOW.

---

### Post by cheezbergher on 2010-10-05
I was having the same problems, I couldn't even hit 10Mb/s on my gigabit ethernet ports. I'm using a gigabyte 890fxa-ud5 motherboard which has dual Realtek 8111D gigabit LAN. My bios has a "smart LAN" utility in it, and I found out after the Ubuntu install, my LAN chips were only running in 10 Mb/s, so I think the ubuntu driver for my LAN chip somehow changed that. I tried using ethtool to adjust that but it didn't help either.

It turns out in my Bios there was an option to enable "LAN boot ROM." I turned that on in the Bios and rebooted and voila, it was running full speed again. If your Bios has that, or if you can find a way to enable you NIC Boot ROM, try that.

---

### Post by spotrick on 2010-11-30
Me too, sort of. Don't know about Windoze, but I just ran Update on my desktop PC and my laptop. Both running Ubuntu 10.10 and both connected to the 100MB LAN. Desktop downloaded the 136MB of downloads so fast I didn't have time to see what the download speed was! On the laptop (Dell XPS) download started fast -- 1500kbs -- but then throttled way back to ~60kbs. At one point it was as low as 16kbs! This seems to be a regular thing with the laptop, whether on LAN or WiFi.

---

### Post by abdusamed on 2011-02-26
I facing this problem after this morning. All was well but now I'm getting only -max- 100kb/sec. Never exceeding it. On windows its 600kb/sec on 6mbps connection. 

I'm connected on wifi in ubuntu 10.04.2.

I'm not sure if this could be source of problem but I changed my hostname. But the thing is a while back, the speed was fine on ubuntu, its just now it started to go slow.

But running :-
```
 sudo dhclient wlan0 
``` skyrockets my connection to normal speed but then it crashes all the way down to 100kb/sec rate. 

One thing I noticed was that the upload rate was the same on both OS

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-02-26
Have you tried doing a reinstall in advanced mode? Try changing the mirror to a different repository (ftp.____.___ to http____.___).

---

### Post by abdusamed on 2011-02-26
> **IWantFroyo said:**
> Have you tried doing a reinstall in advanced mode? Try changing the mirror to a different repository (ftp.____.___ to http____.___).

I don't understand what you're trying to say.

---

### Post by abdusamed on 2011-02-26
I just rebooted and now the internet speed from the speed monitor is fine. But I know it will go download after a while!

should i change something??? I don't understand why do i need to edit anything because my ubuntu was fine the other day

---

### Post by abdusamed on 2011-02-27
arrg.. this is getting on my nerves

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-02-27
What I mean, is boot off the livecd, push f4 (I think) and select advanced install. Then, keep going as best you can until it asks for a "mirror."
Go down until you find something that looks like [http/ftp]pakistan.ubuntu.org
I think you're trying to use the wrong mirror.

---

### Post by abdusamed on 2011-03-01
i fixed by changing the network property from manual to dhcp [auto]

:)

---

