---
title: "dhcp and firestarter help!  n00b"
date: 2008-06-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mashimaro on 2008-06-17
Hi, I'm trying to make dhcp work on my laptop but I keep getting this error:
> root@tony-laptop:/etc/dhcp3# /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server start
dhcpd self-test failed. Please fix the config file.
The error was:
Address range 32.133.14.3 to 32.133.14.8, netmask 32.133.14.2 spans multiple subnets!
root@tony-laptop:/etc/dhcp3#


here is my /etc/dhcp3/dhcpd.conf
> # DHCP configuration generated by Firestarter
ddns-update-style interim;
ignore client-updates;

subnet 32.133.14.2 netmask 32.133.14.2 {
	range 32.133.14.3 32.133.14.8;
	option routers 32.133.14.2;
	option subnet-mask 32.133.14.2;
	option domain-name-servers 192.168.0.1;
	option ip-forwarding off;
	range dynamic-bootp 192.168.0.100 192.168.0.254;
	default-lease-time 21600;
	max-lease-time 43200;
}


Can you give me the steps to fix this problem? I'm a noob at networking and an example would be nice.

Oh, and firestarter does not seem to work as it always gives this error whenever I try to start the firewall. 
> Failed to Start Firewall
The device eth0 is not ready. Please check your settings and make sure your Internet Connection is active

I used a crossover cable for eth0 to connect my windows pc to my ubuntu laptop, both computers can be pinged both ways. eth1 is the wireless on my laptop and it connects to the internet. I think the problem is the dhcp3-server, because it seems that it has a problem starting. Does anyone know a solution???


Also, after the dhcp is set up and firestarter is able to startup with internet connection sharing, what steps do I need to take on windows vista so it can connect to the internet through my laptop??

Thanks so much!

---

