---
title: "11.10 -- Cannot connect to any site, failure at software lvl, log viewer unusable"
date: 2011-12-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by krack3rz on 2011-12-22
I'm not sure it both problems are connected but I fear they are:

1. I cannot connect to any site fully, by that I mean it gets only as far as getting the title of the site (not always), ping doesnt work, host [www.example.com](www.example.com) works, dig [www.example.com](www.example.com) works. After a while it just times out.

2. Log file viewer increases in memory usage (both ram and swap) until it turns "uninterruptable" and kills itself (in terminal it said: "Killed"). The log viewer is unusable, and so is the whole system until it kills itself.



Ubuntu 11.10 - latest upgrade 32-bit
I worked perfectly before. I dont know what changed for it to stop working now (has been days now)

I rebooted into windows, it all works, rebooted back to Ubuntu, changed the kernels, still the same effect. I have 2 other comps that use the same splitter, they are unaffected, (one debian and the other ubuntu 10.10)

I ran virtualbox (gNewSense) the internet worked like a charm, like always.

Which leads me to my conclusion its a software level thing.

I also disabled many services, so if they interfere or are broken I can reinstall: cups, ssh, apache2, lighttpd, ircd-hybrid, openarena server, fail2ban, bluetooth, and denyhosts. No change...

Oh, I have 2 network cards, both fixed onto the motherboard, I switched the ethernet wire to the other still no change, I "down"ed the eth{0,1} so that only one works, no change, I reconnceted and restarted, nothing helps

All I know is my router had ~5 ports forwarded to my comp, and a couple of times the internet started to load, but each time I forwarded an port, it failed almost right away, the connection just stops after time as well...


So any ideas anyone? :popcorn:
I'm about ready to switch distros for good, especially because of gnome 3...or throw my comp out the window...

---

### Post by krack3rz on 2011-12-30
so no1 has any idea huh....   

not even a suggestion on how I can get this question answered? :confused:

any references on what can be read? :confused:


I cant delete everything and start from scratch...and if I do it wont be Ubuntu

---

### Post by lost.soul on 2011-12-30
What is the output of:

```
# ip route show
```

and
```
ifconfig
```

also:

```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
```

---

### Post by krack3rz on 2012-01-08
```
~$ ip route show
```
> default via xxx.xxx.xxx.1 dev eth0  proto static 
xxx.xxx.xxx.0/24 dev eth0  proto kernel  scope link  src xxx.xxx.xxx.104  metric 1 
xxx.xxx.0.0/16 dev eth0  scope link  metric 1000 


```
~$ ifconfig 
```
> eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:XX:XX:XX:XX:XX  
          inet addr:xxx.xxx.xxx.104  Bcast:xxx.xxx.xxx.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: XXXX::XXXX:XXXX:fa94:1643/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:25134679 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:13718553 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:28409814279 (2.4 GB)  TX bytes:13158907263 (1.1 GB)
          Interrupt:17 

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:16 Base address:0x2c00 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:594 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:594 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:73602 (73.6 KB)  TX bytes:73602 (73.6 KB)

```
~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces 
```
> auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


I hope you dont mind me X'ing out all ip's and addresses :P

---

### Post by krack3rz on 2012-01-08
also I forgot to add, the problem seems to have gone away (<1 week been no problem, at least none I can see when I am awake).

1. I reinstalled my gnome-system-log and it started working again without crashing

2. i removed everything i had in crontab (was only one thing each in user and sudo)

3. i have yet to port forward any ports to my comp and open up some ports i closed in firestarter -- I did this cuz I thought it caused problems for my connection.

4. I started turning off my comp at night, i only restart if there's a kernel update, and even then, not until it crashes or it gets too slow...   :P

---

### Post by krack3rz on 2012-01-26
problem comes back if I route a port to the comp., it breaks down instantly. So it works as long as I never route any ports to Ubuntu...

any ideas any1?

---

