---
title: "[12.04] losing default route on suspend"
date: 2013-01-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by coastwatcher on 2013-01-11
My Compaq C700 with Xubuntu 12.04 has no default route after suspend/resume.  The ethernet comes right back up, but I cannot get out until I do "sudo route add default gw myfirewall".  

This might be a red herring, but it started after I added a Netgear WNDR3400v2 dual band wireless router to the network in place of a Cisco E2000.  The Netgear operates only as a WAP (LAN side is on our ethernet, WAN side not connected), and I disabled RIP on the Netgear, so it's not obvious how it can cause trouble, but ....

Any ideas why this might be happening, or what I should do to fix it?  Thanks.

---

### Post by jonobr on 2013-01-11
Hello


How are you managing your network interfaces.
Are you modiifying the /etc/network/interfaces file or using the GUI?

Thanks

Jonathan

---

### Post by coastwatcher on 2013-01-11
Well, duhh!

While initially configuring the Netgear, I was letting its DHCP server configure my eth0, while using WiFi through the old WAP to access the rest of the LAN and Internet.  After finishing with the NetGear (including disabling its DHCP server), I disabled the WiFi and returned to configuring my ethernet interface from our network's established DHCP server.

However, I forgot to uncheck the box in Edit Connections -> Wired Connection 1 -> IPv4 Settings -> Routes -> "Use this connection only for resources on its network", which was keeping the default route from being re-established.  (I had checked that while working on the Netgear box, then forgot about it.)

Perhaps others making the same error will see this and save themselves some time in resolving the problem.

Thank you, Jonobr, for asking a relevant question.

---

