---
title: "(15.04) Wifi connected to home router, but internet isn't connecting"
date: 2015-08-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tyler_brown2 on 2015-08-29
[FONT=verdana]So I just put 15.04 on my computer, and the Wifi seems to be connecting to the router but there is no internet connection. I'll post many commands I have run following other questions on this site. Every command here ran fine except for sudo dhclient wlan0, which after Enter is hit just returns an empty line until I have to Ctrl + C out of it (not blank after it asks password, an empty line after sudo password is entered). Here is the information on my machine and network:

[/FONT]https://askubuntu.com/questions/666660/15-04-wifi-connected-to-home-router-but-internet-isnt-connecting-drivers-ar

Reddit thread here:

[https://www.reddit.com/r/Ubuntu/comments/3ix0tf/1504_wifi_connected_to_home_router_but_internet/](https://www.reddit.com/r/Ubuntu/comments/3ix0tf/1504_wifi_connected_to_home_router_but_internet/)

[FONT=verdana]Please help me, guys[/FONT][FONT=verdana]. I really need this to work. I just got laid off and just want to get back to programming, and I'm tired of the sleepless nights that Ubuntu is giving me. I will constantly be refreshing the page on all forums linked. Please help. Thank you.[/FONT]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-08-30
Please note:

```
wlan0 IEEE 802.11bgn ESSID:"3535"
**Mode:Ad-Hoc** Frequency:2.412 GHz Cell: 4E:16:E0:97:CB:B8
Tx-Power=20 dBm
Retry short limit:7 RTS thr:off Fragment thr:off Power Management:off
```
Ad-Hoc mode is used for computer-to-computer connections, not computer-to-router connections (usually known as infrastructure). This often happens when a user uses Network Manager to 'Create New Wi-Fi Network.'

Please click the Network Manager icon, select 'Edit Connections' then Wireless and change the Mode from Ad-Hoc to Infrastructure. Save and close.

You may need to restart Network Manager:

```
sudo service network-manager restart
```
Or you may need to reboot.

---

