---
title: "Getting a Brother Network printer to work"
date: 2006-08-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Regenerate on 2006-08-16
Hi all,

I installing Ubuntu at 6 computers at my faculty on the University of Utrecht (replacing Windwos ;)) and most things seems to be working just fine. I only have a problem with getting the printer to work so some help is necessery.

The situation: I have a [Brother HL-2070N]("http://www.brother.nl/products/welcome.cfm?prod_art=HL-2070N") connected to a router where all other computers are connected to. With windows it was possible to print with it so I think we can assume that all hardware connection are ok.

I installed the LPR (BSD lpr/lpd line printer spooling system) from the Adept Manager and I downloaded the [linux printer driver from the Brother website]("http://solutions.brother.com/linux/sol/printer/linux/lpr_drivers.html") and installed it (.deb package so that was easy).

I then followed the instructions [here]("http://solutions.brother.com/linux/sol/printer/linux/lpr_install.html") :
> Ensure that the :rm and :rp lines in the /etc/printcap file read as follows:

:rm=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx\
:rp=lp\

( Other distributions )
When you edit the /etc/printcap file you MUST restart the lpd service.

To do this enter:
/etc/init.d/lpd restart

at the command prompt.So my printcap file now looks like this: ```
# This file was automatically generated by cupsd(8) from the
# /etc/cups/printers.conf file.  All changes to this file
# will be lost.

HL2070N:\
	:mx=0:\
	:sd=/var/spool/lpd/HL2070N:\
	:sh:\
	:rm=10.10.40.94
	:rp=lp\
	:if=/usr/local/Brother/lpd/filterHL2070N:
```

I also selected the LPR printsystem as currently used printsystem.

Next I tried adding a Network printer(TCP) trough the system settings. When trying to scan for a printer, none is found but when I enter the IP from the printer (10.10.40.94) it goes to the next screen (when entering a wring IP it gives an error that no printer is found, so I guess this is ok).

In the next screen I need to select a printer driver but the Brother HL2070N isn't in the list so I cannot install the driver. This seems a little strange to me since I installed the printer driver but I guess that only installs the driver and doesn't update the list. So I browse to the /usr/local/Brother/lpd/filterHL2070N driver but when I enter it it tells me its the wrong driver format so I'm stuck with this method.

Now I noticed that adding the printer to the printcap file also added the printer to the printer list in the system settings. The information seems ok and the printer is on so I rightclick on it and choose to test the printer.

This does and doesn't work: it prints 1 page with some nonsense> %!PS-Adobe-3.0
%%BoundingBox: 0 0 612 792
%%Pages:1
%%LanguageLevel:1
%%Document and 7 other white pages.

Dispite the strange test pages it seems that the communication lines are ok but now I need to get it to print some documents so I try printing from open office write. When I do so I cannot choose for the Brother printer but only a 'Generic printer'. When I do so I get an error.

So I'm a little stuck here. I hope I have provided enough information about what I did so someone can help me printing. I really hope I get it to work, It's the only thing that really needs to work, if it doesn't I'm afraid we need to go back in time and install windows again...

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by aevernon on 2007-01-06
I was able to install my Brother HL-2070N as an LPD printer using the built-in HL-2060 driver. Here are the steps I used:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=68403&p=1977491]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=68403&p=1977491")

---

