---
title: "14.04 kernel update to -43 build kills Broadcom Corporation BCM4306 802.11b/g Wireles"
date: 2014-12-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mdlueck on 2014-12-14
Greetings,

I have a Broadcom Corporation BCM4306 802.11b/g Wireless LAN Controller PCI board in my desktop computer, loaded with Xubuntu 14.04 x64.

This weekend I applied a kernel update to it. Last week I was successfully connecting with the kernel build: linux-image-3.13.0-40-generic

The kernel build which installed is: linux-image-3.13.0-43-generic

I am unable to successfully connect to a WiFi network with the -43 build of the kernel. The WiFi networks still appear, I select one to connect to, it tries to connect for several seconds, then fails and gives up.

Falling back to the -40 build of the kernel restores the ability to connect to the WiFi network.

What further investigations am I able to perform to assist in generating a meaningful bug report?

I am thankful,

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2014-12-14
Hi, try this
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214110](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214110)
if you need additional help please let us know
thanks.

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2014-12-15
This morning I forgot to select the -40 version kernel from the Grub menu, and the computer connected to WiFi right away with the latest -43 kernel. Very strange.

I am thankful,

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2015-01-15
Well this sort of WiFi board nonsense seems to be par for 14.04 kernel updates.

The -44 kernel update was applied this week, killed the WiFi board however dropping back to the -43 kernel was able to support the WiFi board. After a couple of IPL's to the -43 kernel, the latest -44 version of the kernel is working with the WiFi board.

Has anyone else observed troubles similar to what I am seeing? Does anyone know the root cause / solution to resolve this type of problem?

I am thankful,

---

