---
title: "10.04 weird wireless networking problem"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by timroberts on 2010-05-06
Ok so this has me stumped. I've never run across anything like this before. My wireless on a Lenovo Ideapad Y450 starts to connect to my router, makes a connection and just before it finishes to give me access, it disconnects. My router first sees the laptop as a wireless connection, then it changes to a hardwired connection. Even after the laptop says there is no connection, the router still says it is connected (wired).

When I first installed 10.04, the wireless worked fine. Today I was playing around with grub2 resolutions, and that seems to have killed it. I tried re-installing the root file system but leaving my home folder (on a separate partition) alone.

Any ideas on where to look/start fixing things? I'm particularly confused because I didn't change anything in my home folder, it was all in the root file system, wouldn't wiping any of those changes fix it?

Anyways, thanks in advance for any advice!

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-09
> **timroberts said:**
>  I'm particularly confused because I didn't change anything in my home folder, it was all in the root file system, wouldn't wiping any of those changes fix it?
Some user-specific settings may be saved in your home directory - but it's curious that resolution settings would corrupt networking. 
I presume the laptop has no wired connection to the router...
You've checked the settings in Network Manager for changes?

---

### Post by timroberts on 2010-05-09
Yes, I checked all of the settings I could. There's no wired connection to the router. I need the laptop for school so I had to wipe the home folder and do a fresh install. :( oh well. Thanks for helping anyways.

---

### Post by eltonw on 2010-05-09
> **timroberts said:**
> Yes, I checked all of the settings I could. There's no wired connection to the router. I need the laptop for school so I had to wipe the home folder and do a fresh install. :( oh well. Thanks for helping anyways.

**What type of network card is in your system?** Providing some more detail on your hardware and setup will get you to a quicker help and solution. 
First learn [COLOR="Red"]how to identify your card:[/COLOR][https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported")

FWIW, I installed LUCID on a netbook that has a RaLink card. 

Rather than having to compile the network drivers at each update, I installed this way:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9203922#post9203922]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9203922#post9203922") [#136]

I am now running the unofficial kernel:
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33.3-lucid/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.33.3-lucid/)

HTH...

---

