---
title: "connected to vpn, how to browse through vpn server?"
date: 2012-10-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tuxulin on 2012-10-20
i have vps server running openvpn which appears to be all good.
from a client machine (windows xp) i have open GUI running and it does connect to the vpn server and the log show no errors. 

when i open the browser client side and go to whatsmyip.com the ip shows up as my local host number and NOT the vpn provided 10.8.0.6.

is there something else i need to do in order to browse and use
the server traffic and not the local ?

thanks
Tux

---

### Post by efflandt on 2012-10-20
whatsmyip.com shows the public IP address being used to access the internet.  In other words, it is the source IP that anyone would see for any internet traffic from you, so it can route replies back to you.  It should never show an IP in the private ranges like 192.168.x.x, 10.x.x.x, etc. because the internet should not route those.

Whether network traffic is routed through a VPN depends whether it is configured to route just certain subnets or remove your default route and act as your default route, or whether you are using a proxy on the VPN machine.  But if the VPN is on your same LAN and uses the same internet connection that your PC would use without it, your public IP address would be the same in either case.

In order for a proxy or VPN that you properly route all traffic through to show a different public IP than you have, the VPN would either need to use a different ISP, or you would need an ISP plan with more than one public IP address and have the VPN server bound to a different public IP address than other default internet access from your LAN.

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2012-10-20
The XP OpenVPN client (the free one that I've used) does not route your traffic through the VPN tunnel by default; the OpenVPN client for Ubuntu does, however.  I've used both.  The "whatsmyip" website shows my OpenVPN IP address when it is directed (Ubuntu client) but does show my local WAN IP from the XP client, just like you are seeing.

This may help:

[https://forums.openvpn.net/topic8853.html](https://forums.openvpn.net/topic8853.html)

---

### Post by tuxulin on 2012-10-20
thanks for the replies 
this is really getting terible lol im lost and confused. just when i thought i had ubuntu all figured out openvpn shows me that i still know nothing. lol  :confused::confused::confused:

VPS unbuntu server running openvpn ---- adapters are.. venet, eth, tun
windows XP client

im using openvpn GUI windows connecter to connect to the vpn server
i get no errors and the client is assigned a ip of 10.8.0.6

i have tried tracert google.com expecting the trace to through my VPS
but it doesnt. wether client is connected or not tracert outputs the same.

i can ping the private lan and the server, 
the status of openvpn server is running
  
what ill do now after posting this is flush iptables then accept all in all chains to see any difference but honestly i dout it will make any difference.
 
please if you have or had openvpn working please throw me a life line
below are some details 
 

so here it is :(
and many thanks in advance

```

server conf
----------

port 1194
proto udp
dev tun
ca /etc/openvpn/ca.crt
cert /etc/openvpn/techabcd.com.crt
key /etc/openvpn/techabcd.com.key
dh /etc/openvpn/dh1024.pem
server 10.8.0.0 255.255.255.0
ifconfig-pool-persist ipp.txt
keepalive 10 120
persist-key
persist-tun
status openvpn-status.log
verb 3



client .opvn file
-----------------

client
dev tun
proto tcp
remote (serverip) 1194
pull
resolv-retry infinite
nobind
persist-key
persist-tun
script-security 3
ca ca.crt
cert client1.crt
key client1.key

-----------------------------

iptables
--------

# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Sat Oct 20 16:36:23 2012
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [2940:175813]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [686:46324]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [686:46324]
-A POSTROUTING -s 10.8.0.0/24 -o venet0 -j SNAT --to-source (server ip)
COMMIT

# Completed on Sat Oct 20 16:36:23 2012
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Sat Oct 20 16:36:23 2012

*mangle
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [9046:835017]
:INPUT ACCEPT [9046:835017]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [7458:848664]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [7458:848664]
COMMIT

# Completed on Sat Oct 20 16:36:23 2012
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Sat Oct 20 16:36:23 2012

*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:fail2ban-ssh - [0:0]

-A INPUT -i tun+ -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p udp -m udp --dport 1194 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports 22 -j fail2ban-ssh
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m state --state NEW -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type 8 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m limit --limit 5/min -j LOG --log-prefix "iptables denied: " --log-level 7
-A INPUT -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-port-unreachable

-A FORWARD -s 10.8.0.0/24 -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-port-unreachable
-A FORWARD -i tun+ -j ACCEPT

-A OUTPUT -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -o tun+ -j ACCEPT
-A fail2ban-ssh -j RETURN
COMMIT

# Completed on Sat Oct 20 16:36:23 2012

```

---

### Post by tuxulin on 2012-10-20
just to add 
the vps (vpn server) is located in another country from the cliet

thanks

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2012-10-20
Did you visit the link I posted above to the OpenVPN help forum?  That thread addresses the exact problem you are having.

You have to tell your XP client to send all its traffic through the VPN tunnel, because by default it won't.  It's something you add to your XP client configuration for OpenVPN.  The line to add is listed in that thread.

There may also be something add to your OpenVPN server configuration on the VPS.  But in my experience, OpenVPN server defaults to directing traffic through your tunnel unless the client  says otherwise.

Because this is an OpenVPN question, you will get more expert responses by posting on the OpenVPN  help forum that I linked you to above: it is all about OpenVPN.

---

### Post by tuxulin on 2012-10-20
ahallubuntu thanks 
ill take a deeper look at that link again... i tried so much bits and bobs that ma brains is melting out ma nose and is making me to assume situations inetead of going through them... 

ill goo through that link and see what happens

thanks again
Tux

---

### Post by tuxulin on 2012-10-21
@ahallubuntu
thank you..... 

everything is working just fine


thanks again
Tux

---

