---
title: "U9.10 - OpenVPN disconnects me from internet"
date: 2009-11-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by 5ulo on 2009-11-25
In 9.04 i have the VPN keys and ca in /etc/openvpn and all works fine.. VPN was running after start, internet works anywhere - in the office on LAN network with VPN server, or at home.

But in 9.10 is it different. If i am in the office, i must stop openVPN, because the whole internet won't work. Works only locally. When i am at home, the VPN is running and whole internet works like a charm (the VPN network too).
So i made a simple script with "sudo /etc/init.d/openvpn stop" and if i am in the office, i run him.

Today i try to install openvpn plugin for network manager and it is the same as the first case - if i am in the office, all works only locally - i must stop openvpn service. But here is something new - when i am at home and the openvpn service is running, works it like i am in the office... url sites won't load and i can browse only on vpn network. So if i want download new emails, i need to stop the openvpn service.

is there any solution to work vpn network together with classic network like in 9.04?

Thanks

sorry for my bad english :oops:

---

### Post by puppywhacker on 2009-11-25
Your OpenVPN overwrites the default gateway. check the last line of "route -n" and you will see that the route has changed. If you don't want that you should not set any default gateway in OpenVPN or you should set the gateway of your internet provider.

Here is an example of 0.0.0.0, the default route towards gateway 192.168.1.1
```
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 eth1
```

---

### Post by mdhunn on 2009-12-15
I had the same problem setting it up.  This works, in fact, I'm on my VPN right now:)
Select configure VPN from the menu.
Select the VPN you are having trouble with.
Click edit.
Click the IPv4 tab.
Click Routes
Check the box that says "Use this Connection only for resources on its network."
Apply your settings and it should work like a champ:D

---

### Post by 5ulo on 2009-12-15
mdhunn, you're my hero :)))))) thanks :)

---

