---
title: "DNS resolver changed between 12.04 and 16.04"
date: 2017-04-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by irmath on 2017-04-13
This issue is related to "Prod subdomain doesn't work anymore in local DNS", but not quite the same.

Just upgraded from 12.04 to 16.04. It appears that the behaviour of the dns resolver was changed between te two releases. I did not find any change in the man page though.

In 12.04, when you type nslookup server01.dev, the query is sent to the dns without success, but then the entries in the search list are tried until one (server01.dev.my.domain) succeeds.
In 16.04, server01.dev simply fails and the search list is not used at all. You have to add ndots:n to options in resolv.conf (n depending on the required maximum depth).
The man page states that the ndots option determines if the _initial_ query is sent to the dns as is, or that the search list is used from the start.

Is there anyone who can shed some light on this? It is possible to return to the old behavior (without recompiling the kernel, that is).

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-13
Yes, the way resolv.conf works was completely changed.  There's a new package in the middle now - resolvconf. It was added in 14.04 to solve some problems that 1% of the Linux community was having.  Not me nor anyone I personally know was having any issues. Also, nslookup has been deprecated for a long time. Use **dig**.

There are new settings in the interfaces file to manage DNS and search domains. dns-search is one. **man resolvconf** will show them.  If that doesn't help, I don't know what to say.  Perhaps if you showed exact examples from 12.04 someone could help? Show the config file and working results.

It has been a few years since most people dealt with these changes, so all the people migrating from 12.04 yrs later after most people already did miss out on the discussions of those changes. Not good or bad, just the way it is.

And welcome to the forums.

---

### Post by irmath on 2017-04-14
Thanks! I suspected something in this line, but google didn't find anything useful (this time).

Q: Is there any information WHY this was changed (what was the problem of 1% of the community)?

A pity that the resolv.conf man page was not updated.

Short conclusion: yes, we will have to change resolv.conf to retain the original behavior.

By the way, nslookup may have been deprecated, the fact that it is still distributed says something about dig, doesn't it?
I rather use host if I just want to see if a hostname can be resolved.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-14
> **irmath said:**
> Q: Is there any information WHY this was changed (what was the problem of 1% of the community)?

There are probably archived discussions somewhere. I vaguely recall something about network-manager.

> **irmath said:**
> A pity that the resolv.conf man page was not updated. 
```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by **resolvconf**(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
```
Might not be clear to everyone, but it is there.

> **irmath said:**
> Short conclusion: yes, we will have to change resolv.conf to retain the original behavior.
There are template files that get used by resolvconf. Use those and be certain you have backups.

> **irmath said:**
> By the way, nslookup may have been deprecated, the fact that it is still distributed says something about dig, doesn't it?
I rather use host if I just want to see if a hostname can be resolved.

Lots of old programs that shouldn't be used anymore are still around (e.g. host.conf) - it has been deprecated since nsswitch.conf, but is still there.  In 20+ yrs of admin, I've never, ever, ever, ever, seen any site using host.conf - not once.  For a few releases, fdisk was one of those, until they finally got the patched GPT version and included it. Rather than memorizing which versions worked correctly with GPT or not, I just switched to parted which does things correctly as I'd want by default.

I'm just some guy on the internet volunteering to help where I can here. Nobody here has any special ties with any upstream projects, unless they clearly say they do.  Think I've seen a few of those guys here over the years - perhaps 2 and they had extremely low post counts - too busy changing code, I suspect.

So - if this is solved for you, please mark it as suck using the thread tools. That helps both sides of the community.

---

