---
title: "How can I route to mobile network instead of wlan network?"
date: 2010-05-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bredman on 2010-05-19
I commonly use a laptop with a wlan connection, but sometimes I need to plug a 3G modem into this laptop.

My problem is that the route is not changed from wlan0 to ppp0 automatically. I need to disable the wlan to force the route to change to ppp0.

Is there any official way to set the relative priority of the networks? I would prefer to route to ppp0 if both wlan0 and ppp0 are available. At the moment, it seems that wlan0 has priority over ppp0.

For now, I have a quick-and-dirty cron job to check for the existence of ppp0 and change the routing accordingly, but I have a feeling there should be a more official way to do this.

btw, I am using a standard Lucid installation.

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-05-19
hi

the easiest route 

is to connect the wireless connection first

then use GnomePPP for the 3g connection , start this second

to get back to wireless connection , drop the 3g

below is what it looks like

resolv.conf:

nameserver 149.254.201.126 <------3g NS1
nameserver 149.254.192.126  <--------3g NS2
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain home
search home

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain home
search home
nameserver 192.168.22.22  <------3g NS1 not in service
nameserver 192.168.22.23  <--------3g NS2 not in service

ifconfig:

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:304 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:304 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:49188 (49.1 KB)  TX bytes:49188 (49.1 KB)

ppp0      Link encapoint-to-Point Protocol  
          inet addr:10.197.98.238  P-t-P:10.64.64.64  Mask:255.255.255.255
          UP POINTOPOINT RUNNING NOARP MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:77 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:88 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:3 
          RX bytes:29888 (29.8 KB)  TX bytes:13495 (13.4 KB)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:25:86:c3:bf:20  
          inet addr:10.70.117.82  Bcast:10.70.117.87  Mask:255.255.255.248
          inet6 addr: fe80::225:86ff:fec3:bf20/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:584 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:621 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:202321 (202.3 KB)  TX bytes:65699 (65.6 KB)

---

### Post by bredman on 2010-05-19
Thanks to alexfish for the detailed answer. However, I have no problems manually switching from one network to another, my query is if it is possible to change the network priorities in Network Manager.

Am I asking for too much here? This forum is full of people trying to get one network running, and I'm complaining that I can't switch networks automatically.

---

### Post by linuxonbute on 2010-05-19
> **bredman said:**
> Thanks to alexfish for the detailed answer. However, I have no problems manually switching from one network to another, my query is if it is possible to change the network priorities in Network Manager.

Am I asking for too much here? This forum is full of people trying to get one network running, and I'm complaining that I can't switch networks automatically.

I don't know about that but on my laptop I can switch the wireless off manually and then it will connect to my mobile dongle.

---

### Post by purelinuxuser on 2010-05-19
> **bredman said:**
> Thanks to alexfish for the detailed answer. However, I have no problems manually switching from one network to another, my query is if it is possible to change the network priorities in Network Manager.

AFAIK Network Manager has no "network priority" settings.  However, you could always right-click on the wireless applet and uncheck "Enable Wireless," which will down your wifi connection temporarily.  Hope this helps. :KS

---

### Post by bredman on 2010-05-20
Thanks to everybody for their suggestions.

It seems to confirm what I thought, that Network Manager always assumes that eth has priority over wlan, and wlan always has priority over ppp. If I want anything else I will need some manual intervention or a quick-and-dirty cron job.

I will consider resigstering this as a bug or improvement on Launchpad.

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-05-20
hi

best do it with NM

[http://blogs.gnome.org/dcbw/category/networkmanager/](http://blogs.gnome.org/dcbw/category/networkmanager/)

[http://projects.gnome.org/NetworkManager/](http://projects.gnome.org/NetworkManager/)

regards 

alexfish

---

