---
title: "Ubuntu 8.10 and ZTE USB MF636"
date: 2009-02-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wridley on 2009-02-10
Hi, I have a Rogers USB wireless stick.  I am able to connect and get an IP address but am unable to do anything after that.

Copy of wvdial config file. 
------------------------------------------------
[Dialer Defaults]
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
ISDN = off
Modem Type = USB Modem
Baud = 460800
Init = ATZ
Init2 = AT&F &D2 &C1
Init3 = ATS7=60 S30=0 S0=0
Init4 = AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","internet.com"
Init5 = 
Init6 = 
Init7 = 
Init8 = 
Init9 = 
Phone = *99#
Phone1 = 
Phone2 = 
Phone3 = 
Phone4 = 
Dial Prefix = 
Dial Attempts = 1
Dial Command = ATM1L3DT
Ask Password = off
Password = off
Username = na
Auto Reconnect = off
Abort on Busy = off
Carrier Check = off
Check Def Route = off
Abort on No Dialtone = off
Stupid Mode = on
Idle Seconds = 0
New PPPD = yes
Auto DNS = on
;Minimize = off
;Dock = off
;Do NOT edit this file by hand!
-------------------------------------------------

Output of sudo wvdial:

--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: AT&F &D2 &C1
AT&F &D2 &C1
OK
--> Sending: ATS7=60 S30=0 S0=0
ATS7=60 S30=0 S0=0
OK
--> Sending: AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","internet.com"
AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","internet.com"
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: AT&F &D2 &C1
AT&F &D2 &C1
OK
--> Sending: ATS7=60 S30=0 S0=0
ATS7=60 S30=0 S0=0
OK
--> Sending: AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","internet.com"
AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","internet.com"
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATDT*99***1#
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATDT*99***1#
CONNECT
--> Carrier detected.  Starting PPP immediately.
--> Starting pppd at Tue Feb 10 10:23:19 2009
--> Pid of pppd: 6195
--> Using interface ppp0
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> local  IP address 172.28.1.186
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> remote IP address 10.64.64.64
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> primary   DNS address 207.181.101.4
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> secondary DNS address 207.181.101.5
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--------------------------------------------------

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks

---

### Post by wridley on 2009-02-10
Anyone??

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-02-16
Hi, from your data everything seems to be OK.
Try to untick "work offline" in Firefox Menu:
**File > Work Offline (ALT-F W)**

Regards,
George

---

### Post by neu2buntu on 2009-02-16
i have the zte mf622 modem which i tried and got it working. for some reason it didnt work under the preset "3" option it always was trying through the "cdma" option with dial num #777 so i just right clicked the wireless icon (top panel) > edit connections > mobile broadband > click on auto mobile (CDMA) connection > edit > tick connect automatically .and in number type *99# exit and right click wireless icon again and untick wireless (restart or logout may be required) and try to connect oh and keep "enable networking" ticked on

---

### Post by PDemong on 2009-03-07
Just a suggestion because I had a similary problem with the MF636 usb modem from Rogers :
verify that your /etc/resolv.conf have read permissions for all. If you don't understand this point, just run in a shell :
chmod 644 /etc/resolv.conf

As GeorgeVita said, you are well-connected on Rogers Network.

---

### Post by CArrowsm on 2009-03-13
Hi, any chance you could point me towards step by step directions for installing and using my Rogers stick?   All of the instructions I have found so far are for other models and don't seem to work!

Cheers, 
Cheyenne

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-03-13
Hi **CArrowsm**,
I have a ZTE MF636 and using it on Ubuntu 8.04. The main problem with theese modems is that respond to the system by default as CD drive or USB hub (19d2:2000 on lsusb command) but we need the actual modem which selected after issuing a special AT command **AT+ZCDRUN=8** (then it responds 19d2:0031).

Note that above numbers are the Manufacturer and the Product Identification number which is shown when you execute the command **lsusb** from a terminal window.

At first try the **lsusb** command and copy paste the results to follow up. Also read my post#2 at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1005910](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1005910)

Regards,
George

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-03-14
I have JUST installed an Ubuntu 8.10 from an alternative installation CD (ISO i386) to my Toshiba Satellite L30-113. I did some modifications found on various posts (most in ubuntuforums.org) and I am connected with my ZTE MF636 3g modem via Network Manager 0.7 (I have already downloaded over 250MB of updates before posting this note!).

Below are the steps you may follow to work with your ZTE MF636:  

1. Boot without the MF636, wait for the system to stabilize, open a terminal window, plug in the modem, wait 10-15 seconds and run the command:  **lsusb**

If among the responds you see **19d2:0031** go to **step 3**.

2. The modem responds **19d2:2000** (as the internal CD drive or USB hub) but we need the actual modem (**19d2:0031**). You may use a special program called **usb_modeswitch** (see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1017630](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1017630)) but I preferred to send the AT command **AT+ZCDRUN=8** from a Windows PC to the modem (use hyperterminal or add it as an extra init command through control panel).
This command turns off the AUTO RUN function of the internal CD, if you want to return to default you have to send **AT+ZCDRUN=9** (info taken from [www.matt-barrett.com](www.matt-barrett.com)).

Test again the terminal command **lsusb** to be sure you have **19d2:0031**

3. Make a new "rule" for MF636 to create the usbserial communication port (/dev/ttyUSBx).
From terminal run: **sudo gedit /etc/udev/rules.d/90-zte.rules**
copy paste the following lines (according to post#4 of [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=665332):](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=665332):)
[B]
ACTION!="add", GOTO="ZTE_End"
#
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", SYSFS{idProduct}=="0031",
SYSFS{idVendor}=="19d2", GOTO="ZTE_Modem"
#
LABEL="ZTE_Modem"
RUN+="/sbin/modprobe usbserial vendor=0x19d2 product=0x0031",
MODE="660", GROUP="dialout"
#
LABEL="ZTE_End"
[/B]
Save and Exit from gedit.

4. Edit HAL info to see MF636 instead of MF628. From a terminal window:
**sudo gedit /usr/share/hal/fdi/information/10freedesktop/10-modem.fdi**
Search (ctrl-F) for **19d2**, go to line after "<!-- ZTE MF628 HSDPA USB dongle -->" and change **usb.product_id** from **0015** to **0031**
Save and exit from gedit.
NOTE: this edit must be done again if an Ubuntu update restores the file 10-modem.fdi to defaults!

5. Remove modem from USB port, reboot, wait for the system to stabilize, plug in the modem. After a while a message will appear over the Network Manager icon (2 PC screens up right) and help you create a Mobile Broadband connection. After created click to Network Manager icon, and click to your provider.

Some debugging notes:
- If at step 5 the "message" not appears, try to make the setup manually (right click on icon and "Edit Connections")
- From terminal the command **ls /dev/ttyU*** will show you the usbserial ports for the modem. There must be four (4) up to **/dev/ttyUSB3** which is our modem. If you boot with the modem attached you may have up to **/dev/ttyUSB2** and this needs extra modification to the 10-modem.fdi file (the parameter usb.interface.number" int="**3**" must be changed to**2**).

Post any question to test it and follow up.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by zabudarda on 2009-03-23
Thanks dude. Great work.But after all i cannt opn my microsd. Any way to open it

---

### Post by CArrowsm on 2009-03-25
Hi again, 

After running lsusb this is the output:

Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 19d2:2000  
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub


Now what?  I still can't get my computer to recognize it at all even after following all the instructions I can find!  

Arrrgh.


Cheers
Cheyenne

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-03-26
Hi **Cheyenne**, as the **lsusb** command gives:

> **CArrowsm said:**
> ...
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 19d2:2000  
...


You have to:

> **GeorgeVita said:**
> ...
2. The modem responds **19d2:2000** (as the internal CD drive or USB hub) but we need the actual modem (**19d2:0031**). You may use a special program called **usb_modeswitch** (see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1017630](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1017630)) but I preferred to send the AT command **AT+ZCDRUN=8** from a Windows PC to the modem (use hyperterminal or add it as an extra init command through control panel).
This command turns off the AUTO RUN function of the internal CD, if you want to return to default you have to send **AT+ZCDRUN=9** (info taken from [www.matt-barrett.com](www.matt-barrett.com)).

Test again the terminal command **lsusb** to be sure you have **19d2:0031**
...

The simplest is to use a PC running windows, add an extra init command (through control panel, modem & dialling properties) the **AT+ZCDRUN=8**, try to connect once (ignore the error message) and remove this extra command (through control panel). Then in Ubuntu command lsusb will see 19d2:0031, you have to follow steps 3-5 (Ubuntu 8.10).
NOTE: If you want to restore original mode you have to send AT+ZCDRUN=9

G

---

### Post by spegru on 2009-03-26
I think I've got this working with an MF627 (3 signal too low here to be quite sure, but the dongle does pop up under network manager). The key is indeed to block the auto run CD image. Only problem is although I did this under Linux using the special AT command AT+ZCDRUN=8, I cant remember how I did it (a month or so ago), and I need to be able to reverse it!
I did not use hyperterminal, nor minicom, nor modeswitch. Can anyone describe how to do the mode switch under linux, using a simple AT command?

By the way what was the answer about the onboard microsd card problem?

---

### Post by spegru on 2009-03-26
answering my own problem - starting to remember  now.
Instead of ye-olde hyperterminal I used gtkterm.
In intrepid just open a terminal and enter: **sudo apt-get install gtkterm**
Then start it by entering: **gtkterm**
You also need to know the port number that has been assigned to the modem - which you can find out by entering (into another terminal since the first one is occupied with gtkterm): **dmesg | grep tty** 
This should enable you to find the tty number associated with the modem
One you have it, you can select it from the gtkterm port list
After that if I remember correctly the modem is continuously trying to autorun, which hangs up the port - so simply enter **ctrl-c** to stop it.
You should then be able to enter standard modem AT commands. Test it by entering: **AT** - the modem should respond 'OK'
So now you can enter the command: **AT+ZCDRUN=8** to kill the auto run virtual CD and **AT+ZCDRUN=9** to switch it back on again.
In fact you never need the autorun virtual CD from the modem unless you are installing the software on a windows PC for the first time - so normally it is ok to leave the CD autorun function switched off even if you use windows PCs - once you installed the windows SW you don't need it again

Anyway that's all fine to get the actual modem responding properly to lsusb with 19d2:0031

Once you have done that the rest of the process described by GeorgeVita below is fine (the bit I didnt get till today was the HAL part in step 4)

(I'd still like to know about the microsd slot in the modem though)

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-03-27
Hi **spegru**, I fully agree with: 

> **spegru said:**
> ...
In fact you never need the autorun virtual CD from the modem unless you are installing the software on a windows PC for the first time - so normally it is ok to leave the CD autorun function switched off even if you use windows PCs - once you installed the windows SW you don't need it again
...


if we see it from Ubuntu side, this function is a problem! Although it is simple to send a simple AT command from terminal with the **echo** command:
**echo AT+ZCDRUN=9 > /dev/ttyUSBx** will restore the original state but then the modem is unusable.

A note for echo command (from a terminal window):
**echo 123** prints  text "123" to our screen
**echo 123 > /home/g/Desktop/newfile.txt** creates the file **newfile** with contents **123** at **Desktop** of user **g**
**echo Another Line 456 >> /home/g/Desktop/newfile.txt** appends to above file a new line "**Another Line 456**"
**echo ATZ > /dev/ttyUSB0** resets a modem connected as /dev/ttyUSB0

Also about the microSD I did not manage to use it till now.

---

### Post by joeyjoey on 2009-03-27
I have followed the instructions by GeorgeVita and found them most helpful. It’s the closest I have come to being able to connect to my ISP (Bigponds 3G in Australia). When I connect it goes through the process of trying to connect but then I get a message saying that the modem has disconnected. Even though the Network Manager detects the modem it doesn’t seem to want to let me connect. I am knew to Linux so I cant give you any outputs as I don’t know the commands to get them if that would be helpful you to you if you tell me what to do I will get this information for you.

Is there anyone here who has successfully got this modem (ZTE USB MF636BP) working with Telstra’s Bigpond in Australia? Or could you direct me to somewhere on the forum where I might be able to find some answers?
	
Thank you.

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-03-27
Hi **joeyjoey**, suppose you have Ubuntu 8.10:

right click Network Manager icon, Edit Connections, Mobile Broadband, **Add**, be sure you have Australia, it has 3 Telstra options.

Did you try the correct? Also check that you do not use the SIM PIN check (some users note that Network Manager have a problem on this). And as a final check be sure that you are dialing the correct number and the APN which shown when you are editing the connection. Ask your provider to be sure.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by neu2buntu on 2009-03-27
one thing to maybe be aware of using the said above method(i used something similar whilst using 8.04 with my modem in post #4) and my modem failed after about a month or so,so i left it in for repair...the modem came back still no go.
 my dad has a similar modem from "3 network uk" and his sim card ran fine in the modem(the repaired modem),the problem was the sim card(which "3"dont ask for in the modem repair process) so i sent of for a new sim card,tried it and everything was ok(now on ubuntu 8.10 by this stage)
  so on other words my modem and simcard were both fried by a hack similar to this post.....it may be just a coincidence that i had faulty hardware,i dont know,just maybe a word of warning here possibly............ i noticed the modem was heating more than usual with this method ,but hopefully it was just a bad modem. ...now i have noticed running my modem in ubuntu 8.10 it is dog slow,and hardly ever use it,say waiting more than a minute for homepage google to appear........god "3 network is ****....lol... (sometimes the hardware just cant take it...lol...)

---

### Post by joeyjoey on 2009-03-28
I am happy to say this is being posted from Ubuntu and not Windows. I had to change the APN to telstra bigpond as suggested. Thanks for these posts. I can now migrate totally to Linux thanks to this. Cheers :)

---

### Post by spegru on 2009-03-28
thanks GeorgeVita, I guess echo......> tty is even simpler and certainly better than resorting to windows hyperterm! But did you get any problem with the autorun virtualCD preventing you from entering the command?

On a general point about 3g dongle networking it has to be said that the 3G signal is not very reliable, especially indoors, so anyone trying this and having problems do not assume it is a linux problem. Try outside or by connecting your dongle via a long usb extension cable out of the window - it really does help sometimes. Basically if your linux box appears to even try to go online then probably the dongle is working fine. Really, dongles are like a complete mobile phone,just missing the keyboard screen and battery - not like the old winmodems we used to use on dialup, when the OS was doing alot more work and drivers were really complicated.
APN and username settings are also very important, as is the DNS server (the thing that translates between websites and real internet addresses) - Three UK's DNS is very poor and often seems to prevent access to websites even when apps like Skype are working OK. I have recently been manually setting the DNS server to OpenDNS 208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220 because of that

On the point about this particular dongle, I am interested to know if there is another way to stop the autorun virtual CD. I am guessing that there is a usb hub inside that gives access not only the virtualCD but also the microsd slot - so the AT command kills both. I assume windows does not do this and yet it must also need access to the actual modem. Is there some command that just stops the autorun rather than killing the internal usb hub? What does windows do? Some usb command sniffing would seem to be in order, but I dont know how to do that..........

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-03-30
> **spegru said:**
> ... echo......> tty is even simpler and certainly better than resorting to windows hyperterm! But did you get any problem with the autorun virtualCD preventing you from entering the command?

The **echo AT+ZCDRUN=9 > /dev/ttyUSBx** only can be done! This restores the modem to "windows peripheral" mode. After this I had to go back to a windows PC to **AT+ZCDRUN=8** as when the modem is in the 19d2:2000 mode Ubuntu cannot usbserial it (no /dev/ttyUSBx).

> **spegru said:**
> On a general point about 3g dongle networking ... Really, dongles are like a complete mobile phone,just missing the keyboard screen and battery - not like the old winmodems ...

Strongly agree with you, they are more like external modems where their internal CPU takes care about the actual connection. From my experience most problems in my 3G/HSPA connection (stuck, low speed, etc) caused by my provider.

About the microSD card reader:
Booting with the modem attached to the USB port, the system assigns /dev/ttyUSB0-1-2 (not 3), the Network Manager connects using /dev/ttyUSB0 (!) and looking at **Places** you can reach microSD reader and ZeroCD s/w!

Don't ask me why, just test it.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by mestrini on 2009-04-03
> **wridley said:**
> Hi, I have a Rogers USB wireless stick.  I am able to connect and get an IP address but am unable to do anything after that.
...

--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATDT*99***1#
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATDT*99***1#
CONNECT
--> Carrier detected.  Starting PPP immediately.
--> Starting pppd at Tue Feb 10 10:23:19 2009
--> Pid of pppd: 6195
--> Using interface ppp0
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> local  IP address 172.28.1.186
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> remote IP address 10.64.64.64
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> primary   DNS address 207.181.101.4
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--> secondary DNS address 207.181.101.5
--> pppd: &#65533;&#65533;&#65533;&#65533;[10]
--------------------------------------------------

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks


I had same problem as yours with a MF632 Portuguese provider so i used the tip from this Brazilian guy in launchpad: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/hal-info/+bug/305968](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+source/hal-info/+bug/305968)

pay attention to post #17 with the changes to the /usr/share/hal/fdi/information/10freedesktop/10-modem.fdi in particular of lines 3 and 16.
```
sudo gedit /usr/share/hal/fdi/information/10freedesktop/10-modem.fdi

do the change

      <match <email address hidden>:usb.vendor_id" int="0x19d2">
        <!-- Qualcomm: Telstra/NextG CDMA , ZTE CDMA Tech -->
        <match <email address hidden>:usb.product_id" [COLOR="Red"]int="0xfffe"[/COLOR]>
          <match <email address hidden>:usb.interface.number" int="0">
            <append key="modem.command_sets" type="strlist">IS-707-A</append>
          </match>
        </match>
        <!-- ZTE MF628 HSDPA USB dongle -->
        <match <email address hidden>:usb.product_id" int="0x0015">
          <match <email address hidden>:usb.interface.number" int="3">
            <append key="modem.command_sets" type="strlist">GSM-07.07</append>
            <append key="modem.command_sets" type="strlist">GSM-07.05</append>
          </match>
        </match>
        <!-- ONDA MF632 HSDPA USB dongle -->
        <match <email address hidden>:usb.product_id" [COLOR="Red"]int_outof="0x0001;0x0002"[/COLOR]>
          <match <email address hidden>:usb.interface.number" int="2">
            <append key="modem.command_sets" type="strlist">GSM-07.07</append>
            <append key="modem.command_sets" type="strlist">GSM-07.05</append>
          </match>
        </match>
      </match>

sudo rm /var/cache/hald/fdi-cache
sudo reboot
```

I'm now able to surf the web anywhere :D

Good luck

PS:
If this doesn't fix your problem then read the whole thread as that guy also posts code to apply to all ONDA models

---

### Post by spauldingsmails on 2009-04-04
Just thought I'd add my outcome with the MF636 USB on Telstra Bigpond 3G.

First of all if you are using 8.10 this will pretty much work out of the box. I attempted to use this forum topic but found that I actually just had to do the following;

[LIST=1]
[*]On a windows machine, install the USB 3G driver, set up a username and password, and enable the Telstra Bigpond account.

[*]Obtain the com port using the Device Manager (right click on My Computer).

[*]Using hyperterminal (on WinXP Pro Start->Programs->Accessories->Communications(?)->Hyper Terminal) connect to the modem using the following settings;
```
115200 - Bits per second
8 - Data bits
None - Parity
1 - Stop bits
None - Flow Control
```
and use the com port you grabbed from the previous step.

[*]Past the following into the hyper terminal (it will not show up when you paste it in, just hit enter and you will see output);
```
AT+ZCDRUN=8
```
[*]Plug the USB modem into your Ubuntu machine. Network Manager will pick it up and launch a connection wizard. Run it and select the "Telstra" option.

[*]Get Ubuntu to successfully detect the 3G USB card by editing the following file;
# sudo gedit /usr/share/hal/fdi/information/10freedesktop/10-modem.fdi

Search for the line <!-- ZTE MF628 HSDPA USB dongle --> and change the next line below it from;

<match key="@info.parent:usb.product_id" int="0x0015">
to
<match key="@info.parent:usb.product_id" int="0x0031">

Then restart your computer (there is probably a way to do this without restarting your computer, it's just that I don't know how to do it).

[*]Right click on the Network Manager icon and select Edit Connections. Select the Mobile Broadbands tab.

[*]Edit the "Telstra" entry and enter your username and password. Also change the APN to "telstra.bigpond".

[*]Try connecting. This worked for me.
[/LIST]

Good luck.

---

### Post by bibimidi on 2009-04-24
Hello there,

I found this thread helpful as it solved my problem similar to the discussion here. To summarize mine initially my lsusb for my modem is 19d2:2000. After adding the extra init AT+ZCDRUN=8 in windows/modem dialing properties lsusb is now 19d2:0015. I modprobe it and wvdialconf was able to detect the modem:

[Dialer xxx]
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Init3 = AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","Web2"
Modem Type = Analog Modem
Baud = 3600000
New PPPD = yes
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
ISDN = 0
Phone = *99#
Username = xxx
Password = xxx
Stupid Mode = 1

Now I can go online thank you for this thread. But my speed is very slow average 5 kb/s. During wvdialconf detection it gave a baud rate of 9600 which is more or less the actual speed i get. The baud rate i used above is based on the windows settings. Is there a way to improve my modem speed? Below you said

NOTE: If you want to restore original mode you have to send AT+ZCDRUN=9

I presume this is in windows side because after adding the extra command i ran the modem but it cant connect (in windows) it gave an error "modem/hardware problem or something".

My current speed is no different than dialup and i want to know how to improve this. If i reset the modem and return to linux im thinking it will reset to the old setting 19d2:2000. I appreciate your input.

bibs



> **GeorgeVita said:**
> Hi **Cheyenne**, as the **lsusb** command gives:



You have to:



The simplest is to use a PC running windows, add an extra init command (through control panel, modem & dialling properties) the **AT+ZCDRUN=8**, try to connect once (ignore the error message) and remove this extra command (through control panel). Then in Ubuntu command lsusb will see 19d2:0031, you have to follow steps 3-5 (Ubuntu 8.10).
NOTE: If you want to restore original mode you have to send AT+ZCDRUN=9

G

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-04-26
Hi **bibimidi**,
> **bibimidi said:**
> ...Below you said
NOTE: If you want to restore original mode you have to send AT+ZCDRUN=9

This is a "restore" for windows only use, in case you cannot install this modem to another windows pc. After this you will be at the start (19d2:2000).

The extra command makes the provider's application program to see an unexpected (error) reply and cannot connect. So we remove it as we done our job but we need the connection via the windows pc.

About the actual connection speed the only you can do is wait for the 3G signal to stabilize (blue led) and then connect. Ask also your provider or cross check with the windows pc. Check also if you can "set" the modem to **3G only** from the windows application program. till now I don't know any AT command to use for this.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by ajith.chanaka on 2009-05-27
Same problem to me too.

---

### Post by CJCollins on 2009-06-19
I have been using Rogers ZTE modem on an Aspire One running Ubuntu Jaunty for about a month -- thanks to advice on this thread. Unfortunately I am still having some problems. Sometimes, when I try to connect to Rogers AT&T, I am asked for a password. Nothing I supply seems to work and I don't get connected. At other times, no password is requested and the gadget connects to the internet. A password is mentioned under "properties" for the connection, so in princinple, the ZTE should know what its password is.

There seems to be some connection between the keyring for the wireless and this problem. We have wireless in the house. If I log on to that wireless first, disconnect, and then try the ZTE, it usually works. Trouble happens when I try the ZTE first. 

In any case, the problem appears to be sporadic. Sometimes I can connect; at other times not. I should mention that at all times I am trying to connect within an urban area that has good Rogers cellphone coverage. 

Thanks.

---

### Post by homecomputer@on.aibn.com on 2009-06-20
> **CJCollins said:**
> I have been using Rogers ZTE modem on an Aspire One running Ubuntu Jaunty for about a month -- thanks to advice on this thread. Unfortunately I am still having some problems. Sometimes, when I try to connect to Rogers AT&T, I am asked for a password. Nothing I supply seems to work and I don't get connected. At other times, no password is requested and the gadget connects to the internet. A password is mentioned under "properties" for the connection, so in princinple, the ZTE should know what its password is.

There seems to be some connection between the keyring for the wireless and this problem. We have wireless in the house. If I log on to that wireless first, disconnect, and then try the ZTE, it usually works. Trouble happens when I try the ZTE first. 

In any case, the problem appears to be sporadic. Sometimes I can connect; at other times not. I should mention that at all times I am trying to connect within an urban area that has good Rogers cellphone coverage. 

Thanks.

I had same connection problems. I am using ubuntu 9.04 I did a couple things that may have helped.

1. Edit connections - edit your provider shown (mine is rogers AT&T) and at the botom put check mark in -   available to all users

2.  Also for the keyring I enabled - always remember for rogers

---

### Post by CJCollins on 2009-06-21
Thanks. I solved my problem by removing the keyring passwords altogether. If I put the keyring back, I will try to do what you did and enable for Rogers.

---

### Post by Hairy_Palms on 2009-07-13
i googled this thread expecting problems, and it turns out the the 3 MF627 actually has linux drivers and software on the drive part, (though the software is qt3 so kindof ugly) but it works!.

---

### Post by thomaspember on 2009-07-25
i got mine working on UK 3 :)

---

### Post by PurpleSeeingEye on 2009-07-25
George (and others who may find this useful),

I have an eeePC 701 4G with Easy Peasy 1.1 installed. I am also a real noob at Ubuntu, having become disillusioned with Windows.

To get my MF627 to function, I did the following:

1) Installed the Linux drivers from the dongle; (didn't work.)
2) Installed the ZTE MF627 switch from [http://www.greenhughes.com/content/zte-mf627-easy-way](http://www.greenhughes.com/content/zte-mf627-easy-way).
3) Ran the lsusb command in a terminal window. It showed the 19d2:0031as you mention in your posting.
4) Followed your instructions.
5) Smiled a lot, as a whole day of perseverance paid off!

Many thanks.


> **GeorgeVita said:**
> I have JUST installed an Ubuntu 8.10 from an alternative installation CD (ISO i386) to my Toshiba Satellite L30-113. I did some modifications found on various posts (most in ubuntuforums.org) and I am connected with my ZTE MF636 3g modem via Network Manager 0.7 (I have already downloaded over 250MB of updates before posting this note!).

Below are the steps you may follow to work with your ZTE MF636:  

1. Boot without the MF636, wait for the system to stabilize, open a terminal window, plug in the modem, wait 10-15 seconds and run the command:  **lsusb**

If among the responds you see **19d2:0031** go to **step 3**.

2. The modem responds **19d2:2000** (as the internal CD drive or USB hub) but we need the actual modem (**19d2:0031**). You may use a special program called **usb_modeswitch** (see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1017630](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1017630)) but I preferred to send the AT command **AT+ZCDRUN=8** from a Windows PC to the modem (use hyperterminal or add it as an extra init command through control panel).
This command turns off the AUTO RUN function of the internal CD, if you want to return to default you have to send **AT+ZCDRUN=9** (info taken from [www.matt-barrett.com]("http://www.matt-barrett.com")).

Test again the terminal command **lsusb** to be sure you have **19d2:0031**

3. Make a new "rule" for MF636 to create the usbserial communication port (/dev/ttyUSBx).
From terminal run: **sudo gedit /etc/udev/rules.d/90-zte.rules**
copy paste the following lines (according to post#4 of [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=665332):]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=665332%29:")
[B]
ACTION!="add", GOTO="ZTE_End"
#
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", SYSFS{idProduct}=="0031",
SYSFS{idVendor}=="19d2", GOTO="ZTE_Modem"
#
LABEL="ZTE_Modem"
RUN+="/sbin/modprobe usbserial vendor=0x19d2 product=0x0031",
MODE="660", GROUP="dialout"
#
LABEL="ZTE_End"
[/B]
Save and Exit from gedit.

4. Edit HAL info to see MF636 instead of MF628. From a terminal window:
**sudo gedit /usr/share/hal/fdi/information/10freedesktop/10-modem.fdi**
Search (ctrl-F) for **19d2**, go to line after "<!-- ZTE MF628 HSDPA USB dongle -->" and change **usb.product_id** from **0015** to **0031**
Save and exit from gedit.
NOTE: this edit must be done again if an Ubuntu update restores the file 10-modem.fdi to defaults!

5. Remove modem from USB port, reboot, wait for the system to stabilize, plug in the modem. After a while a message will appear over the Network Manager icon (2 PC screens up right) and help you create a Mobile Broadband connection. After created click to Network Manager icon, and click to your provider.

Some debugging notes:
- If at step 5 the "message" not appears, try to make the setup manually (right click on icon and "Edit Connections")
- From terminal the command **ls /dev/ttyU*** will show you the usbserial ports for the modem. There must be four (4) up to **/dev/ttyUSB3** which is our modem. If you boot with the modem attached you may have up to **/dev/ttyUSB2** and this needs extra modification to the 10-modem.fdi file (the parameter usb.interface.number" int="**3**" must be changed to**2**).

Post any question to test it and follow up.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by billzeeabob on 2009-09-07
My parents are looking to get Dell mini 10v netbook. I want them to get the Ubuntu version but the Canadian options for USB Modems look like they could be problematic. Have you done a speed test on the ZTE USB MF636 modem? Some reports indicate speeds at less than 500 kbps.

Thanks,

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-09-07
Hi **billzeeabob**,
although ZTE MF636 and Ubuntu is a little bit hard ... following my [tech note]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7832437&postcount=27"), I just tested my ZTE MF636 and reached a maximum of 1.34 Mbits/sec download at [www.speedtest.net](www.speedtest.net) and did another 'real' test downloading a 15MB file. Average was 64.2KB/s (aprox. 600 Kbps) with minimum around zero (!) and maximum over 1400 Kbps:```
g@KKsep1:~$ sudo time wget http://ubuntu.otenet.gr/dists/jaunty/Contents-i386.gz[sudo] password for g: 
--2009-09-07 16:50:45--  http://ubuntu.otenet.gr/dists/jaunty/Contents-i386.gz
Resolving ubuntu.otenet.gr... 195.170.0.21
Connecting to ubuntu.otenet.gr|195.170.0.21|:80... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 15820318 (15M) [application/x-gzip]
Saving to: `Contents-i386.gz'

 1% [                                                      ] 185,734     65.5K/s              
10% [====>                                                 ] 1,605,718   93.8K/s  eta 3m 23s  
20% [==========>                                           ] 3,226,798    101K/s  eta 2m 37s  
30% [===============>                                      ] 4,808,206   62.6K/s  eta 2m 40s  
42% [=====================>                                ] 6,679,630   88.0K/s  eta 2m 17s  
65% [==================================>                   ] 10,299,358   121K/s  eta 88s     
66% [==================================>                   ] 10,536,022   136K/s  eta 85s     
69% [====================================>                 ] 10,988,830   140K/s  eta 76s     
98% [====================================================> ] 15,604,462  73.7K/s  eta 3s      
100%[=====================================================>] 15,820,318  53.9K/s   in 4m 1s   

2009-09-07 16:54:47 (64.2 KB/s) - `Contents-i386.gz' saved [15820318/15820318]

0.00user 0.04system 4:02.77elapsed 0%CPU (0avgtext+0avgdata 0maxresident)k
480inputs+30960outputs (2major+516minor)pagefaults 0swaps

```

Believe me, data throughput depends only to PROVIDER.
Historically I never got speeds over 3Mbps (from my 7.2MBps modems) where real average is limited to 300-600 Kbps (every day use).

EDIT: 8-Sep newer test at [www.speedtest.net](www.speedtest.net) at **2.56 Mbps** download (MF636, pppd, Ath <- Crete)

Regards,
George

---

### Post by billzeeabob on 2009-09-14
Thanks George,

It sounds like it is more of a challenge than my folks are ready for and not nearly as fast as I would have liked. 

This weekend a friend let me test his Sierra Wireless 598 (service with Telus Mobility here in Canada). 

He used [www.speedtest.net]("http://speedtest.net") with his Dell mini 9 and Windows XP and got: 2.09Mbps down and 0.23Mbps down. 

I then booted up and logged into my Dell 600m Laptop running Ubuntu 9.04. 

After plugging it in, I simply selected it from the list of available networks and it worked. The unfortunate part is speedtest.net only showed 0.6 to 1.03 Mbps download speeds and 0.15 to 0.30Mbps upload.

Cheers,

Bill

---

### Post by icodemonkey on 2009-09-22
I'm having the same problem as joeyjoey (post #15) had but nothing i do works. Have tried all the tips and how-to's I can find, have gone over this forum with a fine toothed comb But I still cant get it to connect. If I go to reconnect it gives me a dialoge box asking for a password for the actual modem but nothing I put in the input box works.
does anyone have an idea what's wrong?

---

### Post by josusky on 2009-11-20
Thank you all. I managed to setup ZTE MF637 using info from this thread.
BTW, an AT command (e.g. **AT+ZCDRUN=8**) can be sent to a modem using **minicom** (*sudo apt-get install minicom*)  so there is no need to find a windows machine with hyperterminal (-;

minicom is quite a complex tool so if you never seen it before here is a short how-to:
When the device is in the modem mode (CD ROM ejected) and connection is not active start the **minicom** with "-s" option to setup serial port (e.g. /dev/ttyUSB2 depends where the modem is plugged) then exit the configuration, type the AT command and exit (ctrl+a x).

---

### Post by josusky on 2009-11-20
Ad #35
The password is most probably the PIN code for the SIM card in the device.

---

### Post by spegru on 2009-11-22
From what I've seen and read in most cases there is no password 
On the other hand it also seems that the signal using the ZTE dongle is not as good as when using the Huawei ones.

If your dongle goes online with 3G (solid blue light in the Hauwei ones, - sorry can't remember what the equivalent is for ZTE), then it will probably work fine. Sometimes the service provider's DNS servers can be a problem although I've not seen that on Three UK for several months so maybe they fixed that now. Also if you only get a GPRS signal (solid green light for Huawei dongles), then you may not get very far either. These are both network problem so it may be worth trying with windows/mac or something at the same location. Also try upstairs or outside as that can make a big difference to the signal.

If you can only get GPRS, although I've not done it for a long time that can work too (although rather slowly) with a bit of fiddling. A couple of years ago I persuaded a eeepc 701 to use  the gprs connection by telling it to use a different MTU size of 1500. From memory that was by using a command something like 'sudo ifconfig tty01 mtu 1500' - but that may not be quite right. Worth a look though if you are in a poor coverage area.

---

### Post by Purple Mouse on 2009-11-25
I'm trying to follow the process in this thread but get stuck as a absolute newbie. I can only access the internet on my XP pc and don't know how to download [IMG]https://launchpad.net/@@/package-source[/IMG]                 zte-mf627-switch from [https://launchpad.net/~liamgh/+archive/ppa.Help](https://launchpad.net/~liamgh/+archive/ppa.Help) please

---

### Post by pdc on 2009-11-25
Hi Purple Mouse;

so you need to go here

[http://www.greenhughes.com/ppa](http://www.greenhughes.com/ppa)

and follow the instructions: sorry: you just have to carefully follow each line;

then open a terminal: you happy with that?

and in it type

> sudo apt-get install zte-mf627-switch

If you were able to follow Liam Hughes instructions, apt-get would be able to find the zte switch package and should install it

which country are you? which provider?

---

### Post by Purple Mouse on 2009-11-25
Hi pdc,

I'm happy to follow the instructions. My biggest hurdle is that I cannot access the internet on the ubuntu powered netbook. Opening terminals and following the instructions will be done when I can access the internet on the ubuntu netbook, which is what I'm trying to achieve via this thread.

So, how do I access the files on a windows XP pro machine so I can then transfer via usb stick to the ubuntu netbook? 

I'm currently in Australia using Aunty's Telstra BigPond service on the windows laptop.

---

### Post by pdc on 2009-11-26
well if you are in any of the capital cities, there are free wireless networks around the major public libraries; other than that, many cafes have wireless; 

so you could import directly into linux by that;

other than that, have a read at the liam hughes advice, from xp; maybe you download to xp; buy a USB stick for $5-10 in a Dick Smiths or somewhere; copy the files onto that; boot linux and import

---

### Post by Purple Mouse on 2009-11-27
Hmmm, was following GeorgeVitas' reply (see below) making progress until missed out step 2. I thought I was at step 5 but the netbook keeps hanging after the Ubuntu screen. The display shows a very small round icon with "petal" moving in a clockwise direction.

Have I just turned my netbook into an anchor? 

How do I progress from here please?

 Originally Posted by GeorgeVita  View Post
I have JUST installed an Ubuntu 8.10 from an alternative installation CD (ISO i386) to my Toshiba Satellite L30-113. I did some modifications found on various posts (most in ubuntuforums.org) and I am connected with my ZTE MF636 3g modem via Network Manager 0.7 (I have already downloaded over 250MB of updates before posting this note!).

Below are the steps you may follow to work with your ZTE MF636:

1. Boot without the MF636, wait for the system to stabilize, open a terminal window, plug in the modem, wait 10-15 seconds and run the command: lsusb

If among the responds you see 19d2:0031 go to step 3.

2. The modem responds 19d2:2000 (as the internal CD drive or USB hub) but we need the actual modem (19d2:0031). You may use a special program called usb_modeswitch (see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1017630](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1017630)) but I preferred to send the AT command AT+ZCDRUN=8 from a Windows PC to the modem (use hyperterminal or add it as an extra init command through control panel).
This command turns off the AUTO RUN function of the internal CD, if you want to return to default you have to send AT+ZCDRUN=9 (info taken from [www.matt-barrett.com](www.matt-barrett.com)).

Test again the terminal command lsusb to be sure you have 19d2:0031

3. Make a new "rule" for MF636 to create the usbserial communication port (/dev/ttyUSBx).
From terminal run: sudo gedit /etc/udev/rules.d/90-zte.rules
copy paste the following lines (according to post#4 of [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=665332):](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=665332):)

ACTION!="add", GOTO="ZTE_End"
#
SUBSYSTEM=="usb", SYSFS{idProduct}=="0031",
SYSFS{idVendor}=="19d2", GOTO="ZTE_Modem"
#
LABEL="ZTE_Modem"
RUN+="/sbin/modprobe usbserial vendor=0x19d2 product=0x0031",
MODE="660", GROUP="dialout"
#
LABEL="ZTE_End"

Save and Exit from gedit.

4. Edit HAL info to see MF636 instead of MF628. From a terminal window:
sudo gedit /usr/share/hal/fdi/information/10freedesktop/10-modem.fdi
Search (ctrl-F) for 19d2, go to line after "<!-- ZTE MF628 HSDPA USB dongle -->" and change usb.product_id from 0015 to 0031
Save and exit from gedit.
NOTE: this edit must be done again if an Ubuntu update restores the file 10-modem.fdi to defaults!

5. Remove modem from USB port, reboot, wait for the system to stabilize, plug in the modem. After a while a message will appear over the Network Manager icon (2 PC screens up right) and help you create a Mobile Broadband connection. After created click to Network Manager icon, and click to your provider.

Some debugging notes:
- If at step 5 the "message" not appears, try to make the setup manually (right click on icon and "Edit Connections")
- From terminal the command ls /dev/ttyU* will show you the usbserial ports for the modem. There must be four (4) up to /dev/ttyUSB3 which is our modem. If you boot with the modem attached you may have up to /dev/ttyUSB2 and this needs extra modification to the 10-modem.fdi file (the parameter usb.interface.number" int="3" must be changed to2).

Post any question to test it and follow up.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-11-27
Hi **Purple Mouse**,
this thread (and my info) were valid for Ubuntu **8**.10
Your info under 'beans counter' shows that you are using Ubuntu **9**.10 which needs other tricks to use a ZTE MF636! More info [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7784945&postcount=26") and [there]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/408555"). Briefly I am **eject**ing the virtual CD-ROM, then **stop** network-manager, **killall** modem manager and finally use **wvdial**, **gnome-ppp**, **pppd** or any other way to connect.

In any way the tests must be done on a fully updated system.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by Purple Mouse on 2009-11-27
Hi [GeorgeVita]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=638001"),
Ok, thank you, noted.[FONT=Arial] Any advice on how to get the system up and running again. I've tried booting from USB stick to delete rules created but here's the monster. I used the disk encryption password option at the logon screen. Can locate files but not edit/remove. I don't mind installing fresh copy of 9.10 but for one aspect. I used tomboy notes extensively over the last week and don't want to lose the data.[/FONT]  

What is the proceedure/appplication to stop network-manager

---

