---
title: "18.04.4 Wifi Connection Issue After Fresh Install"
date: 2020-04-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by banelematsebula on 2020-04-19
Hi, I have tried to search through varies platforms for a solution to my problem but no luck. I do not know what else to try except just posting on here. I know I am meant to post my wireless.info.txt result on here to help diagnose the problem so here goes: [https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/Bt3Cb6dqkT/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/Bt3Cb6dqkT/)

Please help.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-19
What issue exactly?

For starters, you have the worse possible AP settings so whatever the issue is very likely it's related to the router settings and nothing else.

Always use WPA2 only, not any mixed mode (this is what you have now) and certainly not TKIP (also what you have now).

---

### Post by banelematsebula on 2020-05-10
The issue is that I cannot connect to my wifi. 
But you're right, when I hotspot from my phone I can connect to my phone's wifi but I cannot connect to my home wifi.

I am not sure what I did exactly to get these so called "worst possible AP settings" - I simply plugged in my router did the basic configurations then started connecting (oddly almost every device can connect, except my Ubuntu machine).

May you please give me pointers as to what exactly my access point settings to should be for me to connect my wifi.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2020-05-10
First, check the settings in the router. WPA2-AES is preferred; not any WPA and WPA2 mixed mode and certainly not TKIP. Second, if your router is capable of N speeds, you may have better connectivity with a channel width of 20 MHz in the 2.4 GHz band instead of automatic 20/40 MHz, although it is likely to affect N speeds. I also have better luck with a fixed channel, either 1, 6 or 11, rather than automatic channel selection. Also, be certain the router is not set to use N speeds only; auto B, G and N is preferred. After making these changes, reboot the router. 

Then set your regulatory domain explicitly. Check yours:```
sudo iw reg get
```If you get 00, that is a one-size-maybe-fits-all setting. Find yours here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) Then set it temporarily:```
sudo iw reg set IS
```Of course, substitute your country code if not Iceland. Set it permanently:```
sudo nano /etc/default/crda
```
Change the last line to read:```
REGDOMAIN=IS
```Proofread carefully, save (Ctrl+o followed by Enter) and close (Ctrl+x) the text editor.

Did I mention that I hate hate hate TKIP?

---

### Post by banelematsebula on 2020-05-10
Thank you so much @chili555 that did the trick for me. I had already set my domain. The fix was setting those configs in my router. You have been a brilliant help. Thank you again!

PS: I did a little reading and almost every article says TKIP is the worst form of auth but unfortunately my router doesn't show any other settings. I'll be contacting my ISP wrt all this.

---

