---
title: "Vinagre not working"
date: 2008-11-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by anirvana on 2008-11-25
Hello all,
          relatively new linux user here :-) .

I am trying to use Vinagre to control my desktop from my laptop. Both are on a LAN. I have read through some of the posts on this forum but have not seen an exact same issue. I'm pretty sure its something simple, if someone could help point out the problem, it would be great! :-)

I am using ubuntu 8.10

I have run /usr/lib/vino/vino-server on my desktop , which says selected port 5900, TCP etc.. I try to connect via my laptop by $vinagre <desktopIP>:5900 and all I see is a window popping up and a black screen with some menu tabs (machine etc..) at the top. Nothing seems to happen.

On my desktop I have the following iptables rules,

# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.0 on Fri Nov  7 00:32:59 2008
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [66121:71624716]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [45955:3060563]
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 443 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -s 127.0.0.1/32 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j DROP
-A FORWARD -j DROP
-A OUTPUT -m state --state NEW,RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j DROP
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Nov  7 00:32:59 2008

Do I have to open up a port 5900 for this? is this the problem? 

I have also tried out [http://www.realvnc.com/cgi-bin/nettest.cgi](http://www.realvnc.com/cgi-bin/nettest.cgi) and it says

The IP address requesting this web page is xx.xx.xx.xx (REMOTE_ADDR)
Connecting to port 5900 ... failed: connection timed out 

Thanks for any help,
-A

---

### Post by anirvana on 2008-11-25
All righty now, Vinagre works after I flushed iptables using 

sudo iptables -F

Can someone please suggest what to put in the iptables rules to let this connection thru? I am reading up on iptables as I am posting this :-)

Thanks,
-A

---

### Post by anirvana on 2008-11-25
OK I added 

-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 5900 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p udp -m udp --dport 5900 -j ACCEPT

to the original iptables rule and loaded it back.

Things seem to be working :-) yay!

-A

---

### Post by anirvana on 2008-11-26
Asking for a little help from the people here :-)

I moved my desktop to a public IP and ssh'ed into it and started the vino server and tried to connect via my laptop to the desktop but things don't work.

I ssh'ed into my desktop. Used $sudo /usr/lib/vino/vino-server & 
no errors, everything is fine
Then I type
$vinagre public-IP:5900 the client pops up and I see a black screen and nothing else.

on the desktop with a public IP I see

me@desky:~$ 26/11/2008 03:40:57 PM Autoprobing TCP port 
26/11/2008 03:40:57 PM Autoprobing selected port 5900
26/11/2008 03:40:57 PM Advertising security type: 'TLS' (18)
26/11/2008 03:40:57 PM Advertising authentication type: 'No Authentication' (1)
26/11/2008 03:40:57 PM Advertising security type: 'No Authentication' (1)
26/11/2008 03:41:46 PM Got connection from client ::ffff:xx.xx.xx.xx
26/11/2008 03:41:46 PM   other clients:

Composite detected, disabling XDamage extension.
This is a workaround while XDamage extension does not work correctly with 3d desktops.
Hopefully it will work at next vino release.
 
All I get is a black screen. Things were good when both machines were in a LAN, but now it seems something has gone wrong. Any comments?

Thanks,
-A

PS on my laptop I see  ** (vinagre:16080): WARNING **: Resolving failed: Timeout reached

---

### Post by anirvana on 2008-11-28
any help would be greatly appreciated :-)

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-11-28
what ssh options did you use? -X?

---

### Post by anirvana on 2008-11-28
Yup, I used ssh -XY login@<public-IP> :-)

---

### Post by bobya on 2009-02-04
I can confirm that Vinagre is not working through a VPN connection in Jaunty. I have openVPN connection between work and home. I used to connect to my home pc with UltraVNC Viewer. Everything was ok in Ibex, but now when I connect to my home PC it only shows a picture of the current desktop and nothing else. You can't click anywhere, nothing is moving. What is interesting is that, when I click on a shortcut on the desktop i don't see anything happening, but if I disconnect from Vinagre and reconnect I see that the program I clicked has started. However I see again only the initial picture of the desktop, and nothing moves after that.

---

### Post by yuki000 on 2009-04-30
Yes the same problem as anirvana  	
Vinagre not working in jaunty with ibex work great... help
:guitar:

---

### Post by cloaker on 2009-05-02
And there I thought the new Ubuntu came without any issues for the first time... At least the workaround, disabling compiz, works.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-180/+bug/350327]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-180/+bug/350327")

---

