---
title: "7.04 to 7.10 = DNS problem ? only google works :("
date: 2007-10-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Noxx007 on 2007-10-18
Hello.

First i had ubuntu 7.04, everything worked fine. Now i upgraded to 7.10, got a strange problem. Everythings works fine , but the internet ......

Actually i can ping every website i want, and google.fr works perfectly. I can search things, the search page will work. BUT it's the only site which works.......

I think it's a DNS problem.

Please help me, this new ubuntu version seems very good :p

Thanks.

---

### Post by oji-sama on 2007-10-18
I'm also (apparently?) having some problems with DNS lookups. When browsing web, it seems that more time is spent on looking up the address (and the address of the advertisers...) than downloading the pages... (naturally the pages are faster on reload)

Everything worked well before the upgrade from 7.04.

I've done a few tests and it looks like this is not caused by my setup, as I have two XP machines using the same DNS server (requests go through ADSL boxes). (haven't dual booted to XP on this machine for a while, but I guess I should test that too)

Interesting test was browsing through SSH tunnel; there was no delay in the lookups.. I have no explanation for this. Tested with Firefox and Galeon.

Any ideas would be appreciated...

---

### Post by quoick on 2007-10-18
I'm having exactly the same problem except I can't even get google. I experienced it with Gutsy RC and thought it may have been a last minute bug so I downloaded the full ISO and did a clean install. Still no luck.

---

### Post by oji-sama on 2007-10-18
Stangely enough changing the DNS server (to openDNS) made a difference. No idea why XP and 7.04 worked, but 7.10 only sluggishly

---

### Post by k.pekka on 2007-10-21
> **Noxx007 said:**
> Hello.

First i had ubuntu 7.04, everything worked fine. Now i upgraded to 7.10, got a strange problem. Everythings works fine , but the internet ......

Actually i can ping every website i want, and google.fr works perfectly. I can search things, the search page will work. BUT it's the only site which works.......

I think it's a DNS problem.

Please help me, this new ubuntu version seems very good :p

Thanks.

I'm having this exact same problem. What can I do? I've tried installing gutsy on a different older computer and it's the same story there. Kind of frustrating.

Everything works in XP and in 7.04.

---

### Post by richq on 2007-10-21
For Firefox, I toggled the network.dns.disableIPV6 and socks_remote_dns to "true" from the about:config page. That got Firefox working. Unfortunately Synaptic cannot download anything, Subversion fails to connect to any servers, w3m doesn't work... looks like there's something very broken in the default Gutsy install (or upgrade? I upgraded.)

---

### Post by mw8564 on 2007-10-21
... same sort of problem... 7.10 Kubuntu is great except browser. This properly installed graphics drives for 1440x1050 screen. :KS  

... I am using dual-boot Lenovo R60 with Cisco wireless card; XP works normally and connects normally.

BUT ...

KUBUNTU BROWSER PROBLEMS: :confused:

...I manually set up network via command line--The /etc/resolv.conf file was not there. Namerservers are listed somewhere else?  

... manually created /etc/resolv.conf file; found that dhcp will then repopulate the nameserver listings there.

... Network Manager fails to launch.

...machine connects on local network for RDP, ping, etc., but not browser:  Konquerer browser fails to see even to local web server > "Error while loading page ... "

... cannot apt-get Firefox or Opera; Adept Manager does not list Firefox, Thunderbird or Opera though related files are shown there.

thanks
mw8564

---

### Post by stevoo on 2007-10-21
try disabling ipv6 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=6841]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=6841")

See if this help at all

---

### Post by telemetry on 2007-10-23
Hi guys,

Just upgraded to 7.10 from feisty and have had some problems.....upgrade version wouldn't work due to lack of sound and repository difficulties.

I made a clean install with ISO and the network is now the only problem.  I could only get connected by manually entering my DNS numbers and voila - suddenly connected to the internet.  But this isn't a permanent fix and it looks like I will have to input the DNS manually  on every reboot which I won't be living with.

Repostiory and updates wouldn't work until this evening when I unticked the boxes on third party software in repository and let it find the best server and chose that one.  It hadn't worked previously but did and now I'm uploading stuff and it's even updating itself at the moment.

So: there is light at the end of the tunnel because I thought i'd have to go back to feisty but I'll be sticking with this if I can get the DNS thing sorted.

Hope this helps
all the best
robert.

---

### Post by mshaheen on 2007-10-24
Hi every one 

i did the following and all working fine now for me 

1- use static IP address configuration instead of DHCP enabled ( this means you have to assign a static IP address yo your machine manually and also a default gateway 

you can simply do this by going to SYSTEM>ADMINNISTRATION>NETWORK , THEN CHOOSE YOUR WIRED CONNECTION > PROPERTIES AND SELECT STATIC CONFIGURATION 

2- now in the same window , go to DNS tab and remove your default DNS address ( you may beed to write it down just in case ! before you remove it ) and put either your own ISP DNS addresses or openDNS ip addresses
208.67.222.222
208.67.220.220

now back to the connection tab make sure that the small box beside " wired connection " is checked !

click close 

that's it 

it worked for me , and i don't have to do this each time i reboot by the way , it's permenant

---

### Post by d1version on 2007-10-24
I did a fresh install (two actually, one with wireless, one wired) and have the same problem. During the install things hung for a significant amount of time at 82%, which I suspect was due to failure to contact the repositories. I've tried the usual suspects and searched for solutions, to no avail. Feisty worked fine, but previous releases also had this problem.

---

### Post by telemetry on 2007-10-25
Thanks Mshaheen,

Unfortunately that would have only been a temporary fix for me.  I've discovered that the problem often lies with IPV6 protocol and have discovered a solution for those who are having DNS problems or can't get google or the repostitories to contact the network.

It's real simple: open terminal and make yourself root user -        

1. IPv6 is supported by default in Ubuntu and can sometimes cause problems
2. To disable it, open a Terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal) and type the command: gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/aliases
3. Find the line alias net-pf-10 ipv6 and change it to read alias net-pf-10 off

then save the new configuration and reboot and you should be ok.  I found this solution after much searching at Tom Raftery's social media website.

hope this helps
robert.

---

