---
title: "Connect to computer using friendly-name"
date: 2011-02-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by adilfulara on 2011-02-17
My ubuntu computer is connected to a WET610N wireless bridge. The computer works fine and is able to access the internet. My problem is accessing the ubuntu computer from my second computer through ssh.

```
 ssh ubuntu 
``` does not work.
```
 ssh 191.168.1.77 
``` does work.

I checked the /etc/hosts file and the name of the computer is setup correctly

```

127.0.0.1	localhost
127.0.1.1	ubuntu.ubuntu-domain	ubuntu

```

So i checked my router modem, 2wire from ATT device table and it shows my ubuntu device as a non active device. The ip and device name were consistent but the router thinks that the device is offline which is clearly not the case.

This is what is present in my /etc/resolv.conf file

```

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain gateway.2wire.net
search gateway.2wire.net
nameserver 192.168.1.254

```

Any pointers on how to go about solving the issue?

Thank you.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2011-02-17
A quick and easy fix would be to add a host entry to the second machine, so that it doesn't need to look it up on the router.  Many routers don't really handle name resolution well, and just use forwarders to external (ISP/custom) servers.

---

### Post by adilfulara on 2011-02-18
Thank you for your reply.

So you suggest me to give a static ip to the ubuntu computer and update the /etc/hosts file on my mac computer for the ubuntu device.

What would the reason be for the ubuntu computer being not visible to the router and other devices? I would like to keep dynamic ip for the ubuntu computer.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2011-02-18
Hi there.

At the moment you machines are getting dynamic IPs from the router, and that router is forwarding DNS requests to your ISP's DNS servers (unless alternatives were specified).  The router probably isn't resolving internal host names, which is why you need to use an IP.

What I do at home, is log into the router and assign DHCP reservations to each device; the clients still use a dynamic IP, but the router makes sure that it always gets the same address.  Additions can then be made to the host files without a static IP being required.

At work we have DNS servers, so it's not a problem.

---

### Post by adilfulara on 2011-02-18
Hi Grenage,

So here is the thing i dont understand. If the ubuntu computer is on wifi ( directly connected to the att modem router) the macbook can find the computer using friendly name.

When i connect it using ethernet wire to the WET610n wireless bridge, the name resolution does not work. 

Not to say that i oppose your method of doing it. I am more interested in learning as to how connecting the pc to the wireless bridge is causing the router to not look through the wireless bridge. 

Thanks.

Adil.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2011-02-19
Alas, I'm not sure why that is.  It would seem to be a router quirk, rather than a configuration error.

---

