---
title: "iptables and routing between two subnets"
date: 2014-02-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by chris175 on 2014-02-27
Hello everyone,

I am by no means an expert with Linux and I need some help with iptables. Any help at all will be greatly appreciated. Here is an image below of my current setup.

[IMG]http://s30.postimg.org/bk81q5lrl/network_2.jpg[/IMG]

I need to set up routing between the 1.0 network and the 2.0 network, and I have tried all that I know, but still no luck. I have forwarding set up so that the 192.168.1.2 interface forwards traffic from 2.0 over the wan and that works fine. Everyone can access the internet. 

The wireless clients on the 1.0 network can ping the 1.2 interface as well as the 2.1 interface. The lan clients can ping both interfaces as well. They cannot however, ping each other. Meaning the 1.0 clients cannot ping the 2.0 clients. 

Here is what I have in the routing table:

```
root@IT-Server:~# route
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
default         www.asusnetwork 0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
link-local      *               255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
192.168.1.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0
192.168.2.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth1

```

Iptables:

```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Tue Jan  7 22:31:21 2014
*mangle
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [104476:86320619]
:INPUT ACCEPT [98311:85779993]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [145040:143154022]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [145042:143154156]
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Jan  7 22:31:21 2014
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Tue Jan  7 22:31:21 2014
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [45423:36167159]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [65442:61006708]
-A FORWARD -i eth0 -o eth1 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -o eth0 -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Jan  7 22:31:21 2014
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Tue Jan  7 22:31:21 2014
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [1507:151674]
:INPUT ACCEPT [606:90463]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [268:15690]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [80:5054]
-A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Jan  7 22:31:21 2014

```

I also have a static route set up in the wireless router as pictured below.

[IMG]http://s1.postimg.org/49wt1vxkv/static_route.png[/IMG]

So what am I missing here? Any ideas?

Thanks,

- Chris

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-02-27
Did you enable packet forwarding in /etc/sysctl.conf?  Read the comment for net.ipv4.ip_forward in that file.  Reboot after making the change, or for a short-term fix run the command:

```
sudo echo '1' > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
```

Can you ping between the networks after running that command?

Forwarding packets across interfaces is disabled by default in Ubuntu as a security precaution.

---

### Post by chris175 on 2014-02-28
Yes, I have enabled ip forwarding in etc/sysctl.conf. You made me double check though just to be sure. I am thinking it must be something to do with iptables, but I'm not sure.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-02-28
There are both routing and masquerading problems in this arrangement.

First, if you want the wifi machines on the .1 network to be able to see machines in the .2 network, you need to add a static route to the wifi router.  Otherwise the router will treat traffic for the .2 network the same as it treats all requests for addresses not on its local network -- it will attempt to send that traffic out to the Internet.  The wifi router needs a specific static route for 192.168.2.0/24 with 192.168.1.2 as its default gateway.

Second, remove all the masquerading stuff on the Linux box.  All you need there is a pure router.  In fact, as long as the default policies are ACCEPT, you don't need any other iptables rules on that box at all just for routing.  Packets from the .2 network intended for the Internet will be sent to the Linux box's default gateway, in your case the wifi router, and replies will be passed back along the same path.

---

### Post by chris175 on 2014-02-28
By the way, thank you for a quick reply. Much appreciated.

I will try removing the masquerading on the router and see what happens. The reason I did that is because I did not have internet access from the .2 network until I did. This is because the .2 network is connected to interface 192.168.2.1 which has no default gateway. I could not use a default gateway on that interface because I can only have 1 default gateway on the router on the 1.2 interface, which the .2 network is not directly connected to. 

Hopefully that makes sense. I think your saying that it should forward traffic to the 1.2 interface (out to the internet) as long as it has the default gateway? I do have a static route set up on the wifi router as pictured in the image above. Is that static route correct? Based on what you are saying it seems it would be though I may be wrong. I suppose this is why I can ping either interface from both subnets.

---

### Post by chris175 on 2014-03-01
Well, I disabled the masquerading and took out all the iptables forwarding entries. Everything is set to accept now. I also changed the default gateway for the clients on the 2.0 network to that of the 1.2 interface instead of the 2.1 interface. I had thought that they must use a local default gateway (on the same subnet), but it seems this is not the case. They can still access the internet by using the 1.2 as a gateway and without masquerading or forwarding (Big surprise to me!). The ubuntu box is also a DHCP Server as well for the 2.0 clients only. 

One problem though, none of the clients can ping each other still. Any ideas why?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-03-01
Did you add the static route on the wifi router?  Without that, nothing else will work.

---

### Post by chris175 on 2014-03-01
Yes the static route is there as shown in this image below. It is network/host ip = 192.168.2.0, netmask 255.255.255.0, via gateway 192.168.1.2, interface lan

[IMG]http://s1.postimg.org/49wt1vxkv/static_route.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by untrustytahr on 2014-03-02
This may seem a bit silly but are the client machines running a firewall blocking ping (icmp).  I don't use windows anymore, but I believe it installs with firewall blocking icmp by default.

---

### Post by chris175 on 2014-03-02
I wish it were that simple. I have two network cards in one of the computers on the 2.0 network, with one connected to one network and the other to the other network. I can ping back and forth fine when both adapters are enabled, but as soon as I disable the adapter connected to 1.0 the machine cannot ping that network anymore.

It really stinks because in order to share a printer with both networks I have to connect it to the machine with two nic's in it and then share the printer. It's like having a router with broken legs; a crippled router. I just don't understand what could be causing this. It doesn't make sense. Very frustrating.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-03-02
Is that wireless router in your diagram just a wireless router? Or is it a wireless router and cable or ADSL modem in one box?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-03-02
Are there any iptables rules left on the Linux box?  If so, please try flushing them and see if that helps.  You can run this script as root with sudo to flush and reset the rules:
```

#!/bin/bash
/sbin/iptables -F
/sbin/iptables -X
/sbin/iptables -t nat -F

/sbin/iptables -P INPUT ACCEPT
/sbin/iptables -P FORWARD ACCEPT
/sbin/iptables -P OUTPUT ACCEPT

```
Do a quick check with "sudo iptables -L -nv".  You should see no rules and "ACCEPT" as the default policy for each of the three major chains.

---

### Post by untrustytahr on 2014-03-03
Does the wireless router/AP have any type of AP / wireless isolation on?

---

