---
title: "12.04 LDAP client fails"
date: 2012-05-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by lisanels47 on 2012-05-08
12.04 fresh install with all the updates.  Using the client instructions from the server LDAP install.
 [https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/serverguide/openldap-server.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/12.04/serverguide/openldap-server.html)

[FONT=Arial][SIZE=2]*sudo apt-get install libnss-ldap*[/SIZE][/FONT]
[FONT=Arial][SIZE=2][I]sudo auth-client-config -t nss -p lac_ldap sudo 
pam-auth-update[/I][/SIZE][/FONT]
[FONT=Arial]
The client will connect to the server, and logon, but I don't get the desktop background.  
The unity dock acts strange as in it will launch terminal and firefox, but not the home folder.
I can open links on my desktop to folders, and they work fine.  nautilus works great after opening via. a link.

Searching forums I find info on gsettings and think this is all related.

Ubuntu 11.10 worked perfectly with the same installation.[/FONT]

---

### Post by lisanels47 on 2012-05-08
OK, here's what I found.  My account on the ldap server was all based on ubuntu 11.10.  

When I connect with 12.04, I don't get my background, but can change my background to a new picture.  Then, when I connect with 11.10, my background is black.  So, I'm concluding that the two versions store this stuff differently.

I also changed the default colors on the terminal screens, and that does remain the same between 11.10 and 12.04.

I was able to change my desktop background to a solid color, and it is maintained between 11.10 and 12.04 clients.  

I'm calling this done.  Minor issue with the pictures that are available on 11.10 and 12.04.

---

