---
title: "EDUP 802.11n Wireless card (RTL8188SU) Realtek. Need driver and help."
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bp13 on 2010-10-12
Hi. I am trying to install EDUP 802.11n Wireless USB Install (RTL8188SU) on my recently installed ubuntu platform and I need a driver for it. I downloaded the one from the Realtec website and I got a bunch of files that I have no idea what to do with them. ([http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=48&PFid=48&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true#RTL8188SU](http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=48&PFid=48&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true#RTL8188SU))
 
I am compleatly new at Linux and I have no idea how to install anything. I am pretty nifty with Windows but this is my first time trying Ubuntu and Linux. So can I have some step by step guide to install this. I am good at following clear instructions correctly.
 
 
Aditional Info: I tired the hardware thing already or whatever its called and only NVIDIA drivers are there and my USB is not recornized because it needs a driver.
 
- Thanks.
 
 
[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=164029&stc=1&d=1279624777[/IMG]

---

### Post by bp13 on 2010-10-13
Never mind I uninstalled it and gave up.

---

### Post by klondike0 on 2010-10-22
Hi, you just need to make the driver and insert it into ubuntu.  I followed your link and used the fedora instructions that came from Realtek for the chipset (I have an Encore ENUWI-N4 USB wireless N adapter).  Only a couple changes are needed to work on ubuntu.

1) extract the driver from the driver's folder.  you can use 'archive manager' or from a command line:

    $ tar zxvf rtl8712_8188_8191_8192SU_usb_linux_v2.6.6.0.20100625.tar.gz

2) make 8712 USB driver module (doesn't matter that the chipset is 8188SU), use a terminal window and navigate to the folder you just extracted

    $ make

3) clean the operation environment, I needed to have root permission to get this to work

    $ sudo ./clean

4) insert 8712 USB modules, with root access

    $ sudo insmod 8712u.ko

After that, the blue light came on and the card was able to connect to networks via the NetworkManager applet.  Hope this works for you.  :KS

---

### Post by p12p11 on 2010-12-25
This one worked for me, on another network card, but with the same chipset as yours: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux-firmware/+bug/595455](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/maverick/+source/linux-firmware/+bug/595455)

quote:
Run the following in a terminal:
 wget [http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/kernel/dists/trunk/firmware-nonfree/realtek/RTL8192SU/rtl8192sfw.bin](http://svn.debian.org/wsvn/kernel/dists/trunk/firmware-nonfree/realtek/RTL8192SU/rtl8192sfw.bin)
sudo mkdir /lib/firmware/RTL8192SU
sudo cp rtl8192sfw.bin /lib/firmware/RTL8192S

---

### Post by SeePU on 2011-01-13
Did you install the 'realtek-firmware?'

It is too bad if this doesn't work because I find the nano receivers (wifi and bluetooth) interesting since they're convenient for laptops and desktops in which you don't want the device sticking out (why are these adapters made so long)?

The other question is how good is the antenna as these devices are quite small.

I checked my rep via synaptic and there's 'realtek-firmware' although I did this with Debian Testing (aka Squeeze, at this moment) but Ubuntu should have the same firmware available via the non-free repositories.  

RTL8188SU is not explicitly listed but I think it is part of the RTL9192SU firmware group.  

When you check Realtek devices via internet search, the driver is always listed together RTL8188, RTL9192 so I think it's safe to say that it might work with this firmware.

I would install it and then reboot the machine and see if it's at least detected.  Then try to configure.  

Followup if you try any of this - if you can.

---

### Post by klondike0 on 2011-02-02
I had pretty good performance with the ENUWI-N4, received well through floors and walls, but I didn't push the N capability too hard.

The biggest trouble I had was that when I rebooted, the card wouldn't get recognized and I had to reinsert the driver after every boot.  

I'll try the RTL8192 firmware when I get a chance.

---

### Post by chaosdx on 2011-02-02
> **klondike0 said:**
> 
The biggest trouble I had was that when I rebooted, the card wouldn't get recognized and I had to reinsert the driver after every boot.  



What about

```
sudo -s make install
```

and then writing the driver name into /etc/modules, so it will autostart? It works for me (for another realtek card), and seems like less hassle than inserting manually...

---

### Post by klondike0 on 2011-02-08
Good call.  I had to blacklist the r8192s_usb driver before using insmod, turns out the ./clean command was doing that for me.  BTW, this card comes up as a Realtek 8171 from lsusb on this laptop, so perhaps that is why the 8192 drivers didn't work.

I haven't been able to load this automatically from /etc/modules -- an explicit file path doesn't work.  I tried putting the binary in /lib/firmware, but it still won't load on boot.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by klondike0 on 2011-02-08
This card does work on the daily build of i386 11.04 :) so hopefully the issue remains fixed for the next release.  

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

---

### Post by Sukkula on 2011-03-18
Every time I try to install the driver module (sudo insmod 8712u.ko) my whole system crashes. I think I have 10.10, not sure though. Can this be the same problem like with 11.04 daily?

---

### Post by Sukkula on 2011-03-18
> **Sukkula said:**
> Every time I try to install the driver module (sudo insmod 8712u.ko) my whole system crashes. I think I have 10.10, not sure though. Can this be the same problem like with 11.04 daily?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1705004&highlight=RTL8188su](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1705004&highlight=RTL8188su) that solved the issue

---

