---
title: "10.04 64bit weird internet access problems"
date: 2010-08-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Zadeet on 2010-08-30
Hi all..

There is something strange going on with my ubuntu 10.04 desktop workstation.

Firstly some background info:
10.04 lts desktop 64 bit fresh install from 9.10 no updates installed.
Dual boot with windows 7.
internet access via wired lan from ipcop based router.
1 server(ubuntu), 1 wireless laptop(win7),  1 other wired desktop(ubuntu 9.10) all have flawless internet access.

My desktop in question cannot access the internet whether it be from a browser (firefox or chrome) or from command line. When trying to load a web page in browser, the page starts loading, then stalls and eventually opens the OpenDNS search page with the original page ive entered as a search term. 

If i ping a site from cli it returns 1 or 2 pings from correct site and then from openDNS.

Trying an update from cli "sudo apt-get update etc" this will fail.

In case you are wondering, the router is set to use my isp dns not opendns!

A very strange thing is that a windows xp virtual machine inside virtualbox on this machine, using bridged networking can access the internet flawlessly!

As stated all other machines(linux and windows) can access the internet no problems.

Numerous google searches have pointed to a problem with ipv6 in this ubuntu release and as per instructions found via google i have disabled ipv6 both in Firefox and via gnome net man. This has made no difference..

Am I looking at a further ipv6 issue here, or a dns issue on the lan? (the ipcop router is both dhcp and dns server for this lan)

I can post relevant errors or screenshots or log files if need be, but be gentle with me-im still a bit of a linux noob!

Thanking you

Craig..

---

