---
title: "Losing shared folders on Resume from Suspend"
date: 2007-09-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ResumeMan on 2007-09-02
Hi all,

I've gotten to the point where I can usually recover my Toshiba A45 from suspend, and it usually reconnects to my wireless network, and reconnect to the internet.

However, I have several shared folders that link to the Windows desktop PC on the network. They're mounted through the /etc/fstab file. When I suspend and resume, I lose them every time.

Sometimes -- especially if I go through the command mount -a -- the system will seem to recognize the folders, but when I try to view the contents I get an input/output error.

Graphically, when I try to browse to the folders using nautilus, the browser sees the names of the folders and displays "type unknown." In the command line I can cd to the folder (though it takes awhile) but when I try to ls the contents, I get I/O error.

Anyone know what's happening here?

---

### Post by ResumeMan on 2007-09-04
Sorry to bump -- nobody's encountered this??

---

### Post by ResumeMan on 2007-09-07
I don't know if it provides any additional useful information, but the sound apparently goes out after suspend too.

---

### Post by ResumeMan on 2007-09-09
One more try -- any help on this??

---

### Post by Zorael on 2007-09-09
Do they work after doing a:
```
$ sudo /etc/init.d/samba restart
```
?

---

### Post by ResumeMan on 2007-09-09
Unfortunately not :(

That's what I was hoping to find, and when I tried it, the terminal responded with
```

 * Stopping Samba daemons...                                             [ OK ] 
 * Starting Samba daemons...                                             [ OK ] 
```

But when trying to read the actual directories, I still got an I/O error.

When I was having trouble with retaining networking in general, I know I saw and used a fix that had me put my wireless driver in the remove modules section in  "/etc/default/acpi-support" -- is there something like that I could do??

---

### Post by Zorael on 2007-09-10
As for exempting samba from acpi, no idea.

Last shot:
```
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure smbfs samba
```

---

### Post by reckless2k2 on 2007-09-10
ok.......i think you are going in this direction. 

how do you mount them? 

an easy way to handle this is to mount them in fstab. then run a script on resume from acpi that will remount the shares using "mount a".

---

### Post by ResumeMan on 2007-09-10
reckless2k2: I do mount them in fstab. I'm not at the machine now, but when I get home I'll post the relevant lines in the fstab file. I'm pretty much a newb, could you give me a nickel summary of how you launch a script on resume? Though I should point out again that when I'm back in Gnome after resume, "sudo mount -a" doesn't help...

Zorael: Thanks, I'll try that when I'm at the computer.

---

### Post by reckless2k2 on 2007-09-10
well if you have them as a mount in fstab it sounds odd that "mount -a" won't work. i might need to see that fstab then. i assume these mount points work once you have done a normal boot of the machine.

---

### Post by ResumeMan on 2007-09-10
> **Zorael said:**
> As for exempting samba from acpi, no idea.

Last shot:
```
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure smbfs samba
```

I just did this, and it ran a quick DOS-like dialog, asking if I wanted to run samba as a daemon or an inetd and then asked if I wanted to configure encrypted passwords. I tried it both as a daemon and ientd, and no luck. 

I tried selecting encrypted passwords, and ran smbpasswd, but it asked for my old password, i entered my usual, and it said login failure.

Not sure what any of this means...

---

### Post by ResumeMan on 2007-09-10
> **reckless2k2 said:**
> well if you have them as a mount in fstab it sounds odd that "mount -a" won't work. i might need to see that fstab then. i assume these mount points work once you have done a normal boot of the machine.

Here is my fstab:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=2581a79b-8ad7-4cf7-b24a-00812d558bca / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=a12b477b-24b9-4bcb-8b35-51c3e4916d85 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=bcb55f78-0077-4bfd-8ec1-3c08798edd32 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
UUID=B6BCFB69BCFB2313 /windows ntfs defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 0
//192.168.1.5/SharedDocs   /media/dell/shared_docs  smbfs  credentials=/root/.smbcredentials,dmask=777,fmask=777    0    0
//192.168.1.5/LACIE-F   /media/dell/F  smbfs  credentials=/root/.smbcredentials,dmask=777,fmask=777    0    0
```

my smbcredentials simply has 

```
username=<my username>
password=<my password>
```

And everything does work fine when I do a complete reboot, just not after suspend.

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by ResumeMan on 2007-09-10
OK this is kind of strange.

I've been playing around with this. When I come back from suspend, if I enter sudo umount <directory> I get the response:
> 
8908: session request to 192.168.1.5 failed (Called name not present)
8908: session request to 192 failed (Called name not present)

But, if I then do a sudo mount -a, everything seems to work fine!! And just by umounting *one* of the directories and then doing a mount -a, both directories work.

Odd. 

If anyone has a true fix for this, I would appreciate it. Lacking that, could someone explain how to create a script that auto-runs (preferrably without asking for a pword again) upon resume?

Thanks!

---

### Post by reckless2k2 on 2007-09-11
the path escapes me at the moment but there is something in an acpi config file where it'll restart certain services once resumed. it's used specifically for wifi to restart it when you come out of hibernation. 

here's a little bit about it:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-405279.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-405279.html)

in your case it would be something to do with smbfs i think. if not, you can create a bash script and plop it in the resume daemon like this:

```

#!/bin/bash

mount -a

```

as long as it has root permissions and is executable you should be fine. 

i think someone can chime in on this though. if you have to umount then mount...it would just be identified in the script.

---

