---
title: "how to configure wifi-internet and lan-home network"
date: 2009-04-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by evarie on 2009-04-16
We share our internet acces with wifi.
And I have acces to internet with wifi.
But i like to make my own cable home network behind an ubuntu desktop.

double network;
1 internet acces with wifi
2 acces to ubuntu server with cross cable or router

Goal= internet acces for a second computer;
- like ubuntu server or ubuntu desktop or windows

Wich software do I need?

I tried dhcp3 for client and server, but it is to difficult for me to configurate.

Thanks a lot helpers !

---

### Post by puppywhacker on 2009-04-16
On the Ununtu desktop you can create a NAT for your home network, You can use iptables for that, also enable ip-forwarding.

iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o wlan0 -j MASQUERADE
iptables-save
sysctl -w net.ipv4.conf.all.forwarding=1

goodluck

---

### Post by evarie on 2009-04-16
Is it not easier with the dhcp deamon?
I like to chose way without a nat.
If i can choose dhcp3 deamon, than i like to ask you how to configure?
But what is the most easiest purpose?

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-04-16
easy way out is firestarter .. if not you can do it this way [http://www.prash-babu.com/2009/02/internet-connection-sharing-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.prash-babu.com/2009/02/internet-connection-sharing-in-ubuntu.html)

---

### Post by evarie on 2009-04-16
Firestarter is the most easiest way, becaus it directly asked voor de gateway configuration.

But it was not be able to switch dhcp on for the home network.
Also the firewall coud not start, there is a problem.
How can i find the problem?

Thanks a lot !

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-04-17
you could setup dhcp manually [http://lani78.wordpress.com/2008/08/10/setting-up-a-dhcp-server-on-ubuntu-hardy-heron/](http://lani78.wordpress.com/2008/08/10/setting-up-a-dhcp-server-on-ubuntu-hardy-heron/)

---

### Post by evarie on 2009-04-20
It is a nice purpose, but I am missing the interfaces like ath0 and eth0.

I have atheros wifi (ath0) and a 3com lan port (eth0).

On ath0 i need dhcp client, cause my router is a dhcp server.
And for my eth0, i need a cross cable connection to my ubuntu server.

I do not believe in GUI software, cause I want a precisly perfekt configuration with linux text-basics. Than i wil serious know it wil work properly.

I know the software dhcp server and client (dhcp3), and I have already installed. Only wat I need to know is how to configure.

This is my dhcpd.conf ;
# DHCP configuration generated by Firestarter
ddns-update-style interim;
ignore client-updates;

subnet 32.151.14.8 netmask 32.151.14.8 {
	option routers 32.151.14.8;
	option subnet-mask 32.151.14.8;
	option domain-name-servers 192.168.1.254;
	option ip-forwarding off;
	range dynamic-bootp 192.168.0.1 192.168.0.254;
	default-lease-time 21600;
	max-lease-time 43200;
}

#--end--dhcpd.conf

I hope thats all I need to say. Do i forget any question?

So, I thank you a lot again(g) before you answer.
Best Regards !

---

### Post by evarie on 2009-04-21
Now i find in help.ubuntu.com the bridge settings;
[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/serverguide/C/network-configuration.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/serverguide/C/network-configuration.html)

I hope this wil help.....will it be?

---

