---
title: "9.04 Wireless working but not connecting :("
date: 2010-04-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Chlorhydrikk on 2010-04-07
Hi ;)
My Wireless worked once on Ubuntu but when I disconnected it i got stuck with connection trys that never succeed. On the two little lights only one is green, and when Ubuntu offers to have another try the password is not the same as the one I typed before (and of course is not the good one ;) )

Thank you for your help!

---

### Post by 2hot6ft2 on 2010-04-07
Try right clicking on network manager and selecting Edit connections, then Wireless, then your connection, then Edit, enter your password.
Then click on the wireless security tab and put your passkey in and click Ok.

It will try and connect, don't click close yet, wait for it to connect.
If it fails try it again and once it connects click on Close.

If that fails you might try adding the [network manager PPA]("https://launchpad.net/~network-manager/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=jaunty") and connecting to a wired connection to update it.

---

### Post by Roamer145 on 2010-04-07
I remember having this issue a year and some days ago... (Ah, memories. Heh.)

Do you know what chipset you use? My issue was with the Atheros AR5001 model not connecting at all. The solution I had was to install the latest driver (in this case madwifi) for it (it was only slightly painful), but even then it had a nasty habit of forgetting it was connected, dropping the connection, and not reporting it to the router that it got bored and wandered off the network. :/
My solution to that came via a system update. I updated to 9.04 (well 8.10, then 9.04, I was using 8.04 at the time) and the issue was solved (included madwifi driver that worked with my chipset properly.) After another update to 9.10, I had faster connections (although that could have been all in my head. ;) )
Your issue could be like mine, you just need the new drivers. Hopefully not though, cause it is annoying.

---

