---
title: "Broadcom BCM43228 Issue"
date: 2015-08-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wthankachan on 2015-08-30
Hi,

I am posting this thread after trying the solutions already provided in the forum but it does not work for me.

1. Installed ubuntu 14.04 LTS version on Dell Latitude E6420 with a broadcom wifi devicie BCM43228
2. After install I went to system settings >> software and updates and additional drivers and selected the proprietary driver from bcmwl-kernel-source
3. As soon as the install was done then the wifi was enabled and I was able to connect
4. How ever when I shutdown and start the system wifi destinations are not being shown anymore
5. I also tried manually installing the driver using the following steps

sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic
sudo apt-get install --reinstall bcmwl-kernel-source

reboot and no luck

tried also install of broadcom-sta-common

still no wifi destinations are shown.


03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM43228 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:4359]

what exactly am I doing wrong?

Update 08/31/2015 :

Does anyone know if Avahi impacts the discovery of Wifi destinations. I am wondering if that is caused by Avahi shutting down network discovery services due to local domain naming issue (local).


Update 09/05/2015 :

I think I figured the issue. The problem was not the reboot per se but upgrade of ubuntu which wiped off the file created by the proprietary broadcom  driver install under /etc/modprode.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf

wthankachan@wilson-E6420:/etc/modprobe.d$ cat blacklist-bcm43.conf
# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist brcm80211
blacklist brcmfmac
blacklist brcmsmac
blacklist bcma

without the b43 drivers not blacklisted, the driver loading resulted in a conflict.

   [FONT=Ubuntu]Update 9/12/2015: The issue came back again :[/FONT]

  [FONT=Ubuntu]
[    3.181647] wl: module license 'MIXED/Proprietary' taints kernel.[/FONT]

 [FONT=Ubuntu][    3.181650] Disabling lock debugging due to kernel taint[/FONT]

 [FONT=Ubuntu][    3.185408] wl: module verification failed: signature and/or  required key missing - tainting kernel[/FONT]

---

