---
title: "editing ip address"
date: 2010-09-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-09-19
hi 

i am using ubuntulite for an old pc. the speed and performance is excellent!!
but there is one problem.. i am not able to edit my ip address.
the computer is on lan and i have to assign a static ip to my system so that it connects to the net...
the gui is not working.. i have no idea why?? so i want to edit the ip through the terminal.

please someone tell me how to edit the ip throught the terminal<command line>

regards
ubun2warrior

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-09-19
hi

can any one tell me how to set a static ip in ubuntu 10.04 from the terminal, i.e by using the command line and not the gui. 

plz reply fast i am awaitng replies

regards
ubun2warrior

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-09-19
Ordinarily, */etc/network/interfaces* is used to configure an interface if Network Manager isn't used. **man ifconfig** offers some other alternatives.

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-09-21
Hi

I searched google and found these solutions..
[I]
ifconfig **eth0** 192.168.0.1 **netmask** 255.255.255.0 **up**
**route** add default **gw** 192.168.1.1

[/I]the above is for temporarily setting the IP, but this did not work for me and also i am looking at some permanent solution.

I found a permanent solution which is as follows:

[I]vi /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-eth0

[/I]BOOTPROTO=static
IPADDR=192.168.125.10
NETMASK=255.255.255.0 

GATEWAY=[number]
TYPE=Ethernet
NETWORK=[number]
BROADCAST=[number] 

service network restart

But the above also did not work for me.. 

Also u have written in the last post that we have to configure using /etc/network/interfaces, but what all things should i write there..

regards

ubun2warrior
[URL="http://www.linglom.com/images/Linux/ChangeIPAddress/11.png"]
[/URL]

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-09-21
I like **nano**, so I use **sudo nano /etc/networking/interfaces** and add the following lines:```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.0.123
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 1192.168.0.0
broadcast 192.168.0.255
gateway 192.168.0.1
```**network** and **broadcast** lines are optional.
If you prefer a graphical editor, use **gksudo gedit /etc/networking/interfaces**.

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-09-22
Hi 

I did as you said and the IP subnet gateway is all set, but still i am not able to connect to the net. The DNS Servers is not set.. so if you can tell me how to set that i think the net should work..

regards
ubun2warrior

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-09-22
```
sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf
```

Or

```
 gksu gedit /etc/resolv.conf
```

Add in the IP of yer dns servers there.

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-09-22
what should i write there ?? just the ip of the DNS Server like my dns is 10.42.43.1...

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-09-22
Write your router's gateway address.

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-09-22
i know that i have to write my router's gateway address. but i am asking that do i have to write just thatand save the file...

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-09-22
hi

when i do

ping 127.0.0.1  

there is no reply
 what should i do now..

regards 
ubun2warrior

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-09-22
> **ubun2warrior said:**
> i know that i have to write my router's gateway address. but i am asking that do i have to write just thatand save the file...

Here is what mine looks like:
```

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.2.1

```

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-09-22
hi 

thanks all

i was able to connect to the net after setting the dns....

regards

ubun2warrior

---

