---
title: "10.04 64bit on dektopPC - wireless problem"
date: 2011-12-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Godspell on 2011-12-16
My desktop PC's wireless card seems to be having trouble with Linux. I've tried openSUSE 12.1 and Fedora 16 and they all gave me the same problem. (Here's the thead I opened in Fedora forums [http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?p=1539313#post1539313](http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?p=1539313#post1539313))
Now, I'm back on Ubuntu 10.04 and I've gotta say it works better than it did on other distros but still, the problem persists. My PC specs are as follows.

```
Motherboard -- Asrock N68-S3 UCC
CPU -- AMD Phenom 2 X4 AM3 3.3 GHz
GPU -- MSI ATI Radeon HD 5450 1GB
RAM -- 8GB DDR3 1333
HDD -- 750GB SATA2 7200RPM, 80GB IDE 7200RPM
PCI Wireless card -- TP-LINK TL-WN851ND (Atheros AR9287 chipset)

```
I've searched on Google and Ubuntu forums for AR9287 related problems and found a few threads but none of them are on Ubuntu 10.04. Besides, I want more of a "direct help" so I decided to open my own thread.

I've installed and tried Ubuntu 11.10 and the moment it got connected to my home wireless connection, it froze. Then, I went on trying other distros like I mentioned above (because I was quite put off by 11.10's interface and unity) but more or less encountered the same problem. So, now I'm back to home; Ubuntu 10.04 :)

Lucid seems to handle the wireless connection quite well.
I tried the live CD first and then installed while connected to the wireless connection but hung up at 76%. So, I had to try it again but without being connected to the wireless.
(I didn't mind this because it's the same on my laptop; not being able to install Ubuntu when connected to the Internet. My laptop uses ath9k driver as well but has been running 10.04 for ages without any trouble.)

The installation was successful. I logged into the system for first time and connected to the home wireless connection. It was fine,...no freezing or hungups. I even ran Update Manager to download and install all the updates. Everything went well.

However, the problem started when I tried to install apps from Synaptics. The PC completely freezes and I had to hold down power button to shut it down. I did this twice and it gave me the same problem.

So, this is it...my tedious wireless problem. Is there solutions for this? Anything to make Ubuntu runs smoothly like it used to my laptop.

If you need any further information from me, please let me know but do elaborate on technical details. Although I've been using Ubuntu for some time, I'm still not that technical savvy.

Many thanks and regards.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-12-16
Hi,

do you have a wired connectio available for updating? You should update the driver also via the backports-modules:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-wireless-lucid-generic
```
and reboot.

---

### Post by Godspell on 2011-12-17
> **praseodym said:**
> Hi,

do you have a wired connectio available for updating? You should update the driver also via the backports-modules:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-wireless-lucid-generic
```and reboot.
Thanks for the reply. No, I don't have a wired connection but I managed to run these commands using wireless.

The first time I tried to run'em, I only got to "dist-upgrade". My PC was frozen when trying to install the backports.
So, I rebooted and tried again, and it worked. Then, I went on running the software update; no updates available and it was working fine. Afterwards, I went into synaptics to install a bunch of apps I wanted. Again, everything seemed to be fine, no freezing.

After all of that, I added Firefox-stable repo and tried to upgrade it from Synaptics but it got frozen. As usual, I rebooted to try again and it worked.

To sum it all, my PC seems to be working well with wi-fi. I can pretty much use the Internet. BUT I still don't trust it. I think it will get hung up every now and then.

I really don't want this problem to persist. Is there anyway to ensure this won't happen again? I'm also concerned about possible regression when I upgrade Ubuntu in the future (as the new LTS may have different kernal version).

Nevertheless, thank you for the reply :) Best regards.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-12-18
Which VGA driver is in use?

---

### Post by Godspell on 2011-12-20
> **praseodym said:**
> Which VGA driver is in use?

Sorry for replying late.
I really don't think this is a VGA-related problem but I maybe wrong. The driver I installed is Ubuntu recommended one from Admin -> Hardware.
```
sudo fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon HD 5400 Series
OpenGL version string: 3.2.9756 Compatibility Profile Context
``````
sudo lshw -c display
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: ATI Technologies Inc
       vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       version: 00
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm pciexpress msi bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=fglrx_pci latency=0
       resources: irq:28 memory:e0000000-efffffff(prefetchable) memory:fbfe0000-fbffffff ioport:e000(size=256) memory:fbfc0000-fbfdffff(prefetchable)
```Btw, the wireless problem has tasken a turn for the worse. I was using Ubuntu this morning to get all the info but right after connected to the wireless, the PC hung up. As usual, I rebooted my PC and tried again but it was exactly the same.

So, I immediately disconnected and unchecked 'auto connect' to the wireless connection and retrived all the info. The following is networking info.

```
sudo lshw -c network
  *-network               
       description: Wireless interface
       product: Atheros Communications Inc.
       vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
       physical id: 8
       bus info: pci@0000:01:08.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 01
       serial: f4:ec:38:db:dd:55
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath9k driverversion=2.6.32-36-generic firmware=N/A latency=168 link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn
       resources: irq:18 memory:fbef0000-fbefffff
```I've gotta say my PC is really acting up on Ubuntu: even without being connected to the wireless, it hung up after about 15 minutes. It's seriously annoying and makeing me lose will to use Linux :|
Ever since I've bought this PC, I've been wanting to use Linux. Also tried different distros. I've been quite eager to get it installed and configured so I can actually start doing some work on it. But now, it just seems impossible...

Anyway, many thanks and regards.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-12-20
You can try one of [these]("http://forum.ubuntuusers.de/topic/wlan-problem-mit-ar9287-pc-friert-ein/#post-3584572") boot parameters

---

### Post by Godspell on 2011-12-20
> **praseodym said:**
> You can try one of [these]("http://forum.ubuntuusers.de/topic/wlan-problem-mit-ar9287-pc-friert-ein/#post-3584572") boot parameters

I'm afraid I don't quite understand what you meant and what's written on there, mate.

First of all, would you care to elaborate what you think the problem is here?

Secondly, is that page available in English? I want to be able to read so I can understand the background of a problem discussed there. I understand I could probably use Google translate (although I'm not sure how accurate it'd be) but I just wanna know if there is an English version.

Many thanks and regards.

EDIT: Nevermind,...I think I'll probably have to change wireless card in this case.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-12-20
See from here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions#Changing_boot_options_Temporarily_for_an_Existing_Installation](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions#Changing_boot_options_Temporarily_for_an_Existing_Installation)

and below

---

