---
title: "Iptables"
date: 2013-11-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Frobe82 on 2013-11-14
Hello, 

I'm using Ubuntu 12.04 as a router for a lab-environment but I cant get the firewall working properly.
I've got port 22 open but other than that, I thought all communication would be dropped with this configuration.
I'm suspecting one of the forward rules or postrouting might mess it up but the clients behind the firewall can still browse the internet.
I'm trying to block all traffic preferably in and out with the option to open specific ports.
What am I doing wrong?

```

*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [34:2220]
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -j DROP
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -o eth0 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth0 -o eth1 -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Thu Nov 14 09:12:28 2013
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Thu Nov 14 09:12:28 2013
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [2944:332559]
:INPUT ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [19:1200]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
-A POSTROUTING -o eth1 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
```

I'm loading the iptables-rules thru /etc/network/interfaces

```
# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
pre-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules

# External interface
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
address 192.168.237.106
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.237.234
dns-nameservers 192.168.237.2 192.168.237.8

# Internal interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.0.1
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.237.106
dns-nameservers 192.168.237.2 192.168.237.8

```

---

### Post by nebileix on 2013-11-14
Change default for INPUT chain to drop policy instead and open whatever required.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2013-11-14
The INPUT chain applies only to packets addressed to THIS machine. If the clients are elsewhere on the LAN, you need the FORWARD chain for their packets. Your default policy for FORWARD allows all packets from the LAN to go to the WAN, which is apparently not what you want to happen. Changing ACCEPT to DROP in your second rule for FORWARD will prevent them from reaching the WAN while allowing them to browse the LAN. 

Changing the policy for a chain will affect all packets, which apparently is not exactly what you're looking for...

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2013-11-14
First, you have a masquerading rule, which is designed to enable machines behind the router to have private addresses yet still communicate with upstream hosts.  If you don't want any outbound traffic from those machines, you should block them all, or set the FORWARD policy to DENY (see below), or just turn off packet forwarding by setting net.ipv4.ip_forward=0 in /etc/sysctl.conf.

If you want to block all traffic in and out, and not permit forwarding across interfaces, then make the default INPUT, FORWARD, and OUTPUT policies be DROP:

```

iptables -P INPUT DROP
iptables -P FORWARD DROP
iptables -P OUTPUT DROP

```

then add rules to open specific ports or to forward traffic from identified machines to specific upstream hosts/ports.

---

### Post by Frobe82 on 2013-11-15
Thanks for all your input and I am looking forward to more.

My setup is a virtual machine running Ubuntu Server 12.04 with the only purpose to act as a firewall.
I have two network adapters and the port forwarding and NAT is working well, too well. It lets everything thru.

So all traffic inside <> outside is dropped, this is fine. I just want to address that when all policies are ACCEPT, the NAT and PORT FORWARDING does work.

```

# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Fri Nov 15 07:31:12 2013
*nat
:PREROUTING DROP [163:13427]
:INPUT DROP [6:764]
:OUTPUT DROP [1:62]
:POSTROUTING DROP [0:0]
-A POSTROUTING -o eth1 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Nov 15 07:31:12 2013
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Fri Nov 15 07:31:12 2013
*filter
:INPUT DROP [16:1560]
:FORWARD DROP [0:0]
:OUTPUT DROP [1:62]
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -o eth0 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth0 -o eth1 -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Nov 15 07:31:12 2013

```

So my humble request now is if anyone could possibly tell me what I need to do to get things up and running since I do not understand if I need to put the rules towards the filter or the nat, and I am confused where to apply the rules regarding input/output and forward.

For example. I am pretty sure that to enable SSH Connections from the outside I open port 22 with filter INPUT on eth1 (external interface) , and from the inside I open INPUT on eth0 (internal interface). I will try this now.
What I would like too get some help with is how I make my LAN Machines reach the DNS servers outside the firewall and surf the web.

Best Regards
Frobe

---

### Post by Doug S on 2013-11-15
A good reference for iptables, that many of us use, is [here]("http://bodhizazen.net/Tutorials/iptables/"). The answer to your ssh question (with a brute force block), and much more information, is there.

---

### Post by Frobe82 on 2013-11-18
I've read through that link you sent but did not get much wiser.
This is the config I am running atm.
I've opened up for the apt-get but I do not understand why I have to apply it to both tables, filter and nat. This would mean that It will run through both tables befor the package is processed, is this correct?
I am pondering this since I am running apt-get on the router itself and I thought it would not go via the *nat table. But apparently it does, is this normal?
I've managed to DROP everything except for the *nat prerouting and postrouting. When I drop the prerouting the clients behind the firewall cannot reach the internet, understandable.
I cannot find the prerouting syntax to open up for port 80, could someone lend me a hand?
And please point out any misstakes.
I am running out of time and I need two things.
1. 100% closed down firewall.
2. Instructions of how to open up the firewall for specific services (so far only port 80).

Any help would be greatly appreciated!

```

# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Mon Nov 18 10:27:14 2013
*filter
:INPUT DROP [0:0]
:FORWARD DROP [0:0]
:OUTPUT DROP [0:0]
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth1 -o eth0 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth0 -o eth1 -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --sport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -p udp -m udp --dport 53 -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -p udp -m udp --dport 443 -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Mon Nov 18 10:27:14 2013
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.12 on Mon Nov 18 10:27:14 2013
*nat
:PREROUTING DROP [2236:207998]
:INPUT DROP [0:0]
:OUTPUT DROP [0:0]
:POSTROUTING DROP [0:0]
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -p udp -m udp --dport 53 -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -p udp -m udp --dport 443 -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT
-A POSTROUTING -o eth1 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Mon Nov 18 10:27:14 2013
```

---

### Post by Doug S on 2013-11-18
Just set default DROP policies for INPUT, OUTPUT, and FORWARD, as Seiji mentioned above. Leave the PREROUTING and POSTROUTING default policies alone, or as ACCEPT.
You deal with allowing your local clients access to the internet or not via the FORWARD chain.

So, I am saying delete this line:```
-A FORWARD -i eth0 -o eth1 -j ACCEPT
```and add lines with specifically what you want to do, i.e.:```
-A FORWARD -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
```Which you might think I need to specify a source interface or address or something, but I don't think so, because the only way to hit the rule is from your local clients (but I didn't test it). You probably want port 443 also.

I don't know your network, so you might need to allow some other stuff via the FORWARD chain for basic LAN operation, such as port 53 (DNS) and udp ports 67 and 68 for dhcp.

Don't you want tcp instead of udp for this line:```
-A OUTPUT -p udp -m udp --dport 443 -m state --state NEW -j ACCEPT
```

---

