---
title: "10.04 server wifi client using RADIUS/TTLS/PAP"
date: 2010-09-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by pwb1 on 2010-09-08
I am trying to get wifi working for a 10.04 headless server through a university networking system using RADIUS authentication over IEEE8021X tunneled via TTLS with PAP internal authentication. Campus IT does not directly support configuration through the command line (I sympathize. They have 25,000 students/faculty with laptops to take care of.), but they are trying to help.

The "generic" config info provided is:

[LIST]
[*]Network Name (SSID): **UMASS-SECURE1X**
[*]Authentication Mode: **WPA2 Enterprise**
[*]Encryption Type: **AES**
[*]Authentication Method: **PAP**
[*]EAP Type: **EAP-TTLS**
[/LIST]
Specific config instructions are also provided.  Ubuntu is one of the candidates:
----- SNIP
The following instructions were created using the Ubuntu UMass version of Linux, but             they should help you connect to UMASS-SECURE1X with other versions of Linux as well. 

[LIST=1]
[*]Click the **Wireless network Connection** icon (top right) and                     from the pop-up menu, click **Connect to Other Wireless                     Network**. The Connect to Other Wireless Network window                     will open.
[*] In the Connect to Other Wireless Network window:
[LIST]
[*]Next to Network Name, enter a **name**                             for your connection, we recommend **UMASS-SECURE1X** (all                             caps).
[*]From the Wireless Security: drop down menu,                                 select** WPA & WPA2-Enterprise**. Additional                             configuration options will appear in the window.
[*]From the Authentication: drop-down menu, select                                 **Tunnelled TLS**.
[*]From the Inner Authentication: drop-down menu, select                                 **PAP**.
[*]In the User name: field, enter your                             **NetID**.
[*]In the Password: field, enter your **OIT                                 Account password**.
[/LIST]
 
[*]Click **Connect** (at bottom). The Connect to Other                         Wireless Network window will close and your computer will connect                     to the UMASS-SECURE1X network. A No Certificate Authority certificate                         chosen pop-up may open, click **Ignore**.
[*]To connect to the UMASS-SECURE1X network in the future, click the                         **Wireless Network Connections** icon (top right) and check                     the **radio button** next to UMASS-SECURE1X.
[/LIST]
----- /SNIP

Since I am using a headless server, I 1) do not have a GUI available and don't really want to install one, and 2) I am not using NetworkManager and don't want to.  I want to use /etc/network/interfaces.  I have located numerous instructions that all require a wpa-supplicant config file and also assume you have a certificate to install.  I don't have a certificate for this configuration, and I "should" be able to do this entirely in the interfaces file. Based on the various sources, I cobbled together the following interface definition which does not work:

   ----- SNIP  
# The UMass WiFi connection  
auto wlan0 
iface wlan0 inet dhcp  
wpa-driver wext 
wpa-ap-scan 1  
wpa-ssid UMASS-SECURE1X  
wpa-key-mgmt IEEE8021X 
wpa-eap TTLS 
wpa-proto RSN  wpa-phase2 auth=PAP  
wpa-pairwise CCMP 
wpa-group CCMP  
wpa-identity "[REMOVED]"  
wpa-password "[REMOVED]" 
-----  /SNIP

Output from restart:

----- SNIP
root@NAS:~# /etc/init.d/networking restart
 * Reconfiguring network interfaces...
postconf: fatal: open /etc/postfix/main.cf: No such file or directory
postconf: fatal: open /etc/postfix/main.cf: No such file or directory
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.3
Copyright 2004-2009 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/](https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/)

Listening on LPF/wlan0/[MAC ADDRESS REMOVED]
Sending on   LPF/wlan0/[MAC ADDRESS REMOVED]
Sending on   Socket/fallback
DHCPRELEASE on wlan0 to 192.168.11.1 port 67
send_packet: Network is unreachable
send_packet: please consult README file regarding broadcast address.
ssh stop/waiting
ssh start/running, process 7435
postconf: fatal: open /etc/postfix/main.cf: No such file or directory
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.3
Copyright 2004-2009 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/](https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/)

Listening on LPF/wlan0/[MAC ADDRESS REMOVED]
Sending on   LPF/wlan0/[MAC ADDRESS REMOVED]
Sending on   Socket/fallback
DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 5
DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 13
... continues with increasing intervals
----- /SNIP

Note the .11 subnet was in use when we had the server running at home before heading off to school. That interface is commented out in /etc/network/interfaces but it's still seems somewhat active here (route table?). I also have no idea why postfix is involved. Is it trying to email me a status message?

So, any ideas?  TIA

---

