---
title: "9.04 Jaunty Network Manager Applet default keyring locked problem"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tentwelveeight on 2009-04-26
For anyone who had the same problem as me:

In 9.04 UNR I had an account autologin but would then be prompted for a password with the following message:

> The application 'NetworkManager Applet' (/usr/bin/nm-applet) wants access to the default keyring, but it is locked.

There are all kinds of fixes on the forums for previous iterations of ubuntu and GNOME but none of them worked for me until I came across a message that advised me as follows:
> 
I have an administrator user (me) and a non-administrator user (my kid).
I went to administration-Login window and set my kid's account to auto-login.

Then I right clicked the wireless applet, went to 'edit connections', the wireless tab, and checked the "available to all users" for our wireless connection. Rebooted and it logged in his account and wireless was already connected. No password prompts.

Here is the link to the page containing the advice:
[URL="https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-applet/+bug/137247"]
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-applet/+bug/137247[/URL]

---

### Post by tentwelveeight on 2009-04-26
i guess i have to reply to mark it as solved...

---

### Post by PeteV on 2009-04-27
I have been trying to fix this problem on my system for over a year! I can't believe it's this simple to accomplish. Now I can stop tearing my hair out.

Thanks for posting this!

---

### Post by deepkick on 2009-05-02
Cheers! I've been working on this the better part of a month, and I am surprised it was so easy. Other forums mentioned editing passwords in the Keyring Manager, et cetera, to no avail.

---

### Post by neogeek on 2009-05-02
> **tentwelveeight said:**
> 

Here is the link to the page containing the advice:
[URL="https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-applet/+bug/137247"]
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-applet/+bug/137247[/URL]

I just upgraded to Jaunty and this is the first time I have this problem. However, the link with the fix help to fixed the problem right away. :P

---

### Post by jaithehulk on 2009-05-02
i have a single user(admin)..and put it on auto-login...and now nm-applet says wired network device unmanaged....evry time i hav to manually bring eth0 up by
***sudo ifconfig eth0 up***
i disable auto-login..but now the problem stil persists!!
I had not used any keyrings and stuff..i went to the given link...but didnt find ne solutions!! pls help.

---

### Post by tentwelveeight on 2009-05-04
> **jaithehulk said:**
> i have a single user(admin)..and put it on auto-login...and now nm-applet says wired network device unmanaged....evry time i hav to manually bring eth0 up by
***sudo ifconfig eth0 up***
i disable auto-login..but now the problem stil persists!!
I had not used any keyrings and stuff..i went to the given link...but didnt find ne solutions!! pls help.

Hmmm, it sounds like a problem with your hardware or something. Perhaps you corrupted your etc/network/interfaces file somehow? In any case you may be able to fix it by installing the old GNOME network manager. You can see how to do it here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=976198]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=976198")

here's the code:
> sudo aptitude install gnome-network-admin

Then you should see the old network manager under applications->system->network or maybe somewhere else in your applications menu depending on your window manager and/or version. Good luck! -joe

---

### Post by purple_pundit on 2009-05-05
It worked for me too ! thank you.

---

### Post by willperrin on 2009-05-06
> **tentwelveeight said:**
> Hmmm, it sounds like a problem with your hardware or something. Perhaps you corrupted your etc/network/interfaces file somehow? In any case you may be able to fix it by installing the old GNOME network manager. You can see how to do it here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=976198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=976198)

here's the code:


Then you should see the old network manager under applications->system->network or maybe somewhere else in your applications menu depending on your window manager and/or version. Good luck! -joe 

slightly different take on this long standing problem - a while ago, i forgot my password and reset it.  and have been bugged with the default keyring problem ever since - as i still can't remember the old password - i just cancel the message a couple of times and then enter the WPA network key.  

however some apps like tweetdeck running in adobe air don't allow me to cancel the keyring password request and so don't work at all

Have now upgraded to jaunty and am trying to iron out this problem 

all the above is insightful but doesn't seem to work for me - any suggestions ? (i am a basic ubuntu user with a dual booting machine, happy to follow step by step insturctions but not to improvise)

---

### Post by tentwelveeight on 2009-05-07
Sorry, I haven't got any further steps for you. I assume you've tried disabling autologin and all that? What if you create a new user, does it still come up? You tried the fix that worked for me right (ticking the box to allow all users access to the network)?

If you've tried all of the above I can only suggest you submit an email request for help on one of the lists or maybe on an IRC channel. Below is the URL for all the lists, the people there can be very helpful and are often very quick to reply. Good luck! -joe

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/")

---

### Post by vahnx on 2009-06-20
OMG you are a genious! It's people like you who should be developing on Ubuntu to make it more user friendly! It's problems like this that keep people from Linux.

---

### Post by franki.macha on 2009-06-21
> slightly different take on this long standing problem - a while ago, i forgot my password and reset it. and have been bugged with the default keyring problem ever since - as i still can't remember the old password - i just cancel the message a couple of times and then enter the WPA network key.


Thank you, this saved me a headache, I had exactly the problem described in the original post, and I doubt that I would ever have asssociated it with my recent password change, now I guess I just have to figure out how to change network manager's password to keep it up to date... when I get the time :)

---

### Post by mark.v on 2009-07-10
I had this problem today, after changing my password yesterday, and specifically with Adobe Air running Tweetdeck.

I solved it by changing the default keyring password to match my (user) password.  Note that I knew my default keyring password because it was my previous password (I installed Jaunty very recently).

I did this with the following steps:


[LIST]
[*]Open Seahorse: Applications / Accessories / Passwords and Encryption Keys (I'm fairly certain I didn't install this myself i.e. it came with Jaunty, but I may be wrong.  Not difficult to install it if you need it)
[*]Switch to the "Passwords" tab
[*]Right click on "Passwords: login" entry and choose "Change password"
[*]Change the password.
[/LIST]
Hope this helps.

Ideally I would think that the default keyring password should stay in sync when the user password changes but I don't understand all the issues around this.  I do know it's a suggestion that's been made before though.

---

### Post by derekge on 2009-07-12
Thank you - this worked!

---

### Post by fdsg72-lux on 2009-07-16
Thank you so much!  This is *NOT* intuitive and an absolute pain in the you-know-what!  There should be a HINT/TIP on the dialog box that prompts you for the password about how to change it - better yet, a link to where this is explained - have been googling for days now whenever I got some time to "waste" and only found this gem this morning while sipping away on my coffee :KS

---

### Post by cmapesjr on 2009-07-19
Many thanks! My problem is solved!:D

---

### Post by model635 on 2009-07-28
Big thanks!

It solved my problem right away!


Jacques

---

### Post by betterhands on 2009-07-29
> **mark.v said:**
> 
[LIST]
[*]Open Seahorse: Applications / Accessories / Passwords and Encryption Keys (I'm fairly certain I didn't install this myself i.e. it came with Jaunty, but I may be wrong.  Not difficult to install it if you need it)
[*]Switch to the "Passwords" tab
[*]Right click on "Passwords: login" entry and choose "Change password"
[*]Change the password.
[/LIST]
Hope this helps.

thanks much for posting this.

---

### Post by Loosewheel on 2009-07-29
> **jaithehulk said:**
> i have a single user(admin)..and put it on auto-login...and now nm-applet says wired network device unmanaged....evry time i hav to manually bring eth0 up by
***sudo ifconfig eth0 up***
i disable auto-login..but now the problem stil persists!!
I had not used any keyrings and stuff..i went to the given link...but didnt find ne solutions!! pls help.

jaithehulk, I think tentwelveeight might be correct about the /etc/network/interfaces file. If eth0 is listed in there NetworkManager won't touch it.
Comment out any 'eth0' lines. Like:
#auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp
Then reboot.

---

### Post by kounabi on 2009-09-28
thanks for the tip...works perfect...!!!

the reason other solutions don't mention this is because in older versions there is no such button as "available for all users"...

i don't know if there's a similar way to solve it in older versions

---

### Post by Rayaz on 2010-04-16
Thanks a ton. Have been so frustrated with the issue. 

Regards.

---

### Post by malmomma on 2010-04-19
Awesome!!  I had been doing searches for nm-applet for this issue, but came up with nothing but editing passwords (which didn't work).  Added password to my search and found this thread.  Did as suggested - got worried when as soon as I did, my network connection went away - but a reboot and voila!  No prompt for a password, just instant connection.  

Love this forum!!  :)

Karen

---

