---
title: "Smc 2862w"
date: 2010-10-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Sleepy-zz-John on 2010-10-19
I'm trying to get my SMC EZ-Connect 802.11g 2862W-G wireless dongle to work on a friend's Lucid Lynx.   I see there are some closed archived posts asking how to install this dongle,  but since they don't appear to have been solved, here's a bump to see if I can resurrect the topic.  

lsusb gives me
Bus001 Device 003: ID 0707:ee06 Standard Microsystems Corp. EZ-Connect 802.11g  

Any suggestions on what I should do next?

---

### Post by Der Ritter on 2010-10-19
> **Sleepy-zz-John said:**
> I'm trying to get my SMC EZ-Connect 802.11g 2862W-G wireless dongle to work on a friend's Lucid Lynx.   I see there are some closed archived posts asking how to install this dongle,  but since they don't appear to have been solved, here's a bump to see if I can resurrect the topic.  

lsusb gives me
Bus001 Device 003: ID 0707:ee06 Standard Microsystems Corp. EZ-Connect 802.11g  

Any suggestions on what I should do next?

According to [H.J. Heins' website]("http://linux-wless.passys.nl/query_part.php?brandname=SMC"), the stick should work fine with Linux. However in order to get it to work you should head to the prism54 project wiki, download the appropriate [firmware]("http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/p54#firmware") (I would try isl3887 first) and stick it in /lib/firmware. Good luck.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-10-19
This device is supposed to work with the module p54usb:```
modinfo p54usb | grep EE06
alias:          usb:v[COLOR="Red"]0707[/COLOR]p[COLOR="Red"]EE06[/COLOR]d*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip*
```Please insert the device and run:```
iwconfig
```Is there an interface, wlan0 perhaps? If not, let's explicitly load the module and check again:```
sudo modprobe p54usb
iwconfig
```If it still doesn't work, let's see if we can find out why:```
dmesg | grep p54
```Thanks.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-10-19
If you have an internet connection, the firmware will easily be installed with:```
sudo apt-get install linux-firmware-nonfree
```

---

### Post by Sleepy-zz-John on 2010-10-21
> **Der Ritter said:**
> According to [H.J. Heins' website]("http://linux-wless.passys.nl/query_part.php?brandname=SMC"), the stick should work fine with Linux. However in order to get it to work you should head to the prism54 project wiki, download the appropriate [firmware]("http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/p54#firmware") (I would try isl3887 first) and stick it in /lib/firmware. Good luck.
Thanks for that.   I tried moving both the isl3886 and isl3887 downloaded options into /lib/firmware,  re-inserted the dongle,  and then checked iwconfig but I'm afraid the result was still "no wireless extensions". 

Any further suggestions on this?

---

### Post by Sleepy-zz-John on 2010-10-21
> **chili555 said:**
> This device is supposed to work with the module p54usb:```
modinfo p54usb | grep EE06
alias:          usb:v[COLOR="Red"]0707[/COLOR]p[COLOR="Red"]EE06[/COLOR]d*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip*
```
OK,  thanks,  yes, that line worked.
>  Please insert the device and run:```
iwconfig
```Is there an interface, wlan0 perhaps? 
No,  that only continued to give "no wireless extensions"
>  If not, let's explicitly load the module and check again:```
sudo modprobe p54usb 
iwconfig
```
No,  again "no wireless extensions" I'm afraid.  
> If it still doesn't work, let's see if we can find out why:```
dmesg | grep p54
```Thanks.
Here's the result for that:
[    5.733938] usb 2-2.3: (p54usb) cannot load firmware isl3886usb (-2)!
[    5.742664] p54usb: probe of 2-2.3:1.0 failed with error -2
[    5.742705] usbcore: registered new interface driver p54usb
[ 4680.065904] usb 2-2.3: (p54usb) cannot load firmware isl3886usb (-2)!
[ 4680.098009] p54usb: probe of 2-2.3:1.0 failed with error -2

Any further suggestions?

---

### Post by Sleepy-zz-John on 2010-10-21
> **chili555 said:**
> If you have an internet connection, the firmware will easily be installed with:```
sudo apt-get install linux-firmware-nonfree
```

Sounded simple,  so I moved the computer to a location that was within reach of a working ethernet socket and connected up,  but all this gave me was two error lines:

E: Could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (11: Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?

I tried this several times,  but don't really understand what Resource it is that's temporarily unavailable,  or the meaning of "lock" here.   Can you explain or suggest anything else I could try?     Thanks.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-10-21
dmesg is telling us that it can't load the firmware. When you try to download it, you get "Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?"

That is because either Synaptic or Update Manager is sitting open as you are trying to run apt-get from the terminal. Please close Synaptic and Update Manager and try again.

---

### Post by Sleepy-zz-John on 2010-10-21
> **chili555 said:**
> dmesg is telling us that it can't load the firmware. When you try to download it, you get "Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?"

That is because either Synaptic or Update Manager is sitting open as you are trying to run apt-get from the terminal. Please close Synaptic and Update Manager and try again.
You were right!  apt-get ran fine once Update Manager completed its task.  linux-firmware-nonfree installed easily,  and after that all I had to do was plug my dongle in and connect.   Works a treat now!   Thank you!

BTW the SMC EZ-Connect 802.11g 2862W-G is my own personal old dongle which I'm trying out on on my friend's Lucid Lynx to make sure we can get it working.   In view of our success today,  my friend now intends to go out and purchase her own new dongle to use more permanently on the same Lucid Lynx machine,  and I would like to be able to give her a list of compatible dongles that linux-firmware-nonfree will recognise as easily as it did my SMC 2862W today.    Please could you tell me where I can find such a list?    

Anyway,  many thanks again.   Great advice and very happy now:biggrin:

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-10-21
This is probably a better resource:  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported)

I'd look for the ones that work out of the box, even without firmware. Also, I'd compile a list of possible candidates (Amazon, Newegg, Best Buy, etc.) and search this forum for the model and version number.

Or give her your SMC. What's a friend for??

Have fun!

---

