---
title: "9.10 erratic wireless"
date: 2009-12-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sjvega on 2009-12-15
Hello, for sometime I've been having problems with the wireless, first it was some random disconnections, tried to work around it using things from other posts but it didn't work, when the kernel upgrade to 2.6.31-15 it stopped to work completely, and with 2.6.31-16 became erratic again, after much system tweaking, I reinstalled, a few days ago, 9.10, guessing I might have been causing the problem. But recently (using 2.6.31-16) the connections lasted OK (I mean doesn't disconnects every 5 minutes) but when it gets disconnected  can't get it to work again , I have to restart, sometime 2 or 3 times for it to connect again.
I've been trying with 2 wireless PCI cards but with the same controller (RT61). Is there some driver problem... i just don't know and it's getting me on my nerves. Also on the WinXP partition I have the card work just fine, no disconnections. 
Sorry for the bad English.
Thanks in advance

---

### Post by haribol707 on 2009-12-15
Looks like 9.10 is a real pain in the butt! Problems after problems!

---

### Post by uncaspi on 2009-12-15
I've searched the threads for RT61 and you probably have to replace your driver with ndiswrapper. Howto. You can search the threads for ndiswrapper and RT61

---

### Post by rp3 on 2009-12-24
> **sjvega said:**
> Hello, for sometime I've been having problems with the wireless, first it was some random disconnections, tried to work around it using things from other posts but it didn't work, when the kernel upgrade to 2.6.31-15 it stopped to work completely, and with 2.6.31-16 became erratic again, after much system tweaking, I reinstalled, a few days ago, 9.10, guessing I might have been causing the problem. But recently (using 2.6.31-16) the connections lasted OK (I mean doesn't disconnects every 5 minutes) but when it gets disconnected  can't get it to work again , I have to restart, sometime 2 or 3 times for it to connect again.
I've been trying with 2 wireless PCI cards but with the same controller (RT61). Is there some driver problem... i just don't know and it's getting me on my nerves. Also on the WinXP partition I have the card work just fine, no disconnections. 
Sorry for the bad English.
Thanks in advance

I have had the same issue with my Toshiba A305 laptop, works great for a while, then it disconnects and I have to restart to get it back, it never seems to disconnect when I am using it, only when I step away... 

Hmmmm

---

### Post by cmileto on 2009-12-24
I am having this issue with a wired card.... yes with a normal ethernet card. Fresh install. Only thing else installed is lamp stack. Any ideas? Networking will totally stop (cant ssh in or out, no http, internet sharing  stops, ect). Have to reboot to make it work again. seems random, sometimes will go for hours sometimes its every 5 mins it seems.

---

