---
title: "9.10 karmic, Huawei E169 3G broadband modem, 2.6.31-15-generic kernel - works!"
date: 2009-11-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by madmax75 on 2009-11-09
I have a Huawei E169 3G broadband modem dongle and it stopped working when I upgraded 9.04 to 9.10.

I did manage to get Huawei to work with dj-toonz's magical solution, and today I updated the kernel to 2.6.31-15-generic - and voila! Huawei E169 works without magical spells!

The new kernel is in proposed updates, so you have to check that in your Synaptic settings first.

---

### Post by fparri on 2009-11-10
Could you please send me the deb files with the 2.6.31-15-generic kernel. A colleague of mine here at work needs them to use his Huawei 3G dongle. Otherwise, he's connectionless ;)
I'm on a Windows box here, so I can't get them off Synaptic :(

---

### Post by RdM on 2009-11-11
I can confirm that this works perfectly. Thanks!

---

### Post by daka on 2009-11-11
I tried to update the kernel but many 'failed' attempts to download and install various upgrades although I have everything ticked off in the repository.  If anyone has a suggestion why this would be happening please pass it on.  I think I reloaded the repositories too.

Also could someone possible send me the deb files also for the new kernel so that I can just install them (if that is possible)

Many thanks

Daka

---

### Post by petermoffat on 2009-11-11
Doesn't work on E220 FYI

---

### Post by pdc on 2009-11-11
what happens with the 220 Peter?

can you type 

> tail -f /var/log/messages

in a terminal when connecting with the 220? The initial config in network manager went well, did it?

You configured as per the "Create a mobile broadband connection" section of this link

[http://www.pharscape.org/networkmanager-0.7.0-and-3g-wwan-modems.html](http://www.pharscape.org/networkmanager-0.7.0-and-3g-wwan-modems.html) 

??

---

### Post by suyog on 2009-11-12
Its fixed via latest updates, check following, Huawei fixed but issue continues for ZTE modems.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/408555](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/408555)

---

### Post by tgrego on 2009-11-17
hello all,
please can someone send me or place a link for the deb?
I'm also without connection with E169 and the kernel update seems to be a solution...

thanks

---

### Post by daka on 2009-11-18
I updated kernel also through synaptic but my Huawei E220 still does not work.  If anyone has further suggestions please pass them on.

daka

---

### Post by croppa on 2009-11-18
To install the newer 2.6.31-15-generic kernel set pre-release updates in software sources/updates and then install with Synaptic.

Stuart

---

### Post by kensta87 on 2009-11-18
huewei eg162g modem works fine with jaunty and karmic , just insert it and a new window will pop up asking you for your service provider...
you can alternatively connect using pppconfig commands e.g. pon orange  where orange is the service provider you have configured with the pppconfig in the terminal...:D

---

### Post by tgrego on 2009-11-23
> **croppa said:**
> To install the newer 2.6.31-15-generic kernel set pre-release updates in software sources/updates and then install with Synaptic.

Stuart


That would be great,
the point is, I need internet connection to make synaptic updates, and I need the update to have internet connection...
How can I get the deb from another computer to install it in my connectionless computer?

cheers

---

### Post by suyog on 2009-11-23
You can always connect via wvdial or gnome-ppp.

---

### Post by Rocko262c on 2009-11-24
I have a Huawei E160 and it works after I set up the services with NetworkManager.  After I reboot the computer with the USB dongle in or out of the USB port, it can't connect to the internet.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by suyog on 2009-11-25
I am not sure why they are not fixing this serious issue. many users are leaving Ubuntu.
It used to work with 9.04 but 9.10 killed it.

---

### Post by Rocko262c on 2009-11-25
THIS FIX IS FOR A Huawei E160


Ok, I got it to work....but what a pain in the *****.  If you work a lot like me and you use your computer at work, home, and sometimes in a restaurant plus have multiple logins, this fix won't be optimal.

I have a multiple log in system.  

1.0  Go through each user account and disable auto-connect for each wireless and mobile broadband internet connection setting.  Delete the mobile broadband account from each user account.
2.0  Shutdown
3.0  Plug your USB dongle into the computer (mine is a Huawei E160 3G broadband modem, 3Moblie network.
4.0  Start your computer.
5.0  Log into the only profile that you want to have an internet connection working.
6.0  Set-up the mobile broad band service in either the 2 methods below



Method 1 - IF YOUR MODEM IS AUTOMATICALLY DETECTED
7. Follow the "New Mobile Broadband Connection" Wizzard.


Method 2 - IF YOUR MODEM IS NOT AUTOMATICALLY DETECTED
7. Click on "System" -> "Preferences" -> "Network Connections"
8. Click the "Mobile Broadband" tab, then click on the "Add" button
9. Click "Forward" and follow the steps to install your mobile broadband account
10.  Make sure that you have the "auto-connect" box checked
11.  Make sure that you have the "available for all users box" unchecked





Now I start my computer with the USB dongle (Huawei E160 3G broadband modem) plugged into the computer and it will connect to the internet.  I tried to set this up with other profiles and I just ran into trouble.  I tried every combination with multiple user accounts and having the auto-connect" box checked and unchecked as well as the "available for all users box" checked and unchecked.  The above solution worked for me.....upgrading 6 different computers to Ubuntu 9.10 has been an absolute nightmare.  I use 2 different dongles (Huawei E160 3G 3Mobile and Huawei E180 3G Optus, Australia) for work and they both have completely different issues in Ubuntu 9.10 and Vista Service Pack 2.

If you have cash, invest in a 3G wireless broadband router.  If you are broke like me, don't upgrade anything.  If you can't stand to not upgrade like me, post your solutions PLEASE!!!

-Rocko

---

### Post by pdc on 2009-11-26
well done rocko; good work;


good point about not rushing to upgrade;

it's a strong urge to "upgrade"; one might say muckup-grade;

someone once said: "If you get a really good idea, stay very still, and it will go away ............"

---

### Post by suyog on 2009-11-26
Rocko, I tried all things but just cant connect via network manager

I am connecting via GNOME-PPP or wvdial.

---

### Post by Rocko262c on 2009-11-26
Suyog,
Care to provide a link so that if people can connect via a convenient way, they can go directly to your solution.
Cheers,
-Rocko

---

### Post by pavka14 on 2009-11-26
Same modem, same kernel - doesn't work for me...
I posted a question [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1338223") - no answers yet.

---

### Post by Rocko262c on 2009-11-26
Sorry everyone, my fix above was for a Huawei E160, it also works with at Huawei E180 3G.  I have 6 different computers and this fix works on all of them......These Huawei devices are difficult to work with.

---

### Post by suyog on 2009-11-27
install gnome-ppp via synaptic and use it to connect.


> **Rocko262c said:**
> Suyog,
Care to provide a link so that if people can connect via a convenient way, they can go directly to your solution.
Cheers,
-Rocko

---

### Post by Rocko262c on 2009-11-28
Here is a more detailed link for the installation and setup of gnome-ppp.
  
[http://polishlinux.org/linux/ubuntu/three-uk-3g-modem-in-ubuntu-linux/]("http://polishlinux.org/linux/ubuntu/three-uk-3g-modem-in-ubuntu-linux/")

Not just as easy as "install gnome-ppp via synaptic and use it to connect" for most users.

---

### Post by suyog on 2009-11-30
@Rocjo262c , Thanks for update and excellent link with detail.
I thought most users are geeks here and could find there way with little hint but more info is always welcome ;)

---

### Post by cuiee on 2009-12-31
i use Huawei E160 with 2.6.31-16 & 2.6.31.15 - generic kernel..
it doesn't work.. uhuks!

---

### Post by daka on 2009-12-31
I installed Debian Lenny and after upgrading the kernel to .30 it works fine with Betavine Vodafone Mobile Connect Card program installed. 

Link for Debian Lenny kernel upgrade:  

[http://packages.debian.org/lenny-backports/linux-image-2.6.30-bpo.1-486](http://packages.debian.org/lenny-backports/linux-image-2.6.30-bpo.1-486)

Here is the link for the  mobile Connect Card software: 

 [https://forge.betavine.net/frs/?group_id=12](https://forge.betavine.net/frs/?group_id=12)

(You need to download and install the two additional suggested programs along with Mobile Connect Card software)

Daka

I will go back to Ubuntu when the Network Manager works for me, hopefully in May, 2010

---

### Post by Rocko262c on 2010-01-01
Cuiee,

Who is your service provider?  Are you in Australia?

To get the Huawei 160 to work on one of my laptops (Toshiba Portege R600), I have to delete the connection and reinstall the connection everytime I turn on the computer, which is a major pain in my *****, but that is the only way I can make it work.

It works probably 95% of the time on my IBM X30 and when it doesn't I have to reboot the computer.

I really hate the Australian internet service providers, Huawei devices, and the new kernel....I am going to deal with these horrible work arounds until May as Daka said.

-ROCKO262C

---

### Post by suyog on 2010-01-02
Hey, what Ubuntu developers are doing? I am yet not able to connect to internet via Network manager in 9.10. This is really joke.

I have updated to latest kernel, updates everything. but no luck.

---

### Post by suyog on 2010-01-04
Hey guys its working now !!! I think they have fixed this finally.

---

### Post by Rocko262c on 2010-01-12
Suyog,

I have no idea what you are talking about, I still have all the same issues as before even after doing all the current updates.  Care to elaborate?

Again, to get the Huawei 160 to work on one of my laptops (Toshiba Portege R600), I have to delete the connection and reinstall the connection everytime I turn on the computer, which is a major pain in my *****, but that is the only way I can make it work.

Cheers,
Martin

---

### Post by svaens on 2010-01-13
Hey guys. I posted my problem with my huawei before seeing your post.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1379736](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1379736)

I've got a HUAWEI E1762 HSPA USB stick. I suffer various problems, the more annoying being the one mentioned in my post. But I guess I should be almost happy it works at all, considering what i've read here. 

If anyone would like me to help in testing, with my device (dev looking at this post?) I would be glad to help.

---

### Post by Dhammamangalam on 2010-04-19
I am using Otus through a stick right now, but can't send recieve SMS. Do you recieve SMS messages? Optus Australia says techs not trained in any Linux system therefore not supported. Is there somewhere a fix so I can recieve SMS or send text messages through Optus? I use Linux Jaunty Jackalope with a Gnome desktop.

---

### Post by Rocko262c on 2010-04-19
I never use the SMS function, although with the Dovado USB Mobile Broadband Router, I could set up the SMS message protocols/settings to receive SMS texts via a web interface with the router. Again, I have not tested this function, nor do I know the settings.

The best way so for me to use these devices has been what I posed on page 2 of this forum topic thread and the other has been via:
[http://forums.whirlpool.net.au/forum-replies.cfm?t=1304752&p=-1#bottom](http://forums.whirlpool.net.au/forum-replies.cfm?t=1304752&p=-1#bottom)

In this forum, I have switched to using a Dovado USB Mobile Broadband Router, where I plug my USB modem into the router and broadcast internet at work.

At home, with my Australia Three Huawei E169 3G broadband modem, I use a Netgear USB router.  I have never tried to retrieve SMS messages with the netgear 3G router.

Summary:  I couldn't stand the hours of pain of getting these devices to work in windows and ubuntu, so I am using USB routers now and have NO trouble.

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-04-20
Hi

if the modem is directly connect to the computer

then try wammu this is a gui , a front end of gammu

there is one glitch to this program see below

I . depending on the Ubuntu version and method of internet connection then swapping from your default connection to wammu you may find the modem manager hanging on to the modem. esp with network manager

2. After using wammu you may find the default connection failing to connect , again esp network manager

in both cases the easiest solution is to disconnect the modem and reconnect again

regards

alexfish

---

### Post by Concrete Gannet on 2010-10-31
I had similar problems with my Huawei E160E. The fix was to upgrade the ppp package to 2.4.5. See the report at [http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=592444](http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=592444)

---

