---
title: "not connecting to internet in karmic"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by shinjan on 2009-11-06
I am using BSNL[COLOR=Black] [FONT=Verdana][FONT=Verdana]broadband [/FONT][/FONT][/COLOR]and I have connected to the broadband by the help of nm-applet in 8.10 and 9.04 with no problems...
now in 9.10 I cannot connect by that applet any-more...
I have to use terminal every time I try to connect to the broadband...from the terminal it's working fine but why not from the nm-applet?
pls help...

---

### Post by H.K.Murmu on 2009-11-07
I have the Same Problem

---

### Post by shredder12 on 2009-11-07
Post the content of your /etc/network/interfaces file.

---

### Post by shinjan on 2009-11-07
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


iface dsl-provider inet ppp
pre-up /sbin/ifconfig eth0 up # line maintained by pppoeconf
provider dsl-provider


```

---

### Post by shredder12 on 2009-11-07
comment the last 3 lines by adding # before them.
and thendo 
```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```
or I think it would be better to restart the system.

Now, try to configure the DSL using Network Manager. See if it works..

---

### Post by shinjan on 2009-11-09
those lines have got generated after i ran the command sudo pppoeconf to configure my net from the terminal...i did it because dsl in network manager was not working...so i don't think it will help much...but  i'l try...

as it is in a lot of posts in this forum this problem has been reported...

---

### Post by shredder12 on 2009-11-09
If those lines were generated by manually running sudo pppoeconf then probably commenting them won't solve the problem..
But if you are having trouble with NM then try wicd.. 
May be it will work.

---

### Post by shinjan on 2009-11-25
wicd does not support pppoe or dsl connection...but i need dsl connection only...

---

### Post by shinjan on 2009-12-12
why don't you reply to this thread?

---

### Post by shredder12 on 2009-12-14
I am sorry shinjan couldn't reply.. I somehow missed this thread..
btw.. after searching for your query i found out that may be there is some bug in the network manager which makes it unable to connect thru ppp modems.

you may try installing the latest version.. i am not sure if it has been fixed or not..
but probably installingt the latest release will solve the problem

---

### Post by prabath_fun on 2009-12-24
I have not faced any problem. Just connected ethernet port and started browsing. 
Prabath

---

