---
title: "Hardy Heron - usb wlan connection came and went"
date: 2011-01-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by grey1beard on 2011-01-03
After days of trying to get a TL-WN321G usb driver to install in Hardy Heron, it finally arrived in the proper place.
In trying to then set it up, I got as far as enabling roaming mode, and the icon showed that the system had made a connection to my Belkin-ASDL-G router.
I launched Firefox, which momentarily showed Google home page(where I'd been last when using a wired lan), then it changed to "Server not found".
I've tried rebooting several times, but it remains the same.
Each time the dongle led lights up, the icon shows it trying to make a connection to the correct network, but it fails to do so.

On another pc on this network, I looked in the router settings for DHCP client list, and this client has now vanished from the list where it had been showing before.

Possible complications may come from a setting in the client list that still shows up with the same host name, generated by an earlier attempt with a different usb dongle.

So two questions - do I need to find out how to remove the old client first, if so how ?
And secondly, does anyone recognize the symptoms and can offer a solution ?
Many thanks
John

PS please don't suggest upgrading - there are reasons I need to stick with 8.04 for this particular system.

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2011-01-05
Update
I have now edited my /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules and got rid of the previous wlan0, so now my existing dongle is correctly identified as wlan0.
Having re-attached the lan cable, and reset the router, the router also recognizes the correct mac address of the dongle.

My problem now is where do I go from here.
I have no idea how to set up the "Network Settings".

Starting with the Connections tab - at the moment it's an open network, so I don't have a network password.
This being the case, what should the "Password type" be set to, as it defaults to WPA Personal ?
Do I leave it as it is, and the password entry blank ?
Looking at the settings of my router, I assume I should set the "Connection Settings/Configuration" to DHCP.

The General Tab - "Host name" I presume is the computer name. This appears in the router's DHCP client list OK.
"Domain name"  No idea, but could it be the router (Belkin) or the 192.168.2.1 address ?

The DNS tab aldeady has 192.168.2.1 as the DNS server, and Search Domains has Belkin entered.

Hosts tab - this has 127.0.1.1 as the IP address against my computer named as an alias with 127.0.0.1 against localhost.

Final question - at what stage do I disconnect the lan cable, and restart without it, and do I need to disable the "wired connections  roaming mode setting ?

I'd be grateful if someone could guide me through this.

John

---

### Post by PatchesTheCaveman on 2011-01-05
> This being the case, what should the "Password type" be set to, as it defaults to WPA Personal ?
You need to change Authentication to None.  (The exact wording of the configuration might be different on 8.04.  I didn't start using Ubuntu till 9.04 so I have no idea.)

> "Domain name" No idea, but could it be the router (Belkin) or the 192.168.2.1 address ?
This generally isn't used on home networks.  You can safely leave it blank.

> Final question - at what stage do I disconnect the lan cable, and restart without it, and do I need to disable the "wired connections roaming mode setting ?
When you successfully connect to the wireless network, of course!  Being connected to both at the same time shouldn't be a problem.  That setting will have no effect when you get your wireless working.

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2011-01-06
Thanks for your input Patches.
I didn't make it clear enough, but the "Authentication Type" window doesn't have a "None" or a blank, so I must assume that if I leave the passwork blank anyway, this sorts it !
I'm trying again this a.m., with the dongle plugged in and the wired lan connected.
Left clicking on the network icon showes Wired Network selected, Manual configuration, or curiously Connect to 802.1x Protected Wired Network.
I assume the last one is a neighbour's network that my router is picking up.
Manual config takes me to the place described in my #2.

Right clicking the icon gives my a ticked box for the Enable Networking, info(about the wired connection only), and Edit Wireless Networks.
The last looks promising, so I go there.
Help/About tells me this is nm-editor 0.6.6.
Networks window is blank, as are Properties/name and /bssids

If I try entering a name, say my computer name, or the network name, then try to make an entry in the bssids box, it just gives me a raspberry !
Just to check that I had spelt my comp. name correctly, I've checked the dhcp client list of the router via this system, and to my horror, the old client has reappeared.(see #1)

So I'm now well and truly back to where I started :(

John

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2011-01-06
I've just looked in synaptic for the network manager applet mentioned above, and there is no sign of _any_ network manager entries.
Is this as it should be, of have I something missing ?
John

Edit Please ignore this particular post,as it's not true. 
I've just found **network manager 0.6.6-0ubuntu5.8.04.2** and **network-manager-gnome 0.6.6-0ubuntu3.1** both installed

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2011-01-06
Well, having read pytheas22 thread "Comprehensive ndiswrapper troubleshooting guide", I decided to run **sudo modprobe ndiswrapper**.
No change in the networking icon nor in the options offered by left or right clicking on it.
I opened System/admin/netwoork Tools, and could see on the wireless interface entry that packets were being transmitted and received !
I opened Firefox, and  there it was, a normal wireless connection !
Tempting fate, I shut down and did a cold boot, and all is still well.
If it runs tomorrow I shall post this as solved.
John

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2011-01-07
I'm typing this on the system set up in the workshop, where it is designed to run a cnc machine with 8.04/EMC2, with the router up one storey in the house.
After not a little sweat and tears it's all looking good, so I shall now post this as solved.
My thanks to all.
John

---

