---
title: "12.04 Can't Connect to Wireless Networks"
date: 2012-11-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by JavaGiant on 2012-11-19
Hey all. I realize this is the 'Absolute Beginners' Section", but I feel that I should still preface this with the fact that I am a true blue beginner. I have just begun taking baby steps beyond the average Windows/Mac user in terms of know-how concerning the OS. I don't know many terminal commands and understand even fewer. Please be explicit as possible about what I can do to help you help me.

The situation: I am dual-booting Windows 7 and Ubuntu 12.04 via Wubi. Everything has worked flawlessly except for my ability to connect to a wireless network. All of the networks that should show up are there, but I am trying to connect to one in particular with WPA encryption (it's a school network). When I input my user and pass, it attempts to connect for eternity without succeeding.

I have installed the Broadcom STA wireless proprietary driver that has the following description:

This package contains Broadcom 802.11 Linux STA wireless driver for use with Broadcom's BCM4311-, BCM4312-, BCM4313-, BCM4321-, BCM4322-, BCM43224-, and BCM43225-, BCM43227- and BCM43228-based hardware.

Please let me know what I can do for you.

Thanks,
JG

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-11-20
Welcome to the forums!

There are other steps others may ask you to take to give more complete info about your system, but for now, just run the following command for details about your network card.

```
sudo lshw -C network
```

Copy and paste the output into a new reply in this thread.  After pasting it in and before hitting "Submit Reply", highlight output in the composition pane, and hit the button above the composition pane marked with "#" to surround the output with code tags.  It makes it easier to read.

---

### Post by JavaGiant on 2012-11-20
Thanks! Here it is.

sudo lshw -C network
```
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 05
       serial: 1c:75:08:71:a3:b8
       size: 100Mbit/s
       capacity: 100Mbit/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=full firmware=rtl_nic/rtl8168e-2.fw ip=128.61.68.234 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=MII speed=100Mbit/s
       resources: irq:42 ioport:6000(size=256) memory:d1804000-d1804fff memory:d1800000-d1803fff
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:07:00.0
       logical name: eth1
       version: 01
       serial: 4c:ed:de:77:ea:28
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=wl0 driverversion=5.100.82.38 latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11
       resources: irq:17 memory:d5a00000-d5a03fff
```

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-11-20
[I]Thread moved to [B]Networking & Wireless
[/B][/I]
Reason: You're doing fine so far and you have a better chance of getting more specific help there. It won't/shouldn't get anymore complex than this with your issue. That card supposedly works out of the box so just a matter of getting to why it's not. ;)


Welcome to the forums. Try:

```
iwconfig
```... if you could, and post the output here. Your last output says there's a driver loaded but not sure if that's the correct one. 

Are you using static IP address or one served from the router or ISP? You might be better with the b43 driver rather than the STA. Somtimes works that way with the Broadcom cards. You need to install b43-fwcutter and firmware-b43-installer and restart. You have plugged in a cable and done and update, then checked Additional Drivers?

I have no idea about Wubi (actually, it seems not too many of us do as it is intended to try Ubuntu for awhile, not a long term solution) so can't tell you if the problem is related to that and don't know what it looks like or is capable of. ;)

---

### Post by JavaGiant on 2012-11-20
Thank you for the move!

The output of iwconfig:

```
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth1      IEEE 802.11  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Link Quality:5  Signal level:0  Noise level:162
          Rx invalid nwid:0  invalid crypt:18  invalid misc:0

eth0      no wireless extensions.
```

I don't have the time to understand the differences between those right now, but I would infer that it's probably static since I'm using the school network with no personal router.

To install those packages can I literally enter "install  b43-fwcutter" and "install firmware-b43-installer"?

I have indeed done the update, upgrade, and checked the Additional Drivers.

Wubi is a temp thing for my current laptop. I'm getting a new laptop within the week and I'm just testing some things via Wubi. I may completely switch over for the new machine and install it properly, I just want to know how to fix some issues should I run into them. Thanks again.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-11-20
> **JavaGiant said:**
> 
Wubi is a temp thing for my current laptop. I'm getting a new laptop within the week and I'm just testing some things via Wubi. I may completely switch over for the new machine and install it properly, I just want to know how to fix some issues should I run into them. Thanks again.

That is the way to use it as Wubi is a temp thing. You might not get a very good representation of what you might need to fix in a real install, though, as the two are not the same. A better way to do that would be to run the release and version you intend to use from the LiveCD (the install CD) before installing. You won't be able to install the drivers this way but you will see they're available.

To install the other two you can find them in Software Centre (if you have it) or Synaptic Package Manager (ditto) or in a terminal with:

```
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter
```Same syntax for the other and any other app/software.

As for the output from iwconfig, it shows you are not connected to anything and the wireless card looks off and undetected. It should be wlan0, not eth*.

---

### Post by JavaGiant on 2012-11-20
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> To install the other two you can find them in Software Centre (if you have it) or Synaptic Package Manager (ditto) or in a terminal with:

```
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter
```Same syntax for the other and any other app/software.

Same output for both packages:
```
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
b43-fwcutter is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 3 not upgraded.
```

> As for the output from iwconfig, it shows you are not connected to  anything and the wireless card looks off and undetected. It should be  wlan0, not eth*.
So what do I do?

---

### Post by JavaGiant on 2012-11-20
Strange. I can connect to my WPA-encrypted home network, I just can't connect to my school network...mind blown.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-11-20
From that output you need to do an upgrade (this will not upgrade to a new release, just upgrade what have installed) as you have three not upgraded. Probably won't fix your prob but just mentioning it. ALWAYS update first. Try these one at a time:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```If you can connect to your home LAN fine then all is well with your wireless and you shouldn't change anything. Adding drivers is not going fix the problem at school and you risk breaking the wireless. You already have the appropriate drivers else your connection wouldn't be working anywhere.

The problem at school is a setting probably, at your end or theirs. You need to talk to somewhere there that knows and find out the exact details required. Static IP? They serving one? Do you need to add DNS details? What is the name of their access point/router? Do you see it as an available network when you are there but just can't connect?

Set up that connection using Network Manager and make sure everything matches what they require.

The title of this thread is now misleading because 12.04 LTS *does* connect to wireless networks. Just not the one at your school and that is a separate, different issue so I would advise posting a new thread with a descriptive title and as much info as you can muster *after* speaking to the tech people at school. In situations like this we are limited in providing help because we can't know your school network's setup and requirements unless you tell us. ;)

If you do create a new thread post a link to it here if you like ...

---

### Post by JavaGiant on 2012-11-20
I really appreciate the help. I will definitely contact the appropriate people on campus and then return with more specific questions if necessary.

Also, I've uninstalled Wubi/Ubuntu and am going for a fresh, traditional dual boot.

Thanks again, you guys are awesome!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-11-22
All good and keep us filled in ...

Good luck. ;)

---

### Post by albuquerquemat on 2013-08-08
Just in case this might help somebody else.  I had the same problem.  I could see available wifi networks but couldn't connect to the very networks that I connected 
to a month ago.  Turns out that between connections I decided to change my router settings and reserve an specific IP address instead of letting the router assign me 
one using DHCP.  That's apparently all it took to prevent me from connecting to my network.  The quick and simple cure was simply to remove the IP reservation for 
my system in the router's setup.  This may not be the cause of all the problems discussed here, but it might provide a clue.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-08-09
Welcome to the forums. Your post, in fact, has nothing to do with this thread and is unrelated to the problem outlined and resolved here. 

The problem here was drivers, yours relates to DHCP and IP addresses. Please read thread, not just title. Better to post a new thread than resurrect one that is solved and has had no action for eight months. (A head's up: while I'm aware you are trying to be helpful, this practice is known as 'hijacking' a thread. On a live thread this is bad for many reasons. Much more helpful, to both you and the community, to post new threads. Try 'Tutorials' sub-forum. Plenty room out there.) ;)

* Note: Set static IPs from the local machine, not in the router. Make sure your router is not trying to serve IPs in the same range you have set the static. That way, all your machines are identifiable by static IPs but if you have a visitor, the router can still serve them an IP from the IP range you've set to serve from, setting the DHCP server to serve IPs between say 192.168.0.100-192.168.0.110.

Good luck. 

***Thread closed.***

---

