---
title: "8.04 with sis191 issues?"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Pipen84 on 2008-04-30
Dear ubuntu users. I would really appreciat it if you could help me out with this.

I've been trying to install Ubuntu 8.04 on a brand new coputer with a Asus P5S MX SE. This asus motherboard have the sis 191 ethernet adapter and I can't get the network connection to work.

It's not the issue thats been reported before with the ISA bridge. The OS identifies the drivers and everything. But it never gets a IP from my router. Due to packet loss, seems like its dropping 999 out of 1000.

Any idea how to solve this?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by dupin on 2008-05-20
Hi pipen, I got the same issue in a similar Asus mother (can't remember the model right now). The driver did not work at all, when I connected the wire to the NIC the OS did not detect the "link" status. After tweaking the module, I got it to work but with 30% (or so) packet loss and I asume I am having packet malformation because I can't connect through a proxy.

The tweak I made to the module added support for an unsupported PHY layer chipset. I guess that's the problem I'm having. I added the line which says "Anything", and some more lines to grab the hex numbers following with dmesg. (I think I got this solution from this forum, not really sure)

> } mii_chip_table[] = {
	{ "Broadcom PHY BCM5461", { 0x0020, 0x60c0 }, LAN, F_PHY_BCM5461 },
	{ "Broadcom PHY AC131",   { 0x0143, 0xbc70 }, LAN, 0 },
	{ "Agere PHY ET1101B",    { 0x0282, 0xf010 }, LAN, 0 },
	{ "Marvell PHY 88E1111",  { 0x0141, 0x0cc0 }, LAN, F_PHY_88E1111 },
	{ "Realtek PHY RTL8201",  { 0x0000, 0x8200 }, LAN, 0 },
	{ "Anything",  { 0x4d, 0xd020 }, LAN, 0 },
	{ NULL, }
};

I can't remember which were the other lines.

If someone has a solution I would apreciate it.
Thanks in advance.

---

