---
title: "9.10 internet slow...tried disabling ipv6"
date: 2010-02-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tigerstripedcat on 2010-02-01
Is karmic is slower for you all: if you're running windows ping a server on windows/ubuntu and compare.  9.10 is consistently slower for me. I've seen enough "slow internet" posts to suspect that someone screwed up bad. Everyone says it's ipv6, but none of the fixes work for me.  

Pretty sure it's ipv6 (or at least a dns-related problem):

```

$ time ping -c5 www.google.com
ING www-tmmdi.l.google.com (72.14.204.103) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 72.14.204.103: icmp_seq=1 ttl=53 time=29.4 ms
64 bytes from 72.14.204.103: icmp_seq=2 ttl=53 time=19.7 ms
64 bytes from 72.14.204.103: icmp_seq=3 ttl=54 time=27.9 ms
64 bytes from 72.14.204.103: icmp_seq=4 ttl=54 time=19.1 ms
64 bytes from 72.14.204.103: icmp_seq=5 ttl=54 time=19.0 ms

--- www-tmmdi.l.google.com ping statistics ---
5 packets transmitted, 5 received, 0% packet loss, time [B][SIZE="6"]20226ms[/SIZE]
[/B]rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 19.051/23.073/29.481/4.655 ms

real    0m28.327s
user    0m0.000s
sys     0m0.020s

$ time ping -c5 72.14.204.103
PING 72.14.204.103 (72.14.204.103) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 72.14.204.103: icmp_seq=1 ttl=54 time=28.1 ms
64 bytes from 72.14.204.103: icmp_seq=2 ttl=54 time=20.2 ms
64 bytes from 72.14.204.103: icmp_seq=3 ttl=54 time=21.1 ms
64 bytes from 72.14.204.103: icmp_seq=4 ttl=54 time=19.5 ms
64 bytes from 72.14.204.103: icmp_seq=5 ttl=54 time=20.7 ms

--- 72.14.204.103 ping statistics ---
5 packets transmitted, 5 received, 0% packet loss, time **[SIZE="6"]4005ms[/SIZE]**
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 19.599/21.986/28.193/3.144 ms

real    0m4.027s
user    0m0.000s
sys     0m0.000s



```

Here's what I tried:

* disabled ipv6 in firefox
* disabled ipv6 permanently with the grub2 boot line
* tried konqueror/firefox
* tried google dns/ opendns

I am running dd-wrt on my router (any one else?) I'm wondering if that has anything to do with it, but I just upgraded the firmware. I'm also running kubuntu.

Any idea what else I could try?

james

---

### Post by b9k9kiwi on 2010-02-01
Well, something is 'broken', but I don't think that anybody is quite sure yet what it might be (hence the lack of response to your message).

My fresh install of Karmic was dog-slow accessing the internet compared with the Jaunty it replaced - and with the windows box sitting on the desk beside it.  Disabling ipv6 in Firefox fixed the speed issue for me.  I haven't disabled it system wide because all other internet and comms apps seem to be working okay,

There is a new thread in this forum crowing about how Karmic is ipv6 ready (we will all have to embrace ipv6 sooner or later), but even then there are some responses indicating that Karmic is having real problems resolving ipv6 dns addresses.

This reply is no help to you I know, but you are right in observing that slow internet access is a problem for more than just a few users, is frustrating and needs to be resolved.

---

### Post by tigerstripedcat on 2010-02-01
I went back to my ISP DNS, apt-get update all my packages, and installed firefox-3.6 and it seemed to fix the problem.  I'm not sure why though.  I really have no idea why though.

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2010-02-02
I have IPv6 configured and running locally, and I do not see the problem happening:```
altair/phil /home/phil 889> time ping -c5 www.google.com
PING www.l.google.com (74.125.159.105) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from yi-in-f105.1e100.net (74.125.159.105): icmp_seq=1 ttl=54 time=35.5 ms
64 bytes from yi-in-f105.1e100.net (74.125.159.105): icmp_seq=2 ttl=54 time=36.4 ms
64 bytes from yi-in-f105.1e100.net (74.125.159.105): icmp_seq=3 ttl=54 time=37.0 ms
64 bytes from yi-in-f105.1e100.net (74.125.159.105): icmp_seq=4 ttl=54 time=36.9 ms
64 bytes from yi-in-f105.1e100.net (74.125.159.105): icmp_seq=5 ttl=54 time=37.5 ms

--- www.l.google.com ping statistics ---
5 packets transmitted, 5 received, 0% packet loss, time 4007ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 35.564/36.725/37.595/0.695 ms
[[ 0m4s real 4.171 - user 0.000 - sys 0.010 - 0.23% ]]
altair/phil /home/phil 890> 
```
Yeah, my prompt and time format is different ;)

---

### Post by tigerstripedcat on 2010-02-02
The rumor is that it has to do with the router that you are hooked up to in route.  So you're one of the lucky ones.  But there are TONS of angry people out there with this problem.  The developers are blaming it on the routers not following some standard or something, but this is a silly argument considering you always have the retort: "Well it works in windows--they actually seem to put the user's experience over whether or not a standard has been adopted."  This makes sense to me: it doesn't matter who's fault it is, it's the job of the developers (of any OS) to prevent a large swath of users from being a victim of serious usability issues. See the long discussion here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eglibc/+bug/417757](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/eglibc/+bug/417757)

FYI: I think I MAY still have the problem, but it's harder to tell now.  (Ping test was at 10 sec rather than the characteristic 20.)

---

### Post by tigerstripedcat on 2010-02-02
Ok, I tried what one of the suggestions was in that bugreport:

apt-get install pdns-recursor 
and edited my /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf to use 127.0.0.1 (using the "preappend" line) so it automatically updates /etc/resolv.conf to use 127.0.0.1 upon connect

Thinks seem to be working now--crossing fingers.

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2010-02-02
A problem I have had in the past may be an issue here. The DNS caching server was querying for AAAA records when it should not have been, and delaying the answers to the A record queries until the AAAA record queries timed out. By not configuring any IPv6 addresses in my DNS server, that problem went away and name lookups went much faster. I have not put IPv6 addresses in the DNS configuration lately. I may try that at some point to see what happens. I would expect DNS with IPv6 to work OK if the public IPv6 network can be accessed (and queries to the root and GTLD name server IPv6 addresses get a response).

---

### Post by tigerstripedcat on 2010-02-02
Yes this is exactly the problem.  Though I still haven't really found a workaorund for my setup

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2010-02-02
Bind9 by default will listen on all interfaces via the non-specific IP address. Edit /etc/bind/named.conf.local to comment out the "listen-on-v6" line, or maybe change "any" to "none" (not sure when, but my own much more complex configuration just doesn't have this).

If you are not using your own DNS cache server (specified in /etc/resolv.conf) then this isn't the issue. Be sure there is no "inet6" statement in the /etc/resolv.conf file.

---

### Post by tigerstripedcat on 2010-02-02
I don't have /etc/find/named.conf.local. It happens whether or not I am using a cache server. I don't have "inet6" in etc/resolve.conf

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2010-02-02
> **tigerstripedcat said:**
> I don't have /etc/find/named.conf.local. It happens whether or not I am using a cache server. I don't have "inet6" in etc/resolve.conf
Just to be sure, that "[SIZE=6]b[/SIZE]ind" not "[SIZE=6]f[/SIZE]ind".

---

### Post by tigerstripedcat on 2010-02-02
Sorry, yes that's what I meant.

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2010-02-02
> **tigerstripedcat said:**
> Sorry, yes that's what I meant.
Then apparently you do not have the BIND9 DNS server installed (and thus are not running it).

What does this show:```
sudo netstat -antup | grep LISTEN
```

---

### Post by tigerstripedcat on 2010-02-02
No I do not. I am using pdns-recusor.  

$ sudo netstat -antup | grep LISTEN
[sudo] password for jmorris:
tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:53            0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      17534/pdns_recursor
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:22              0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      18073/sshd
tcp        0      0 127.0.0.1:631           0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      1685/cupsd
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:445             0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      1625/smbd
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:2049            0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      -
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:55303           0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      -
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:139             0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      1625/smbd
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:47438           0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      873/rpc.statd
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:54735           0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      1597/rpc.mountd
tcp        0      0 0.0.0.0:111             0.0.0.0:*               LISTEN      834/portmap

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2010-02-02
Gotcha. I don't know anything about pdns-recursor. If you are using it to do your DNS lookups, and if it is trying to access records it can't get to for some reason, that certainly can slow things down radically. One way to check is watch your DNS queries in one window while doing stuff in another.
```
sudo tcpdump -nnl -i eth0 -s 1536 port 53
```

---

### Post by tigerstripedcat on 2010-02-02
Yes I had this problem before using pdns.  I think 'll use your command to see what might be going on.

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2010-02-03
Apparently there is the idea that IPv6 should be preferred over IPv4 when connecting to hosts on the net. I can understand why this idea would exist. But it certainly creates problems for those who don't have global IPv6 connectivity (yet). If the lookup tries first to get only an AAAA record, and only tries for an A record after the AAAA record has timed out, then we have big delays. My suggestion is to change the resolver logic to set a delay for the A record to an amount formulated to be gradually increasing over the years. This amount could be 1 second, plus an additional 250 milliseconds for each year past the year 2010, up to a maximum of 5 seconds. This only specifies the delay in sending the query for the A record after the query for the AAAA record is sent. Both queries can be pending once both are sent, and whichever is answered positively first wins. The query ends when ONE is answered positive, or BOTH are either answered negative or exhausted all the timeouts.

---

