---
title: "7.04 internet problem with DWL G122 adapter"
date: 2007-07-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Hollywood on 2007-07-08
Who doesn't have a problem?!
I installed ubuntu 7.04 (aka feisty) a few days ago now but have no idea how to fix my lack of internet connection. For days, every spare moment, I've been running back and forth between this computer, which is running my DI 524 router, and the ubuntu one which is hooked up via the DWL G122 adapter (USB), trying various terminal commands etc., but to no avail. As much as other's problems sound like my own, there is invariably something different that doesn' t work when I try.
Here is my lshw
 *-network               
       description: Wireless interface 
       physical id: 1 
       bus info: firewire@4 
       logical name: rausb1 
       serial: 00:13:46:74:76:51 
       capabilities: ethernet physical wireless 
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=RT2500USBSTA driverversion=1.0.0 - BETA2 link=yes multicast=yes wireless=RT2500USB WLAN 
 
and my ifconfig
lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0 
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host 
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1 
          RX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 
          TX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:200 (200.0 b)  TX bytes:200 (200.0 b) 

rausb1    Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:13:46:74:76:51  
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1 
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 
          TX packets:7 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:1462301 (1.3 MiB)  TX bytes:13664 (13.3 KiB) 

and finally my lspci
lspci 
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8366/A/7 [Apollo KT266/A/333] 
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8366/A/7 [Apollo KT266/A/333 AGP] 
00:06.0 Multimedia audio controller: C-Media Electronics Inc CM8738 (rev 10) 
00:08.0 Communication controller: Conexant HSF 56k HSFi Modem (rev 01) 
00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80) 
00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80) 
00:10.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80) 
00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 82) 
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8235 ISA Bridge 
00:11.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06) 
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon R200 QL [Radeon 8500 LE] 

I've tried repeatedly to identify the card, but none of the commands I've seen work. Bad command.
I've tried setting up the static IP, switching to DHCP, etc., but none of it works and as soon as I exit the Network screen, the changes all reset themselves again to blank. I've tried pinging but it's all zeros.

Please help any way you can, thank you.

---

### Post by Hollywood on 2007-07-08
This is my  iwconfig if it helps.
lo        no wireless extensions. 

rausb1    RT2500USB WLAN  ESSID:"Alchemy"  Nickname:"" 
          Mode:Managed  Frequency=2.412 GHz  Bit Rate=11 Mb/s   
          RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off 
          Link Quality=0/100  Signal level:-120 dBm  Noise level:-209 dBm 
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0 
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

---

### Post by neildarlow on 2007-07-08
Unfortunately the Ralink drivers shipped in Feisty are in bad shape. My DWL-G122, which is RT73-based, refuses to work at all.

---

### Post by Hollywood on 2007-07-09
Okay, still no bites on this. I'm still searching for first steps myself to no avail. I think the first thing I need to do is get the full ndiswrapper installed. I've tried downloading from the live cd but it says I need an internet connection and when I proceed anyway, I only get about half the files via disk.
I'm pretty sure that my card is rt2500, at least thats what popped up for my driver but I am a little unsure of the terminolgy and what's interchangeable etc.

Can someone at least start me on my way by helping with instructions on how to get the full ndiswrapper on my computer without an internet connection? 
I installed ubuntu fully, so no Windows since it was fubar anyway, if that is important. Total noob on my knees begging for assistance!

---

