---
title: "Usr 5410"
date: 2007-07-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Architeuthis on 2007-07-02
Hello, I'm having some problems with my USR 5410 PCMCIA wireless card. 
I'm running fluxbuntu (that's actually dapper drake with fluxbox on top) on an old Dell Inspiron 7000 (with just 64 mb ram). So my card is detected, no problems at all (iwconfig shows the card).  But I can't get a connection. When for example I execute "dhclient wlan0"
I get these messages:
> DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 13
and some more but with different interval numbers. 
And finally this message appears
> No DHCPoffers received.
No working leases in persistent database - sleeping
But what does this mean? How can I make a connection (with just the commandline)? The network I'm trying to connect to is not protected by the way.

Edit: I found this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75448&highlight=5410](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75448&highlight=5410) on the wiki, but this didn't seem to change the situation.

---

### Post by jpl80 on 2007-07-02
On my Dell Inspiron 8500 there is a wireless enable/disable button on the keyboard (Fn + F2). The default is set to off. Every time I get online I have to enable the button. It took me forever to figure this out.

---

### Post by Architeuthis on 2007-07-03
Thank you for your response. But unfortunately it didn't work. And when this computer was still running windows 98, it wasn't necessary to activate the card either. So I think the dell inspiron doesn't have a button like you have.

---

### Post by Architeuthis on 2007-07-05
So does anyone know how I configure my wifi from the command line or what causes this problem?

EDIT: I installed [antiX]("http://antix.mepis.org/index.php/Main_Page") on this laptop, took me 5 hours to install but it works fine and so does the WIFi.

---

