---
title: "[9.04] wireless located, connected, not displaying any pages?"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by DR1665 on 2009-04-24
I've been running Gutsy just over a year without any worries.  I had seasoned Linux friends help me with that install.  I decided to give Jaunty a go solo and, man, I *almost* got it nailed on the first try.  Granted, the installation went brilliantly, but a laptop without wireless is pretty lame.  Hope this is an easy one for a passing pro...

[LIST]
[*]Laptop sees the wireless network.  WiFi LED is lit.
[*]Network Manager reports connected to my wireless network at 100%.
[*]"Firefox can't find the server at [ANY DOMAIN I POINT IT AT]."
[/LIST]

*Note: Hard to copy and paste between two non-connected PCs, so I'll try my best to share pertinent details.

Dell Inspiron 1521 (laptop)
AMD Turion64x2 (installed the 64bit version, fresh Jaunty install)
2GB RAM, yadda yadda.

[LIST]
[*]Broadcom STA Wireless Driver installed and active.
[*]lshw -C network shows wireless interface as Broadcom BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN, physical id:0, and **logical name: eth1**
[*]lshw -C network does NOT show eth1 as being disabled.
[*]Trying network restart returns **"Ignoring unknown interface eth1=eth1.** [OK]"
[*]In the UI (System>Administration>Network Tools), pulling up eth1 shows a HWaddress:00:1e:8c:31:7e:04, Multicast:Enabled, MTU:1500, LinkSpeed:NA, State:Active, as well as **TransmittedPackets:20, TransmissionErrors:6, ReceivedPackets:0, ReceptionErrors:0, Collisions:0.**
[/LIST]

I don't know if that "unknown interface" deal is part of the issue or not, but it sure jumps off the screen at me.  If you've got any suggestions, or would really prefer it if I manually typed out all the results of any particular commands, I'll do that, but I'm hoping someone will read this and go, *"Oh! You just need to ________!"*

Thanks for such an awesome community.  Were this a Windows install, I'd be cursing like a sailor.  This is actually kinda fun. 

Cheers,
Brian in Phoenix.

---

### Post by Locke_99GS on 2009-04-24
Howdy there Driggs ;) Wish I had any experience with Broadcom - I just installed Jaunty on my desktop, and haven't yet installed it to the laptop. I wanted to see if it was worth it or not, so far I'm liking it. If you had an Atheros chipset, I'd be able to help you right off the top of my head. ;)

Do you have an ip address? In a terminal, do:

```
ifconfig
```

And another question, to help determine where the problem lies; do you get a functional network if you plug an ethernet cable directly into the laptop?



I'll be off to bed soon, I hope you get it figured out, man.

---

### Post by DR1665 on 2009-04-24
> **Locke_99GS said:**
> 
Do you have an ip address? In a terminal, do:

```
ifconfig
```

I've got an IP.

For eth1 (the wireless):
```
Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1e:8c:31:7e:04
inet addr: 10.42.43.1 Bcast:10.42.43.255 Mask:255.255.255.0
inet6 addr:fe80::21e::8cff:fe31:7e04/64 Scope:Link
UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:15719
TX packets:20 errors:6 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:4098 (4.0 KB)
Interrupt:17 Base address:0xc000
```

For eth0 (the twisted pair):
```
Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1c:23:8d:eb:10
UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 KB)
Interrupt:21
```

> **Locke_99GS said:**
> 
And another question, to help determine where the problem lies; do you get a functional network if you plug an ethernet cable directly into the laptop?
Negative.  I get the same results.  Go figure.  :P

Thanks for checking in, man.  I appreciate it!

---

### Post by DR1665 on 2009-04-24
EUREKA!  I HAZ TEH INTERWEBZ! Wo0!

I did some more searching around, trying this or that, and I'm pretty sure what happened was another one of my colossal, stupid mistakes!

I don't know how I did it, but in all my right clicking on Network Manager and editing this or that (trying DHCP vs manual vs shared, adding this IP or that Mask, etc.) I must have somehow goofed and created a duplicate connection.  I guess it's a "hidden" connection?

In any case, I did a regular click on the Network Manager and saw my usual, secured network 'DRIGGINS' directly below a connection with limited strength called 'Driggins.'  The latter having a black dot next to it instead of the little shield to show secured.

Appreciate the help, though.  Cheers!

---

