---
title: "9.04 64 bit networking device not managed"
date: 2009-04-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ericrdrayer on 2009-04-30
the networking icon has a red x and when I left clk on it it says device not managed.

this problem appeared in intrepid 8.01.
I tried some basic things to no avail though the internet connection worked.
I am concerned because I believe that some person or persons are attempting to hack my computer.
I installed firestarter as I am trying to get up to speed with the various tools.
firestarter will not start automatically. I must login as sudo at the screen that pops up for admin (system) privileges. 

I looked into bug 191889 and as per a recomendation installed xnetconfig.
xnetconfig went through its process with out error and said that the card was configured.Yet the icon with its red x remains.

am I a nervous Nelly.
should I wait a bit for this to get resolved or should I pursue it with vigour. 
I have a list of the rejected ips if any one thinks it useful.

---

### Post by y10linux on 2009-05-04
I upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10 and my wired connection stopped working, it looks like it is a bug with network manager.

I tried all the things contained in this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1012963.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1012963.html)

And managed to get the connection to work ocasionally but not consistently (so it must be close!), I also found this bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/357509](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/357509)

So, I have not solved it yet but keep working, hope something of this works for you.

---

