---
title: "9.10 &quot;No wireless networks found.&quot; AR5001X+  Dell PC"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by pseudov on 2009-10-31
This happens every time I upgrade. It happened from 8.04 to 8.10, from 8.10 to 9.04, and now from 9.04 to 9.10.

I'm using Wicd and it just won't show any networks. In the past I always just frustratedly mess with it for half a day, and then all of a sudden it would just "magically" work.

I've wasted a lot of time but it still isn't working. I don't really know what I'm doing, but when I type 'lspci' the second to last line tells me I'm using "Atheros AR5001X+ Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01).

Also, I followed [swansong's advice]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8200371&postcount=5") and although it seemed to work for others, it didn't for me.

If I type 'sudo lshw -C network' I get something along the lines of:

PCI (sysfs)
   *-network:0 DISABLED
        description: Wireless interface
        product: Atheros AR5001X+ Wireless Network Adapter
        vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.

        capablities: bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical wireless
        configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath5k latency=168 maxlatency=28 mingnt=10 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg




I omitted a bunch of stuff I thought might not be relevant, but if just ask me exactly what info you need and I'll give it to you. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by pseudov on 2009-10-31
Update:

One thing I have found is that swansong's advice makes wlan0 appear when I run iwconfig. Also wmaster0, but I don't know what that is.

Under 'Network Tools' wlan0 is 'inactive', but I have no idea how to activate it. Anyone have any ideas?

---

