---
title: "8.10 ibex ndiswrapper auto load etc modules not working..."
date: 2008-12-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by burgundy on 2008-12-28
After following this procedure:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper#Automatically%20loading%20at%20start-up](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper#Automatically%20loading%20at%20start-up)

I still have to log into a user account to get the USB wireless device to work.

When people say autoload, do they mean after they log in?

I'm trying to get the computer to automatically join my wireless network without anyone having to log in so I can perform remote restarts and not lose the connection.

Thanks.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-12-28
Loading modules = loading the driver is not equivalent to connecting to your network.  If you want your wireless card to connect to your network automatically, you may need to run a small script to do this -- a comphrehensive sript would include error checking so the process would not go to the next step before completing the previous step.  Try connecting manually at the command line at first, then when you have things as you like it, add these instructions to either a script or copy them to the /etc/rc.local file so either the script is called or the instructions to connect are run at boot.

---

### Post by burgundy on 2008-12-28
Is there any chance you can give me a place to start?  I have experience writing elementary perl scripts or whatever, so that isn't what I need to know.

When a user logs into the system, ubuntu is configured to automatically connect to the last wireless network that worked (as far as I can tell).  What component of Gnome is this?  What command line executables are being used?

Thanks.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-12-28
Likely part of network manager, however I'm not sure.  I don't use network manager.

---

