---
title: "Dell D830,BCM4312, 8.1.0 connecting with WEP"
date: 2009-01-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by linnewb on 2009-01-19
Hi,
I am having some issues with WEP connections using network-manager and the b43 driver.  I have been doing a lot of reading on this forum and I am not sure if I should be trying to use the ndiswrapper setup, or stay with the b43 driver.

I can connect to my home wireless Dlink DIR-655, the router is set to wpa or wpa2, tkip or aes.  But I cannot connect to my works WEP network.  When I enter the wep wireless settings, network-manager tries to connect but fails.  I have tried the STA driver that is in Admin --> Hardware Drivers, but can't connect to any network with that driver.

Any help is appreciated.


modinfo b43
filename:       /lib/modules/2.6.27-9-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/b43/b43.ko
firmware:       FW13
license:        GPL
author:         Michael Buesch
author:         Stefano Brivio
author:         Martin Langer
description:    Broadcom B43 wireless driver
srcversion:     9B6D0D14CB834660F8EAC23
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev0D*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev0B*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev0A*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev09*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev07*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev06*
alias:          ssb:v4243id0812rev05*
depends:        mac80211,ssb,input-polldev,led-class,rfkill
vermagic:       2.6.27-9-generic SMP mod_unload modversions 586 
parm:           bad_frames_preempt:enable(1) / disable(0) Bad Frames Preemption (int)
parm:           fwpostfix:Postfix for the .fw files to load. (string)
parm:           hwpctl:Enable hardware-side power control (default off) (int)
parm:           nohwcrypt:Disable hardware encryption. (int)
parm:           qos:Enable QOS support (default on) (int)
parm:           btcoex:Enable Bluetooth coexistance (default on) (int)


iwconfig 
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wmaster0  no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:""  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.412 GHz  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Tx-Power=27 dBm   
          Retry min limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr=2352 B   
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality:0  Signal level:0  Noise level:0
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0


lshw -C network
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-network               
       description: Network controller
       product: BCM4312 802.11a/b/g
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:0c:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=b43-pci-bridge latency=0 module=ssb
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: NetXtreme BCM5755M Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:09:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:21:70:71:c2:8a
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=tg3 driverversion=3.94 firmware=5755m-v3.29 ip=10.18.20.94 latency=0 module=tg3 multicast=yes
  *-network:0
       description: Wireless interface
       physical id: 1
       logical name: wlan0
       serial: 00:22:68:99:0b:5f
       capabilities: ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg
  *-network:1 DISABLED
       description: Ethernet interface
       physical id: 2
       logical name: pan0
       serial: 16:51:23:e6:91:3b
       capabilities: ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=bridge driverversion=2.3 firmware=N/A multicast=yes

---

### Post by linnewb on 2009-01-19
When I use the STA driver to connect to my home WPA/WPA2 network I get prompted for the password to join the network over and over again.

---

### Post by linnewb on 2009-01-20
Well, I did get the b43 driver to connect to my works WEP network one time with network manager.  What seems to be happening is that NM doesnt always see open wireless networks.  When click on the NM icon, sometimes I see open network signal strengths and sometimes I dont.  I have to use sudo /etc/init.d/NetworkManager stop and start to see them again.

Also, iwlist wlan0 scan doenst show networks even when NM does see them.

Help please!

---

### Post by linnewb on 2009-01-20
Still using the B43 driver, removed network-manager and installed wicd.

Everything is working great now.  

Thanks for all the help!

---

### Post by gnuskool on 2009-11-16
Post #3 worked for me!

Just copy paste this

sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter

The rest is done for you...then reboot. Works perfect after that.:popcorn:

---

