---
title: "8.10 Disabling wlan0"
date: 2008-10-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Dvorakis on 2008-10-26
I recently downloaded the ubuntu 8.10 RC and when using the disk to try it out i noticed that my wireless internet wasn't working anymore.

After doing a check I noticed that Wlan0 was Disabled.Im on a desktop and it still works fine in hardy.


Does anyone know a fix to this...my card should work out of the box fine.

---

### Post by bburg on 2008-10-26
Also here. I started up with an older kernel (2.6.24-21) and it worked again. I think I'll wait for the definitive version of 8.10.

---

### Post by Dvorakis on 2008-10-27
Is there any known way to fix this?

---

### Post by knix on 2008-10-27
If you're just booting off the live cd, you probably don't have the drivers you need. You can install them into ram, then modprobe until you get it working. 
wlan0 sounds like ndiswrapper, but I don't know what driver you use on hardy. that said, ndiswrapper is available on the live cd.

---

### Post by Dvorakis on 2008-10-27
In hardy my wireless card worked out of the box...no drivers needed.

I have a NETGEAR WG311v2...It just doesn't work with ibex.It says its disabled when its not.

---

### Post by Dvorakis on 2008-10-28
how do you boot with an older kernel?

---

### Post by knix on 2008-10-29
You would have to have an old one installed, which the live cd does not.
are you trying to use a native driver or ndiswrappper?

---

### Post by Neverex on 2008-10-29
Try this (worked for me):
in terminal do sudo nano /etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf

change the value of [ifupdown] from false to true

---

### Post by Dvorakis on 2008-10-29
sadly this didn't work...any other suggestions.

---

### Post by Dvorakis on 2008-10-31
please...wireless in 8.10 is NOT working for me...and I really need help.

---

