---
title: "802.1x wired connection"
date: 2014-06-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by omer2 on 2014-06-03
Hi, I just installed Ubuntu 14.04 LTS. I have a problem with wired connection, they give tutorials about how to connect for Windows 7, 8 but nothing for ubuntu. I searched about it and I read couple of topics about it but I think my settings are a bit different. This is the tutorial for Windows 7. 

I hope someone can help me out. 

Cheers.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2014-06-03
What problem are you having? A tutorial for Windows 7 will be of little use...

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-06-03
Hi omer2. Welcome to the forum ):P

Could you open a terminal, run these commands, and post back the results (you can copy/paste the text)?
```
sudo lshw -C network

ifconfig 

lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net

nslookup ubuntu.com

route -n
```
Regards.

---

### Post by bunzymr on 2015-03-14
> **Iowan said:**
> What problem are you having? A tutorial for Windows 7 will be of little use...


I have the same  issue.
Please find the provided information as below for connecting to Wired Network with Cert and 802.1X Authentication:

First of all we need to Install the certificate provided by university, (in format: Personal Information Exchange (.p12))
Second we should enable 'Wired Autoconfig' Service in services.msc.
Then, Right Click on the Local Area Lan Connection --> Properties --> Authentication Tab will be here after Enabling the above service, 
In Authentication Tab, Check Enable IEEE 802.1X Authentication
Choose a network authentication method:
Smart Card or other Certificate --> Settings:
Check Use a certificate on this computer,
Check Use simple certificate selection(Recommended)

Finally for using the internet we have to use the provided proxy and port 8080 in the Browser/s. 


What I did is: Generate the Cert with .pem format with openssl command and tried to used almost all the possibilities settings in UBUNTU 14.04-2 but OS keeps trying to ask me Username and Password.

Please advice.
Thanks
[EMAIL="mohammadreza.hamid@mail.polimi.it"]mohammadreza.hamid@mail.polimi.it[/EMAIL]
[EMAIL="bunzy.mr@gmail.com"]bunzy.mr@gmail.com[/EMAIL]

---

