---
title: "7.10 Beta freezes when connecting"
date: 2007-10-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by justin1278 on 2007-10-09
Hello,

Just burned the beta version of Ubuntu 7.10 64 bit, everything seems to run fine in the LiveCD, it detects my wireless USB adapter and can detect the access points.

But when I click an access point I want to connect to the system completely freezes and I have to do a force shutdown. 

The same thing happened to me in the Tribe 5 release, I have reported it to launchpad and even today (several weeks later) I have still not had a reply from them.

Does anyone know if they are fixing this bug? I would really like to have Ubuntu 7.10 on my desktop but if it freezes whenever I try to connect to a wireless access point I will not be able to install it...

Thanks,
Justin

---

### Post by orion603 on 2007-10-15
I have the same problem but not when connecting wireless tho. My problem happens randomly, At this point, I am just guessing that it might be a problem with 64bit version.
I have two 64bit boxes and only one box is having a problem with 64bit beta version. The other box has Tribe 5 version with i386 and I don't have any problem with it.

---

### Post by tra4d on 2007-10-18
I have experienced this issue with the release version (released today).  Obviously they did not find/correct this issue before releasing 7.10 today.

Anybody else experience this?  Any ideas/solutions?

---

### Post by orion603 on 2007-10-18
No, they didn't fix the problem. I tried both 7.10 desktop 64bit and i386 and had the same problem.
It just randomly happens. Although, I suspect that it might be Adobe flash player. I will post later after I reinstall it with 64bit version without Adobe flash player.

---

### Post by orion603 on 2007-10-18
well, it wasn't the adobe flash player. I installed whatever the second flash player but still the system stopped. It seems like only way to resolve this issue is to fall back to Gutsy Gibbon version (tribe 5 release). I will update this thread after trying tribe 5 release.

---

### Post by orion603 on 2007-10-20
I've had the same problem even with tribe 5 version. Then, I had memory test which did not see any memory error. This is not certainly a memory problem. Is there anybody who tried something else?

---

### Post by orion603 on 2007-10-24
I've tried any possible ways to find a workaround. The only way to avoid having system lockup was to disable compiz (uninstall nvidia-glx-new driver) and/or to stop using firefox/galeon browsers.

I am currently have compiz enabled and using Epiphany browser. The reason I am not using Konquerer is that it required to install flash player from adobe but adobe doesn't support 64-bit platform yet.

I will update this thread if I have any more problem with the browser. In worst case, I will just stop using compiz.

---

### Post by orion603 on 2007-11-11
This problem seems gone now. I've been using wireless NIC but after switching to ethernet NIC for a couple of days so far, I haven't had any system freeze even with Compiz enabled while there were a couple of moments of brief freeze with mouse working.

---

