---
title: "How to set up static IP for mythtv server"
date: 2009-06-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Afkpuz on 2009-06-06
Hey guys, I'm running ubuntu 9.04 and am looking to give my media server a static IP address.  However, I'm using comcast internet, so I get a dynamic IP from them.  My question is:  how do I set my computer so that its IP address will not change, but still be able to connect to the internet?  Is this even possible?  I followed a guide which supposedly gave me a static address, but I lost internet after carrying out it's changes.  Thanks 

P.S. My router is a linksys befsr81

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-06-07
> how do I set my computer so that its IP address will not change, but still be able to connect to the internet? Is this even possible?Certainly. However, let's clarify exactly what you are after. Are you trying to get the external IP address issued by Comcast, 76.96.xx.zz, or some such, to be constant and never changing; or are you trying to get the IP address of your MythTV server, 192.168.1.xx, or some such to be constant and unchanging. I suspect you want and need the latter. 

In case that is your objective, I suggest you go into the administartive pages of your router in a web browser, usually [http://192.168.1.1](http://192.168.1.1) and find the section for DHCP. Since your router is a wired 8-port device, it probably has a DHCP range of eight numbers. If the range is, say 192.168.1.100 to 192.168.1.107, the select an IP address outside the range of the DHCP server, for example, 192.168.1.110.

On your computer, remove Network Manager. Then, in a terminal, do:```
sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
```Add lines to make it look like this:```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.110
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1
```Substitute your details here. Proofread twice, save and close *nano*. Now restart networking:```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```Try it out with:```
ping -c3 www.google.com
```If you get ping returns, you are connected correctly.

Post back if you get stuck or need more help.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-06-07
Are you looking for a static LAN address, or access from Internet? Ordinarily, the router would get the dynamic address from your ISP.  Behind the router you can either use DHCP to assign addresses, use static leases (based on MAC address)  - if the DHCP server is capable, or set up static addresses.  Access from internet would mean port-forwarding from router to machine (static address/lease is certainly easier).  You'd need a service like no-ip.com or dyndns.com to help you find your system from Internet

---

### Post by sh00t on 2009-06-07
chili555 for Supreme Commander of the world!
I was having prob's doing this and I followed your guide, presto! WORKS!
Thank you soooooo much..........

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-06-07
> chili555 for Supreme Commander of the world!I love the sound of that! Is the paycheck pretty good for that job? Will I be able to afford a better laptop?

Seriously, thank you for your very kind comments.

---

### Post by Afkpuz on 2009-06-08
I followed your instuctions and I do not receive any error messages when I restart the network.  However, I get this message when I try to ping google.

ping: unknown host [www.google.com](www.google.com)

Still no internet.

My router has a range from 2-50, so I picked 52 just to be safe.  I also used gedit, instead of nano, since I don't know how to use nano.  Any ideas?  Thanks

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-06-08
Does it ping by IP number?```
ping -c3 74.125.45.105
```May we please see:```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```Thanks.

---

### Post by Afkpuz on 2009-06-09
Yes, ping by IP works.  


Here is what is output by cat /etc/resolv.conf

"#Generated by NetworkManager"

---

### Post by Afkpuz on 2009-06-09
Well, thank you for the help.  I quickly discovered that I needed to enter my DNS settings into /etc/resolv.conf and now I have a static IP address with internet access.  Thanks for all the help!

---

### Post by sh00t on 2009-06-16
One thing that is wierd;
I have to connect with my wireless first, then execute
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
and the wired connection works fine.  Which isn't really a problem, just kinda wondering why.

Again, if I connect with the wired connection first and ping [www.google.com](www.google.com) it doesn't find it. So I disconnect, then connect wireless then restart networking and then wired works fine.  

Like I said, wierd, but I can work around it :D but if anyone could tell me whats going on, that'd be great.
Thanks

---

