---
title: "9.04 networking issues."
date: 2009-05-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ghostofzuul on 2009-05-11
i had hoped this issue would be resolved with 9.04 but unfortunately not...

here's the issue as best as i can explain it. 

presently on my network i have 2 (two) machines. machine 1 is a linux box running ubuntu.  machine 2 is a mac running 10.4.11.

i can connect to machine 1 from machine 2 and read/write files. 

i cannot connect to machine 2 from machine 1. it shows up in the window and when i click on the icon for the mac it shows me an empty folder. 

stumped. thanks!

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-05-11
> **ghostofzuul said:**
> i can connect to machine 1 from machine 2 and read/write files. Via Samba? I've never touched a Mac, so dunno if they use NetBIOS names.  If so, have you tried installing Winbind and editing /etc/nsswitch.conf to include "wins" before "dns" in the "hosts:" line? 


Since the icon for the Mac shows up, it's probably a different problem...

---

### Post by ghostofzuul on 2009-05-11
> **Iowan said:**
> Via Samba? 

i do have samba installed on the linux box but on the mac the network just recognizes the linux box, i click on the icon for it enter the user name and password and ta-da. 

from the linux box, once i click on the mac icon it never gives me the dialogue to enter user name and password nor can i see any files. all of the file sharing is properly set up on the mac, because other machines can access it, just not the linux box.

---

