---
title: "8.10  wireless network configuration."
date: 2009-02-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tumble on 2009-02-03
I updated my laptop from 8.04 to 8.10, and everything is fine it still works well with my home wireless network, but the network configuration (applet if you call it that) has changed and trying to connect to a wireless network in the pub is nigh on impossible. I try to alter details in the network manager from the taskbar and it doesn't help. Is there a way to see which networks are available then try to connect?  or any help would be nice?

---

### Post by tednumber8 on 2009-02-03
You're on the same boat as me..

I had it working twice but now I can't get it to wrok anymore..

It's so frustrating hopefully someone has an answer

---

### Post by bigjames on 2009-02-03
I think I am having the same issue with my 8.10 install.  I cannot find the Network Manager, but maybe I am looking in the wrong place?  I am new to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by ioannou.alexandros on 2009-02-03
Hi guys,

I heard it today from one of my friends today.

The Network Manager in the newest version Ubuntu has generally a lot of problems.

There are plenty of other Network managers in Ubuntu 8.10 that are better than the official one that Ubuntu 8.04 and previous versions used as default. 

Just keep posting on this section, it might be someone that can guide you.

I will turn in 8.10 version in one month time and this will also be an issue for me.

THANK YOU!

---

### Post by Baltuki on 2009-02-03
Forget network-manager and install wicd: [http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php]("http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php")

---

