---
title: "6.06/6.10/7.04 - which is easiest to set up zd12211b USB adapter?"
date: 2007-06-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by alanmzifa on 2007-06-06
I've just changed my router and wireless adapter for my desktop PC.

The USB adapter is a  Zyxel G202 which I think uses the zd1211b chipset. I've tried searching but am not getting many results and those I do get have confused me about which version of the driver to use/whether it's in the kernel or not and which version of Ubuntu to use.
[B]
My question is which version of Ubuntu (6.06, 6.10, 7.04) is the easiest to set up this adapter with (I use 128 bit WEP but may consider WPA if it's straightforward)?[/B]

 I don't need to be using the latest and greatest, my laptop still uses 6.06 to ensure the Ralink 2500 card still works.


thanks

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-06-06
I used a a Airlink awll3026 USB wireless-g (chipset: ZyDas 1211) on Feisty and it worked out of the box with the redesigned zd1211rw module.  To use the same adapter on Edgy I had to install the vendor-based community zd1211 module (got it [here]("http://gentoo.osuosl.org/distfiles/?C=N;O=D")).  

Maybe these links will help:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/zydas_zd1211?highlight=%28Zyxel%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/zydas_zd1211?highlight=%28Zyxel%29)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/RalinkRT2500?highlight=%28ralink%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/RalinkRT2500?highlight=%28ralink%29)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Belkin_F5D7050_ver_4000_%28ZyDas_zd1211b_driver%29?highlight=%287050%29%7C%28belkin%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Belkin_F5D7050_ver_4000_%28ZyDas_zd1211b_driver%29?highlight=%287050%29%7C%28belkin%29)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Airlink101_AWLL3026?highlight=%28awll3026%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Airlink101_AWLL3026?highlight=%28awll3026%29)

---

### Post by az on 2007-06-06
My zd1211b works fine on a modern computer since Edgy.  On an older computer (a PIII) it worked using Edgy, but not Feisty.  I think the devices a pretty much all different, though.  Although they are the same model, I believe there are three or four different transmitters used and two or three different controllers used.  So any zd1211b device can have any combination of transmitter and controller.  The driver has to be able to use them all, as well.

That's just AFAIK...

---

### Post by alanmzifa on 2007-06-06
So on Feisty some zd1211b devices work out of the box. 

On Edgy it worked, again out of the box, I'm not clear?

And on Dapper?

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-06-06
> On Edgy it worked, again out of the box, I'm not clear?

No, it didn't.  Edgy has a zd1211rw module but it's flaky (it's since been tweaked and improved for feisty), so I had to get the community driver noted above (rev.85) and use that.  Then it worked.  But Az is right from what I've read elsewhere in saying that there are several minor hardware variations on the usb adapter itself that may cause problems. 

Not sure about dapper.

---

### Post by alanmzifa on 2007-06-07
Got it. So Feisty, good chance of it working OOTB.
Edgy - as per your instructions.
Dapper - unknown.

I think I'll start with Feisty.

thanks

Also, my system will be dual booting with XP. Iknow I've had issues with this device on XP, both with this device and a similar Safecom 5400 (also using the zd1211b chip). 
[B]
Has anyone else found this device to be troublesome on XP?[/B]

---

