---
title: "[11.04] BCM4312 LP-PHY with b43 drivers HEADACHE"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Sir_Brizz on 2011-04-28
Hi all,

Just updated my netbook to Kubuntu 11.04. It has a BCM4312, the exact line from lspci is:
```
Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY (rev 01)
```
I have already installed b43-fwcutter and firmware-b43-installer however I am having all kinds of problems.

First, the first time I boot I can connect to my router (it is a D-Link something or other that I have had no problems connecting to on any previous version of K/Ubuntu) using WPA mode.

Second, after using the connection for 5-10 minutes, it drops and tries to reconnect at which point the authentication times out. Then, it prompts me for the key again. I hit okay, times out again.

I have tried restarting network-manager service, and it only causes even more problems. It currently gets into a state where if I try to connect to ANY router, in syslog a bunch of message dump out basically showing the connection stages and finally showing it failed and got deactivated.

Anyone have any ideas how to proceed on this? It is difficult for me to post actual log entries because I don't have any internet on that netbook right now.

---

### Post by fisch246 on 2011-05-12
Sorry this isn't a solution. However I also have issues with the same card on Ubuntu 11.04. I can guarantee it works on 10.10 and 10.04, and for right now I have a 10.04 fall back on my laptop encase I need to do stuff like upload files. So I can pull it through, however it would be nice to have these issues resolved. Mine also appears in LSPCI, except I CAN connect to the website, but when I attempt to upload a file it stalls for me, nor does my driver appear on the driver list in the "additional drivers" app or the front end for ndiswrapper... so I suppose my case isn't as crazy is the original post, but I figure it'd be good to post, that there are similar issues on other versions of Ubuntu...

EDIT: o I forgot to mention I'm using the same driver. (obviously since we have the same card) Also to anyone who might suggest the STA driver, I have never gotten it to work right, with the general case of it never finding any wireless networks, nor would it list the card as a wireless device. b43 is really the only option for me, and I'm sure the OP...

---

### Post by Plumtreed on 2011-05-12
I'm running 10.10 and have not even tried to upgrade to 11.04 but I have been maintaining regular upgrades as they come along. My problem seems to have arrived after a recent update. Everything OK one day but all screwed up the next!!!

I have the same card and have tried the all the things that have been suggested in these forums and can no longer get wireless to work in Ubuntu.

I dual boot so I can use 'another' OS but I would prefer to use Ubuntu. I wanted to add my name to the list of users with a headache:confused:.

---

### Post by tdn on 2011-05-19
I have a Lenovo S10 with bcm4312 wifi nic as well. I can confirm that it works in 10.04 and 10.10 but stopped working in 11.04. I have tried the provided STA driver, but it does not work in 11.04. It works for a few minutes, then net stops working. Reconnect to WPA will sometimes make it work again for a while. But soon it will stop working again.

I *REALLY* hope someone can provide a solution.

---

### Post by tdn on 2011-05-19
It seems that installing the 10.10 driver can fix it. ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1757188](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1757188)) Anyone who knows how to do that?

---

