---
title: "8.04 Ad-Hoc Wireless b43"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by fessio on 2008-04-27
Hi, I've got the following problem.
I can't connect to Ad-hoc network, but it seems that it should be supported starting from kernel 2.6.24 by mac80211.
I can scan, but can't connect. It seems to me that it is able to connect to managed mode networks. I don't have an opportunity to test it, `cause I don't know passwords to neadby networks, but when  try using any password, some network activity is present in the System Monitor, but when I try to connect to my Ad-Hoc network, there is no activity at all.
Thanks in advance.

PS:
fessio@acer:~$ lspci | grep Broad
03:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM94311MCG wlan mini-PCI (rev 01)

---

### Post by fessio on 2008-04-27
Please someone help! Need internet on ubuntu badly!

---

### Post by fessio on 2008-04-27
bump

---

### Post by waster on 2008-09-06
it's in development - still not working in intrepid alpha 5 with the 2.6.27 kernel. ndiswrapper can do ad-hoc with broadcom 43xx (at least in hardy). see wiki.ubuntu.com for howto.

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2008-09-06
> **waster said:**
> it's in development - still not working in intrepid alpha 5 with the 2.6.27 kernel. ndiswrapper can do ad-hoc with broadcom 43xx (at least in hardy). see wiki.ubuntu.com for howto.
Which chipset are you referring to for this?  I have a 4311 rev 01 card that I can use ad-hoc using the b43 module.
```
sudo ifconfig wlan0 down
sudo iwconfig wlan0 mode ad-hoc
sudo ifconfig wlan0 up
```

---

### Post by waster on 2008-09-07
you're right - it does work if you take the interface down.

HOWEVER, i've since had loads of hard lock-ups using b43 both with hardy and the kernel head for wireless, and with current intrepid. No idea how to help debug these. I'm back on ndiswrapper.

---

