---
title: "802.11 -- Anything work out-of-box?"
date: 2006-01-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by DagonSphere on 2006-01-05
I know this is a loaded question.  Are there any PCI (I'd settle for USB) wireless adapters that work out-of-the-box on (k)ubuntu?  Or any other distro for that matter??

Right now, I have a CentOS (rhel) box as a net gateway for my home lan.  I had a miserable time trying (did not succeed) to setup the 802.11g card as an AP.  The card was a D-Link DWL-520 Air Extreme (108mbs, not the 54 version)  I found no drivers that worked with this card -- I believe the Atheros chipset was, 5414.  Not the 5212 that supposedly works with the madwifi drivers.

I compiled, installed, and configured madwifi, wpa-supplicant, and hostapd without a problem.  When I started hostapd in debug mode, went over to the client comupter, it found the AP, connected to the card, but when it came to final authentication, it failed with an error message I can't rememeber.

Basic question - are there any wifi cards (preferably g, but b is OK -- 108mbs would be nice, but 54mbs is fine if it works) that work out of the box, or does any flavor of linux not have native drivers built into it yet?  If there is another distro/wifi combo that works, I'm all ears :smile:  

I'm open to anything -- TIA!

---

### Post by Mike_N on 2006-01-05
A friend of mine bought a Netgear 802.11G router and a USB receiver for his notebook off the refurb rack at CompUSA and it worked just fine for him, he said...

---

### Post by Lambert on 2006-01-05
Breezy comes with a combination of wireless drivers. 
madwifi-old for 5212 atheros chipsets
acx100 / acx111 for ti chipsets but those seem to take some configuring to get to work
prism54
raliink rt2500 for pci devices
zd1211 for the zydas chipset but don't believe it works based on a couple threads that needed to compile a new driver.
Linux-wlan-ng for prism2/2.5/3 doesn't install but it's on the cd. A few known bugs if you search you'll see some posts by azz who reported the bug and has a work around.

I don't know about other distros but cards with atheros and ralink seem to work generally well out of the box for most though there are posts with those having problems.

Here's a link you might find some help with on cards and breezy.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCards?action=show&redirect=WirelessNetworkCards](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCards?action=show&redirect=WirelessNetworkCards)

---

### Post by jasplund on 2006-01-05
My Netgear 802.11b wireless PC Card Model MA401 works out of the box. And so it did in warty as well as in hoary. no problems whatsoever


johan

---

### Post by DagonSphere on 2006-01-05
Lambert - Thanks for the link.  That's what I was looking for.  jasplund - Thanks for the 411

Looks like Ubuntu might handle the wireless cards better than the redhat flavors.  *Has anyone setup a wireless card as an Access Point?*  I'm just looking to keep everything nice and tidy.  No sense in having an additional piece of hardware if I don't have to.

Hostapd started to work on my rhel box, but it locked up Linux -- everything froze and my num and scroll lock lights were blinking.  I haven't seen a complete *nix system freeze like that, without jacking with the kernel or having a hardware failure!

---

### Post by polo_step on 2006-03-06
[FONT="Fixedsys"]Again, you have to define "works."

I define "works" as having the native options of the device fully supported on install.

I can say for certain that neither Ralink 2500 or Zydas 1211 chips, both extremely common, are thus supported in Ubuntu (or any other Linux distribution I've tried).

Whether they can be fiddled with enough to get full function, I can't say.  Supposedly the Ralink can be made to work properly -- which at an absolute minimum means with WPA-PSK/AES encryption -- in Ubuntu, but it doesn't work properly on install.

This is pretty hilarious considering the Ralink 2500 was a past "Linux Product of the Year."

WEP encryption is grossly obsolete and manifestly insecure.  WEP-only Linux installs of WPA2-capable devices are simply unacceptable in 2006.

Lack of adequate wireless support for these most common devices is why I am not currently running Linux.  I understand the next release of Ubuntu will have better wireless support on install, so I'm anxiously waiting. :-k [/FONT]

---

### Post by jgcamp99 on 2007-02-13
> **polo_step said:**
> [FONT="Fixedsys"]WEP encryption is grossly obsolete and manifestly insecure.  WEP-only Linux installs of WPA2-capable devices are simply unacceptable in 2006.

Lack of adequate wireless support for these most common devices is why I am not currently running Linux.  I understand the next release of Ubuntu will have better wireless support on install, so I'm anxiously waiting. :-k [/FONT]

I'll take my chances with Linux/Ubuntu and a WEP wifi. When most of anything out there has Windows on it, even those with OS X, considering the average pc/mac user, How insecure can it really be ?

---

