---
title: "17.10 systemd-resolve takes 100% CPU since upgrade from Zesty Zapus"
date: 2017-10-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by castor_fou on 2017-10-24
Hello

since upgrade,  systemd-resolve takes 100% CPU.

```
PID USER      PR  NI    VIRT    RES    SHR S  %CPU %MEM     TIME+ COMMAND
925 systemd+  20   0   67476   7552   5104 R  98,3  0,1  82:48.57 systemd-resolve
954 dnsmasq   20   0   57440   2840   2420 R  51,2  0,0  38:50.39 dnsmasq
```

As you see dnsmasq is using a lot of CPU as well. Maybe due to the same root cause?

Here is the config /etc/systemd/resolved.conf

```
[Resolve]
#DNS=
#FallbackDNS=
#Domains=
#LLMNR=yes
#MulticastDNS=yes
#DNSSEC=no
#Cache=yes
#DNSStubListener=udp
```

and status

```
guillaume@XPS:~$ sudo service systemd-resolved status
&#9679; systemd-resolved.service - Network Name Resolution
   Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/systemd-resolved.service; enabled; vendor preset: enable
   Active: active (running) since Tue 2017-10-24 18:20:02 EDT; 3h 8min ago
     Docs: man:systemd-resolved.service(8)
           https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/resolved
           https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/writing-network-configuration-mana
           https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/writing-resolver-clients
 Main PID: 925 (systemd-resolve)
   Status: "Processing requests..."
    Tasks: 1 (limit: 4915)
   CGroup: /system.slice/systemd-resolved.service
           &#9492;&#9472;925 /lib/systemd/systemd-resolved

oct. 24 18:20:02 XPS systemd[1]: Starting Network Name Resolution...
oct. 24 18:20:02 XPS systemd-resolved[925]: Positive Trust Anchors:
oct. 24 18:20:02 XPS systemd-resolved[925]: . IN DS 19036 8 2 49aac11d7b6f6446702e54a1607371607
oct. 24 18:20:02 XPS systemd-resolved[925]: . IN DS 20326 8 2 e06d44b80b8f1d39a95c0b0d7c65d0845
oct. 24 18:20:02 XPS systemd-resolved[925]: Negative trust anchors: 10.in-addr.arpa 16.172.in-a
oct. 24 18:20:02 XPS systemd-resolved[925]: Using system hostname 'XPS'.
oct. 24 18:20:02 XPS systemd[1]: Started Network Name Resolution.
```

anyone with the same issue or a way to fix it?

---

### Post by scarboni888 on 2017-11-02
I've got a similar issue with it taking up 100% of one CPU.  i do a  service systemd-resolvconf restart and it goes to zero for a while then  after 10 minutes or so its' back up to 100% of a CPU.

Also when I first log in to 17.10 Ubuntu on X.ORG I get no DNS until I  do a service systemd-resolvconf restart followed by a service  NetworkManager restart

I've been trying to understand what is going on since before I upgraded  from 17.04 which I did in the hopes it would fix the problems I was  having with DNS not working but unfortunately the upgrade has made it  even worse.  I've seen this issue with  systemd-resolveconf taking up  high CPU in previous versions of Ubuntu but usually when I restart  systemd-resolvconf service it's good for the session and even wouldn't  happen for multiple sessions after that.  Now with ubuntu 17.10 it's way  way worse.   I'm at my wits end about to format and reinstall.

I have a fresh 17.10 install on another machine and even though  systemd-resolvconf works there it unfortunately won't use DNS servers  from my openconnect cisco vpn network so I've had to hard code my VPN  network machines into /etc/HOSTS.  I think something changed with Ubuntu  resolving mechanism sometime around 16.04 or 16.10.  I just found [an article which is suggesting to replace systemd-resolved with unbound]("https://blobfolio.com/2017/05/fix-linux-dns-issues-caused-by-systemd-resolved/").  It's the second time I've run into the suggestion to ditch systemd-resolvconf for unbound and I'm going to try it now.

I think systemd-resolved is either garbage and/or it's badly implemented  in ubuntu desktop, anyway.  I've been with Ubuntu since 7.04 and even  donated but this resolver nonsense is really giving me the idea to try  another distro.  It's super frustrating and I don't understand why it's  been made so complicated.  I can't understand how all the pieces fit  together:  Network manager, systemd-resolvconf, dnsmasq, etc.. etc...   i  read up on all of them but I still don't understand how the eff they  all fit and work together and I feel like I'm going in circles chasing  my tail trying to fix the issue.  I enter DNS servers into all the  fields in Network Manager where they're asked for and it doesn't make a  lick of difference:  it's like those settings are for show or to make us  feels good or something because they don't actually do squat.  And if  my system is configured such that those settings won't take effect if I  try using them then IMHO Network Manager should detect that and gray  them out, FFS!

Again, it seems to me like it's WAAAAAYYY more complicated than it needs to be.  No wonder it's suxors.

---

### Post by castor_fou on 2017-11-03
By adding DNSMASQ_EXCEPT=lo in /etc/default/dnsmasq and restarting services I solved this issue ;)

---

### Post by rolandbreedveld on 2018-01-29
Same issue with 17.10, systemd-resolve consumes 1 complete core of my CPU, lucky it's a single threaded process ....
DNSMASQ_EXCEPT=lo is not working in my case

---

