---
title: "18.04: Samba very slow"
date: 2019-08-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by FerryGnu on 2019-08-21
Hi, I have two PCs on a Gigabit cable network.  I mount the remote PC's Folder on my local PC and copy a 2GB file and it transfers at around 900K/sec.   

Is that as good as it gets?  

I tried using CIFS-utils but that was even slower in one direction, although really fast in the other. 

After quite a lot of online reading I removed CIFS in favor of just using Samba 4.xx.  

I am a total newbie to the Networking stuff, are there some things I can do to speed this up?  

Thanks

---

### Post by him610 on 2019-08-21
Have you considered NFS? [https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/network-file-system.html]("https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/network-file-system.html")
[https://www.dummies.com/computers/operating-systems/linux/how-to-share-files-with-nfs-on-linux-systems/]("https://www.dummies.com/computers/operating-systems/linux/how-to-share-files-with-nfs-on-linux-systems/")

---

### Post by FerryGnu on 2019-08-21
Thanks, the NFS sounds good, but, the Dummies site has a warning about NFS and security but does not go into how to use the security. Is the RPCSEC_GSS automatically activated with the NFS 4.xx? 

>  NFS has security vulnerabilities, so you shouldn&#8217;t set up NFS on systems that are directly connected to the Internet without using the RPCSEC_GSS security that comes with NFS version 4  


One of the PC is connected to the Internet. I have been searching on RPCSEC_GSS, but the results are all way too technical for my tired old brain.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-08-21
What OS does each system run?  If they are all Unix based, then NFS can be reasonably secured with static IPs on the LAN. If you are really concerned, there is server-to-server Kerberos authentication.  I use NFSv3 with just the static IP method.  If you don't control the network sufficiently, then this might not be a good idea.

Do you not have a router?  Certain things need to be a dedicated device IMHO.  The WAN router is one of the most important stand-alone devices necessary for network security.

On a GigE wired network with quality NICs, you should expect about 65MBps for network transfers until the storage parts slow it down. That applies to both CIFS and NFS, though NFS has lots of better aspects.  If you have SSDs, then that should continue. With spinning HDDs, 125Mbps is about the top speed.

If any part of this network is using wifi, all bets are off. Wifi is notorious for terrible throughput.

---

