---
title: "Belkin F5D7010; 14e4:4320 (rev03)"
date: 2006-06-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by johnthejack on 2006-06-13
I installed at the weekend. It's the first time with Linux. I have very limited understanding. I think I have followed the wiki instructions. I have the driver and software shown as present (bcmwl5a.inf). I cannot get the card to work.
The wiki suggested to type a command in the terminal which I did and the reply makes no sense to me. I also tried iwconfig (below after "tail"), and the reply from that means nothing to me. I have run out of ideas, would someone be able to help please? Thanks, because if I can't get the wireless to work, then it's no good to me and I'll have to go back to Windows.

tail /var/log/messages
Jun 13 13:21:09 localhost exiting on signal 15
Jun 13 13:21:10 localhost syslogd 1.4.1#17ubuntu7: restart.
Jun 13 13:22:14 localhost gconfd (root-5582): starting (version 2.14.0), pid 5582 user 'root'
Jun 13 13:22:14 localhost gconfd (root-5582): Resolved address "xml:readonly:/etc/gconf/gconf.xml.mandatory" to a read-only configuration source at position 0
Jun 13 13:22:14 localhost gconfd (root-5582): Resolved address "xml:readwrite:/root/.gconf" to a writable configuration source at position 1
Jun 13 13:22:14 localhost gconfd (root-5582): Resolved address "xml:readonly:/etc/gconf/gconf.xml.defaults" to a read-only configuration source at position 2
Jun 13 13:22:14 localhost gconfd (root-5582): Resolved address "xml:readonly:/var/lib/gconf/debian.defaults" to a read-only configuration source at position 3
Jun 13 13:22:14 localhost gconfd (root-5582): Resolved address "xml:readonly:/var/lib/gconf/defaults" to a read-only configuration source at position 4
Jun 13 13:29:14 localhost gconfd (root-5582): GConf server is not in use, shutting down.
Jun 13 13:29:14 localhost gconfd (root-5582): Exiting



iwconfig gave:

eth1      IEEE 802.11b/g  ESSID:"xxx"  Nickname:"Broadcom 4306"
          Mode:Managed  Access Point: Invalid   Bit Rate=1 Mb/s
          RTS thr: off   Fragment thr: off
          Link Quality:0  Signal level:0  Noise level:0
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

ndiswrapper -l gave:

Installed ndis drivers:
bcmwl5a         driver present, hardware present

---

### Post by johnthejack on 2006-06-14
No? No one able to help?

---

### Post by dfoster on 2006-06-14
Hi

I had similar problems with my Belkin card (not the same one though). Try my solution in [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=196509]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=196509")

Good luck. Let me know how you get on!

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2006-06-14
Hmmm ...apologies, sorry dfoster I'm not sure I agree with you.

I have Belkin F5D7010's. With Dapper they are (theoretically) supported out of the box. Certainly mine is on this box I'm currently using, all I have to do is configure it.

Having said that I've just installed Dapper on another and my wireless card (another F5D7010) hasn't been recognised. Unfortunately I haven't got round to having a go at getting it to work as yet.

However, with Breezy I manually configured them. And I got them working using Ralinks RT2570 driver, no ndiswrapper needed. This thread was my guide: [HOWTO: Ralink RT2570 usb wireless driver]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=106846"). 
What I intend to do for my non-working Dapper USB wireless connection is try installing it as suggested in that thread, just updating the information where appropriate.

:cool:

---

### Post by chrisjs162216 on 2006-06-14
I have this exact card for my computer as well.  I just got it working, but it's on and off at the moment (I'm using my grandmother's neighbor's wifi connection)

Anyway, you have the option of downloading the firmware, and using the bcm43xx mod, or ndiswrapper.

Seeing you already have ndiswrapper-utils installed, I'll go that route.  Since Dapper has the bc43xx mod preinstalled, it is set to override ndiswrapper.  To fix this open up a terminal and type ```
sudo nano /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```
Scroll down to the bottom and add ```
blacklist bcm43xx
```
Press CTRL+X, press Y, and it should work.  A reboot may be required, but my laptop went into hibernation since the battery was low, and when I plugged it in, it decided to halt automatically (bug??)

Hope that will work.  After you restart, if it doesn't automatically start, type ```
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
```

Good Luck :)

---

### Post by dfoster on 2006-06-15
Yes the essential step is to blacklist the bcm43xx driver!

---

### Post by johnthejack on 2006-06-15
Yes, thank you very much. I have a wireless connection, at last. That's great.

---

