---
title: "Internet sharing between 3 pc's?"
date: 2005-10-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Peter76 on 2005-10-28
Hello, hope somebody can help me out... Just got an old p11 which I want to use as a gateway/router/hub ( don't know proper name:-) between my adsl modem and two pc's. Today I installed two more nic's, so now it's got 3 nic's, one for the modem, and two for the outgoing connection... How do I set this up???? Tried Firestarter, but that can only share to one nic. I this at all possible, and is there any gui tool for this, or do I have to dive into iptables?
Thanks in advance

Peter

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-10-28
> I have to dive into iptables?


Yup.  It'd be a lot easier to buy a hub than have a separate nic and crossover cable for each machine...

---

### Post by Peter76 on 2005-10-28
Yes, I figured that out, but i'd like to learn something... You know wher is some good documentation on this thing?

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-10-28
I haven't explored it beyond firestarter.  A google search [came up with this.]("http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/IP-Masquerade-HOWTO/")

---

### Post by Peter76 on 2005-10-28
thanks, I'll start studying and post my finds! wish me luck

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-10-28
This isn't directly related to your goal, but I think the information in it will apply. Take a look and see if you can adapt the info to your purpose.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=451111](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=451111)

---

### Post by Peter76 on 2005-10-31
Ok, got this sorted, great!!! Here we go:
Add as many nic's to your machine as you like...
Now configure them as follows:
eth0    dhcp  ( this is where your modem is attached )
eth1    static ip     192.168._2_.1 ( or whatever you like, but see NB )
eth2    static ip     192.168._3_.1
Subnetmask for both is 255.255.255.0 
etc, etc
NB: it is really important that the underscored number ( yes, the 2 and the 3 ) are _NOT_ the same and also different from the ip assigned to eth0 ( in my case 192.168.0.1 )
Ok, now comes ( in my opinion ) great little tool:
sudo apt-get install ipmasq
sudo ipmasq
This will do ALL the configuration for the connection sharing you need!!!!
Now set up the clients:
for the one attached to eth1 of the server, give it an ip in the range from 192.168._2_.2/254
for the one attached to eth2 of the server, 192.168._3_.2/254
etc,etc
Next came the problem of port forwarding.... It is possible to change the configuration generated by ipmasq, but that is ( hardcore ) iptables again, which i can't master in a few days.... The workaround I found:
sudo apt-get install rinetd
configure /etc/rinetd.conf to your likings ( see man rinetd ) and you are up.
Drawbacks: had a dhcp server running first, but rinetd can't work with that. One thing i was thinking about was to use the output of ipmasq -v, and implement this in firestarter or any orther firewall, which can do easy portforwarding. Anybody any ideas? Anyway, hope this is some good to somebody. Ubuntu is great

Peter

---

### Post by matthew on 2005-10-31
Hey, Peter. Great job! You want to try your hand at writing this up as a full-on HowTo and posting it in [Customization Tips & Tricks]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=100")? I'm sure someone will appreciate it.

---

### Post by Peter76 on 2005-10-31
[QUOTE=matthew]Hey, Peter. Great job! You want to try your hand at writing this up as a full-on HowTo and posting it in [Customization Tips & Tricks]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=100")? I'm sure someone will appreciate it.[/QUOTE]

Yup no problem. Do I need to contact somebody about that, or can I just put it in there?
Already got the answer.... I'll put it there when i'v written it a bit more complete then...

---

### Post by fish456 on 2005-11-26
do you need crossover cables for that, or will normal ethernet cables also work?
great job btw

fish

---

### Post by mips on 2005-11-26
When you go PC->PC you will need a X-over cable. The only exception to this rule is 1GB/s NICs that will do auto X-over, MDI-X switching internally.

---

### Post by mips on 2005-11-26
Here is another solution to the above post that includes DNS/DHCP/IPTables/IP Masquerading.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=89320](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=89320)

---

