---
title: "12.04 Wireless connected but unusable after a period of time"
date: 2012-08-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cal aviator on 2012-08-19
Hi,

My wireless connects fine and is usable for anywhere from 30 seconds to 30 minutes but after that it will eventually refuse to connect anywhere, though it still says it's connected to the router.  After that if I manually reset the router connection it works fine, until it doesn't again. ;)

It seems to work fine for web browsing and anything else but kicks off if I try to download a file or play a game, such as, Minecraft.

Attached is, I hope, all the pertinent info.

---

### Post by Jboulden on 2012-08-20
Hi there.

I had the same problem.  This forum thread is a bit of a work around, as I understand it, but it appears to work.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2042332](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2042332)

---

### Post by cal aviator on 2012-08-20
I'll give that a try, thanks!

---

### Post by cal aviator on 2012-08-20
No Dice unfortunately, I don't use that driver.

My card is a Linksys WMP600N.

I've tried getting the RT2860STA driver as suggested in a few places but anytime I try to use it the wireless card doesn't work at all.

---

### Post by cal aviator on 2012-08-21
Alright I'm cautiously optimistic at this point, 10 minutes or so without a disconnect.  

This time I updated both the card firmware and the driver, before I wasn't aware of the firmware update, and the driver didn't work at all.  

Everything was done as per this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1958059](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1958059)


I'll report back in a couple days.

---

### Post by cal aviator on 2012-08-22
Gonna call this one solved.  Pleased as punch :)

---

