---
title: "RT5390R 802.11bgn unstable wifi, Ubuntu 20.04"
date: 2020-04-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by zozio32 on 2020-04-27
Hi,

I have just upgraded to 20.04 from 18.04, and I have a wifi problem: wifi starts ok after boot, but it is unstable, and I will eventually get the following message:
"Activation of Network Connection Failed"

I have found from an other thread a script to help the diagnostic: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370108](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370108)   (accessed from Jeremy21 signature)

Here are the results of running the script on my setup:

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2020-04-27
Please post the results from the script.  If you have issues do in terminal
```
cat wireless-info.txt | nc termbin.com 9999
```
Post termbin.com URL from terminal

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2020-04-27
yes, sorry, wifi issue, the attachment did not go  through
[ATTACH]285646[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2020-04-27
See if it works better after ```
sudo sed -i 's/wifi.powersave = 3/wifi.powersave = 2/' /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/default-wifi-powersave-on.conf
systemctl restart network-manager.service
```

It might also help if you access the router settings for encryption and just use WPA2 AES/CCMP without TKIP

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2020-04-27
thanks.

I have executed the command. Wifi seems to run just now. i'll let you know in 5min if it is stable

I don't really understand what you're suggesting in the second item.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2020-04-27
That involves logging into the wifi router and changing the wifi encryption settings

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2020-04-27
HI, well, Activation of network connection failed again.

Do I risk to upset all the other devices on the network if I change the encryption setting of the router?

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2020-04-27
I doubt the other devices will even notice the change
Also see [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2354328&p=13614520&#post13614520](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2354328&p=13614520&#post13614520)

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2020-04-27
ok, enough for tonight on my side. I have changed the router to WPA2 only, and I have check that my countre code is fixed at GB.
I'll reboot the router tomorrow and check if it is better.

Thanks for looking at this problem

Hi, sorry, but I can't really report on dramatic improvement. it is erratoc, so it's difficult to properly assess, but it is still no stable for any serious use.

should I run the diagnostic tool again?

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2020-04-28
yes, please do

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2020-04-28
Here it is[ATTACH]285655[/ATTACH]

I have checked it and it seems that the wifi power.save argument is still = to 3. I thought I gad set it up at 2 yesterday. Do you think it is something I haven't done properly?

oh, and the country code is now 00.  I'll change that and update the report. Sorry for the misapp

updated report
[ATTACH]285656[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2020-04-28
I would power off and check antenna connections of wifi card.  Might need to do ```
sudo iwconfig wlp3s0 power off
```
To disable wifi power management

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2020-04-28
ok, so you think it might actually be an issue with the hardware itself. I am due to open up the computer itself to suckup some dust, so I'll check what I can at the same time. Tomorrow probably.  

It seems quite a coincidence to arrive just as I switched to 20.04, but well, coincidences happen

---

### Post by anotherChris on 2020-04-29
I think I had the same problem (Lubuntu 20.04), but I also noticed that my USB ports were not working at the same time the Wi-Fi was down, as described here:
[https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/lost-wi-fi-and-usb-after-boot-in-20-04/1036](https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/lost-wi-fi-and-usb-after-boot-in-20-04/1036)

I did get some kind of error message, but I don't remember what it was.  So far, the problem was fixed by re-starting.

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2020-05-02
Hi, unfortunately I can't report any progress.
I have opened up the computer yesterday, took out the dust, etc

The antenna is fine, I can't see anything wrong.

Any other suggestion?

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2020-05-04
Is there any hope for my wifi? Is there a way to go back to 18.04 at least?

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2020-06-02
HI, I thought I'll bump the thread up once more time to see if anyone would have a solution, or if some new elements had appeared in the last weeks. I am a bit desperate with the wifi, this makes my PC unsusable in most cases.
It is a shame as it was perfectly ok in 18.04

---

