---
title: "Using Shazzle Mail Connect with WINE on Ubuntu"
date: 2014-04-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by CaptainPenguin on 2014-04-22
Obviously, first download WINE Windows Emulator from the software center.  Then, download Shazzle Mail Connect for Windows.  Open the Dowloads folder and right click on ShazzleMailConnect-current.exe.  Hover over "Open With" and choose "Open With WINE".  The Installation Wizard will pop up.  Follow the instructions there.  When Shazzle Mail Connect opens, sign in and uncheck "Open on Startup".  To connect Shazzle Mail Connect with the Shazzle Mail app, make sure they are both on the same WiFi and the Shazzle Mail app is open or running on your phone.  Click connect once you've done all this.  It may take several minutes to connect.  Once it does, open Thunderbird and follow the configuration directions on shazzlemail.com.  I'm assuming that you're using Shazzle Mail because you're concerned about security and/or privacy, so Thunderbird is the best option since it has the Enigmail OpenPGP plugin.  Once you have completed the instructions on the website, you should be able to send and receive from your Shazzle Mail account via Thunderbird.  Note that if you close the app on your phone (you can run other apps, but still leave it running), Shazzle Mail Connect will not be able to connect with your phone.  You can tell if your phone is connected to Shazzle Mail Connect by the indicator icon near the top right, to the left of your WiFi connection icon.  If the Shazzle Mail symbol is gray, you are not connected.  If it is green, you are connected.  Now you can use your Shazzle Mail email like any other email address on Thunderbird, with one exception: Shazzle Mail Connect must always be running, and it has to use WINE.  Shazzle Mail Connect will continue to run until you shutdown your computer.  Once this happens, both WINE and Shazzle Mail COnnect stop running, and won't resume on next startup, unless you left "Open on Startup" checked, in which case Shazzle Mail Connect will try to tun without WINE. The solution seems simple: right click on the Shazzle Mail Connect shortcut and choose "Open with WINE".  Unfortunately, for some unknown reason, there isn't an option to do this.  However, you can open the Shazzle Mail Connect folder that was downloaded with Shazzle Mail Connect.  Inside is a file called ShazzleMailConnect.exe.  You can open this with WINE by right clicking.  But, for some reason WINE has issues with storing your username and pasword, so you will be met with an error message reading: "Error: incorrect username and password".  To fix this, close any Shazzle Mail anything you have running.  You want the Shazzle Mail Connect icon to disappear from the top bar.  If it doesn't, it's still running.  To close it, open the terminal and enter:  sudo px -aux |more  You will be met with a list of running programs.  This is TaskManager on steroids.  Scroll to the bottom until MORE is highlighted and hit enter.  Continue to hit enter until you find the Shazzle Mail Connect program.  Take note of its PID number.  Open a new terminal and enter:  kill [PID of Shazzle Mail Connect]  The icon should disappear almost instantaneously. Our problem is that WINE is incorrectly remembering the username and password.  To clear WINE's history, enter into the terminal:  rm -rf  ~/.wine  Be warned: this will clear everything that WINE remembers. We're not quite done yet.  Now go to the Shazzle Mail Connect folder and open ShazzleMailConnect.exe with WINE.  You will be prompted to log in again.  Just make sure that the app is running on your phone.    Once you shut down and restart your computer, open the terminal and enter   rm -rf ~/.wine  Log in and then you are free to close Shazzle Mail Connect.  Make sure the icon remains green in the top bar.  You must repeat this every time you restart your computer.  If anyone knows of a better or easier way to do this, please let me know.

---

