---
title: "7.10 no longer can connect wirelessly via WPA"
date: 2008-02-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by while on 2008-02-20
Have searched EVERYWHERE for an answer.... I have an IBM t60 with 7.10 installed using network manager to manage all the connections....wireless works great... Open or with WEP 64 or 128 but I can not do anything with WPA(x) I was able to before but cant any longer on existing networks or new networks utilizing any form of WPA... This will become an issue shortly as my company is going all WPA and removing WEP for compliance concerns. 


Any ideas? 


Thanks

William

---

### Post by Enigmahack on 2008-02-20
Actually I very recently noticed this with an update that I did. I don't remember the specific update, but what I noticed is that in the Network Manager manual setup dropdowns list, I have:

WEP 128 bit Passphrase
WEP 64/128 bit Hex
WEP 64/128 ASCII
WPA Personal
LEAP

I USED to have more than that... I honestly thought I uninstalled something in the ongoing process of setting Gutsy up how I want it... and I also don't have the ability to connect to WPA/WPA2. 

  Well, I found a temporary workaround. (Networks that have WPA or WPA2, don't ask for a passkey) 

  What I did is set up a Manual connection, and entered my WPA info there, but left my DHCP and other networking info set to be auto-connect. 

  It seems to connect me just fine, but any time I want to connect to any WPA networks, I can't enter the key unless I specifically choose a manual network. Then all's well from there. 

  I don't know if this will help at all, but maybe if you can post more specifics of what issues you're having, we might be able to help out ;-)

---

