---
title: "6.06 Server to run PBX &amp; mySQL 5.1 without Fonality"
date: 2007-07-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by custommadename on 2007-07-16
I want to run Ubuntu on a server with full hardware compatibility.  I'm looking into the hardware, but for right now I only want to chat about establishing a way not to run Fonality.  I've checked it out, and their latest release, 2.2,  is CentOS 4.4 with mySQL, Asterisk 1.2.2, and FreePBX 2.2.3.

The reason I don't want to use Fonality is that it seems to be closed up with support.  I would like a more open platform.  I read through an email that Fonality sent to the company where I work, and it seems they're just talking the talk.  Here is a part of this email:

*One of the &#8220;differences&#8221; in Fonality from some or most of our competitors is your Fonality Account Manager will always make the recommendation your server be equipped with a RAID 1 hard drive.  The reason is for your systems own protection and we see it as crucial for mission critical, system down time avoidance.  Fonality takes a &#8220;snap shot&#8221; or &#8220;ghost&#8217;s&#8221; an image of your systems current configuration on a regular basis for the sole purpose should your hard drive go down and you &#8220;hot swap&#8221; it, Fonality will push to your server the most current configuration, insuring your up and running in just minutes rather than hours.*

I'm upset by this because a RAID1 system is not as they describe.  It should anyway take 20 minutes to set up a PBX once you're comfortable with it, and a business with an IT staff that goes against hard drive redundancy should pretty much close.  Also, grammatical and spelling error are rampant throughout the email.  It's not as if I strive to be fully correct all the time, but Fonality should make the effort to seem like a bigger business, at least text-wise.  In that last sentence, *insure* should be *ensure*, for example.

I want to set up a Ubuntu PBX server that performs no more than the average PBX functions that any other telephony system for a small business can do, and then I'd like to look into VOIP hosting.  Because Fonality does not present a solid enough setup for me to run, I would like to do this on my own, but with your guys' help.  Please let me know of any tips you've learned with PBX servers.  Here's what I'm setting up right now:
Ubuntu Server 6.06
mySQL Server 5.1.2
Asterisk 1.4.7.1
freePBX 2.2.2
Except for freePBX, which is 2.2.3 on Trixbox, everything else is newer than what Fonality offers.  What do you think?

---

