---
title: "USB wifi stick (F5D7050) disconnects with Bittorrent traffic"
date: 2006-11-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Kasper42 on 2006-11-20
Hi,

I have a Belkin F5d7050. I installed it on Ubuntu Dapper (now upgraded to Edgy) with no problems :) I have no problems surfing the net, downloading from usenet, downloading/uploading from Frostwire (often only connected for <10mins) or uploading to an FTP. 

However, when I attempt to download/upload using Azureus the USB stick will seem to stop working after 10-120 mins of having bittorrent connected with files transferring. 

Initially, I though it would be my router so I checked to see if it had locked up; it worked fine on another computer connected to the same router through an ethernet connection.

Secondly, I guessed it might be my Bittorrent client. I tried qBittorrent and  then the original Bittorrent client. They both seemed to do the exactly the same.

The thing is, when I was using this same WiFi USB stick on W2K, it seemed to work fine. The only thing I have changed since then is my motherboard, could it be something to do with the USB ports on this?:-k 

Please help!

Kasper

---

### Post by dataw0lf on 2006-11-20
> **Kasper42 said:**
> Hi,

I have a Belkin F5d7050. I installed it on Ubuntu Dapper (now upgraded to Edgy) with no problems :) I have no problems surfing the net, downloading from usenet, downloading/uploading from Frostwire (often only connected for <10mins) or uploading to an FTP. 




Bittorrent generates a tremendous amount of traffic.  Are there any specific traffic speeds that it dies at? Have you had any problems on the same computer using a traditional ethernet device?

---

### Post by Kasper42 on 2006-11-20
> Bittorrent generates a tremendous amount of traffic. Are there any specific traffic speeds that it dies at? Have you had any problems on the same computer using a traditional ethernet device?

Thanks for the reply. There seems to be no specific speed at which it disconnects, it varies every time. I do not have a long enough ethernet cable to stretch from my router to this computer, so unfortunately cannot try.

---

### Post by FrodoB on 2006-11-20
Kasper;

What version is your F5D7050? Could you also publish the output of lsusb for it?

Thanks,

FrodoB

---

### Post by Kasper42 on 2006-11-21
> Bus 004 Device 002: ID 050d:7050 Belkin Components F5D7050 ver 1000 WiFi

If it helps my router is a Netgear Dg834g V2

Thanks!

---

### Post by FrodoB on 2006-11-21
OK, so this is the  Prism GT chipset version. Is the device just overheating with all of the high traffic generated by the Bittorrent client perhaps?

---

### Post by Kasper42 on 2006-11-21
> Is the device just overheating with all of the high traffic generated by the Bittorrent client perhaps?

Ah, this could be it! I suppose I could try in some way to keep it cool-I'm going to take the casing off the dongle and maybe this will help heat loss. Thanks for the idea!

---

### Post by Kasper42 on 2006-11-26
[Update-Solved!] I took FrodoB's advice and took the casing off. When I looked at where the USB device connected to the USB plug I could see it had been soldered. I phoned up my friend (who borrowed it off me while I was away over summer) and he said he was using it on a laptop and he banged it, causing the device to breakaway from the bit that plugs in the USB port. He said it soldered it and it seemed to work okay. I guess this would explain whey it had been overheating?

So anyway, I bought a new USB dongle, a Dynamode one (installed with ndiswrapper), and it seems to work perfectly on bittorrent! So if anyone has broken their USB wifi device then soldered it back on (my friend can't be the only person to do this :rolleyes:)and now seems to be disconnecting under high traffic then I would try using another USB wifi device before looking for software issues.

Thanks for helping me fix this!

---

### Post by FrodoB on 2006-11-26
Really interesting, maybe someone who is good at soldering could fix the one that is overheating.  I am always amazed at how hot some of these things run. 

I have sort of been waiting to see one die from overheating ever since I first got one.  I have never used one for more than downloading a single CD iso and I guess that that is not enough to get it really hot.

---

