---
title: "Guarddog, IPTables, and Tap interfaces"
date: 2007-12-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tighem on 2007-12-10
Hello All,

I'm using guarddog to auto-configure iptables and it seems to work well *except* for DHCP - specifically DHCP on the tap interface. The virtual machine cannot get an IP address off its tap interface when the firewall is enabled. Disable the firewall all is well and once it has an IP address it seems all is well, too. I can see the firewall rejecting the DHCP request in the /var/log/syslog file. I do have the tap interface listed in the "DHCP Interfaces" section and confirmed it is allowed in the firewall script itself. I even put ports 67 and 68 in the user defined section and allowed that as well - no go.

Any input would be appreciated.

---

### Post by ubuntu27 on 2007-12-10
Make sure "Domain Name Server - DNS" is marked under Protocol tab [See image below]
[[IMG]http://img260.imageshack.us/img260/9343/guarddogprotocolpb2.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img260.imageshack.us/my.php?image=guarddogprotocolpb2.jpg)

Also, go to the Advance Tab, and check "enable DHCP on interfaces" [See image below]

[[IMG]http://img513.imageshack.us/img513/2325/guarddogadvancedul1.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img513.imageshack.us/my.php?image=guarddogadvancedul1.jpg)


Hope that helps.

---

### Post by ubuntu27 on 2007-12-13
BUMP!!  

Can somebody help the OP? I am knowledgeable enough to be of help. :(   But, I will learn something new from this thread (if someone finds the solution) :)

---

### Post by samaricsm on 2008-02-08
I am unfamiliar with many of the GUI interfaces, so I don't know Guarddog or Tap.  Can you show me the iptables that Guarddog generates?  This will either be a script file, or a file generated by iptables-save.

On a side note, I am running Gutsy Gibbon my DHCP works fine.  My update manager does not.  It seems that the update manager uses the IP address 169.254.1.135 to locate the services it needs.  This is a new protocol (introduced post 1999) by Apple to emulate AppleTalk features over IP.  It sort of competes with UPnP.  It goes by several names: zeroconf, multicast DNS, and others.  It is a "local" protocol for when DNS/DHCP are not available.  

Find out if the newer version of UBUNTU is depending on this more in the BOOTP code.

---

