---
title: "12.04 wifi on pavilion g6 don't work"
date: 2012-12-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mondom on 2012-12-05
sorry for my continuous posts, but it seems in my pavilion g6 the wifi don't work yet!
i've installed this
> sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-headers-$(uname -r) build-essential dkms patch fakeroot unzip wget [http://media.cdn.ubuntu-de.org/forum/attachments/35/07/3208747-angepasster-2011_0406_RT5390_RT5392_Linux_STA_V2.5.0.3_DPO.zip](http://media.cdn.ubuntu-de.org/forum/attachments/35/07/3208747-angepasster-2011_0406_RT5390_RT5392_Linux_STA_V2.5.0.3_DPO.zip) unzip angepasster-2011_0406_RT5390_RT5392_Linux_STA_V2.5.0.3_DPO.zip cd angepasster-2011_0406_RT5390_RT5392_Linux_STA_V2.5.0.3_DPO/ sudo make sudo make install sudo modprobe -v rt5390sta sudo depmod -a sudo update-initramfs -u
and to activate this driver
> echo "options rt2800pci  nohwcrypt=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/rt2800pci.conf sudo modprobe -rfv rt2800pci sudo modprobe -v rt2800pci

the connection works, but the range of the connection was only few meters
so I do this command
> sudo iwconfig wlan0 power off 			 		

now the connection rarely work from another room, but disconnected often and to reconnect it take much time (when it reconnect!)

there is a stable solution for my pc, I begin to despair
thank

---

### Post by mondom on 2012-12-07
has anybody a pc like mine?
or had someone solved the same problem with the Ralink card?
please help me!

---

### Post by mondom on 2012-12-09
I've found this
[http://admaris.com/wp/blog/2011/07/03/ubuntu-on-hp-g6-laptop-tales-from-the-grave/](http://admaris.com/wp/blog/2011/07/03/ubuntu-on-hp-g6-laptop-tales-from-the-grave/)

it seems a good solution to my pc (it's the same machine)

I've downloaded the files but when I started to apply the first patch i've got this message

> 390_LinuxSTA_V2.4.0.4_WiFiBTCombo_DPO$ patch -p0 < rt5390sta-2.4.0.4-config.patch 
patching file Makefile
Reversed (or previously applied) patch detected!  Assume -R? [n]I tried to type "n" but the answer was

> [Reversed (or previously applied) patch detected!  Assume -R? [n] n
Apply anyway? [n] y
Hunk #1 FAILED at 286.
Hunk #2 FAILED at 333.
2 out of 2 hunks FAILED -- saving rejects to file Makefile.rej
patching file os/linux/config.mk
Reversed (or previously applied) patch detected!  Assume -R? [n]

so, what I have to do?

---

