---
title: "10.04 &amp; Keyring pass for network?"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-04-30
I am having an issue with this Keyring. I had 9.10 x32 on the kids computer upstairs & they were on wireless. Everything was fine they could fire up the computer & get online without me having to go upstairs. Now with 10.04 x64 this keyring deal comes up & I have to put the admin pass in to allow connection to the net, not to log onto the computer mind you.

I want to remove this step so I don't have to do the stair case shuffle every time the kids want on their computer. I looked up the keyring & deleted the entry there & when I do that, not only do I have to do the admin pass but then I get to do the network pass as well. 

Can someone tell me how I can fix it so the keyring login isn't needed?


P.S. I just fired up my netbook (also on 10.04 x64) & I don't have the keyring issue. I guess because I have it set up to log in to get to the desktop?

Edit: BTW I am a n00b. Just started using Ubuntu a few weeks ago.

---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-04-30
No help with this?

---

### Post by smellyman on 2010-05-01
I think when it asks you your keyring password, click on details and then check "never ask me again when I am logged in."

or something like that.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-05-01
Keyrings  
 

    1. Open up your Home Folder by clicking Places>Home Folder  
    2. Press CTRL-H (or click View>Show Hidden Files)  
    3. Find a folder called .gnome2 (it has a period at the beginning of the name) and open it by double clicking on it  
    4. In side of the .gnome2 folder, there is another folder called keyrings.  Open it up.  
    5. Delete any files you find within the keyrings folder  
    6. Restart the computer  
 

 After you restart and login (if you&#8217;re automatically logging in) you&#8217;ll probably be asked to enter your wireless networks WPA/WEP encryption key.  After you type that password in, the keyring manager will appear to let you know that it would like to handle the storage of that password and lock it away with a new keyring password.  
 

 Instead of typing in a new password, leave both boxes completely empty and click Create.  
 

 You&#8217;ll then be asked if you know what the hell you&#8217;re doing:  
 

 Go ahead and click Use Unsafe Storage.  
 

 WARNING: Doing this creates a new file in your ~/.gnome2/keyrings/ folder called default.keyring and it will now house passwords IN CLEAR TEXT and not in an encrypted form.  So it is imperative that you are certain no untrustworthy persons can access your user account (either physically or by remote) or they will be able to easily open and read this file and obtain many passwords (for things such as FTP accounts, SSH, e-mail accounts, etc).  Proceed with caution.  
 

 From here on all keyring stored passwords you enter will not safeguarded behind a master password or encryption.  Whether or not you want to do this is entirely up to you.  I personally have had enough of the keyring manager and consider it kind of annoying.  But as I said before, you may have certain environmental factors that make having a master password over the rest of your passwords a good idea.  Keep in mind that the keyring password manager has absolutely nothing to do with your administrative/root privilages password that has to be entered any time you want to apply updates, or add/remove software.  You will still have to type your account password in for these actions, and that is something I am quite comfortable.

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-05-01
Hi Garvinrick4, I was having the same issue and and your contribution to this post has really helped me a lot. It works fine as you said and I wanted to thank you for going through the trouble to type this "how to" up. It is surely appreciated. Have a nice day.

---

### Post by heian on 2010-05-01
Hi,

Also i got this problem.
Thanks a lot for this exellent clear solution!

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-05-01
> **germanix said:**
> Hi Garvinrick4, I was having the same issue and and your contribution to this post has really helped me a lot. It works fine as you said and I wanted to thank you for going through the trouble to type this "how to" up. It is surely appreciated. Have a nice day.
It was something I copied and pasted into a Open Office Word Processor file and saved for
occasions like this. Over time we all have some we type up and save and some that we just save for future use. But it is nice to get a thank you.

---

### Post by romuald_geo on 2010-05-01
Thanks a lot. Worked like a charm:guitar:

---

### Post by ebaker on 2010-06-27
Thanks!  Great forum!

---

### Post by xovertheyearsx on 2010-11-05
*This is a more secure method of disabling this feature...*

> **Why does Gnome Keyring ask for my password whenever I log in?**

You may be asked for a password every time you log in so that you can connect to a network. You can stop this from happening like so:

Right click the Network Manager icon and choose Edit Connections.

Go to the Wireless tab, select the connection you are using and click Edit.

Check Available to all users and click Apply. Enter your password when asked.

The next time you log in, you should not need to enter your password in order to connect to your network connection.

**Source:** [https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/internet/C/troubleshooting-keyring.html]("https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/internet/C/troubleshooting-keyring.html")

---

