---
title: "Questions about eth0 and wlan0 conflicts on lucid"
date: 2010-07-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Slates on 2010-07-31
I have two network interfaces, eth0 and wlan0. These worked fine on Ubuntu 9.1 (which doesnt mean they were correct !). Upgrading to 10.04, I now cant browse the internet (better description follows).

By trial and error I find that if I disable wlan0, all is well and I can browse to [www.google.com](www.google.com), ping google and so on. Enable it again, and all of those actions fail.

I also notice that when I ipdown eth0 I have no connectivity to the internet, as if wlan0 is not working. Yet I can ssh and vnc to wlan0 (by specifying its configured IP address) quite happily, as I can to eth0 even if they are up at the same time.

And previously on 9.10, this worked just fine  (that is I could have both enabled, and surf the web, ping and traceroute).

Obviously there is now some conflict between the two, which didnt manifest itself before, but now does. This, to me, means my config is wrong. Can anyone tell me why this is happening please ? What Im trying to do is have two network connections up, and when one goes down the other stands in. 

So, interfaces looks like this :

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.70
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.254
#broadcast 192.168.1.254

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet static
address 192.168.1.69
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.254


resolv.conf looks like this :

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.254

ifconfig looks like this :


eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:0b:db:db:8f:fa
          inet addr:192.168.1.70  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::20b:dbff:fedb:8ffa/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:7921 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:5471 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:1479337 (1.4 MB)  TX bytes:1094060 (1.0 MB)
          Interrupt:11

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:210 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:210 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
          RX bytes:25425 (25.4 KB)  TX bytes:25425 (25.4 KB)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:90:4b:27:ae:17
          inet addr:192.168.1.69  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)


Two additional bits of info :

for some reason Ubuntu 10.04 came up with network connectivity then lost it all, by which I mean after a week or so it stopped working and I found the interfaces and resolv.conf files back to empty defaults. So I have reconfigured them manually.

I also find that the GUI network interfaces panel is empty. That is, there is no eth0 or wlan0 in there - nothing at all. Yet network connectivity I do have, becasue I can ping my ubuntu machine from another pc and browse the web from it.

Can anyone tell me what it is that I dont understand here please ?

---

### Post by Slates on 2010-08-02
I think I need to simplify my question, there's something strange going on !

I have the two interfaces wlan0 and eth0 configured on 192.168.1.69 and .70 as shown above. I can connect to either of them from another PC using ssh and vnc, specifying the respective IP addresses.

But if I ifdown wlan0, I can still connect (via ssh 192.168.1.69:21) on 192.168.1.69 ! That, I thought, was the ip address I gave to wlan0, and looks like it is in the ifconfig dump above.

How can that be ?

I also notice that if I ifup wlan0 and then ssh to 192.168.1.69 (what wlan0 has been told is its IP address), the RX and TX packets remain at 0. You'll see that from the ifconfig dump above) So, nothing is actually passing through wlan0 like I think it is it seems.

Yet I have told it its IP address is 192.168.1.69 ? So what am I missing ? 

What is it on my Ubuntu box that is answering connections on that IP address ? And how can I find out what my Ubuntu box thinks is on that address if it isnt wlan0 ?

Can someone help me underastnd this issue please ? Because it will probably explain the above at the same time.

PS here's the route output :

Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
192.168.1.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 wlan0
link-local      *               255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
default         home.gateway    0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 wlan0
default         home.gateway    0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 eth0

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-08-02
Multiple interfaces in the same subnet are likely to cause problems. I'm surprised the network works at all. The STP (Spanning Tree Protocol) is designed to prevent loops. At best, the machine will be confused as to which interface to use...
Multiple gateways (traffic not otherwise specified) is also a problem - which interface to use???

---

### Post by Slates on 2010-08-02
Thanks for your reply. I agree it is confused. So, reading inbetween the lines, I should only configure one interface per subnet. 

Put another way, can anyone help with suggestions how to configure my wlan0 and eth0 interfaces so that when the ethernet cable is unplugged or unavailable the wireless interface (wlan0) is used instead without manual intervention ?

The reason I want this is that I only connect to the PC remotely, mainly using wireless. On occasion that fails to connect, so I need to be able to plug in the ethernet cable to regain connectivity, but without requiring direct keyboard access except remotely as mentioned (through VNC). This necessarily requires the PC to be up on a network. wlan0 or eth0 whichever is available.

---

### Post by Slates on 2010-08-03
Slates,

I can help you out. The answer is easy. What you're looking for is a bridge. That's precicely the function it performs, so hopefully a google on "ubuntu configure bridge eth0 wlan0" or something similar will get you sorted.

Hope this helps you :p

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-08-03
[Here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkConnectionBridge") is an old help page  - for bridging ethernet connections...

---

