---
title: "ATTN: 150/300/450 mbps"
date: 2011-05-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wolke on 2011-05-24
I want ACTUAL throughput in the hundreds of megabits per second. On windows, I get 200mbps actual transmission speed with 2 channel 5Ghz wireless n.

I cannot find a single person on the interwebs who can tell me whether this is actually possible. Everyone seems to be content as long as their wireless connection exceeds the speed of their internet; I want it for internal networking at home, laptop<=>desktop.

==========
I have never seen actual 100mbps throughput on any linux distro with any combination of wireless cards and drivers. I have personally seen 60mbps (as in, greater than 802.11g, but nowhere near 802.11n max) with my Intel 5350 card on Ubuntu 11.04 with bleeding edge compat-wireless. The same card in windows gives me easily 130mbps single channel, and 200 mbps dual channel.

My test is scp-ing a large file over a 5ghz 300mbps wireless-n router (ddwrt on buffalo WZR-AG300NH) to my desktop over a gigabit ethernet line. +When connected to my gigabit ethernet port, i get around 500mbps.
+When connected wifi g, i get 40mbps.
+When connected single channel wifi n, i get 55 mbps. {network manager shows 150mbps connection}.
+When connected dual channel wifi n, i get 57mbps {network manager shows 270mbps}.

If anyone has ever seen speeds in excess of 100mbps, PLEASE tell me what wireless card and driver you use, ESPECIALLY if its an Intel card in a lenovo thinkpad. {I really want the Intel 6300 wireless card to work, since my new laptop has it.} Thanks for your time.

---

### Post by wolke on 2011-05-28
aaaaand now i have! apparently, my problems have been confined to a specific set of cards with bad drivers.

---

### Post by wolke on 2011-05-28
intel ultimate 6300 works perfectly

---

