---
title: "8.04 Invisible on network"
date: 2008-07-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tjpren on 2008-07-21
Hello All,

I'm wondering if anyone might be able to help.

I'm using 8.04 , and am generally happy.  It is in a wired network situation set to roaming.  I have internet access working.

However, I cannot ping the PC from any remote computers, or connect to it by VNC from any remote computers - it appears invisible.

I've tried DHCP and static IP with similar results - invisble on the network.

I don't think I've got a firewall (how do you tell ?)

From within Ubuntu, I can ping localhost, but nothing outside.

Interestingly, I have windows XP running as a virtual machine on the PC, and it can see the network, and the network can see it.  It also, howver, cannot see its host on the network.

Thanks

---

### Post by tinny on 2008-07-21
IPTables is the default firewall in Ubuntu (I think???), if you have it installed the following command will show you what rules are set up (if any).

```

sudo iptables -L

```

---

### Post by tjpren on 2008-07-21
Hi,

Thanks for the reply.

There is no info in the tables that I can see (out put below)

Chain Input (Policy Accept)
Target  prot  opt  source destination

Chain Forward (Policy Accept)
Target  prot  opt  source destination

Chain Output (Policy Accept)
Target  prot  opt  source destination

---

### Post by tava0002 on 2008-07-21
What are the addresses and netmasks of the Linux and Windows boxes? 

I would run a tcpdump on your Linux box from the command line while you try to ping it from the windows box.  Run 'ifconfig -a | less' and find your interface.  Then run:

sudo tcpdump -npi eth0 icmp  - In this case my interface is eth0

While this is running open up a Windows DOS prompt and type

ping x.x.x.x - where x.x.x.x is the Linux ip address

If you don't see anything in the packet capture then the packets aren't getting there and are probably being blocked upstream assuming the routing is correct.  Also, try to ping the Windows box from Linux while the tcpdump is running, you should see icmp echo requests leaving.

---

### Post by tjpren on 2008-07-21
Hi,

Again thanks for the reply.

Before your last reply, I released my ip address, and then renewed it from the command prompt:
sudo dhclient -r
sudo dhclient

The acquired address seemed no different to that which I was previously using, but I was then able to both be pinged from a remote PC, and ping outward.

Also, I've been able to do a remote desktop connection.

My PC had been been running fine, although i did apply an update to the system before my network issues, so that the kernel is now 2.6.24-19.

I'm wondering whether there might be something in that.

I have used tava0002 suggestion and demonstrated to myself how to check for packet traffic - so that was quite a useful exercise. - thanks for that.

So the problem seems solved although I'm none the wiser as to why it became a problem.

---

### Post by Constantijn on 2008-07-28
wrong post!

---

