---
title: "rsync is a one way streak on my network"
date: 2008-10-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Tom_ZeCat on 2008-10-07
I have three PCs on a simple wired network.  Here's an Smbk4 screenshot of the network:

[IMG]http://tommeinenphotography.com/grsyncprob/screenshotsmall.gif[/IMG]

Toms-Jukebox is a Pentium III computer with Ubuntu 7.10.  Athlon_Screamer is a single core Athlon 3700 PC with Windows XP Professional.  Tom-FastJuke is a dual core Athlon 3800 PC with Ubuntu 8.04.  

Toms-Jukebox previously had Ubuntu 8.04 and was part of "Workgroup" rather than MSHOME.  An Ubuntu update trashed this computer's sound quality for some reason and I couldn't for the life of me get it working right again.  For some reason reverting to Ubuntu 7.10 fixed its sound, and I can live with that.  Also, when I put it back on the network, it showed up in MSHome.  I'm not sure why, but I can live with that too.

What I need to get working is rsync from Toms-JukeBox to Tom-FastJuke, specifically via the Grsync GUI.

What's already working is this, copying files from Tom-FastJuke as follows:

Source: 
/home/tom/.kde/share/apps/amarok/

destination:
192.168.0.102:/home/tom/Pent3/DataFiles/amarok/

When I launch that profile from Grsync, it generates this code:

```
rsync -r -n -t -v --progress --delete -u /home/tom/.kde/share/apps/amarok/ 192.168.0.102:/home/tom/Pent3/DataFiles/amarok/
```

I'm asked for my password and all files are copied just fine.  

Unfortunately, going the other direction it's a different story.  Here's what's not working:

Source:
/home/tom/.kde/share/apps/amarok/

Destination: 
192.168.0.101:/home/tom/FastJuke/AmDataFiles/amarok/

Options chosen in GUI:
delete on destination
Verbose
show transfer process

Code generated by GUI: 
```
rsync -r -v --progress --delete /home/tom/.kde/share/apps/amarok/ 192.168.0.101:/home/tom/FastJuke/AmDataFiles/amarok/ 
```

I'm not asked for my password.  Instead, I'm given this error message:

> ssh: connect to host 192.168.0.101 port 22: Connection refused
rsync: connection unexpectedly closed (0 bytes received so far) [sender]
rsync error: error in rsync protocol data stream (code 12) at io.c(454) [sender=2.6.9]

I tried to fix this by hopping on Tom-FastJuke and going to the folders via Nautilus and making sure everyone on the network was allowed to read and write to those folders.  When that didn't work, I went into the terminal and used chmode to set the folders recursively to 777.  Still no dice.  

I'm wondering what I'm leaving out.  Is there something I forgot to install or to configure?  

Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

