---
title: "10.04 Wireless Netgear WG311 &quot;Killing&quot; network"
date: 2010-10-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Rawbin on 2010-10-05
Hi Everyone,

i'm experiencing some weird behaviour:

I have a server running ubuntu 10.04 and two Apple laptops in my home network. 

Sometimes after booting up the server doesn't connect to the wireless network, but instead "kills" the connection of the laptops. (The network then isn't available for about two minutes - it's showing but it can't connect) On the server the network interface is up, but not associated.

Sometimes the interface isn't configured properly (iwconfig isn't showing an entry) - but in this case the behaviour obviously isn't showing.

some information about my system:

Ubuntu Version: Server 10.04x64
Wireless Card: Netgear WG311v3 with marvell chipset
Driver: ndiswrapper+mrv8335x64


Any ideas on this?

---

### Post by relay_man on 2010-10-06
My experience with server is very limited, but I'll try to help with some basic stuff.

Need a little more information though...

Are you using a wireless router?
DHCP or static IP's?
IP address and subnet masks of the interfaces?

Getting the 311v3 to work with 64 bit OS may be a bit of a chore.  Have you looked here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Netgear_WG311_v3](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Netgear_WG311_v3)

---

### Post by Rawbin on 2010-10-07
Hi,

thanks for the reply.

I'm using a wireless router:
[http://www.thomson.net/en/hi/home-networking/cable-products/cable-modems-gateways/emea/twg850-4](http://www.thomson.net/en/hi/home-networking/cable-products/cable-modems-gateways/emea/twg850-4)

It is running a dhcp service, the mac laptops are using it, but the linux server is configured with a static ip:
```

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet static
	wpa-conf /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf
	address 192.168.0.254
	netmask 255.255.255.0
	gateway	192.168.0.1

```

About every third reboot things work fine, server boots and i can acces my shares. (I did have to read a lot to get the card working though) 
But sometimes the behaviour described in the first post happens. Sometimes (even rarer) the interface isn't configured and iwconfig shows no wlan0...

Thanks for your time.
Regards

---

### Post by relay_man on 2010-10-09
Is there contention for an address?  Are the laptops assigned an ip completely different than the static ip of the server?
A duplicate address in the network can really make a mess.

Also, I found this about the wpa:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=263136](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=263136)

---

### Post by Rawbin on 2010-10-09
The dhcp range is 0.10 - 0.99 so address contention should not be a problem.

I've found out that not only the laptops connections are lost, but the whole network is going down (booting a laptop that didn't have a connection with the right timing shows that the whole network is offline)

the wpa-configuration is done a little bit differently in this thread, i will try this tomorrow.

i can post my dmesg output if you like, but it's really unconclusive.

---

