---
title: "17.04 no access to internet"
date: 2017-11-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by lawrence-joy on 2017-11-29
I had 16.10 and want to get to 17.10 with the understanding I had to get 17.04 first. It took 3 tries to download 17.04 as it seemed there was a loss of access to the internet. I type the terminal command "lsb_release -a" and get back "Description: Ubuntu 17.04" and "Release: 17.04", so I know I am at 17.04. Now I can't get to the internet. I tried "ping 8.8.8.8" and get line upon line of information on the video screen. If I try "ping yahoo.com" it comes back with "Name or service not known". This indicates that the system is not getting to the DNS server. What do I need to do? Where do I need to look? What information do I need to enter?

---

### Post by strixtux on 2017-11-30
Download 17.10 elsewhere, make a USB start medium and do a proper install.

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-11-30
Thread moved to the "*Networking & Wireless*" forum.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-11-30
Follow the screenshots and set your DNS servers to googles as a work around and make the other changes as well, it will help to make your connection more stable when it is working.

---

### Post by lawrence-joy on 2017-11-30
I have seen those screens before in my searching, but can't find them now. I thought it might be part of the firewall or network or network connections. What terminal mode commands do I need to type to get to where I need to go?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-11-30
Go to the top right corner of the screen click on network manger>edit settings then click on network name and you will see the right settings to change, I have no idea how to open it from the terminal, I have never done that.

---

### Post by lawrence-joy on 2017-12-01
Yes, I was able to make the 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4 entries for which I was able to get to Firefox, Google, and some other URLs. However, when I tried a handful of other URLs I would get
The proxy server is refusing connections
--Check the proxy settings to make sure that they are correct.
--Contact your network administrator to make sure the proxy server is working.
How do I remedy this? I don't have a network administrator, this is my desk top personal computer at home.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-12-01
I would mark this one solved and create a new thread as that is a different issue, can you connect to those sites using another browser? I suspect you can.

---

### Post by lawrence-joy on 2017-12-02
Just how do I mark this as "solved"? I have a separate solid state drive (SSD) with Windows 10 that connects to Google, for which I have no problem getting to any URL that I enter.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-12-02
Go to the top of the page and click on thread tools to mark it solved. Did you try another browser in Ubuntu?

---

