---
title: "EP -9001g"
date: 2007-07-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Fakircho on 2007-07-14
Hi 

I have a Surecom USB dongle EP-9001g. 
It is not recognized by Ubuntu when i plug it in. I got the latest driver form here 
[http://www.surecom-net.com/support/Wireless/11g_54M_USB_Adapter/9001-g_A2/EP-9001g_A2.zip](http://www.surecom-net.com/support/Wireless/11g_54M_USB_Adapter/9001-g_A2/EP-9001g_A2.zip)
In the ZIP file there is a Driver for Linux/WA4020 Linux Driver folder. The driver is zd1211-4715.
I tried to follow the installation instructions but i get errors.  

Is there a better driver i should be trying to install? 

Can anyone offer any advice. 

Thank you

---

### Post by Fakircho on 2007-07-14
i went the ndiswraper route and installed the windows drivers 

but when i do 

sudo ndiswrapper -l

i get 

netrtuw : driver installed
        device (0769:11F2) present
zd1211u : invalid driver!

HELP PLEASE

---

### Post by Fakircho on 2007-07-14
Ok so now i have disabled the zd1211u driver and the out put form 
 
ndiswrapper is 

netrtuw : driver installed
        device (0769:11F2) present

iwconfig gives me 

lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11g  ESSID:"MacBook 1"  Nickname:"MacBook 1"
          Mode:Ad-Hoc  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Cell: 32:40:88:13:82:9C   
          Bit Rate=54 Mb/s   Tx-Power:20 dBm   Sensitivity=0/3  
          RTS thr=2432 B   Fragment thr=2432 B   
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality:65/100  Signal level:-54 dBm  Noise level:-96 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0


So evrything seems fine, when i lounch wifi radar i see the computers i want to connect to but it keeps telling me that it can't obtain a IP address

What do i do now???

---

### Post by Fakircho on 2007-07-15
i am really stuck. I will be forced to go back to XP if i can not make this work!!!

---

