---
title: "Dell QCA6174 802.11ac Wireless - Wifi randomly disconnects"
date: 2019-03-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by renatooliveira-cin on 2019-03-19
Hi, I have a Dell Inspiron 7472 and installed Ubuntu 18.04 on it. Since I started using, the wifi randomly disconnects and the network widget stops working. I've already changed the firmware to the new version on github and set the power management to 2. Didn't work. There is also another thing going on with this notebook. The special keys when I press them after a while not using, there is a delay. I'm not sure if it's related to the installation, I already reboot the OS and nothing changed. Here is the paste from the wireless script. Thanks!

[http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/nBSxyTDNsv/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/nBSxyTDNsv/)

---

### Post by renatooliveira-cin on 2019-07-16
few months later, anyone has any clue of what's happening?

---

### Post by him610 on 2019-07-16
Ref: line 506 country 00: DFS-UNSET

You need to set your country code. If you really are in America/Recife, determine what the country code is by looking in /usr/share/zoneinfo/zone.tab
```
cat  /usr/share/zoneinfo/zone.tab | grep Recife
```
To set the country code temporarily,
```
sudo iw reg set BR 
```
To set it permanently, you need to edit the file, crda
```
sudo nano /etc/default/crda
```
On the last line, change it to read REGDOMAIN=BR (If you really live in America/Recife)
Save the file and exit.

If this doesn't address your issue then you will have to wait on someone with greater depth of knowledge than myself.

---

### Post by renatooliveira-cin on 2019-08-19
That didn't work :/

Thanks

---

### Post by m-pajda on 2019-09-18
[BUMP TOPIC]
 I have the same problem with Qualcomm Atheros QCA6174 on Acer Aspire V15 laptop.

A great request for help. You can't work. [COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial]Even I can't the Ubuntu updates download or some soft because the wifi disconnects.[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial]Here is my wireless-info.txt: [/FONT][/COLOR][http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/p/7VkM8bwKW2/plain/](http://pastebin.ubuntu.com/p/7VkM8bwKW2/plain/)

I use: Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS
  kernel: Linux 4.15.0-62-generic 

Any ideas?

---

