---
title: "10.04 Lenovo Thinkpad T61 networking problem"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Simon741 on 2010-05-09
I have a very similar problem here:*In my case, since yesterday, my wireless connection is very unstable. 

When I start up my computer or when resume from sleep, it generally connects without a problem. Then after something like 30 seconds, it looses the connection. It then tries to reconnect sometimes successfully, sometimes without success. But that connection stays never longer than about half a minute. 


My computer is a Lenovo Thinkpad T61 running Ubuntu 10.04 since one week. Here is network configuration:*

simon@simon-laptop:~$ sudo lshw -C network
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: 82566MM Gigabit Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 19
       bus info: pci@0000:00:19.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 03
       serial: 00:1a:6b:ce:85:a7
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=e1000e driverversion=1.0.2-k2 firmware=0.3-0 latency=0 link=no multicast=yes port=twisted pair
       resources: irq:31 memory:fe200000-fe21ffff memory:fe225000-fe225fff ioport:1840(size=32)
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN [Kedron] Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 61
       serial: 00:13:e8:82:76:33
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwlagn latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abgn
       resources: irq:32 memory:df2fe000-df2fffff

Wireless works well under Windows, so it is definitively linked to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-09
Moved to a separate thread from [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1474995").

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-05-09
Please create a new file:```
sudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/config
```The text editor gedit will open and please type in one line:```
SUSPEND_MODULES="iwlagn"
```Proofread carefully, save and close gedit. Is the behavior improved?

---

### Post by TehTux on 2010-05-09
Found this post after trying to search for an answer.

I've got a Lenovo Thinkpad T60 experiencing the same issue - extremely slow wireless. Sometimes even [www.google.com](www.google.com) will timeout.

Tested from different distances from router - from 1 meter to 5, to 10, to 20. No change.

Will try the suggested fix tonight.

---

### Post by a_la_deriva on 2011-01-02
I am having a similar problem.  My wireless hasn't worked on my Thinkpad T61 since I installed Ubuntu 10.0.4 yesterday, though it does work when I load Windows Vista on the same machine.  I tried the suggested fix with no help.  Don't know what to do at this point.  Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-01-02
> **a_la_deriva said:**
> I am having a similar problem.  My wireless hasn't worked on my Thinkpad T61 since I installed Ubuntu 10.0.4 yesterday, though it does work when I load Windows Vista on the same machine.  I tried the suggested fix with no help.  Don't know what to do at this point.  Any help would be appreciated.I am not sure you have the same problem. The original poster's problem was that his wireless works but drops. Would you please start a new thread and post:```
rfkill list all
dmesg | grep iwl
```Send me a private message with the link if I don't catch it promptly.

---

### Post by metalf8801 on 2011-01-02
I got around that problem in Ubuntu 10.04 by using the Real Time kernel and then when I upgrade to Ubuntu 10.10 it was no longer a problem which is good because you can't use the Real Time kernel with Ubuntu 10.10 

you can install the Real Time kernel using the Synaptic Package manager 

I hope this helps 
Dan

---

