---
title: "12.04 connecting to wifi requires admin.  Non admin can't connect to new wifi.  Fix?"
date: 2014-02-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by MechaMechanism on 2014-02-22
The admin user can connect to new wifi networks just fine.  Non-admin accounts are prompted for the admin password when connecting to new wifi networks.  Obviously I don't want non-admin accounts to know the admin password.  How do I allow non-admin accounts to connect to new wifi networks at whim.  Wired ethernet works just fine.  What I don't understand is why a multi-user system would screw this up so badly.  Canonical really dropped the ball in their over zealous attempt at security.  Some one should file a bug.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-02-23
I'm not having that issue on my 12.04 systems - which are many.
Further, using sudo DOES NOT REQUIRE knowledge of any password except your own.

So .... I'm uncertain how to help you. Should we work on a sudoers rule that allows anyone on the machine to run a very specific command that only starts and stops wifi connections, or do we delve deeper into the issue with your system (and the likely root cause) for why an admin is needed at all for wifi?

I dunno.

I've never heard Canonical called "over zealous about security" before. Funny. If anything, they are far, far, far too lax for my liking, especially on desktops.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2014-02-23
Should be able to change the settings in User and Groups.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-02-23
There is an interface wrinkle that makes it far from obvious how non-privileged users should add new connections - see here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2031670&p=12123160#post12123160](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2031670&p=12123160#post12123160)

---

### Post by MechaMechanism on 2014-02-24
> **steeldriver said:**
> There is an interface wrinkle that makes it far from obvious how non-privileged users should add new connections - see here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2031670&p=12123160#post12123160](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2031670&p=12123160#post12123160)

That bug was fixed in 2012.  I use 12.04, what about newer versions.  I will half to see if it is fixed in 13.10.  If it is then I will file a launchpad bug report against 12.04.  12.04 is good till 2017 and should get this bug fix.  I thought this was normal and now I know otherwise which the bug is stupid.

---

