---
title: "UBUNTU 12.04 LTS networking question"
date: 2014-07-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mark75 on 2014-07-01
A friend of mine said he was having problems with "windows" on his desktop and asked me to look at it. After starting the HP desktop, it booted to UBUNTU 12.04 LTS (no other OS is installed). The main issue is that it appears to be connected to the internet, but web pages will not load, and updates will not install. The network settings appear to be valid and I can ping my ISP in a terminal window, but still can not open a web page.

*other PC's can connect using this ethernet cable.

This desktop also has an OEM WI-FI card. I enabled and configured WI-FI, but the connection keeps dropping. (strong signal to my laptop at same location).

I assume the user inadvertently changed a setting somewhere. Would appreciate it if someone out there could advise what I should look for.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-07-02
It looks like it may be a DNS problem, open /etc/resolv.conf with your favourite editor:

```
sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf
```

and add the following line, like this:

```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
nameserver 8.8.8.8
```

If you can connect using the above resolv.conf, it will point to a DNS problem.

**Note:** the change will only last until the next reboot, but should help you diagnose the problem a little further.

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2014-07-02
If the above post solves your problem, then you might have missing dns entries on your /etc/network/interfaces file. Be sure to have the the following so that the dns entries will persist after reboots.

dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4

Or just put your own dns entries on that line separated by spaces.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-07-02
*Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless**.*

Welcome. Although you're new, you may have better luck here, and we'll be gentle! ;)

> **nerdtron said:**
> If the above post solves your problem, then you might have missing dns entries on your /etc/network/interfaces file. Be sure to have the the following so that the dns entries will persist after reboots.

dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4



I wouldn't bother with the /etc/network/interfaces file. If you click the network icon and 'Edit' then navigate to the wireless connection>IPv4 settings, and add the correct DNS IPs in there (bottom of the window). The user's ISP should have provided the DNS IPs (usually two), but if not, the IP of the router may work (generally 192.168.0.1 or something close).

Definitely sounds like is DNS related if you can communicate and ping on the LAN but not the WAN. cariboo907's suggestions should get you somewhere, one way or t'other. :)

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2014-07-02
Ooopss.. my bad. Bucky Ball is right in using the GUI. I've been spending too much time on the Server Platforms that I thought this is a server. :D

---

### Post by mark75 on 2014-07-02
Wow. Thanks for all the suggestions. Just wish I understood them better!
I am not sure what you meant by "open /etc/resolv.conf with your favourite editor"
Since I recognize "sudo" as a command, I assume you meant to enter it in a terminal window?

After entering "sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf" in a terminal, another window opened with the following:

"cat /etc/resolv.conf # Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8) #     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN nameserver 127.0.1.1"

{note that it did not include "nameserver 8.8.8.8"}

I am a little confused by this as well. I thought I was supposed to "add the following line", I did not expect it to appear.
Maybe I did something wrong?

Regarding DNS: Under "connection information" both of my ISPs DNS servers are listed.

Also: Firefox was running as I did this and a web page began to load, but did not complete.

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-07-02
> {note that it did not include "nameserver 8.8.8.8"}

It would not be expected there.  It is the Google Public DNS Service, see the link below:

[https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns/docs/using](https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns/docs/using)

Are both your DNS ip addresses listed under the Edit connections option?

---

### Post by mark75 on 2014-07-02
I do not see them under edit connections, but both are shown in connection information.

---

### Post by mark75 on 2014-07-02
Enough frustration for me. I am currently downloading the latest version of UBUNTU. 

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-07-02
Unsure why you think that is going to make any difference. 12.04 LTS is current, supported until 2017, and probably more stable than 14.04.

Why didn't you put your ISP DNS addresses in 'Edit Connections'? Good luck, anyway.

---

### Post by mark75 on 2014-07-04
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Why didn't you put your ISP DNS addresses in 'Edit Connections'?.
Although the DNS of my ISP was already loaded (DHCP) I did try entering it manually and still could not connect.

Regarding your other question, I was thinking that reinstalling the OS would be a quick fix to restore the network settings. (it was working fine for at least 3 months until the user changed something)

After downloading the latest version (14.04?) and burning a DVD, the system would boot to it, but there were issues with the display (as in blank  screen). So I decided to download and reinstall version 12.04. During the install, I selected to auto download and install security updates and everything went fine (previously there were about 70 updates that would not download).

So reinstalling resolved the network issue, but now there seems to be another problem. There are no longer any icons visible on the desktop, just a background picture.  I can click on a spot where there was previously an icon and a menu, or program will open. 

Still searching for info about the icons, any suggestions?

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-07-04
> **mark75 said:**
> 

Still searching for info about the icons, any suggestions?



Yes. Please start a new thread with a descriptive title in the appropriate forum section and mark this thread as solved. It will improve your chances of getting support as your new issue has nothing to do with the title of this thread and is buried quite a few posts deep on the second page of the thread. Not promising. 

Good luck.

---

