---
title: "11.10 Server does not reconnect to network after router reboot (DHCP or Static IP)"
date: 2012-03-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by siloko on 2012-03-06
Hello,

If I reboot my router (Netgear DGN2200) Ubuntu 11.10 Server does not reconnect to the network. This is over a wired connection and I have tried it with both a reserved IP Address over DHCP and a static IP Address configuration as follows:

/etc/network/interfaces

# The loopback network interface

   auto lo
   iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface

   auto eth0
   iface eth0 inet static
   address 192.168.1.100
   netmask 255.255.255.0
   broadcast 192.168.1.255
   network 192.168.1.0
   gateway 192.168.1.1

Both connection methods fail after a router reboot i.e. no ping, no ssh, no http. I have never had to do anything special to ensure reconnection before - but am I missing something?

Thanks

S

---

### Post by Sergius14 on 2012-03-06
Maybe (just maybe) is a driver/chipset related stuff when it can't detect Ethernet signal is back.

Have tried already to unplug/plug Ethernet cable again?


Also, I'll give a try to 

$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

and/or

$ sudo ifconfig eth0 down
$ sudo ifconfig eth0 up

You can combine this steps one by one and see if any restabishes your connection.


This will not solve your issue but can give a clue or more info onto where is the issue.


I don't believe your network parameteres are wrong.

---

### Post by siloko on 2012-03-06
Hi there,

Thanks for your reply. I tried everything you suggested with identical results, i.e. no reconnection after the link was lost. I do have clues in syslog though, showing the kernel has detected the ink failure: 

 
Mar  6 22:18:21 stripey kernel: [  909.119144] 8139too 0000:02:0c.0: eth1: link down
Mar  6 22:18:34 stripey kernel: [  921.276646] 8139too 0000:02:0c.0: eth1: link up, 100Mbps, full-duplex, lpa 0x45E1

I guess the problem may lie with the Netgear router or something to do with my cabling (the cables go through the wall via a junction box).

Anyway thanks again for your reply and if you have anything else to add please tell me!

Cheers

S

---

### Post by jonobr on 2012-03-06
Hello


Syslog seems to show your using eth1 not eth0

You should change eth0 in your /etc/network/interfaces file

---

### Post by siloko on 2012-03-07
Hi,

I wondered if anyone would pick up on that! I added another ethernet card to continue my testing and see if a previous reply was right with regard drivers to the onboard NIC. So in actual fact the syslog eth1 references are correct, even though the previous interfaces config I posted showed eth0. The point being is that my problem remains and the eth1/eth0 discrepancy above is due to testing not misconfiguration!

Anyway thanks for your reply.

S

---

### Post by Sergius14 on 2012-03-07
Test / simulate the same thing with another router to completelly discard if it is a Ubuntu misconfiguration or a faulty router.

Then you may change this thread to Solved ;)

---

