---
title: "Isl3890/isl3886"
date: 2010-07-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sshaikh on 2010-07-06
Excuse the brief question, I just wanted to ask before I try some troubleshooting.

My PC has the above built in wifi card. When I install full desktop Ubuntu, then it is detected fine and works without configuration.

However when I installed UNE, it remains UNCLAIMED when I do lshw.

Any ideas why? And will the NDISWrapper strategy work in this case, or is there a better way to do things (which Ubuntu uses in the full version?)

---

### Post by RavanH on 2010-10-08
> **sshaikh said:**
> Excuse the brief question, I just wanted to ask before I try some troubleshooting.

My PC has the above built in wifi card. When I install full desktop Ubuntu, then it is detected fine and works without configuration.

However when I installed UNE, it remains UNCLAIMED when I do lshw.

Any ideas why? And will the NDISWrapper strategy work in this case, or is there a better way to do things (which Ubuntu uses in the full version?)

Is there a difference in the **kernel version** when installing the full or the netbook edition of ubuntu? 

I have noticed that since the upgrade to the latest **kernel 2.6.32-25** in combo with **linux-backports-modules-compat-wireless**-2.6.34-2.6.32-25-generic, my ISL3886 chipset based wireless pc-card is no longer recognized... 

Sticking to **kernel 2.6.32-24.17** with the **linux-backports-modules-wireless**-2.6.32-24-generic package (notice the missing -compat- in the name) until further notice...

Have not tried ndiswrapper so would not know about any of that. Sorry.

---

