---
title: "BCM 4318 i4e4: 4318 rev 02 Help"
date: 2010-11-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by threestarsalute on 2010-11-03
Hi all,

Just installed Ubuntu 10.10 to enter the world of Linux and am having some difficulty getting my wireless to work.

Here's what I'm working with.

Computer: hp dv1000

Broadcom BCM4318 Airforce One 54
i4e4: 4318 rev 02

I have already looked through a number of guides but have not had much success.

I was able to install the driver by following this guide:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx#Installing%20b43%20drivers](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx#Installing%20b43%20drivers)

but have not been able to get it to work.

Any ideas?

Thanks in advance!

mg

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-11-03
Did you follow part 1 or 2 of that page? YOu need the b43 drivers, not the STA drivers, so the second part.

If that is what you did, open a terminal and type in this command:

```
sudo rfkill list
```

and copy/paste the output.

---

### Post by threestarsalute on 2010-11-03
Hi, thanks for your help! 

I did use the second method, installed b43, so here is the output:

0: hp-wifi: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: yes
    Hard blocked: yes
1: phy0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: yes
    Hard blocked: no

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-11-04
Looks like you have both a hardware wifi button/key that has the wifi turned off and its disabled in software. Try enabling wifi radio with the appropriate physical button/key and rerun that command again. It should show the hardware block as OFF.

To get around the software block try this

```
sudo rfkill unblock all
```

Also verify if you right click the network manager icon (top right) that wireless networking is enabled.

---

