---
title: "Usr 5610b"
date: 2010-02-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Bartender on 2010-02-03
Greetings -
I've got problems.  I want to learn how to connect via a USR 5610B internal hardware modem.  I've got some USR external Sportsters, and have them figured out well enough, so in a case of momentary insanity decided to bid on a few 5610's.  

There are ancient (2005, 2006) threads discussing these modems, but I think some of the info is obsolete.  Don't want to start typing commandline entries willy-nilly and screw everything up. 

I've installed setserial, but unsure what to do with it.  lspci -vv reports the modem as:

```
01:09.0 Serial controller: 3Com Corp, Modem Division 56K FaxModem Model 5610 (rev 01) (prog-if 02)
	Subsystem: 3Com Corp, Modem Division Device 00d3
	Control: I/O+ Mem- BusMaster- SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 17
	Region 0: I/O ports at b800 [size=8]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: serial
```
 
So it's there, but gnome-ppp and pppconfig sure can't find it.  I'm not very good with the terminal but can follow basic instructions :)

Not sure what to make of that "access denied" line?

I can run the 5610's on a Jaunty and/or Karmic PC in case there are different procedures.  Thanks!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-02-03
> Not sure what to make of that "access denied" line?Please try:```
[COLOR="Red"]sudo[/COLOR] lspci -vv
```This thread talks about scanmodem, which will help you: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1394017](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1394017)

---

### Post by Bartender on 2010-02-03
output of sudo lspci -vv...

```
01:09.0 Serial controller: 3Com Corp, Modem Division 56K FaxModem Model 5610 (rev 01) (prog-if 02)
	Subsystem: 3Com Corp, Modem Division Device 00d3
	Control: I/O+ Mem- BusMaster- SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 17
	Region 0: I/O ports at b800 [size=8]
	Capabilities: [dc] Power Management version 2
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1- D2+ AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0+,D1-,D2+,D3hot+,D3cold+)
		Status: D0 PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=2 PME-
	Kernel driver in use: serial
```

Remembered that I had puppy linux installed to a thumbdrive.  Puppy found the 5610B no problems and went online!  It found the USR 5610 at ttyS1.  Why can't Ubuntu do that???

EDIT:  Well, I guess Ubuntu CAN do that, just not as smoothly and effortlessly as Puppy.  Armed with the knowledge that pup found the modem on ttyS1, I went back to Ubuntu and tried quickly setting up a second dialer in pppconfig.  pppconfig kept throwing errors about ttyS1 owned by pid something or another.  I didn't know what that was, but went into Users/Groups and logged into root.  No permission for a dial-up modem.  Changed that.  Went to my username, it had permission.  Rather than going back to pppconfig, I opened gnome-ppp, which had already dialed out successfully a few dozen times via a USR external.  I manually set the modem to ttyS1.  Didn't ask it to detect.  Just closed gnome-ppp, reopened it, and clicked "Connect".  I got the "Cannot open modem" message at the same time as I was clicking "Log".  At just about that same moment the modem started screeching and I got online.  Went back to gnome-ppp and turned "off" the modem speaker, went back online with no "can't open modem" error this time.

I'm not exactly sure what happened to make it start working, but having Puppy on hand was a fortunate turn of events.  It gave me confidence that it could be done, and told me where the pesky modem was hiding.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2010-02-05
Well,  I thought this was solved but it's not.  I have a second 5610.  Wanted to check it out before I gave feedback on eBay.  Unplugged the first 5610, plugged the second one in, gnome-ppp can't find modem.  lspci -vv gives the same info as before.  I go into pppconfig, ask it to probe for modems, it finds a modem at ttyS1, I save the information, try to dial, get several failures then suddenly it dials.  Get out of pppconfig, go to gnome-ppp, it dials.  

I shut the PC down, modem is lost again.  Go thru all the pppconfig monkey motion, find modem again, same erratic results in pon, finally get on, gnome-ppp connects, turn PC off, it's all gone again.  Take a look at pon:
```

ding@ding-desktop:~$ plog
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: abort on (NO CARRIER)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: abort on (VOICE)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: abort on (NO DIALTONE)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: abort on (NO DIAL TONE)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: abort on (NO ANSWER)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: abort on (DELAYED)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: send (ATZ^M)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: expect (OK)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: ^M^M
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: 
ding@ding-desktop:~$ pon 5610
ding@ding-desktop:~$ plog
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: abort on (NO DIAL TONE)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: abort on (NO ANSWER)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: abort on (DELAYED)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: send (ATZ^M)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: expect (OK)
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: ^M^M
Feb  4 21:15:35 ding-desktop chat[1693]: 
Feb  4 21:15:40 ding-desktop pppd[1699]: pppd 2.4.5 started by ding, uid 1000
Feb  4 21:15:40 ding-desktop pppd[1699]: Device ttyS1 is locked by pid 1691
Feb  4 21:15:40 ding-desktop pppd[1699]: Exit.
ding@ding-desktop:~$ pon 5610
ding@ding-desktop:~$ plog
Feb  4 21:15:40 ding-desktop pppd[1699]: pppd 2.4.5 started by ding, uid 1000
Feb  4 21:15:40 ding-desktop pppd[1699]: Device ttyS1 is locked by pid 1691
Feb  4 21:15:40 ding-desktop pppd[1699]: Exit.
Feb  4 21:15:51 ding-desktop pppd[1705]: pppd 2.4.5 started by ding, uid 1000
Feb  4 21:15:51 ding-desktop pppd[1705]: Device ttyS1 is locked by pid 1691
Feb  4 21:15:51 ding-desktop pppd[1705]: Exit.
Feb  4 21:15:59 ding-desktop pppd[1710]: pppd 2.4.5 started by ding, uid 1000
Feb  4 21:15:59 ding-desktop pppd[1710]: Device ttyS1 is locked by pid 1691
Feb  4 21:15:59 ding-desktop pppd[1710]: Exit.
ding@ding-desktop:~$ sudo pppconfig
[sudo] password for ding: 
1691
1691
Probing /dev/ttyS0
Probing /dev/ttyS1
ding@ding-desktop:~$ 
```

Notice that each time I try to dial, the "pppd started by ding" and "ttyS1 is locked by pid.." messages march upward from the bottom until the 'chat' messages are all changed to 'pppd'.  I have no idea what that means!  

Right at the bottom is where I asked pppconfig to probe for modem and it finds one at ttyS1.  About half the time.

Puppy Linux goes right online without a hitch, just like it did with the first 5610.

Every time I run this, I get a different "locked by pid ####" number.  1691 this time, but it's been a different pid every time.  I don't know what pid means.

I'm hoping this is an easy fix, but I'm lost right now!

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-02-05
hi

meanings of the above

[http://www.linfo.org/pid.html](http://www.linfo.org/pid.html)

[http://www.linux.org/docs/ldp/howto/Serial-HOWTO-14.html](http://www.linux.org/docs/ldp/howto/Serial-HOWTO-14.html)

an old sites worth a visit

[http://www.faqs.org/docs/Linux-HOWTO/Winmodems-and-Linux-HOWTO.html](http://www.faqs.org/docs/Linux-HOWTO/Winmodems-and-Linux-HOWTO.html)


[http://www.pcurtis.com/ubuntu-mobile.htm](http://www.pcurtis.com/ubuntu-mobile.htm)

---

### Post by Bartender on 2010-02-05
What a disappointment.  Sure enough, every time I reboot the 5610 gets lost.  pppconfig finds it again, although it's erratic about doing so, then gnome-ppp works, then I shut it off and it's all gone again.  I plugged the first 5610 back in again.  Didn't make any difference.  Tried Puppy again, it finds the 5610 at ttyS1 and dials.

So it's something that Ubuntu's doing.  Or not doing.  alex, I'll take a look at those links.  Thanks.

EDIT:  OK, for lack of a better plan I just keep trying the same things over and over.  Isn't that one sign of insanity?  Anyway.  After a reboot, gnomeppp sees no modem.  If I ask it to dial, it says "resource busy or unavailable".  I go into terminal, enter pon.  Get errors like in post #4.  If I just keep entering pon, then plog, the error messages slowly change, again as in post #4.  By the third or fourth time, suddenly pon dials out.  I'm not even going into pppconfig and asking it to detect the modem, I just set it to ttyS1, then get out of pppconfig and keep punching in "pon".  I get out of terminal, go into gnome-ppp, it dials too.  WTH is going on here???

I found some ancient threads that described losing their modem each time.  The [directions]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=29829") said something about a symlink. Post #16.  I've heard of that but don't know what it is.  I tried to follow those directions, using ttyS1 instead of S14, then rebooted, but didn't make any dif that I could tell.  Except I now have a file floating around in /etc/udev/rules.d/ that maybe should be there and maybe it shouldn't.   The same directions talk about a setserial entry but I think that's obsolete advice (?)

Turns out now I don't even have to reboot.  I closed gnome-ppp, it lost the modem.  Ran pon a few times, it started chirping but wouldn't connect, went back to gnome-ppp and it dialed.  Very frustrating.

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-02-06
hi

don't know if this is relevant: from an old script

#!/bin/sh
/usr/sbin/chat -v                         \
        ABORT           BUSY              \
        ABORT           'NO ANSWER'       \
        ''              AT&F0             \
        OK              ATDT$TELEPHONE    \
        CONNECT         \d\c

The 'AT&F0' is a common modem initialization command - although some
modems (US Robotics) want AT&F1.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2010-02-07
Hi, alex -
Once I go thru the hoopla to finally get the modem to dial, it connects just fine.  Feels just as fast as the external USR's, maybe faster, who knows.

The problem is - well, I'm going to botch this up because I don't understand permissions and owners very well, certainly not when it comes to devices rather than files - but the problem has something to do with ownership, or permissions.

I dug up another test PC.  Stuck a USR 5610 inside.  Installed 9.04 (all the above monkey-motion was with a PC running 9.10) just to see what would happen.  Same thing.   
```
lspci -vv
```
shows the modem, but it says "access denied"
```
sudo lspci -vv
```
shows the modem, without the "access denied" comment.

I can set up a dialer in pppconfig.  If I type in "sudo pon" the modem starts dialing.  "pon" gives me grief.

Since the 9.04 PC is offline and has a fresh install, I can't set up wvdial or gnome-ppp.  But pppconfig is acting exactly like it did on the 9.10 PC, so I have little doubt that wvdial and gnome-ppp will do the same.  
```
sudo wvdial
```
works on the 9.10 PC, gnome-ppp does not until I go online with one of the other two programs, _then_ try gnome-ppp.

The other problem is that the things I've tried in order to give ownership or permission to my username disappear after a reboot.

So it's not just a permissions/ownership thing, it has something to do with making a change that survives rebooting.  I've read several threads that talked about creating a file in /etc/udev/rules folder, but the file I created there didn't make any difference.  Problem is I'm shooting in the dark - I don't know if the file I made is not correct, or if it's in the wrong place, or if those old posts are obsolete.  I also looked at the "Groups" section in Users and Groups, but I'm just guessing and clicking without knowing if I'm going to screw up something else and make things worse.

I've been googling things like "change ownership /dev/ttyS*" but lots of the results are over my head.

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-02-07
hi

been digging around file system:have a look at examples ,see what you think
ect/ppp
ect/ppp/peers

also look at and can see your posts 

Re post:GeorgeVita : I think he is on holiday or something at the moment,if you have no luck in the mean time ;try to send PM,

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1369444&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1369444&page=2)

also

[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/karmic/en/man5/interfaces.5.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/karmic/en/man5/interfaces.5.html)

---

