---
title: "Cisco VPN"
date: 2006-09-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gantww on 2006-09-21
Hello all,
I'm preparing to migrate my last Windows box to Ubuntu within the next month. My main hangup is connecting to the VPN at work. Currently we are using a Cisco-based VPN solution (at least, it requires a Cisco service on the box) that only runs on Windows and Macintosh. To get around this roadblock, do I:

1) Use some open-source package that will do it all in an automagic fashion.
2) Install VMWare and put windows and the VPN client on it so that I can connect from a VM. Then, my Linux box still has access to my real network, plus I can hit the work network in the VM.
3) Use WINE to try to get the current VPN software to run under Linux (does WINE even work with services?)
4) Use some wicked, evil hackish script to get a VPN connection.

Once I get the VPN connection, I can use RDP to get to my work machine and do whatever I need. Option 2 seems the most likely to work, but I think it may be really slow.

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by rbalfour on 2006-09-21
Nope.

There is a Linux version of CiscoVPN.

I use it everyday again a vpn 3005 and Pix 501.

Grant it, it's shell based. It's easy to use.

So no need of VMWARE (The way I use to do it).

---

### Post by gashcrumb on 2006-09-21
I've had really good luck using vpnc here with my work, it works pretty much flawlessly with our CISCO VPN gateway.

It's really easy to set up as well, you just need to edit the /etc/vpnc/default.conf file, then you can just run "sudo vpnc" to start it up.

There's also a CISCO linux client that's available (though this may depend on the version of the VPN concentrator your company uses), however it requires that you build a kernel module and load that up, and is not as easy to use in general...

---

### Post by gantww on 2006-09-21
I'm fine with the shell. I can learn whatever I have to. Just don't make me use Windows. What would I need from my company to get it installed? Isn't there some kind of key pair required?

---

### Post by rbalfour on 2006-09-21
I won't make you use Windoze.
There is a file called <something>.pcf
As long as you have this file, you won't need anything from them. (NOTE: I like to work under the radar, some companies hear open source / Linux and go crazy) copy that file from your windoze box and move it to the Linux box.
Install CiscoVPN for Linux (RTFM) and copy the file. That should be it.

To make it quick, I created a bash script file to start my sessions.

gl

---

### Post by parmdeep on 2008-02-25
i need help :( i posted here too [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=707543](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=707543)

---

### Post by bradosav on 2008-02-28
I have a similar problem as the ones described above. I imported the .pcf file, but still get a server not responding message. Is there anything I'm missing. 

The pcf file says something like this

[main]

!Description=VPN connection to USF (hybrid)

Host=vpn.net.usf.edu

!AuthType=5

!GroupName=USF-Hybrid

!GroupPwd=

!enc_GroupPwd=***

EnableISPConnect=0

ISPConnectType=0

ISPConnect=

ISPPhonebook=

ISPCommand=

Username=bradosav

!SaveUserPassword=0

!UserPassword=

!enc_UserPassword=

NTDomain=

EnableBackup=0

BackupServer=

EnableMSLogon=1

MSLogonType=0

EnableNat=1

TunnelingMode=0

TcpTunnelingPort=80

CertStore=1

CertName=

CertPath=

CertSubjectName=

CertSerialHash=00000000000000000000000000000000

SendCertChain=0

PeerTimeout=90

EnableLocalLAN=1


The default.conf says something like this:

## generated by pcf2vpnc.pl
IPSec ID USF-Hybrid
IPSec obfuscated secret ***
IPSec gateway vpn.net.usf.edu
Xauth username bradosav

and

boris@boris-laptop:~$ sudo ldd /usr/sbin/vpnc
 linux-gate.so.1 =>  (0xffffe000)
        libgcrypt.so.11 => /usr/lib/libgcrypt.so.11 (0xb7f2d000)
        libc.so.6 => /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6 (0xb7de3000)
        libgpg-error.so.0 => /usr/lib/libgpg-error.so.0 (0xb7dde000)
        /lib/ld-linux.so.2 (0xb7f91000)

and

boris@boris-laptop:~$ uname -r
2.6.22-14-generic

Any help would be greatly appreciated!!

Thanks,

Boris

---

