---
title: "9.10 Cannot enable &quot;Wireless&quot; No Networks Show"
date: 2010-02-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by d00m1001 on 2010-02-25
Hi. I've installed Ubuntu 9.10 on a Dell Studio 1537 Intel Core 2 Duo.

Everything is going great so far save for the wireless internet. It won't detect any wifi signals. After some playing around I got the driver to work and the wifi light on the computer lights up but, I can't "enable wireless" and start looking for networks to join.

I've also installed the bcmwl-kernel-source and, it recognizes my driver but, I can't connect to any wifi networks. They don't show up... 

Here is my driver details:

Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g

Any help would be appreciated!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-02-25
You should be able to google the BCM 4312, there has been written a lot about this one.

Else: 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide)

---

### Post by ndefontenay on 2010-02-25
Hi.

I've installed a laptop with a broadcom recently. You should see restricted drivers to be enabled in the task bar. If not, you should go to administration>Restricted drivers (or administration>devices? Not sure anymore).

For my wireless I had 2 options for drivers. The first one I tried gave me a wifi icon but couldn't detect any signal. On uninstalling and installing the over driver, linux wouldn't even boot. After re-installing, I picked the 2nd restricted driver, and all worked fine.

Try to look for restricted drivers somewhere in Administration menu.

note: If you got a couple of options let me know what you got I'll tell you what worked for me. But there's no guarantee it works for you.

Nico

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-02-25
I've got the same laptop. Installed bcmwl-kernel-source as well. 

To clarify you rebooted and clicked on the nm-applet and nothing shows up?

---

