---
title: "Strange connection issue!"
date: 2015-06-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Veronica_Sanford on 2015-06-16
Hi all,
I'm new to Ubuntu and I'm having some issues connecting to the wifi. It's a weird problem because I can connect to the ethernet or wifi at school, but I cannot connect to either at any other location. I guess this probably means it's a laptop issue or some setting somewhere that I can't find. Does anyone have any suggestions? Help would be much appreciated! 
Thank you!

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2015-06-16
Hello and welcome to the forums

Can you be more specific about what happens? do other networks not appear in the list of available networks, or do they appear but you are unable to select them? do you get any error messages when you try?

---

### Post by Veronica_Sanford on 2015-06-16
I think I phrased my question incorrectly. The networks do appear, and I can connect to any network I try. However, once I'm connected, I can't access the internet at all, unless I'm on the wifi at school. I don't get any error messages, but the internet just does not want to work unless I'm on the WPA wifi at college. And I can use the internet on Windows, but not Linux.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2015-06-16
Hi, when trying to connect to a network that you can not connect to please click on the wireless script in my signature and follow the directions for running the script and posting the results here. 
Thanks

---

### Post by Veronica_Sanford on 2015-06-23
Hi Wild Man,
 Thanks for your help. I've attached the .tar.gz of the .txt generated by your script. I wasn't able to figure anything out from looking at it. One other potentially helpful piece of information: three other students have the same laptop as me, with the same version of ubuntu (Dell Latitude 3450 with ubuntu 15.04). They don't have any problems connecting to the wifi network while I can't connect.

Thanks, again.

Veronica

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2015-06-23
Hi 

 WildMan is very capable of helping you here, however i did have one question.  

Out of interest, do you use a proxy server to connect to the Internet at school ?  

Kind regards

---

### Post by Veronica_Sanford on 2015-06-23
I do not use a proxy server. 
Thanks

---

