---
title: "Ubu 14.04: Samba crashes when opening local shares, missing /var/log/apt/term.log"
date: 2014-06-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Janiporo on 2014-06-02
When I try to access samba shares (clicking on workgrpoup-icon) on my local network from my ubuntu 14.04 it crashes nautilus, when I try to do the same from Mint (17) it crashes caja (Mints "nautilus"). So basically same thing, BUT if I shut down Ubuntu machine, everything works okay with Mint.

 ubuntu machine is sharing one hard drive folder, I can not see it and need to access it from Mint.

Seems there is something wrong with ubuntu.

*************************
EDIT: (to clarify problem)
I get this when installing on purging samba: 
```
W: Could not open file '/var/log/apt/term.log' - OpenLog (21: Is a directory)
```
And indeed it IS a directory, not a file.

Also purging samba does not help, same crash happens. (more of this on the next post)
*************************

Any idea where to go from here? How to troubleshoot?

---

### Post by Janiporo on 2014-06-09
If I manually open nautilus and try to access workgroup it crashes and says:
```
Segmentation fault (core dumped)
```

Please help If you have any ideas :o

When I purged samba, the shares worked okay somehow, but ofcourse could not enable hdd share, then I reinstalled samba and tried to enable hdd share, and nothing worked. Nautilus just crashes when trying to acces workgroup. Also I tryed to uninstall everything again, but nothing worked anymore like it did before :mad:

This is the procedure I used to remove and reinstall samba, some of the installation files might not be necessery:
```
sudo apt-get purge samba samba-common system-config-samba
sudo rm -rf /etc/samba/ /etc/default/samba
sudo apt-get install samba samba-common system-config-samba nautilus-share python-libuser samba samba-common-bin smbclient winbind 
```

 When installing or uninstalling it says:
```
W: Could not open file '/var/log/apt/term.log' - OpenLog (21: Is a directory)
```
And it indeed is a directory as I stated in previous post.

EDIT2: 
when I open system-config-samba from terminal, this is what I get:
```
(system-config-samba:4381): IBUS-WARNING **: The owner of /home/xbmc-htpc/.config/ibus/bus is not root!
```

And When I change name of the workgroup it says
```
invoke-rc.d: initscript samba, action "restart" failed.
```

 Anyone? Dust? Anyone? :)

---

### Post by Janiporo on 2014-06-10
Anyone please :confused:

---

### Post by Janiporo on 2014-06-12
I uninstalled samba from both machines and now local network works fine O.o
 Ofcource I can not share anything but at least I can browse the network, so kind of solved.

---

### Post by Kingsrookie on 2014-06-12
Just curious, may not be of much help but reading through your replies, you stated that temp.log is a directory. To my knowledge, it should just be a dump log for when execs run. They output to that file. I do not know why it is being listed as a directory rather than the actual logfile itself. Also, the issue with the root user, did you check in the settings that the main user has elevated permissions to mess with samba or do you always use sudo?

---

### Post by Janiporo on 2014-06-12
It is a directory that contains files, I think it is supposed to be a text file. There is a text file "history.log" mut no othe text files. I do use sudo.

---

