---
title: "11.10 Network: No valid active connections found!"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by John Coulthard on 2011-10-15
I upgraded to 11.10 last night and things worked fine for a while but now I have lost my network connection. If I attempt to display connection information I get "No active connections found". /etc/network/interfaces looks fine. Network Tools finds the interface and says the state is "active" but link speed is "not available". I tried booting from a live cd and the network works fine. I've rebooted several times now. I tried re-installing the network manager - no change. 

I'm not sure if this is an 11.10 upgrade problem or not but am not keen to re-install if I can avoid it. It sort of feels like it is something simple - like I disabled networking at a different (unknown to me) level or something while flailing around with the new system?

---

### Post by John Coulthard on 2011-10-16
I re-installed 11.04 from scratch. It is working fine as before. 

The irony of all this is that displaying network connections still gets "No valid connections found!" even though the Internet connection is fine, so it looks like that message is a red herring. My Internet connection was definitely not working for either Firefox or Thunderbird. I am feeling a bit cautious now so don't plan to try 11.10 for a month or so (I do like Unity).

---

### Post by christianhgross on 2011-10-17
I have the exact same problem. The network is there since I can ping 8.8.8.8 (Google DNS). Yet I can't use Firefox or any other Internet tool.

This is truly disappointing, as everything worked before the upgrade.

---

### Post by Okuryo on 2011-10-20
Same problem here.
I've been using Wicd for a while (removed network-manager). On update to 11.10 everything worked fine, but after reboot I lost internet connection.
I can still ping my DNS and load 192.168.2.1 in my browser, but nothing else can access the internet.

EDIT: [This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11273302&postcount=4") solution fixed it.

---

### Post by JohnE1 on 2011-10-24
> **Okuryo said:**
> Same problem here.
I've been using Wicd for a while (removed network-manager). On update to 11.10 everything worked fine, but after reboot I lost internet connection.
I can still ping my DNS and load 192.168.2.1 in my browser, but nothing else can access the internet.

EDIT: [This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11273302&postcount=4") solution fixed it.

This wasn't my problem, but it did help reveal (a/the) problem:

Resolvconf: Error: /etc/resolv.conf must be a symlink

---

### Post by John Coulthard on 2011-11-27
Solved: The problem was caused because the machine was set up with a static ip address which was inherited by 11.10 during the upgrade. It would appear that a poor interaction with the Network Manager caused the loss of the domain name server. Setting up the static ip address following these instructions solved the problem: 

[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Oneiric#Set_a_static_IP_address](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Oneiric#Set_a_static_IP_address)

The key, I believe, is the removal of the Network Manager.

---

### Post by DeathStar on 2013-02-21
I just had this problem too. I set a Static IP address during the install (I used the Alt. Install) and then had no active connection when I first logged in.

The solutions listed above work fine (e.g. Remove network-manager and set up the connection manually in the interfaces file), but you can do it the other way around... remove the setup of the interface from the /etc/network/interfaces file and use the standard Ubuntu Network Manager tool). Essentially, it doesn't matter which you opt for, as long as you dont use both.

So, I solved it by going editing /etc/network/interfaces and removing
```
auto eth0
iface etho inet dhcp
```
and then rebooting. I found this easier becasue now I can continue to use the Ubuntu Network Manager in the future.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2013-02-21
From the _[Ubuntu Forums Code of Conduct]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy")_.
> If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.
Thread closed.

---

