---
title: "8.10 Wired connection seems to come and go..."
date: 2009-03-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by aaronLund on 2009-03-15
Hi all.

Not too sure what the deal is but all of a sudden my 8.10 box's internet connection seems to go in and out.

Actually, it still gets an ip from my router and I can ping the local network but going to a webpage seems to be hit and miss.  Sometimes it works great while other times (most of the time, actually) it doesn't.

This is a new problem and I'm not too sure what could be causing it but I'm wondering if it's a dns issue.

My other computers (such as this mac I'm using now) do not seem to have this problem.

I just did a 
sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0

....and it's taking forever to come back up it seems.

Any good reason all this is happening?  Was there some update that changed things for my NIC card recently??

Perhaps I need a new router?  (Although I don't know why my other computers are fine with it).

Really frustrating.  Thanks for any advice.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-03-15
Hey there, when the Internet goes down, try running the following:
```
ping google.com
```
Then see if you get replies. It could be a DNS issue, but it doesn't really sound like it. I'd also like you to try when the Internet drops, to open up a web browser like Firefox, and type the following into the navigation bar:
```
74.125.45.100
```
See if it actually gets to Google's website. I also wouldn't mind seeing the output of this:
```
route
```

---

### Post by aaronLund on 2009-03-15
```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
link-local      *               255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0

```

Gotta post this quick....while it's working!

---

