---
title: "Hot-switching between wired and wifi"
date: 2014-11-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ofnuts on 2014-11-10
I use my laptop at home on Ethernet (in my residential area the wifi spectrum is saturated, a wired connection is more reliable). But I may have to move to rooms without an Ethernet outlet and so need to connect to the house Wifi. I can have both eth1 and wlan1 interfaces connected, but all traffic goes through eth1. If I unplug the cable abruptly, applications that were using the net just get errors. Closing the wired connection in NetworkManager has the same effect.

Is there a way to do it more "softly", by making the wlan1 interface the default interface before the Ethernet cable is unplugged? I tried the technique explained [here](http://www.jamesbaltar.com/blog/set-default-network-interface-ubuntu) but it doesn't seem to work (applications seem to no longer know where the DNS is). 

eth1 and wlan1 connect to the same ADSL modem/router (same gateway adress...) and the DHCP "lease" files for both interfaces are essentially the same:
```

lease {
  interface "wlan1";
  fixed-address 192.168.0.2;
  option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
  option routers 192.168.0.254;
  option dhcp-lease-time 864000;
  option dhcp-message-type 5;
  option domain-name-servers a.b.c.d,a.b.c.e;
  option dhcp-server-identifier 192.168.0.254;
  renew 6 2014/11/15 05:38:34;
  rebind 3 2014/11/19 19:08:25;
  expire 5 2014/11/21 01:08:25;
}

lease {
  interface "eth1";
  fixed-address 192.168.0.4;
  option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
  option dhcp-lease-time 864000;
  option routers 192.168.0.254;
  option dhcp-message-type 5;
  option dhcp-server-identifier 192.168.0.254;
  option domain-name-servers a.b.c.d,a.b.c.e;
  renew 5 2014/11/14 20:35:49;
  rebind 3 2014/11/19 19:32:39;
  expire 5 2014/11/21 01:32:39;
}

```

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-11-11
I would set up manual (static) IP connections.  I think by using dhcp, whenever the connection is lost, the dhcp client recycles which causes a temporary loss of DNS.  I would set up static DNS addresses in /etc/resolv.conf so that they don't change.

> tgalati4@Mint14-Extensa ~ $ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

# OpenDNS Fallback (configured by Linux Mint in **/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail**).
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4

nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220


If that doesn't work, then I would look into bonding:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBonding](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBonding)

---

### Post by ofnuts on 2014-11-11
This is a laptop that will connect to 3 or 4 different wired networks during its day, so static IPs are going to be hard to manage... Bonding is a nice idea, but for the same reason it doesn't look doable, in places where I work WiFi and Lan are two completely different networks...

---

