---
title: "10.10 to 11.04 no wireless"
date: 2012-03-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Foobarz on 2012-03-27
What the heck, when I upgraded from maverick to natty, i can no longer cannot to wireless internet:

I installed the broadcom sta wireless driver, but now there is no wireless internet option. I tried uninstalling the driver, and the wireless internet option appears, but it says no firmware installed? What the heck?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-03-27
Plug in ethernet cable, get updates, check 'Additional Drivers'. 

Alternatively, Software Centre>install b43-fwcutter and firmware-b43-installer (or something similar but think that's it). Reboot.

Make sure the STA driver is uninstalled as they won't both work together and you will get a headache. STA is second choice if you can't get the b43-fwcutter up (and that should be straightforward) although it can be problematic and doesn't work with all Broadcom cards.

Could you post the output of this, please:

```
sudo lshw -C network

```

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-03-27
*Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless**.*

---

### Post by Foobarz on 2012-03-28
Oh thank you so much! I read in the community documentation that the STA driver for Natty is kind of weird and that the Maverick driver should be installed, but whatever, I don't like closed source and I just installed the b43 driver, works like a charm! Thank you!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-03-28
Excellent! And so it should ...

Please mark thread as 'Solved' from Thread Tools to help others. ;)

---

