---
title: "9.10 wireless fail on re-install"
date: 2009-12-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nobodie on 2009-12-11
Hardware: Dell Inspiron 1420 with centrino chips
was running 9.04 with no difficulty on all important functions.
Ran the upgrade and had many problems, so tried the desktop install (on hand, lazy) which also failed. So I installed with the alt .iso. Everything seems to work except the wireless.

I have also lost the taskbar icon for network manager, which seems to indicate that it wasn't installed. Checked synaptic which showed it as installed, reinstalled, still no icon and no wireless. Installed wifi radar which  is looking for some /usr/sbin files that don't exist as well (/usr/sbin/wpa_supplicant for example). 

wired network works just fine, but without taskbar icon as well, (oh how we miss our comfortable past). Now, in all fairness i haven't had to mess with wireless on this lappie since i got it for my wife. i do seem to remember having to do something back then to enable it but forget what it was. but it has been fine untill this re-install (and i have re-installed before this). 

Suggestions for next step please

---

### Post by uncaspi on 2009-12-11
Try to delete all lines in /etc/network/interfaces except auto lo and iface lo inet loopback. Make a copy of the file first. Restart the network sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

Also you can try to run the nm-applet <Alt> + <F2>

Many people have reported the same problems with nm in 9.10

---

### Post by nobodie on 2009-12-11
that didn't do it.
i'll try a restart but it didn' work so far, wifi radar shows the connection but doesn't find the wpa driver which is what my checking of the /usr.sbin.wpa-supplicant was about

---

### Post by nobodie on 2009-12-11
another thing, network admin is not working at all. from the gui ($network-admin) i cannot unlock (clickable link doesn't respond) and then a $sudo network-admin gives me the console/gui but it won't accept any changes (grayed out on all items). this is a big bug in my machine i think. 
or in 9.10
should i go to launchpad with this one?

---

### Post by nobodie on 2009-12-11
also, i used these instructions : <https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WiFiHowTo> to run through some ifconig stuff and got blocked again using ifup as well as changing mode or anything. sounds like a bigger deal than i initially thought.

---

### Post by uncaspi on 2009-12-11
Do you see the network icon? If not please right click on the panel and choose add to add the icon.
The other problem. You could try to remove network-admin by sudo apt-get remove network-admin   and then install it again; sudo apt-get install network-admin  , Give this a try first then we take it from there;)

---

### Post by nobodie on 2009-12-12
ok, did the above and the results are:
still nothing on the taskbar or in the taskbar add menu for the network manager (only nm-applet is listed and that is running, except it just tells me there is no wlan)

still no joy with system>administration>Network (clicking gets no result)

can cli in to the network console: $sudo network-admin. this gets the console up and running and if i turn off the "roaming enabled" button (which is on by default) i can enter the ESSID, WPA passsword, and turn on auto DHCP. All of which results in.... nothing. Still no connection.

so i also check the eth0 buttons, also must turn off "roaming enabled" and turn on auto DHCP, but wait a minute that was already on obviously because i had a IPV4 address when plugged in. My guess is that network admin is doing jack all. 

ran wifi radar to try and connect that way and it tried to run WPA-supplicant which doesn't exist of course and is still grinding away.

wifi radar sees the wireless point and gives me the signal strength, tries to connect but can't find the supplicant program for WPA. yes I could turn off WPA and try to connect without that protection, but i run a bunch of file servers here and i get nervous easily.

next?

 Oh, yeah, i went to launchpad and this seems to be a bug already reported and maybe up for repair. it seems (assuming it is the same bug) kernel level, so ....

---

