---
title: "7.10 not connecting to internet"
date: 2008-02-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nobloodshed on 2008-02-28
so, basically ive been running a very lightly modified version of gnome, using enlightenment as my file manager.  
i just (this morning) upgraded from 7.04 to 7.10, and it made my laptop useless.  
i can not connect to any form of wired or wireless or dialup connection.  
the network utility says that i am connected, but no program can "find" the internet
firefox, konqueror, pidgin( thats gaim right?) kopete, ping thru the terminal, ping thru the network utilities, and not to mention the network utilities saying im not connected, but the network box says i am
ive tried it in both roaming mode, and the non roaming mode, it connects both times, but ive got no actual internet.  
im running a toshiba tecra m2 (non tablet).its like four years old, which is why im running ubuntu, and have had NO PROBLEMS AT ALL with the old versions ive used.  
its a 1.6 gigahertz processor, with the standard wireless and LAN connection.  
i really need this computer for work, so if no one has heard of this problem, the please either help me figure out how to uninstall the upgrades that 7.10 put on my computer, and roll it back to the old one that actually worked.  
i really need your help guys, please please dont make me go back to windows.  its a fate worse than death.

---

### Post by nobloodshed on 2008-02-28
also, can someone tell me why this happend? ive never had ANY problems with ubuntu before this...i hope that someone smarter than me can help.
thanks in advance guys, ill do anything to get that compy working again.

---

### Post by Mithrilhall on 2008-02-28
Open a terminal and type the following and post the results. That should start things off.

```

ifconfig

```

---

### Post by mrsteveman1 on 2008-02-28
Also see if there is a default route in the routing table:

```
sudo route
```

And see if there is a dns server the system is using:
```

sudo cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

