---
title: "2.5GbE Autonegotiation/Manual stuck in 1GbE mode U23.10"
date: 2023-10-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by SkOrPn on 2023-10-19
Hello again,

Yesterday I upgraded my 5th Gen Intel NUC (NUC5i5RYH) from MX-Linux to Ubuntu 23.10 and immediately noticed a massive degradation in network performance. My NUC has a USB to RTL8156B chipset (Plugable 2.5GbE USB to RJ45 Ethernet adapter) and runs at the full 2.5GbE spec on other OS's. On Windows 10 and Windows 11 this adapter runs at the full 2.5GbE spec at 283 MB/sec, and in MX-Linux it transfers to my server at around 280 MB/sec, however in Ubuntu 23.10 it only runs at a maximum of 115 MB/sec. I looked in the Advanced Network settings and it doesn't even show the 2.5GbE option? It however does tell me that I am linked at 1000 MB/s which is subpar for a 2500 MB/s Network adapter. I downloaded the r8152 driver for it but not sure how to install it. I was under the impression that this 6.5 kernel already had the latest driver for this chipset since MX-Linux uses kernel 6.1 and runs this same adapter at the full 2.5gbe speed. So how can I install the driver or set the link speed? I already tried "# ethtool -s eth0 autoneg on advertise 0x80000000002f" and that didn't seem to do anything.

[IMG]https://i.imgur.com/AW7PiIMm.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]https://i.imgur.com/eZ30PzWm.jpg[/IMG]

So where can I change the negotiation link speed to 2.5Gb/s? On MX-Linux and Windows this was set to 2.5Gb/s by default. Why do I have to make time consuming config changes on Ubuntu? Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by SkOrPn on 2023-10-20
After a full day no one has replied with any help. I really would appreciate some help please. I need this to work please.

---

