---
title: "11.04 Eth0 internetconnection problems"
date: 2011-06-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Skyloto on 2011-06-24
Hi, I'm new to Ubuntu and new to this forum.

When I boot up Ubuntu everything goes fine (except for the fact that I have to disable acpi). However, when I'm finally in linux internet refuses to work.

During install I was able to surf to any website with the firefox application, but now I can only load google sites (google.com/youtube). Any other sites won't load at all. When I look at netwerk activity I see short peaks, after which there is no activity anymore. I can, however ping any website without problems.

Anyone has any idea what could be wrong? My network card is a SiS191 ethernet controller.

Edit:

ifconfig
> eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:26:18:b1:13:0b  
          inet addr:192.168.1.92  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::226:18ff:feb1:130b/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1551 errors:89 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:89
          TX packets:880 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:1492198 (1.4 MB)  TX bytes:84440 (84.4 KB)
          Interrupt:19 Base address:0xdead 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:16 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:16 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:960 (960.0 B)  TX bytes:960 (960.0 B)

---

### Post by Iowan on 2011-06-24
If pinging via IP address works, the problem might be DNS.  You can check the connection information on Network Manager.

---

### Post by Skyloto on 2011-06-25
I tried setting the DNS to google's public DNS 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4, didn't work. Also tried the DNS addresses written in the router, I still have the same problem. 

I can't understand why I can connect to google sites (and some indian government site?) but the others won't load.

---

### Post by Skyloto on 2011-06-28
Nobody has any idea what it might be?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-06-28
> **Skyloto said:**
> Nobody has any idea what it might be?

Do this and post the output
```

cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-06-28
I would also check your Proxy settings in firefox. Somehow they maybe became enabled?

Edit, Preferences, ADVANCED, Network tab, Connection Settings

---

### Post by Skyloto on 2011-06-28
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain lan
search lan
nameserver 192.168.1.254

Proxy settings were on default system setting.

---

### Post by Skyloto on 2011-06-29
It can't be the Proxy settings on the browser as I'm inable to download anything with the Ubuntu Software Center.

---

### Post by helgman on 2011-06-29
To make sure that its not the DNS, do the following:

```
ping -c 5 ubuntu.com
```

If that's unsuccessful try:

```
ping -c 5 91.189.94.156
```

If that's successful you most likely have a DNS related problem, if both fail you have a problem reaching the Net.

Regards,
Helgman

---

### Post by Skyloto on 2011-06-30
It is possible for me to ping to any given site and/or IP. So I should likely have a DNS problem here. But how can I solve this problem? I did try to change DNS to a public one and to the one written in my router already.

---

### Post by Skyloto on 2011-06-30
Posting from Ubuntu at the moment.

I succesfully connected to the internet on  public hotspot in a train. Meaning that it could either be that no Eth0 connections work or that Ubuntu doesn't go well with the router at home.

I'll try to connect to an ethernetcable as soon as I get to my parents home.

---

### Post by helgman on 2011-06-30
Glad to hear you're getting somewhere.

You can test your ability to connect to DNS-servers using dig:

```
dig @<DNS-IP> www.something.com
```

That way you can check against different DNS-servers without changing the OS-settings.

Regards,
Helgman

---

