---
title: "15.04 sometimes does not see my router"
date: 2015-07-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2015-07-29
Starting exactly with the reboot after upgrading from 14.10 to 15.04 four days ago, I have a new problem:
Sometimes, on booting, I have no internet.

When this happens, the Network Manager Menu shows "Wi-Fi Networks Disconnected" & does not show my own Router (freebox-schuss) but still shows neighbours' Routers.

[IMG]http://i838.photobucket.com/albums/zz309/2CV67/wifi_zpsrcyc6wkj.jpg[/IMG]

I can fix the problem every time (so far) by Disabling & Re-enabling Wi-Fi from that menu.

The problem seems to occur at random, 6 times out of 19 boots since I started noting.
I have been using the same router OK since Feb 2012.
The same PC & LAN since August 2014.
Prior to 15.04, I had 14.04 then 14.10 on the same partition OK.
Since August 2014, the same PC continues to multi-boot 14.04LTS & W8 with no problem.

So I suppose it is linked to the upgrade to 15.04.

I would appreciate any suggestions!

Thanks!

---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2015-08-01
Well, I am now at 8 failures out of 29 boots...

I can re-establish my connection by Disable-Enable either Networking or WiFi from the above menu.

No ideas?

---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2015-11-13
Now at 71 failures out of 240 boots...

Windows 8.1 & Ubuntu 14.04LTS continue to boot with no problem with all same hardware.

Nobody has any idea how to start diagnosis on this?

---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2016-01-30
I stopped counting in December, but was still getting about 1 failure per 3 boots.

Then sometime in January I stopped seeing failures.

Now at 30 boots OK...

Can't tie the fix to any update or other event.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2016-01-30
Hi,

change the router encryption to WPA2-AES (CCMP), not WPA(1) and use a fixed channel, e.g. 13 is free of other networks. Additionally, (same stick here) deactivate the hardware encryption of the driver and reduce the USB current:
```

echo "options ath9k_htc nohwcrypt=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/ath9k_htc.conf
echo 'KERNEL=="wlan*", ACTION=="add", RUN+="/sbin/iwconfig wlan0 txpower 15"' | sudo tee /etc/udev/rules.d/10-wlan-stick.rules
```
Reboot. "Ignoring" IPv6 in the network settings also may help

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-01-30
How about this. 15.04 is supported for about another week at which time you will need to upgrade to 15.10 anyway. Why not upgrade now while you still have a chance to do it easily. After Feb 4th it will be a clean install or using the unsupported repos. Let us know if you have the same issue after an upgrade.

Just thought I'd throw that in. :)

---

### Post by 2CV67 on 2016-01-30
Thanks for your replies, but it seems I did not make myself clear in my last post.

Since mid-January, I no longer have any problem.
But I don't know (or care any more) what caused it or what fixed it.

I suppose I should just call this "Solved".

---

