---
title: "12.04 Install USB Wireless Adapter Thinkpad R400"
date: 2014-09-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by quinne on 2014-09-13
Hi All,

I do try to solve my own Ubuntu issues, but these wireless issues can be difficult, and although have been using Linux for years, am still a relative noob.

Current Ubuntu: 12.04 kernel 3.8.0-41-generic
(running on a Lenovo Thinkpad R400)

I am trying to install TP-Link Wireless USB Adapter TL-WN822N Wireless N300.

Existing onboard wireless works but is an old card and I'm hoping for better signal reception with this new card.

I went through the steps provided here:

[http://www.ajaykumarsingh.com/linux/tp-link-tl-wn822n-300mbps-high-gain-wireless-n-usb-adapter-not-working-on-ubuntu-12-04.html](http://www.ajaykumarsingh.com/linux/tp-link-tl-wn822n-300mbps-high-gain-wireless-n-usb-adapter-not-working-on-ubuntu-12-04.html)

And when I check iwconfig I get the following:

wlan2     unassociated  Nickname:"<WIFI@REALTEK>"
          Mode:Auto  Frequency=2.412 GHz  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Sensitivity:0/0  
          Retry:off   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=0/100  Signal level=0 dBm  Noise level=0 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

eth0      no wireless extensions.

lo        no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11abgn  ESSID:"Actiontec"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.452 GHz  Access Point: 00:15:05:D6:0A:64   
          Bit Rate=36 Mb/s   Tx-Power=15 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:on
          Link Quality=35/70  Signal level=-75 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:103   Missed beacon:0

So, my question is: How do I disable wlan0 and enable wlan2?  Or is this even the correct course or action?

Any help would be greatly appreciated!

Thanks for your time.

---

### Post by quinne on 2014-09-13
Answered my own question -- sorry to ask such a dumb one!  I am using wicd network manager.  I simply went into the 'preferences' and typed in wlan2 instead of wlan0 for the wireless interface.

Hopefully, this information will help someone else out there!

Oh, and the new adapter is great -- Before, if my signal was coming in at 50%, I was thrilled, as I could actually get online and pages would load.  Now it's coming in at 100% -- I'm happy!

---

