---
title: "20.04 upgrade killed my wifi"
date: 2020-05-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by aughey on 2020-05-14
Just before I downloaded an ISO of 20.04 I spotted a  message telling me there was some upgrades for my laptops 20.04. I  installed them and it then said I had to reboot to enjoy the upgrades. I  did so but my wifi ceased working completely and it tells me there is no wifi  adaptor. As my laptop is a dual boot system 20.04 and windows 10 I closed down the laptop and  booted up windows 10 partition. Wifi works fine with the windows 10 partition so I  know now this is a ubuntu software upgrade issue, How do I fix it?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-05-14
As I told you already, please read [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370108](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370108) and do what it says.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2020-05-14
In your previous thread, you were asked to post a new thread for this problem in the Networking & Wireless section, yet you posted to Installation and Upgrades. You have a wireless issue. *Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless**.*

You were also asked to read [this sticky]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370108"). That you haven't posted your wireless script output suggests you haven't read the sticky. Please do so now and provide the information without which forum members cannot help you.

Although your wirless issue is coincident with an upgrade, from your description it is most probably a problem with the kernel driver for your particular wireless chipset. If you boot into the older kernel you may find that your wireless is working again. Nevertheless, that is not a fix, and not ideal, so if you provide the information needed, I am sure that members interested in wireless issues will be able to help.

---

### Post by aughey on 2020-05-14
As I was hoping someone could tell me how to reverse the dodgy upgrade 20.04 I posted it on there. I am now stuck as I cannot use the Windoze 10 portion of my dual booting laptop as Windoze is now updating itself as I had not used that partition in months. Hopefully if it ever finishes I will; be able to sort thios out using someting of the above advice. Thanks guys

---

### Post by aughey on 2020-05-14
Windoze 10 just finished updating itself so I rebooted into Ubuntu 20.04 and lo and behold my wifi is now up and working again without any more intervention by me. I hope it continues like this

---

