---
title: "Lost permission on mounting drive and authenticate password"
date: 2009-12-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Ryantoss on 2009-12-23
Hello everybody

I'm new for ubuntu, just for three weeks so far. My English is not so good so i will make it quick.

1. I convert two of my partitions to NTFS from a windows software.

2. Ubuntu now does not let me the permission to mount these two partition with normal click anymore. I have to do it by using sudo mount command like below every time.

> sudo mount /dev/sda6 /media/sda6

When i click in mount partition they appear this message. 

> Error unmounting: umount exited with exit code 1: helper failed with:
umount: only root can unmount /dev/sda6 from /media/sda6

What can i do to have the permission to just "click" and mount partition as before.

3. From here is second problem of mine. I've experienced above problem and tried to tick some option in "users and groups". Now i can not type the password as before. They always result in authenticate failure :confused:.

Looking for your reply soon.

RyanToss

---

### Post by Ryantoss on 2009-12-23
Opps sorry i've posted this in wrong place, it should be in general help or hardware. :lolflag:

---

### Post by prshah on 2009-12-23
> **Ryantoss said:**
> 
2. Ubuntu now does not let me the permission to mount these two partition with normal click anymore. I have to do it by using sudo mount command like below every time.

The default behavior is click-and-mount as you want. Have you made any changes from the default behavior, eg, changes to /etc/fstab?

Can you post the output from the Terminal (Applications-Accessories-Terminal) commands as below```
mount
sudo blkid
cat /etc/fstab

```

---

### Post by Ryantoss on 2009-12-23
> **prshah said:**
> The default behavior is click-and-mount as you want. Have you made any changes from the default behavior, eg, changes to /etc/fstab?

Can you post the output from the Terminal (Applications-Accessories-Terminal) commands as below```
mount
sudo blkid
cat /etc/fstab

```

Here you are please feel free to help :lolflag:

> ryantoss@ryantoss-laptop:~$ mount
/dev/sda1 on / type ext4 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw)
none on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/debug type debugfs (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
none on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=0620)
none on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
none on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
none on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /lib/init/rw type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
/dev/sda3 on /media/sda3 type fuseblk (rw,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,blksize=4096)
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/ryantoss/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=ryantoss)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/dev/sda6 on /media/sda6 type fuseblk (rw,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,blksize=4096)
/dev/sda5 on /media/sda5 type fuseblk (rw,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,blksize=4096)


ryantoss@ryantoss-laptop:~$ sudo blkid
/dev/sda1: UUID="06082ac8-b85f-4f07-911a-544c05f1aaf3" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda2: UUID="3bee1bdd-0c80-472f-9467-e6905497aa3b" TYPE="swap" 
/dev/sda3: UUID="A01C2E1D1C2DEECA" LABEL="11GB" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda5: UUID="3ECC7B17CC7AC8A3" LABEL="D" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda6: UUID="FA34AA6334AA231D" LABEL="W" TYPE="ntfs" 


ryantoss@ryantoss-laptop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=06082ac8-b85f-4f07-911a-544c05f1aaf3 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=3bee1bdd-0c80-472f-9467-e6905497aa3b none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/sda3 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ext2 errors=remount-ro 0 0
/dev/sda6 /media/sda6 ext2 errors=remount-ro 0 0


---

### Post by prshah on 2009-12-23
> **Ryantoss said:**
> ```

ryantoss@ryantoss-laptop:~$ sudo blkid
/dev/sda1: UUID="06082ac8-b85f-4f07-911a-544c05f1aaf3" TYPE="ext4"
/dev/sda2: UUID="3bee1bdd-0c80-472f-9467-e6905497aa3b" TYPE="swap"
[color=red]/dev/sda3: UUID="A01C2E1D1C2DEECA" LABEL="11GB" TYPE="ntfs"
/dev/sda5: UUID="3ECC7B17CC7AC8A3" LABEL="D" TYPE="ntfs"
/dev/sda6: UUID="FA34AA6334AA231D" LABEL="W" TYPE="ntfs"[/color]


ryantoss@ryantoss-laptop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
<snip>
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/sda3 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 0
[color=red]/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ext2 errors=remount-ro 0 0
/dev/sda6 /media/sda6 ext2 errors=remount-ro 0 0[/color]
```

There are some inconsistencies; sda5 & 6 are NTFS but listed as ext2 in the fstab.

In any case, comment out the last four lines (starting with /dev/scd0) in the /etc/fstab and you should be back to the default behavior. From 8.10 onwards, fstab should avoid any static entries for dynamic devices such as optical and floppy drives.

To comment out the lines, press Alt+F2 and give the command```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```. The lines will be displayed in the text editor; place a hash (#) in front of each of the last four lines, save, exit, and reboot.

Eg```

[color=red]#[/color]/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
[color=red]#[/color]/dev/sda3 /media/sda3 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 0
[color=red]#[/color]/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ext2 errors=remount-ro 0 0
[color=red]#[/color]/dev/sda6 /media/sda6 ext2 errors=remount-ro 0 0
```
Post back if you run into any difficulties or unexpectedness.

---

### Post by Ryantoss on 2009-12-23
> **prshah said:**
> There are some inconsistencies; sda5 & 6 are NTFS but listed as ext2 in the fstab.

In any case, comment out the last four lines (starting with /dev/scd0) in the /etc/fstab and you should be back to the default behavior. From 8.10 onwards, fstab should avoid any static entries for dynamic devices such as optical and floppy drives.

To comment out the lines, press Alt+F2 and give the command```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```. The lines will be displayed in the text editor; place a hash (#) in front of each of the last four lines, save, exit, and reboot.

Eg```

[color=red]#[/color]/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
[color=red]#[/color]/dev/sda3 /media/sda3 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 0
[color=red]#[/color]/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ext2 errors=remount-ro 0 0
[color=red]#[/color]/dev/sda6 /media/sda6 ext2 errors=remount-ro 0 0
```
Post back if you run into any difficulties or unexpectedness.

You rock man :lolflag:, everything is fine now ^^. Thank for your support. One problem remain, my authenticate failure........

---

