---
title: "8.04 - setting up wireless connection help"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by abc006 on 2008-04-27
I am thoroughly confused right now. I just installed 8.04 to a dual-boot with vista and I'm trying to set up a wireless connection. I tried seemingly every single option available - "Connect to other network," "Manual configuration," "create new network," and I even called my internet provider to make sure I was plugging in the right keys and passwords for everything it asked for, but no dice - it's defenitely an ubuntu related problem as it works fine on the vista side of my machine. Is there any way to simply view "available networks" and connect from there instead of having to type in the name ("ESSID") in a field and ten other keys and options, which never seems to work? The whole system is entirely too confusing really, one aspect in which I must say I'm disappointed in ubuntu with. Anybody know how in the world I can get this all to work? Thanks so much.

---

### Post by abc006 on 2008-04-28
Can anybody help me with this? Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by abc006 on 2008-04-30
Please? Anybody? Is there an easy-to-understand guide or *something* out there that will help me with simply setting up my darn connection? Everything out there I see is either very vague or much too advanced for me. Thanks so much again.

---

### Post by npm1 on 2009-07-07
order the 9.04 disk from ubuntu or download it from ubuntu and rip iso onto disk from their connecting wireless is just a matter of clicking on the icon then choosing which network to connect to then typing in your wireless router wep key.....:KS

---

