---
title: "10.04 cannot connect to the network, wired or wireless"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by smfoote on 2010-05-05
I have just installed Ubuntu 10.04 on an HP Pavilion dv6000 series laptop, dual-boot. Everything is working except the networking. It can see wireless networks, and when I type in the password for my wireless network, it tries to connect, then asks for the password again. When I plug in the Ethernet cable, again it tries to connect, but after a few seconds gives up and tells me I am now offline. I have seen a few other threads with similar problems, but none of them have answers. Most of them end with the original poster saying "Never mind, I figured it out." So, I'm still lost. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-05-05
You could always PM one of those original posters and ask how they figured it out.

I do hate threads that do that!  It would be so much more helpful to everybody if they would simply say what they did, wouldn't it?

---

### Post by mina2020 on 2010-05-05
I found this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466892](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466892) 
it may help 
and yes try to send a message to one those original posters 
and if they help you solve it , put the solution to help other

---

### Post by jimmys_ on 2010-05-05
I have the same problem.. Have you found a solution?

---

### Post by smfoote on 2010-05-05
Thanks for the link. The problem in that thread is weak wireless signal. I cannot connect with wired or wireless, so that post wasn't too helpful. Still looking for an answer. Thanks, though.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-05
[This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471489") (similar) thread recommends installing without "restricted drivers" - maybe you already did...

---

### Post by smfoote on 2010-06-01
I reinstalled, but I was never given the option to install without restricted drivers. The problem persists. Does anyone have any other suggestions? Thanks.

---

### Post by pmenefee on 2010-06-01
Same problem, and no solution.  Many repeated attempts, reading many threads, and a few cuss words.  Wireless is a real problem for 10.04, and boy do they need to fix this.  The strange thing is that with 9.04 the wireless worked.

So, my solution, which is a cop out........I went back to 9.04 which works.  It recognized my WPA2-personal wireless network and when I put in my pass phrase it hooked right up.  My problem in getting back to 9.04 was that it was going on a Raid (???) computer (a Dell XPS), and the only way to avoid a Grub Error 2 message was to use the Alternate Install CD.   That took more failed attempts, and thread reading until I stumbled on the Alternate CD instruction.  Things are working now, and I won't upgrade until a live cd works with wireless.

---

### Post by jimmys_ on 2010-06-08
nothing yet? oh come on? moving through the releases some things get fixed and other break? i'm so disappointed

---

