---
title: "9.10 / Won't Detect Wireless Networks"
date: 2009-11-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by raouiband on 2009-11-23
I'm on a Samsung NP-N130 netbook, and I just switched over from Windows 7. I feel ridiculously lost! I've tried a lot of what I could find through Google, but none of it really made any sense to me and I feel kind of hopeless. I've been looking for hours, and I can't find out why I can't detect wireless networks.

From what I could gather, I don't have the right drivers for my wireless card, but I don't know how to find it. I'm feeling really confused right now. Someone please help?

---

### Post by blazemore on 2009-11-23
The best thing to do is to plug yourself in with an ethernet cable, install the ndiswrapper package, then use it to install the wireless driver from the Samsung website.

---

### Post by prshah on 2009-11-23
> **raouiband said:**
> I'm on a Samsung NP-N130 netbook

I can't find out why I can't detect wireless networks.

From what I could gather, I don't have the right drivers for my wireless card, 

First, we need to know what wireless card is being used. Unfortunately, all specifications for this netbook simply mention WLAN capability and no further information. But there is a way to get this.

Please boot into ubuntu, open a terminal (Applications-Accessories-Terminal) and post back the output from the following command```
lspci | grep -i -E network\|wireless\|ethernet
``` This will give us some information about your wireless card, and we can see how to proceed with that.

Wireless problems are easily dealt with, don't lose heart!

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-11-23
> **prshah said:**
> First, we need to know what wireless card is being used.

<snip>

Wireless problems are easily dealt with, don't lose heart!

Agreed! **Don't** install ndiswrapper - at least not yet, and not until we know what chipset your wireless device is using. There may be a better way.

---

### Post by raouiband on 2009-11-23
> 02:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Device 8192 (rev 01)
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)I was getting really overwhelmed earlier, but it's just the wireless part that's got me snagged. Otherwise I'm feeling very positive about my switch so far. \o/

Thank you so much for your help so far, btw.

---

### Post by prshah on 2009-11-23
> **raouiband said:**
> 03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02) 

This is your wireless card. It should work in linux with a built-in module (driver). There are (advanced) steps we can take if it does not work. 

The first step, however, is to see if it works: In a terminal (Applications-Accessories-Terminal) check if the wireless module is loaded and if the wireless interface is recognized```
lsmod | grep r8169
iwconfig
```

If the first command returns nothing, and/or the second command shows "No wireless extensions" for all interfaces, try force-loading the module (Very low chances of success, but should not hurt anything). ```
sudo modprobe r8169
``` then repeat the above two commands. If the result is the same, please post back with the output of ```
dmesg|tail
``` for more advanced instructions on where to get the driver and how to install it.

---

### Post by raouiband on 2009-11-24
```
[  288.816173] ata1.00: exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x0 action 0x6 frozen
[  288.816214] ata1.00: cmd ca/00:08:cf:98:e1/00:00:00:00:00/e0 tag 0 dma 4096 out
[  288.816221]          res 40/00:00:00:4f:c2/00:00:00:00:00/00 Emask 0x4 (timeout)
[  288.816235] ata1.00: status: { DRDY }
[  293.856085] ata1: link is slow to respond, please be patient (ready=0)
[  298.840116] ata1: device not ready (errno=-16), forcing hardreset
[  298.840140] ata1: soft resetting link
[  299.026479] ata1.00: configured for UDMA/133
[  299.026501] ata1.00: device reported invalid CHS sector 0
[  299.026535] ata1: EH complete
```

?

---

### Post by ezekieldas on 2009-11-25
**Please note: some of the posts above may be misleading.**

I too have the Samsung NP-130-KA04US which comes with the Realtek RTL8192E Wireless LAN 802.11n PCI-E NIC. As far as I can see there is currently no driver available or in development for this chip. The speediest, and perhaps only means to getting this working is by using ndiswrapper. As I experienced trouble in compiling the source of ndiswrapper (at least with stock fedora 12 kernel source tree) I turned to an yum/rpm install. I found these instructions to be very clear:

[http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showpost.php?p=1143095&postcount=11]("http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showpost.php?p=1143095&postcount=11")

Here are some items on the issue:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1191590]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1191590")

[http://rtl-wifi.sourceforge.net/wiki/Main_Page]("http://rtl-wifi.sourceforge.net/wiki/Main_Page")

---

### Post by prshah on 2009-11-25
> **raouiband said:**
> ```
[  288.816173] ata1.00: exception Emask 0x0 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x0 action 0x6 frozen
[  288.816214] ata1.00: cmd ca/00:08:cf:98:e1/00:00:00:00:00/e0 tag 0 dma 4096 out
[  298.840116] ata1: device not ready (errno=-16), forcing hardreset
[  298.840140] ata1: soft resetting link
[  299.026479] ata1.00: configured for UDMA/133
[  299.026501] ata1.00: device reported invalid CHS sector 0
[  299.026535] ata1: EH complete
```


OK This is NOT related to your wireless; ata1 may be your cdrom drive; alternately, if it is your hard disk, then you need to run an fsck (filesystem check). To run an fsck, open a terminal (Applications-Accessories-Terminal) and give the command```
sudo touch /forcefsck
``` then restart your computer; an automatic disk check will be triggered. This is optional; it's at your own risk, so please consider it carefully.

For your wireless troubles, please read on.

> **ezekieldas said:**
> 
there is currently no driver available or in development for this chip. The speediest, and perhaps only means to getting this working is by using ndiswrapper. As I experienced trouble in compiling the source of ndiswrapper

Oopsie; there is in fact a driver available for this PCI-E(xpress) adaptor. You can get it with instructions from [the realtek website]("http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=14&PFid=7&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false"). It's dated Nov 2009, much later than the referenced posts.

I agree that the fastest way is probably ndiswrapper; however, in many cases, ndiswrapper is not the ideal solution. For example, many people find troubles with encrypted networks and with kernel freezes. I suggest you try the native driver from the website first. 

Also, in ubuntu, ndiswrapper is easy and fast to install. Here's a ubuntu specific thread with step-by-step (command line) instructions. [ [SOLVED] How to activate WG311v3 (or any ndiswrapper or native) wireless]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=756260")

Please post back here if you need further help with either solution.

---

### Post by raouiband on 2009-12-03
I've been trying to figure out how to install the driver from the Realtek website for a few days, but I can't figure it out to save my life. The instructions made sense for a couple of lines and then I felt completely lost. I downloaded the r8101-1.014.00.tar.bz2 file from the link you posted. As for the ndiswrapper thread you posted, I got lost at step three. :S

---

