---
title: "Unstable connection to an otherwise stable wireless network - help!?"
date: 2008-01-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gluonman on 2008-01-07
HELP!
   I have a severe problem with my internet connection on my desktop PC. It is a Compaq Presario running Linux 2.6.22-14-generic (Ubuntu 7.10 - Gutsy Gibbon). With my laptop (also running Gutsy) I am connecting to an apartment router with a D-Link WNA-2330, which has always been very stable and reliable connection. I purchased a desktop wireless adaptor for the Compaq (Linksys WMP54G) and inserted it into the slot in the back so that I could access the same wireless network from that box. All of my other devices connect to that network just fine, so the problem is not with the network I know, but the connection has been so unstable and unreliable that if I had hair I would have pulled it out!!
   As far as symptoms go, I've begun to notice some patterns. For instance, when I look at the list of available networks, very often the drop down menu is nothing but a little slit with absolutely no information at all. So, I have to click on the wired connection and enable or disable roaming mode depending on what it already is and then go back to wireless connection and then the drop down menu will at least show the networks. Sometimes it's list of available networks isn't nearly as long as the list I find on my trusty laptop. And all of the available networks, regardless of how strong they actually are, are at a value of 0% :( In order to connect to the network I have to select WPA2 Personal. However, the big problem is getting disconnected on a regular basis. And every time I notice I've been disconnected I have to go back into Network and configure the wireless connection by changing it back to WPA2 Personal, because it always seems to default to WPA Personal. I can do this a random number of times before I lose connection and switching back to WPA2 Personal doesn't bring it back. When that happens, there is no solution but system restart.
   The disconnections don't seem to be 100% random either. It seems that if I connect and leave the computer alone it may stay connected for a very long period of time before disconnecting, and certain activities do seem to be safe (e.g. can chat in Kopete for a comfortable length of time before something happens). However, certain activities seem to influence the internet connection very badly, like accessing certain websites (sometimes I connect, open a browser, and somewhere in the process of loading the website I lose connection already). But the activities that seem to "boot" my connection most often are downloads, installations, and wizards. Thankfully certain downloads, such as those from the repos and from terminal, tend to finish and then I get "booted" immediately afterwards, but even then, only if the download involves just one major step (otherwise, if the download must go through separate steps, I might get "booted" after the first one and have the download fail). I tried to install Sword of the New World on my computer and all I needed was to download three basic things, Pando, it's requirement, and the game itself. I logged exactly how many system restarts I needed to perform before I was able to complete my task as well as how many download attempts. 37 system restarts and some 53 download attempts. VERY FRUSTRATING, but I went through all of it because I had no way of fixing the problem and it isn't as though I had anything else to do that day anyhow. Also, sometimes if a download fails and I switch between windows, I lose my borders until the next system restart (not sure how related of a problem that is).
   So, in summary, the less the activity the more stable the connection, and I've been fine with Kopete. But I would consider this a severe problem because of the amount of stress it adds to my life as well as to how incredibly limiting it is for the development of that computer. It is actually kind of dangerous to attempt an important installation or download that requires reliable internet connection for which failure could corrupt information.
   If anyone knows what my problem is and how I can fix it, PLEASE CONTRIBUTE!!!

---

