---
title: "resolvconf not working how I'd like"
date: 2013-11-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ejectHD on 2013-11-10
I'm using OpenVPN with Ubuntu. I have no trouble connecting to my VPN with OpenVPN. I want to avoid DNS leaks. I found that I can do this with an update-resolv-conf file and resolvconf. The problem I have is that it's only adding my VPN DNS to the top of my /etc/resolv.conf file. I don't like this because I could still end up using one of my ISP nameservers. I spent a lot of time trying to find out how to make resolvconf only use my VPN DNS when I'm connected to my VPN. I can't find how to do this. There's not a lot of information on resolvconf. If I go to DNS leak checking websites sometimes my regular DNS is leaking. Please tell me what I need to do to fix this. I am using this update-resolv-conf

```
#!/bin/bash 
# 
# Parses DHCP options from openvpn to update resolv.conf 
# To use set as 'up' and 'down' script in your openvpn *.conf: 
# up /etc/openvpn/update-resolv-conf 
# down /etc/openvpn/update-resolv-conf 
# 
# Used snippets of resolvconf script by Thomas Hood <jdthood@yahoo.co.uk> 
# and Chris Hanson 
# Licensed under the GNU GPL.  See /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL. 
# 
# 05/2006 chlauber@bnc.ch 
# 
# Example envs set from openvpn: 
# foreign_option_1='dhcp-option DNS 193.43.27.132' 
# foreign_option_2='dhcp-option DNS 193.43.27.133' 
# foreign_option_3='dhcp-option DOMAIN be.bnc.ch' 


[ -x /sbin/resolvconf ] || exit 0 


case $script_type in 


up) 
   for optionname in ${!foreign_option_*} ; do 
      option="${!optionname}" 
      echo $option 
      part1=$(echo "$option" | cut -d " " -f 1) 
      if [ "$part1" == "dhcp-option" ] ; then 
         part2=$(echo "$option" | cut -d " " -f 2) 
         part3=$(echo "$option" | cut -d " " -f 3) 
         if [ "$part2" == "DNS" ] ; then 
            IF_DNS_NAMESERVERS="$IF_DNS_NAMESERVERS $part3" 
         fi 
         if [ "$part2" == "DOMAIN" ] ; then 
            IF_DNS_SEARCH="$part3" 
         fi 
      fi 
   done 
   R="" 
   if [ "$IF_DNS_SEARCH" ] ; then 
           R="${R}search $IF_DNS_SEARCH 
" 
   fi 
   for NS in $IF_DNS_NAMESERVERS ; do 
           R="${R}nameserver $NS 
" 
   done 
   echo -n "$R" | /sbin/resolvconf -a "${dev}.inet" 
   ;; 
down) 
   /sbin/resolvconf -d "${dev}.inet" 
   ;; 
esac 

```

I just want it to use my VPN DNS server when I am connected to my VPN. I don't want my regular nameservers to be in the /etc/resolv.conf file. I had to run dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf to get it to update my resolv.conf at all. The first time I ran this command it asked me two questions. One was about allowing dynamic updates, I had to allow this or else it didn't work at all. The other question said something about being a temporary solution and appending nameservers. I selected yes to the second question and I think it might be what's causing me this problem. I don't know the exact wording of the question because every time I run the dpkg-reconfigure command since the first time it only asks me the first question. Please help!

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-10
what's in your /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head file?

---

### Post by ejectHD on 2013-11-10
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

---

### Post by 934ut4390357349053 on 2013-11-12
Is there no way to fix this problem? I've spent close to twenty hours just trying to prevent DNS leaks now. No matter what I do resolvconf wants to add my real DNS servers to /etc/resolv.conf, I can't make it replace this file with only my VPN DNS. I can't manually edit the file with or without resolvconf installed, no matter what after a reboot it is replaced with my regular DNS servers. This is very frustrating as it seems that such a simple thing should be trivial rather than exceedingly difficult. I feel like Ubuntu is forcing me to have DNS leaks. I might just make a start up script that edits my /etc/resolv.conf file to remove my regular nameservers, but I'd imagine that there must be a better way to do this.

edit: I managed to find a workaround solution to the problem. By editing /etc/resolvconf/update.d/libc and changing [ "$N" = 3 ] && return 0 to [ "$N" = 1 ] && return 0 I've made it so that only my VPN DNS is used. I don't like this solution because it almost certainly isn't the correct way to fix this problem.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-12
if it's not coming from the /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head file (which is what the resolvconf reconfigure question is referring to), then I would guess it's getting pushed via DHCP from your router - if you are using NetworkManager, there's an option to use "Automatic (DHCP) **addresses only**" instead of "Automatic (DHCP)" - see if that helps

---

