---
title: "Name resolution is really slow, how can I reset the nameservers?"
date: 2017-08-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dealy663 on 2017-08-26
Hi

Yesterday someone from our IT dept made some changes on my computer so I could connect to some internal machines over our VPN. After disconnecting from the VPN my name resolution is really slow. I see that he made some changes to my /etc/network/interfaces file but I don't know what was originally in there. 

This computer only connects via wifi and I've tried adding the google name servers to the wifi connection I'm using but to no avail.

This is what my interfaces file looks like now:

# interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback




dns-nameserver 192.168.2.1
dns-nameserver 8.8.8.8
dns-nameserver 8.8.4.4

I added the dns-nameserver entries in an attempt to fix the problem but it hasn't helped.

This is the output from nslookup ibm.com on my computer:

Server:		127.0.1.1
Address:	127.0.1.1#53


Non-authoritative answer:
Name:	ibm.com
Address: 129.42.38.10


It takes nslookup about 5 sec to come up with that response. Obviously using 127.0.1.1 as my nameserver is not optimal.

This is my /etc/resolv.conf
nameserver 192.168.20.20
nameserver 192.168.20.21
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
search NW.loc

This file isn't symlinked, I don't know why or if it is really supposed to be. I can see that it was modified yesterday so he must have done something to this file also.

How can I get these things fixed and back to normal?

Thanks

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-08-27
resolv.conf isn't manually manually maintained since 12.04.  There is a separate tool - "resolvconf" that does it now.  There are initial values set in  /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/ to control the DNS servers used by default. Network manager tells resolvconf about any DNS settings it has "somehow" as well.  

Adding the dns-nameserver sections without a stanza for the interface won't work - at least not in the way you want.  Best to remove those lines.

However the VPN is being started, it isn't being cleaned up properly after.  Look there for the root cause.  I would try to find if it is an issue always, or just after running the VPN.
* reboot. Do NOT start the VPN. Is everything fast?
* start the VPN. Does everything work as it should?
* stop the VPN. Is it still working, just slower?

The clear answers to those questions will tell much about the root cause.

---

### Post by dealy663 on 2017-08-27
Right now the VPN isn't the issue. I just need to get my networking right and then I'll get back to worrying about VPN issues. My computer is pretty hosed right now, I've rebooted several times and made adjustments to the Wifi networking applet all to no avail

The VPN software seems like it is fine considering I've been using it for almost 2 years now without problem. There's something that the guy did yesterday that screwed things up. I think the real problem. Nslookup shows that the machine is using 127.0.1.1 as the name server. Everything I've tried seems to have no effect on this.

It doesn't appear that I should be trying to add wifi details to interfaces file so I removed those entries.

Inside of the Settings/Network I have specified the name servers that are to be used for this wireless connection. But they aren't being used for some reason. I'm just not sure why. Or where else I should be trying to specify the name servers for the wireless connection. And so far I haven't found any good detailed explanation of how to set the DNS servers for my wifi config (except for the networking applet which doesn't seem to be working).

The only thing I've been able to surmise is that the last name server entry in my resolv.conf file is overriding my wifi name server settings.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-08-27
If IT did it. Call them and have them fix it.
Or simply restore from the backup made the day prior.

I don't recall when a local caching DNS server was added to the default Ubuntu installs, but it has been a few years.  That is where the 127.0.1.1 is coming from.  Check out the dnsmasq settings.  Those should honor resolvconf too.  In theory.

Sorry I'm not any more help. I stopped using any GUI for network management long ago after it got confused with a slightly unusual network setup here.  I find it easier to use wicd-curses for wifi stuff, but just swap interface files for everything else. Purging all network-manager is SOP for me.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2017-08-27
You can force resolvconf to use specific DNS servers by editing the file /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head and add these lines at the bottom of that file below the warning text:
```

nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4

```
That will put the Google servers ahead of any other options.  However I think you need to talk to IT first.  They may have good reasons for why you should be using the servers they specified.

It's possible from your description that the IT guy edited the "head" file himself.

If you're using 192.168.20.20 and .21, make sure they are resolving things correctly with the command:
```
host www.google.com 192.168.20.20
```
and do the same for .21.  Do they reply immediately or not?  Is one faster than the other?

---

### Post by dealy663 on 2017-08-28
those servers ...20 and ...21 are at work. The problem I'm having is when I'm not at work and not connected to the VPN. 

I'll definitely talk to the IT guys again tomorrow, but that is like pulling teeth. And I'm pretty annoyed that the f'd up my computer while fixing it so I could connect to something on our private network over VPN. Not a whole lot of confidence in them.

What I think I need is for the google name servers to come after our internal ones at work.

All they needed to do was setup a route (which should have been provided by our VPN server in the first place), not jack around with my DNS stuff.

---

### Post by dealy663 on 2017-08-28
Well I finally figured out the problem.

After modifying /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head and adding the google name servers I tried running resolvconf to update everything and got an error message saying /etc/resolv.conf was not symlinked to /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf. Once I made this symlink and ran the resolvconf program everything started working again.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-08-28
Please mark the thread "SOLVED" to help out the community.
Thanks for posting the solution too!

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2017-08-28
> **dealy663 said:**
> What I think I need is for the google name servers to come after our internal ones at work.
Unfortunately, that's not how the resolver works.  It only looks to servers further down the list if it is not possible to contact any of the ones above them.

From "man resolv.conf"

> The algorithm used is to try a name server, and if the query times out, try the next, until out of name servers, then repeat  trying all the name servers until a maximum number of retries are made.

---

