---
title: "Local hostname resolving issue"
date: 2014-03-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Jonathan_Bigler on 2014-03-12
Hi,

I'm in a mixed Ubuntu/Mac OS X network environment. We're setting up several Ubuntu machines that needs to talk together using hostnames (due to some software requirements, we can't use static IPs).

In my network, **I can ping hostname.local, it resolves fine**, both Mac, Ubuntu, every direction. But that makes the software we use bug. **We need to be able to resolve with just "hostname", and that doesn't work**.

I changed the DHCP server setting on my router to add a Search domain which I set to "local", and set the DNS server as the router itself.

Now, the Mac OS X machines can resolve with just the hostname. But the Ubuntu machines, both using DHCP and static addresses, are still unable to do so.

I've spent a couple of hours reading tons of posts, more or less relevant on the topic. Some says that avahi-daemon is taking over the "local" domain. I tried to stop it, but it didn't seem to help.

(I would gladly avoid having to edit all the /etc/hosts files of all our current and upcoming machines ;-)

Any tips, ideas, thoughts?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-03-12
Welcome to the forums!

Excellent problem description.

Perhaps we can come at the problem from a different direction?

Have you considered DHCP reservations as a way to get static IPs, but still have the client machines get them from the DHCP server?  Most current routers support this, as do DHCP servers. [http://blog.jdpfu.com/2011/07/18/use-your-router-to-centralize-your-network-device-management](http://blog.jdpfu.com/2011/07/18/use-your-router-to-centralize-your-network-device-management) explains the idea, not the detailed implementation steps.  Then you can easily manage the /etc/hosts files with something like ansible (which makes this trivial).

---

### Post by Jonathan_Bigler on 2014-03-12
Thanks TheFu for your feedback,

I considered it. My current doesn't support it. But as a test, I setup the Ubuntu machines with DHCP, like the MacPros, and the result was the same. So whether I setup manually with a fixed IP the search domain "local", or whether the search domain is received via the DHCP server, the result is the same. It resolves hostname.local, but not hostname on the Ubuntu machines.

I didn't know ansible. I tried to modify the hosts files on two machines, and it works fine. But it's adding complexity in our infrastructure maintenance. We are a film production company. So I would rather like to have a clean network infrastructure than use a workaround which will need to be redone everytime we add nodes to our infrastructure.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-03-12
So ... I've never seen any domains force a ".local" unless it was specifically forced. That is something happening on your systems for some reason that I don't understand.  

Exactly which DHCP and DNS servers are you running?
What is the output from `hostname` and `domainname` on each machine?
What order does the /etc/nsswitch.conf have for "hosts" resolution?

The solution might be as simple as dropping a **search** into the resolv.conf file on each box. Can't tell yet.

If you have more than 10 machines, something like Ansible makes more and more sense to manage system configurations and standardize settings. It will save time in the long run. It is ok if you aren't ready for a tool like that now.

---

### Post by Jonathan_Bigler on 2014-03-12
Hi,

for the DHCP server, we have a NETGEAR ProSafe&#8482; Firewall FVS318G. So there is little tweaking to do there... as a DNS server, I point to that box, so I don't actually have a proper DNS server. That would probably help...

Regarding hostname/dnsdomainname, I first had hostname:rn, and no domain. Then I tried to set the hostname to rn.local, and dnsdomainname then returns local. But with neither of them I get through.

nsswitch.conf has the following:
*hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4*

My resolv.conf file is as following:
[I]# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

[/I]What do you mean by "dropping a search" in the resolv.conf file?

We have 5 Ubuntu machines now, so it's not that many. And those are internal rendering machines, so they shouldn't require much maintenance once they're up and running. But I guess I'll modify the host files unless you have an other idea?!?

Thanks for the help!
[IMG]http://192.168.5.1/images/_pixel.gif?20110524200544[/IMG]

---

