---
title: "I've tried alot but still nothing, 537ep"
date: 2006-11-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Mazehero55 on 2006-11-06
I have tried almost everything to get this modem working but still this thing won't work. I have gotten far I'll tell you that. I got it recognized at least. I know this because I used the dmesg command and it showed up in the last line as card found so I know Ubuntu knows it's there. But for the life of me I can't actually get it to connect.
 Here's my problem when I use gnome-ppp and wvdial I get a modem not responding error when it tries to re-send the ATV thing. Everything works till then I'm not quite sure wif it's ATV but I'll copy the wvdial read out and post it here in a sec. I've done my research and have actually gotten my driver compiled and everything it just won't connect.

please help, I'll update soon.

thank you

---

### Post by Mazehero55 on 2006-11-06
okey here's the read out.

```
-->ignoring malformed input line:";Do NOT edit this file by hand;"
-->WvDial: internet dialer version 1.55
-->initializing modem
-->sending: ATZ
-->sending ATQ0
-->re-sending ATZ
-->Modem not responding
```

Also when I run wvdialconf it fails to find my modem.

My modem is an internal Intel 537ep, I have the driver compiled and installed and Ubuntu recognizes the card. I think I might just have to configure wvdial and gnome-ppp, but how can I get it to find my modem?

---

### Post by arxontas on 2006-11-06
have you tried?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=210405](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=210405)

---

### Post by Mazehero55 on 2006-11-06
Yes that's how I got as far as I have. After Chuckman78 wasn't sure what to do he had me post here.

thanks

---

### Post by Mazehero55 on 2006-11-06
So... does anyone have any ideas? Any ideas at all no matter how crazy. Please help me...

---

### Post by chuckman78 on 2006-11-07
> **Mazehero55 said:**
> So... does anyone have any ideas? Any ideas at all no matter how crazy. Please help me...

Hi Mazehero55.

   Let´s try something else...

Please log all the info of what you get in the terminal when doing the next steps:

0.- Download this file. (DO NOT USE IT UNDER WINDOWS!).

[http://linux.marcano-balza.com/scanModem.gz]("http://linux.marcano-balza.com/scanModem.gz")

1.- Unzipit.

2.- Change its name (if needed) to **scanModem**.

2.- Make it executable:

```
sudo chmod +x scanModem
```

3.- Execute it:

```
sudo ./scanModem
```

4.- This utility creates a directory named "**Modem**". Zip it and send it here as an attachement.

This information will be sent to experts on [http://linmodems.org]("http://linmodems.org") through their list [email]discuss@linmodems.org[/email], they have helped me before, let´s see what can they do for you.

Regards,

Carlos.

---

### Post by Mazehero55 on 2006-11-10
Okey I did just what you said. Here it is. Please tell of any news.

thanks so much

---

