---
title: "ipables in rc.local squid"
date: 2007-11-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by psie on 2007-11-04
Hello, 

here is my issue: I inserted the following lines into rc.local: 
/etc/init.d/squid stop 
iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 3128
/etc/init.d/squid start

But the outcome isn't the same if I type the following lines into a terminal:
sudo iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -i eth0 -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 3128 && sudo /etc/init.d/squid restart 

Am I doing something wrong or is it some issue with squid?


Thanks for helping and sorry for my bad English but it is not my native language :)

---

### Post by MrFSL on 2007-11-04
> But the outcome isn't the same
Can you clarify?

---

### Post by jmc1024 on 2007-11-04
You'll have to give more details on what you mean by "the outcome isn't the same" to address your problem.  But I can mention that it is not necessary to stop and start squid that way.

Besides there is a better way is to what it looks like you're doing.  Do all of this as root.  First run iptables-save and pipe it to a file like so:
iptables-save > /etc/iptables.up.rules
You only need to do this step whenever you change the rules.  Then in rc.local add a line to restore the iptable rules like so:
iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.up.rules

An alternative is to do essentially the same thing in /etc/network/interfaces, but I have only figured out how to get the 'pre-up' directive to work.  The 'post-down' directive causes networking to fail...

HTH,
Mark

---

### Post by psie on 2007-11-04
With the sentence "... the outcome isn't the same..." I meant that if I execute squidview as root with the first mentioned approach (rc.local) then I don't get any output. 
On the contrary, if, I execute the commands by myself then I get an output in squidview.

Squidview shows me the traffic generated by all PCs in the LAN, whereas, my PC is the router.

Thanks for already answering my question so far :)

---

### Post by jmc1024 on 2007-11-05
I don't know what squidview is.
Sorry,
Mark

---

