---
title: "8.04 = no network 7.10 = network"
date: 2008-08-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tbone8080 on 2008-08-11
If I use the Ubuntu 7.10 32-bit desktop LiveCD then networking (and everything else) works.  If I use Ubuntu 8.04 32-bit or 64-bit desktop LiveCD then networking always fails.  I am not doing anything fancy, just using ethernet connected to a router.  When using 8.04, the Network Manager shows 0.0.0.0 for the IP address. When using 7.10, the Network Manager is able to get a DHCP address from the Router.  Does anyone have any idea what is wrong?

---

### Post by amedac on 2008-08-12
try this:
> ifconfig eth0 down
       ifconfig eth0 up
       dhcpcd eth0 

---

### Post by tbone8080 on 2008-08-12
Thank you for the help.  I am using the Ubuntu 8.04 x64 Live CD.  Apparently the dhcpcd program is not installed by default.  A message is output instructing me to input sudo apt-get install dhcpcd.  I do that and I get an error message: E: Couldn't find package dhcpcd.

I would try to copy the files from the ubuntu 7.10 dhcpcd program to this 8.04 OS using a CD/DVD, but I don't know enough about the system to do that yet.  Is there any easier way to get dhcpcd?

---

### Post by wannadumpwindows on 2008-08-12
You can go to this link on a machine with a connection, and download the file:

[http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/net/dhcpcd]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/net/dhcpcd")

Then just install as usual.

---

### Post by tbone8080 on 2008-08-12
Thank you both for the help.  I was able to install dhcpcd and try to manually renew the DHCP lease.  When I run the dhcpcd program it times out.  Error, eth0: timed out.  I am not getting a DHCP address for some reason on 8.04.  If I use 7.10 then it works out of the box.  The connection is a wired ethernet connection to an AirPort Extreme router.  When I run ifconfig eth0 it shows an IPv6 address but no IPv4 address.  I have also tried inputting my IP address information manually and that made no difference.

---

