---
title: "Can't get online"
date: 2009-12-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by 337 on 2009-12-05
Another "new to Linux" here with another question.  I really do appreciate the help.

Firefox cannot find a server.  The computer is hard wired to a wireless router. Windows Vista has access, so it isn't hardware.  The IP addresses are assigned manually.

Running "cat /etc/network/interfaces" returns:
  auto lo
  iface to inet loopback

Of course, the "loopback" settings are not what I've set into the "wired" and the eth0 settings.  

Running "cat /etc/resolv.conf" returns:
  "# Generated by NetworkManager
  nameserver 192.168.1.1

Is there a good book to buy that teaches these basics?  
What am I missing?

Thanks a lot,
Lee

---

### Post by uncaspi on 2009-12-05
Try netstat -r to see if you have the default route to the router. Here is mine.




Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
192.168.1.0     *               255.255.255.0   U         0 0          0 eth0
link-local      *               255.255.0.0     U         0 0          0 eth0
default         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth0


If you not have the default route you must add it.
sudo /sbin/route add default gw 192.168.1.1 eth0  in my case . You must use your gw and Ethernet card.

---

### Post by 337 on 2009-12-05
I ran netstat -r and got EXACTLY what you posted.  Identical data.

Also, I can "see" the other machines on my network; although I have yet to access them.

---

### Post by uncaspi on 2009-12-06
Can you ping google.com

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-06
If you cant ping google.com try this

ping -c 5 66.249.80.104

---

### Post by 337 on 2009-12-06
I do not yet know what I did; however, after my last posting - which was made running Vista - I booted back to Ubuntu again and I now have the Internet with Linux.

I thought I had everything, perhaps I just needed a reboot?

Anyway, I'm now online!  (stoked):D

---

