---
title: "Can detect wireless but can't connect with browser"
date: 2011-10-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mardis on 2011-10-06
I was trying to update Adobe Flash this morning (to no great success) and now I can't connect to the internet via wireless. My network indicator still shows available wireless networks and even says that I am connected to one. When I try to access the internet via Firefox or Chromium, however I get a DNS lookup failure (Error 105 net::ERR_NAME_NOT_RESOLVED)
 
I'm using Ubuntu 11.04 on a System76 Pangolian laptop. I'm guessing that in my attempt to update Flash I screwed up something else. I've tried searches with this problem to no avail.
 
I am still able to ping (such as ping -n 4.2.2.2 -c 4) with success.
 
Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2011-10-06
What's in */etc/resolv.conf*?
I suspect the machine *should* get DNS server address from DHCP...

---

### Post by mardis on 2011-10-07
cat /etc/resolv.conf
 
  #Generated by NetworkManager
  domain ***.edu
  search ***.edu
  nameserver 1**.*.*.**2
  nameserver 1**.*.*.2
 
 
For some reason, this morning I can connect just fine. I tired multiple things yesterday to no avail (such as rfkill unblock all, ifup wlan0, etc.) Any ideas as to why this might have occured? I guess no harm, no foul, but I'd really like to understand what caused this problem so that I can address it in the future if it reoccurs.
 
Thanks,
Mardis

---

### Post by mardis on 2011-10-07
By the way, I guess I'll mark this thread as solved of its own accord.

---

