---
title: "VT6656 VIA 1.19.  Wireless Networking"
date: 2009-02-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by titopagan on 2009-02-19
I am very new to Linux. Installed 8.10 in a new pc I build.

PC:
Apex MI-008 Mini-itx Tower computer case
750 GB Hard drive
2 gigs of RAM
Intel Pentium dual core 2.5Ghz
Zotac 630i/Ge-force 7100 Wifi Intel motherboard (Wifi chip vt6656)
PICOpsu.

I installed Ubuntu 8.10 flawlessly. Had a hard time to get the wireless to work.  Did a lot of reading and research to find out that the VT6656 chip is not will support. Tried installing VIA drivers version 1.18 and no success.

They have released version 1.19.  The text file says it has been tested under Ubuntu 8.10.  

I will try it soon and post my results.

If anybody has the chance to also tested and post your results it will be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by SJCBColby on 2009-04-08
I have put together a very similar build

Same case, CPU, only using a Zotac 9300 Wifi ITX mother board.

It has the same VIA VT6656 USB Wifi adapter.

Here is the proceedure I found that worked to get it working under Ubuntu 8.1

Basically what needs to be done is down load the OEM source files and then compile them on your machine.


Preparing for the Install

You can down load the driver directly from Via and original manufacturer at

[http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=420&OSID=45&CatID=3160&SubCatID=176](http://www.viaarena.com/default.aspx?PageID=420&OSID=45&CatID=3160&SubCatID=176)

As of April 4 2009 the latest version was 1.19.12

It will download on your desktop as a zip file.

You can explore it by clicking on the folder.

Extract it to a folder on the desktop 

I found the following Ubuntu comunity documentation on how to compile this very helpful

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingEasyHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompilingEasyHowTo)

You will need some tools – 
By default, Ubuntu does not come with the tools required. You need to install the package build-essential for making the package and checkinstall for putting it into your package manager. These can be found on the install CD or in the repositories, searching in Synaptic Package Manager 

I was able to get and install both using the Synaptic Package Manager.

Now you need to create a directory to work in and have sufficient permissions to copy the file there and work on it.

I made directory temp1

Open up under application, accessories, a terminal session.

Make a directory to work in ( I used temp1 for the name)

   Please enter the following commands at the UNIX prompt. Remember, UNIX is
    case sensitive and make sure your root login.

    1) Create a temporary directory:
        	sudo mkdir /temp1

    2) Change to the temporary directory:
       	 cd /temp1

    3) Make sure this directory is writable by you under yourusername. 
 		sudo chown yourusername /temp1



Now click on Places at the top of the desk top, 
A window will open, then click on Computer, then Filesystem and you should see the directory you just made.
 
Grab the via driver you extracted to the desk top and drop it into your directory temp1

Now make the name of the folder a little easier to work with 
	Right click and under Properties shorten the name 
	I shortened it to VT6656_Linux

Now change your directory to the file containing the extracted files.

Cd /temp1/VT6656_Linux



Note with this procedure you don’t need to copy from a DOS disk or untar the archive file as refrenced in the Via Txt doc.

Now you are ready to compile and prepare for installation

    4) Type the command sudo checkinstall
it will ask you for your password
You will be asked if you want to put in a description – do so then press – ENTER, press ENTER again on a blank line and it will then give you a screen of default values for building the package.
Leave them and press ENTER to continue

You will see computer generate a number of files 



When it is done you can check the log

I found when I shut down my computer and restarted it loaded and my wireless comes up with the desktop and worked with no problems. 

Hope this helps.


SJC

---

