---
title: "14.10 Lost all network connections"
date: 2014-12-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2014-12-02
So I'm running Ubuntu 14.10 Server. The Server hosts an install of owncloud, Serviio Media Server, and Samba shares to the local network. I had it all set up and enabled firewall and all was working fine for a while.
Then all of a sudden I have no network connection in or out of the server.
Here's what I know so far from trouble shooting it;
- I can ping 127.0.0.1 and get a response.
- If I try to ping any local IP including the router, I get destination unreachable.
- If I ping any external IP I get the same result, I get destination unreachable.
- I it is set to a static IP
     IP: 192.168.xxx.xxx
     Subnet: 255.255.255.0
     DNS1: 208.67.222.222
     DNS2: 208.67.220.220
- Samba and other such services seem to be still running.
- Have tried rebooting.
- Have tried changing from static to DHCP and back again.

I'm at a loss as to what else to try. I just need to get it back online. I really don't have time to reinstall it. But if I have to I will go back to 12.04, never had a problem with that. I would like to avoid it though as it's a lot of work to reinstall the server then reconfigure ownCloud, Serviio, and Samba.
I had a similar issue on 14.04 in which I posted a thread for, where the server would drop connection but would come back if I typed into the physical keyboard, but that's not the case this time.

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2014-12-03
Anything? Anyone? Is there anything else that I could at least try?

I've tried doing a search with out much luck. I'm lost, my only other option is to try find time to reinstall with 12.04

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2014-12-03
I'm moving your thread to the **Networking & Wireless** sub-forum, where hopefully you'll get the proper help.

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2014-12-03
thanks. i was wondering if i should have put it there.

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2014-12-05
Looks like I'll be reinstalling with 12.04...

---

