---
title: "Incredibly slow connection"
date: 2010-05-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dtrav1987 on 2010-05-21
I have installed the new Ubuntu 10.04 - I am experiencing slow performance outside of my network. I am behind a school network. I transfer any where from 10 mb/s to 15 mb/s locally. If I try to do anything outside of my network it slows to about 5 kb/s 10 kb/s.

This is what I have done so far.

-> I have used a Virtual Machine (VirtualBox) & it worked perfectly.
-> Used the same computer as Windows is on and it experienced the same problem
-> I am currently on a IBM ThinkCentre MT-M 6419-37U, I have about a 100 of these at my disposal.
Running 2 gigs of DDR2 Memory
2.2 Dual core Intel
-> I have changed the connection settings for automatic in all fields. Nothing
-> I have changed the connection settings for automatic and manual DNS. Nothing
I used our external DNS server's IP & OPENdns
I used our local DNS server.
Both did nothing.
-> I Turned off IPv6.


What else is there to do? I wanted to switch over to Linux so bad and Ubuntu seemed great, but I'm honestly thinking about moving to Debian. I didn't have problems with them =\ but I love you guys & I don't wanna' cheat on ya!

:(

---

### Post by anomie on 2010-05-21
[QUOTE=dtrav1987]I have installed the new Ubuntu 10.04 - I am experiencing slow performance outside of my network. I am behind a school network. I transfer any where from 10 mb/s to 15 mb/s locally. If I try to do anything outside of my network it slows to about 5 kb/s 10 kb/s.[/quote]

Doesn't this seem to imply a layer 3 problem, and/or a possible problem at the gateway? 

For starters, please post output from the following (and use code tags so that it's readable): 
[list]
[*] **/sbin/ifconfig**
[*] **netstat -rn**
[*] **cat /etc/resolv.conf**
[/list]

---

### Post by dtrav1987 on 2010-05-21
```
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:**:**:**:**:5d  
          inet addr:192.168.21.214  Bcast:192.168.23.255  Mask:255.255.252.0
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:63496 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:13347 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:22306260 (22.3 MB)  TX bytes:1404007 (1.4 MB)

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:6 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:6 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:300 (300.0 B)  TX bytes:300 (300.0 B)

```

```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
192.168.20.0    0.0.0.0         255.255.252.0   U         0 0          0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U         0 0          0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.20.1    0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth0

```

```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
192.168.20.0    0.0.0.0         255.255.252.0   U         0 0          0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U         0 0          0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.20.1    0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth0

```

---

### Post by dtrav1987 on 2010-05-21
Sorry for the bump but I have been seeing tons of people with this exact same issue & there is no standing solution. Let's put our heads together guys!

Love you guys.. thanks for the help!

---

### Post by anomie on 2010-05-21
OK, no error packets - good. 

Your IP and 255.255.252.0 netmask look a wee bit odd. As RFC 1918 addresses go, one normally sees 192.168.0.0 space broken up into numerous /24 subnets. (But, whatever. If that is legitimately what your support staff gave you, I'm sure it is just dandy.) 

Your default router looks fine at a glance (i.e. it's at least within your subnet IP range of 192.168.20.0 - 192.168.23.255). 

Where's that resolv.conf content? I think you posted one of your command outputs twice, and forgot to include another.

---

### Post by dtrav on 2010-05-24
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 159.247.233.2
nameserver 159.247.233.18
```

Anything else

---

### Post by anomie on 2010-05-24
It doesn't sound like name lookups are your issue, but I would switch to OpenDNS resolvers and leave resolv.conf that way until you diagnose the root cause. (I know you already tried OpenDNS nameservers, but leave them in place for now. There are too many moving parts.) 

It would be worthwhile to see where a (tcp) traceroute lags. 
```
$ sudo traceroute -T 74.125.159.106
```

---

### Post by dtrav on 2010-05-26
```
traceroute to 74.125.159.106 (74.125.159.106), 30 hops max, 60 byte  packets
1 * * *
2 * * *
3 * * *
4 * * *
5 * * *
6 * * *
7 * * *
8 * * *
9 * * *
10 * * *
11 * * *
12 * * *
13 * * *
14 * * *
15 * * *
16 * * *
17 yi-in-f106.1e100.net (74.125.159.106) 32.106 ms 32.432 ms 33.246 ms
```

---

### Post by anomie on 2010-05-26
Are you sure that's a *tcp* traceroute? Unfortunately, the output is of little use. 

I'm not sure what else to suggest at this point. If you have more details or more symptoms to share, we can take it from there. (i.e. Some varying test cases where you capture exact steps taken, and exact results.) 

If I had to make a WAG at this point, it'd be that you're being throttled at a border device.

---

### Post by Vakman on 2010-05-26
I will be of no help here but I was about to post something similar. I am also behind a school network. I have similar machines, Lenovo ThinkCentres not sure what model as I am not near them at the moment but anyway, pages only load half the time it shows that I am connected to eth0 and when you Google something for example only half the page loads. Every time. It also happens on any other Linux machine just for the record. Anyway, I will probably post my own since my problem is different but either way both are odd.

---

