---
title: "EDUP 802.11n USB adapter (RTL8192CU) slow speed"
date: 2011-06-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dangerous666 on 2011-06-23
Hello everybody,

I'm a Natty user and I've just bought an EDUP wifi-N usb dongle which embeds the Realtek RTL8192CU chipset (ID 0bda:8176). I downloaded the last driver from Realtek and got the driver easily built with the supplied install script. 

The first weird thing is that if I plug the usb dongle with the OS booted, Ubuntu crashes. If I boot the OS with the dongle plugged, everything seems to be fine, I can connect to my AP and surf flawlessly.

The second weird thing is that after some seconds of web surfing or downloads, the speed of the connection drops summarily and stays like this indefinitely. I have a 5mbps Internet and I can download files at a 625KB/s rate, but with this dongle my transfer rates doesn't reach 100KB/s. The same behavior can be noted within my local network transfers.

I've tested this dongle on Windows 7 and I it works perfectly for a long time period, thus, I can conclude that it cannot be a hardware issue.

 I know that the Realtek drivers are a bit immature but is it really a driver issue? 

What do you think? Does anybody here have some experience with these new Realtek chipsets and Ubuntu? I've searched around about my problem and I wasn't able to find even a single post about a similar problem.

Any help would be really appreciated.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by bluearcus on 2011-09-01
I have exactly the same issue.

I have compiled up the 8192CU driver module as supplied by Realtek along with my unbranded mini-N USB dongle (also IDs as 0BDA:8176). It works brilliantly for a short period after connection, then drops to next-to-no connectivity at some point in the first 5 minutes post connection.

I'm on Lucid, 2.6.32-24-generic-pae

I've tried NDISwrapper and can't get that to function at all either.

Smashing.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-09-01
Did you try WPA2-AES instead of mixed WPA/WPA2? Thats much more stable because of the network-manager roaming.

---

