---
title: "12.04 newly installed on new PC, wired and wireless not recognized."
date: 2013-05-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by foocaKes on 2013-05-30
So I just bought a HP Pavilion p6-2350 Desktop with wireless LAN 802.11 b/g/n featuring Single-band (2.4GHz) 
1x1 technology. I had trouble installing Ubuntu from a burned DVD and a USB drive, so I bought the 12.04 LTS CD's. 

**Problem**:
After getting this to work and installed, the wireless Internet wasn't being recognized. So I plugged in the Ethernet cable - which works - and still nothing. I've tried clicking the wireless icon in the upper right corner, then Edit Connections, then Wired, Edit, check Connect automatically and Available to all users, and then doing the same for IPV4 and 6 and saving.

I guess the network card (I think it's integrated?) isn't being recognized. Can anyone help me with this?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-05-30
Let's gather some information about your network cards. Please open a terminal Ctrl+Alt+t and run and post:```
lspci -nn | grep -e 0200 -e 0280
rfkill list all
```The pipe symbol | is on the right side of my US keyboard on the same key with \. Thanks.

---

### Post by foocaKes on 2013-05-30
```

irmerk@Ciccle:~S lspci -nn | grep -e 0200 -e 02800
01:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Atheros Communications Inc. AR8161 Gigabit Ethernet [1969:1091] (rev 08)
04:00.0 Network Controller [0280]: Ralink corp. Device [1814:539b]
irmerk@Ciccle:~S rfkill list all 
irmerk@Ciccle:~S

```

Thanks for the reply so fast :)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-05-30
The real problem is that drivers for both of these devices are not present in 12.04. You could download and install the wirreless if you had wired working or vice-versa. You could install 13.04 where both work immediately or borrow a working USB wireless long enough to get either installed. What is your choice?

---

### Post by foocaKes on 2013-05-30
Well I have 13.04 on a USB drive and a DVD still from when I first tried installing it. Would that be able to help me at all? Otherwise I'll just have to find a friend with a USB wireless.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-05-30
Can you run the 13.04 DVD live to see if there are any problems? If it runs, I'd install it.

---

### Post by foocaKes on 2013-05-30
It says there are errors.. I think the main error is that it can't find wubi.exe (which is the icon I'm double clicking). 

I suppose I'll wait for the USB wireless adapter and try updating then.

---

### Post by foocaKes on 2013-06-02
Hopefully you're still here to help on this... I got the wireless USB adapter, and I updated a whole bunch of updates through the update manager. I read on the ubuntu website that you can upgrade distrobutions through that, but it doesn't come up with a upgrade version option.

I'm not so concerned with having 13.04, I just really want my network card (drivers) to work. How can I update the drivers or maybe the distro without having to deal with the DVD burn?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-06-02
>  I read on the ubuntu website that you can upgrade distrobutions through that, but it doesn't come up with a upgrade version option.Correct. After you run the software updater, click settings and be sure that *any* new Ubuntu version is selected for updates. Please see attached. Then the latest version 13.04 will be offered which you can install.

---

### Post by Oldpeter on 2013-06-02
I have the same problem see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2145115](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2145115).  and as yet have no answer. Should I also try to get hold of a USB Adaptor to see if it would connect.  Would prefer a reply on my thread thanks   Old Peter

---

