---
title: "Netgear 511T Wireless Issues"
date: 2005-08-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Isntitknoying on 2005-08-18
First off, thanks for any help you can provide on this. It's starting to get frustrating.

I have a Compaq Presario 2182US with Hoary 5.04 and the 686 Kernel Installed, with a Netgear 511T Wireless card that has the Atheros chipset. 
I have had this card working previously with the same model router (Netgear WGT624), and the card works in my dual-booted copy of windows 2000 with no problems. 

Within Ubuntu the card will connect to the access point, however it does not allow internet access, and I get huge numbers of transmission errors or dropped packets. (TX is normal, RX is 0) I cannot ping the router or other computers on the network. 

My router is set up to use WEP encryption, and within that, it is set up to use the second key generated by the passphrase. 

As I said, I have had this working before, with Ubuntu 5.04, with the same model router, just with a different internet connection and network settings.

Thanks for any help you can provide to shed some insight on this for a user who's pretty new to linux

---

### Post by unimark on 2005-08-30
i figured this is as good a thread as any to post in: 

I'm also having some issues with my 511t. I can connect to access points fine, but as soon as i try to push a bunch of packets out on the connection, it drops. I can log into IM and ping things, but as soon as i try to load a webpage or do an apt-get, the cnnection stalls and drops. sometimes i comes back, sometimes not. anyone having the same problem? i've tried de/reactivating the interface, and rebooting doesn't seem to help. ther was an ndiswrapper driver loaded but i removed it.

---

