---
title: "No internet connection"
date: 2010-10-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dirtblack on 2010-10-22
I pulled out a wireless card and put in a wired one. No internet connection. Upgraded to 10.10 and still no net connection

I can get to the router but that's it, I run the diagnostic tool and it shows I have network connectivity but no internet.
I added all of my info into the network connection tool and added Dns servers.  Also for some reason I have no network in the top panel either.  I took some stuff out long ago and ran awn, tried to put it back but no netowrk icon. I have tried to fix this but to no avail.  

A friend in class told me about the resolv.conf file but there's nothing in there at all. Just says generated by network manager. Any help greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by oregonbob on 2010-10-22
Does it know your router internal IP is the default gateway? What does a "netstat -nr" say?

Resolv.conf just states where your DNS servers are.

---

### Post by AoSteve on 2010-10-22
Are you getting any internet connection at all?   The applet is called network-manager-applet I believe.  I'll look and try to find the file; I had a similar problem when I switched back to a lan cable as well...

---

### Post by AoSteve on 2010-10-22
/etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf

What does the file say?

Mine initially ended up saying 

[eth0]
managed=false


Once I changed managed to equal true; I had nm-applet again and could easily connect/disconnect at will again.  I don't know why the wireless caused the issue at all either.

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-10-22
Please try this
First backup your /etc/network/interfaces
```
sudo cp /etc/network/interfaces /etc/network/interfaces.bak
```Then do```
gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```
Edit the file so that it contains only these two lines
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

``` 
Restart and see whether your icon is back.If not follow this
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9991040&postcount=9](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9991040&postcount=9)
Once your icon is back configure connections using Network manager.For example for configuring wired connection try
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9467538&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9467538&postcount=5)

---

### Post by dirtblack on 2010-10-22
Thanks Steve!

I changed the false to true and it popped up after a reboot, internet working great now. Don't know what happened there. Also thanks to anyone posting a fix for me.


 [main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile

[ifupdown]
managed=true

---

### Post by AoSteve on 2010-10-22
EXCELLENT!   I had the same exact problem.  Don't know why switching to wireless and back would even consider causing that setting to change.    Glad I was able to help.  It took me like four hours to find which setting it was and searching for a cause.  I never did find a cause.  

Either way; once I changed it around; boom it worked.

---

