---
title: "13.10; Wifi drops when using BT Mouse"
date: 2014-02-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Sieges on 2014-02-24
Hello, 
I have a somewhat strange bug; I have 13.10 on a Sony Vaio Pro Haswell. Wifi have been working flawlessly. However, I purchased a BT mouse recently and connected it to the laptop and ever since this, i have been having major problems. Both with the BT mouse itself and with the WiFi connection. Whenever the BT connection is active to the mouse, the WiFi will drop randomly and I need to reconnect (up to 5-10 times pr. 15mins) Whenever i disconnect the mouse (by disabling BT) this stops immediately. 
I have also been having problems with the BT dropping out, and I need to "sudo rfkill unblock bluetooth" to get it going again. The issues might be related, but i do not know. I am not very Ubuntu savvy, so please bear this in mind when answering.

Thank you for any help!

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-02-24
Are the wireless channels interfering with one another?

Try changing the channel used on either your router, (if you can, as I understand that BT sets the channel and users sometimes can't make changes) or the mouse wireless channel.  I have never used a wireless mouse so have no idea even if that is ever an option.

---

### Post by knpoe on 2014-02-24
- have you tried the '*linux-firmware-nonfree*' drivers?
[FONT=Ubuntu Mono]
what drivers are controlling your bluetooth?  do you mind posting the model# of the laptop?
[/FONT]

---

### Post by Sieges on 2014-02-24
ajgreeny; I'll try to change the WiFi Channel. No idea how to change BT channel. I'll post the results back to you.

knpoe; How can i find out what drivers are controlling BT? - and no I have not tried Linux-firmware-nonfree driver. The Laptop is a 13" Sony Vaio Pro Haswell, more specifcally SVP1321C232B.EC1.A

Thanks for both your comments :)

---

### Post by Sieges on 2014-02-26
I changed the WiFi to use the 5Ghz range - and it appears to be working now.

---

