---
title: "Grub2 vs samba"
date: 2010-10-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by pcal on 2010-10-15
Hi folks,

I've been having terrible trouble with my 64bit Desktop v10.04 ever since I upgraded it. Has been a long battle - but I think I have it down to just one remaining issue which I suspect is more related to the network than to the upgrade. So I'll ask here also...

The old system always used grub as the bootloader, and has always worked just fine. I have now had to do a complete fresh install, which incorporated a change to grub2 (first time I have used it).

It would seem now, that grub2 is unable to deal with mounting the samba shares on my lan at boot time. The boot always fails, dumping the user to the cli rather than the gui desktop. The error given indicates that the network is unreachable. Most users of the system have given up on Ubuntu altogether because of this, and fallen back into the clutches of the evil empire (the machine dual boots XP). Please help me rescue them!

If I log in, and manually startx to open the desktop, the network is there, and the shares are mounted just fine. Everything seems to be working ok - but for crashing out of the boot process with network errors.

The fstab file follows, in case there is some cause there I'm not seeing (I have edited names and passwords prior to posting)...

--------fstab---------------------------------

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=2d6aa00e-a641-411b-b2d3-5a31d2442f61 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=0c1dc192-f01e-4ee3-9b57-087c90155707 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
#/dev/sdb1 /media/XP_Drive ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 0
# Add Netdrive
//192.168.1.3/xxxx /home/xxxx/Netdrive cifs username=xxxx,password=1111,rw 0 0
//192.168.1.3/yyyy /home/yyyy/Netdrive cifs username=yyyy,password=2222,rw 0 0
//192.168.1.3/zzzz /home/zzzz/Netdrive cifs username=zzzz,password=3333,rw 0 0

--------------end_fstab---------------------

thanks in anticipation,


pcal

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-10-15
I don't have an answer for your problem so consider this a bump.

I do know that there are two bugs in how cifs mounts work in fstab. One is that fstab is executed in the boot process before the network is up causing the cifs mounts to fail. But is usually just fails it doesn't stop the boot process so your description is a new one to me. Back in the good old days you could add an option to the fstab line:
```
_netdev
```that would prevent the system from mounting the shares until the network was up but that doesn't seem to work anymore. You could try that to see if it works for you.

The other bug is on the other end of the process where the network is turned off at shutdown before the system unmounts the remote share and shutdown hangs for a while.

Until someone comes along that can actually help you you might consider going in a completely different direction: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9941016&postcount=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9941016&postcount=3)

The only possible issue with the method described in the link above is that it will automatically mount to a rather odd location:
> /home/xxxx/.gvfs/Netdrive on servernameAssuming you can live with that or can create a symlink to a non-hidden directory then it could be a solution depending on your needs.

---

### Post by pcal on 2010-10-15
Cheers Morbius,

Much to my shame, I have to admit I'm in xp myself right now (with a large file transfer operation running), so I'll give gigolo a try when I can reboot into a real os ;)

Is there even just a command to tell grub2 to ignore network errors? Since the shares mount in the gui there seems little reason to stop in cli.

Thanks,

pcal

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-15
Do you recall if you had any special kernel options in your old menu.lst file? Kernel options such a *rootdelay=, nomodeset, *, etc are entered in the line *GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""* in the file /etc/default/grub. 

If you do add a kernel option run "sudo update-grub" to incorporate the change into the Grub configuration file.

---

### Post by pcal on 2010-10-15
> **drs305 said:**
> Do you recall if you had any special kernel options in your old menu.lst file?

I have no recollection of ever doing anything special. However, after having serious issues trying to get the upgraded 10.04 to work, I eventually reformatted the partition, downloaded a 10.04 image and did a clean install. So, everything should be stock standard, except for the work I did figuring out how to ask grub2 to mount the shares - the result of which is in the fstab file. I did also take a backup copy of the home folders for each of the users, and copied them back after. I don't think that should have introduced any problems - but then what do I know?

Thanks for the suggestion,

pcal

---

