---
title: "2.5 Gbps Etgernet slower than all other computers"
date: 2023-10-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by littlehome2 on 2023-10-21
Ubuntu server and several Windows boxes all connect to a switch at 2.5Gbps. The ISP provided 1Gbps. On all Windows computers an Ookla test shows near 1Gb. On the Ubuntu server it is about 220Mbps and it's one VM gets about the same.

Nothing is different in wiring. All drivers seem up to date. Just want a hint what to look at (noting I am new to Ubuntu and mostly SSH not use the GUI). Just seems unlikely the server would have such slow speed, even with all client computers turned off.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-10-21
You need to look for specific driver issues, after you've removed physical problems with the cable and switch port being used.  Realtek NICs have a history of providing the incorrect guess for the driver to be used because realtek often changes the actual chips without changing the vendor model.

There are many ways to get the specific driver being used.  The easiest is either 
**lshw -C network**
or
**inxi -Nxxz**

Note the driver, version and kernel version. Drivers are built for the specific kernel.

Next get to googling for slowness with that specific driver and your NIC. See what others have done to solve it. Try to follow those commands.  It is clear that the default guess for the correct driver isn't working on your specific setup (kernel and Ubuntu version).

---

### Post by littlehome2 on 2023-10-21
Yes. ChatGPT ran me in circles but I did get the sense that my kernel was updated. 

Note that this fails: sudo ethtool -s eno1 speed 2500 duplex full autoneg off
Now, my understanding is that:
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade

should pick up new drivers too. No?

Thus, I did some digging and here are some outputs with my three carrots worth of highlights:

dev_admin@littlehomedev1:/etc/netplan$ sudo lshw -C network
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8125 2.5GbE Controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:08:00.0
       logical name: eno1
       version: 05
       serial: a0:36:bc:bc:ff:b9
>>>size: 100Mbit/s
>>>capacity: 1Gbit/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
>>>capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes 

>>>driver=r8169 
>>>driverversion=5.15.0-87-generic 
>>>duplex=full 

firmware=rtl8125b-2_0.0.2 07/13/20 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=twisted pair >>>speed=100Mbit/s
       resources: irq:24 ioport:f000(size=256) memory:fc600000-fc60ffff memory:fc610000-fc613fff

>>>Kernel version
dev_admin@littlehomedev1:/etc/netplan$ uname -r
5.15.0-87-generic 


Based on this I seem to need to find the correct driver version for r8169 on the 5.15.0-87-generic kernel. Correct? Then assuming I find it on some Web site determine how to install it.

---

### Post by littlehome2 on 2023-10-21
This is the closest I can find on Google and it does not look right.

[https://ubuntu.pkgs.org/22.04/ubuntu-updates-main-arm64/linux-modules-extra-5.15.0-83-generic_5.15.0-83.92_arm64.deb.html](https://ubuntu.pkgs.org/22.04/ubuntu-updates-main-arm64/linux-modules-extra-5.15.0-83-generic_5.15.0-83.92_arm64.deb.html)

---

### Post by littlehome2 on 2023-10-21
[side comment: I really enjoyed setting up Ubuntu and find it great and STABLE. I am NOT enjoying the maintenance :(

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-10-21
> **littlehome2 said:**
> [side comment: I really enjoyed setting up Ubuntu and find it great and STABLE. I am NOT enjoying the maintenance :(

If you didn't have a realtek NIC, this would "just work."  So, you have the NIC and can google for how to get the correct drivers, link them into your current kernel and have DKMS manage that going forward, right?

I've been avoiding realtek for about 8 yrs. Life is too short to deal with crap hardware drivers.

You need to find the correct driver for the "RTL8125 2.5GbE Controller". Looks like the GigE driver got loaded for some reason, which explains the issue.  I don't have any first hand knowledge with the situation you are in, so you are on your own or need to wait for someone else.

BTW, to make it easier for others to help you, please always use code tags for any terminal commands + output.
"code-tags", which are available in the forum **Advanced    Editor** '#' button.  It works just like bold/italics, but columns are    retained, so ZERO other formatting is needed.    Plus     people trying to help you can easily copy the text and highlight things or    perform their own searches if text is provided.

---

### Post by littlehome2 on 2023-10-21
Actually, it isn't that easy. Realtek Web site does not have the drivers and google search is not turning up anything worthwhile.

Agreed that all Realtek products have been problematic on this machine and I am considering adding a dual nic card of some SUPPORTED brand. Any idea what brand would be a good fit?

---

### Post by littlehome2 on 2023-10-21
Oy. Open my eyes a bit... 4am here... 

[COLOR=#000000]>>>driver=r8169[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]>>>driverversion=5.15.0-87-generic

Kernel version? [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]5.15.0-87-generic

The port on the router was bad. All fixed. Feel like a sleep-deprived genious (which I am, technically).

Thanks for the encouragement.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-10-22
Thanks for reporting back what the issue was.  Please help the community by also using the **Thread Tools** button and marking this thread SOLVED.

A bad switch port doesn't happen that often, but they do fail. Always worth checking. Same for the cables.

---

