---
title: "Network Error (dns_unresolved_hostname)..."
date: 2010-01-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by acho on 2010-01-18
I had some problem with my network here....

How can i fix this problem, my network can't access dns hostname...

Error message look like this

> Network Error (dns_unresolved_hostname)

Your requested host "xnet.bi.go.id" could not be resolved by DNS.  


NOTE: Error indicates that web site in question could not be found (name cannot be resolved by DNS servers). 
- Make sure that you typed in correct URL
- Make sure site is up and accessible  


If you continue to experience issues and believe this is proxy related, submit a VIRTUAL TECH ticket, assigned to GLOBAL PROXY OPERATIONS group or send an email to *GT Proxy Level-1 Support 

Error generated by webproxy 192.193.221.147  

thank's for your help....

regards..

Acho....

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-01-18
Is it only that site (with odd URL) or is it failing on all internet sites?
What are you using for DNS? (post */etc/resolv.conf*)

---

### Post by johnson.d on 2010-01-19
The hostname "xnet.bi.go.id" does not resolve to any IP address. The domain bi.go.id seems to belong to Bank of Indonesia. Please double check the URL that you were trying to access. May be there was a typo or it was a host(machine) that was available earlier and not any more.

---

### Post by acho on 2010-01-19
I'm using it for windows before....:( 

Where i can find for setting like registering secure transport like [https://xnet.bi.go.id](https://xnet.bi.go.id)

I'm using DNS look like my PC was registered for domain on it.

---

