---
title: "zew2501 usb 802.11g driver not loading"
date: 2009-05-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wrecd on 2009-05-29
hey guys

i was hoping that someone could help me with my  Zonet zew2501 usb 802.11 wireless adapter.  it has the 1211 ZyDAS chipset witch i guess is supposed to work out of the box.

im running ubuntu 8.04..2
kernal 2.6.24

wen i run lsusb i get result:

 Bus 003 Device 006: ID 0ace:1211 ZyDAS 802.11b/g USB2 WiFi

wen i run iwconfig results :

 lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

im new to ubuntu and Linux.  and am pretty much stuck at this point.
it works on my box that runs ubuntu 9.04,  and my winxp box.
i have tried reinstalling ubuntu 8.4 three times now,  last time with the adapter pulgged in from the beginning of the install process.

if anyone can help i'd realy appreciate it.




thanks in advance

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-05-29
Please open a terminal and do:```
sudo modprobe zd1211rw
iwconfig
```Did your wireless appear? Can you connect? If it doesn't load automatically after a reboot, please do:```
sudo nano /etc/modules
```Add a single line, on a line by itself:```
zd1211rw
```Proofread, save and close nano.

---

### Post by wrecd on 2009-05-29
thanks for your reply chili555!

i followed your directions

running :sudo modprobe zd1211rw.  results: 

*FATAL: Module zd1211rw not found.*

running :iwconfig.  results:

[I]lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.[/I]


i edited the /etc/modules file and added the line zd1211rw

after reboots and trying again i still have same results.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-05-29
It's been a long time since I ran 8.04, so I guessed a bit here. The module is zd1211 or zd1211something. Let's look for it.```
sudo updatedb
locate zd1211 | grep .ko
```*updatedb* will take a few moments; please be patient. The module you locate is the one you want. Please modprobe it as above and amend your /etc/modules to suit. If in doubt, post back and we'll be glad to help.

---

### Post by wrecd on 2009-05-29
thanks again for the help chili555

wen i ran the "locate" command i found i did not have a file named zd1211*.*
i did have a folder named:
/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24-16/drivers/net/wireless/zd1211rw
containing the files "Kconfig" and "Makefile"


i searched for zd1211rw.ko on my other comp with ubuntu 9.04 installed on it and copied the files aand file structure over to the computer im hving the problem with.  but had no luck getting modprobe to find it.  i double checked my /etc/modules had the zd1211rw line added.

it may be worth adding that i've installed ubuntu from LinuxCNC's iso.  i dont know if that makes a differance.

anyother suggestions or links that might help me to understand whats goin on would be great.

i realy dont want to go back to windows and Kcam :p

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-05-30
> i searched for zd1211rw.ko on my other comp with ubuntu 9.04 installed on it and copied the files aand file structure over to the computer im hving the problem with. but had no luck getting modprobe to find it.A very creative idea, indeed. If only it were that easy!> i've installed ubuntu from LinuxCNC's iso. i dont know if that makes a differance.Certainly! They state at the outset that their .iso is customized; in what ways is not immediately apparent.

Let's try installing *linux-backports-modules* from Synaptic. If your window manager is Gnome, it's at System -> Admin -> Synaptic. There is apparently a newer zd1211rw in there.

Next, we need to be sure the needed firmware is present. Please do:```
ls /lib/firmware/zd1211
```I hope you get something like:> License     zd1211b_uph   zd1211b_uphr  zd1211_ub   zd1211_uphm  zd1211_ur
zd1211b_ub  zd1211b_uphm  zd1211b_ur    zd1211_uph  zd1211_uphrNow can you modprobe zd1211rw and connect?

---

