---
title: "[SOLVED] Huawei E169 DNS Error"
date: 2008-06-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by naja on 2008-06-01
Hallo
I am using a Umts/Hsdpa-usbstick from Huawei.I can connect using pon ppp or wvdial but i always get wrong dns-addresses.I tryed so many options,even the Auto DNS = no,still no right dns.I added nameserver ***.***.***.*** in resolv.conf but it changes always.I have heard that pppd is changing it and that i can forbidd it to do that,but it will only allow this connection -Umts- but its ok cause i dont need other connections.
this is my last wvdail.conf configuration:
[Dialer base]
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
Baud = 460800
Init1 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2
Init2 = AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","internet.eplus.de"
Init3 = AT+CSQ
Phone = *99#
Username = eplus
Password = eplus
Ask Password = 0
Dial Command = ATD
Stupid Mode = 1
Idle Seconds = 7200
Auto DNS = 1
Auto Reconnect = 1 

ppp in peer:
hide-password
noauth
connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/ppp"
debug
/dev/ttyUSB0
460800
defaultroute
noipdefault
noccp
nobsdcomp
user "eplus"
password "eplus"
usepeerdns
connect-delay 10000

ppp in chatscripts:
	
# This chatfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.10.
# Please do not delete any of the comments.  Pppconfig needs them.
#
# ispauth PAP
# abortstring
ABORT BUSY ABORT 'NO CARRIER' ABORT VOICE ABORT 'NO DIALTONE' ABORT 'NO DIAL TONE' ABORT 'NO ANSWER' ABORT DELAYED
# modeminit
'' ATZ
TIMEOUT 5
OK AT+CPIN? READY-AT+CPIN=****-OK ""
TIMEOUT 20
'' 'AT+cgdcont=1,"IP","internet.eplus.de"' OK "ATDT*99#"
# ispconnect
CONNECT \d\c
# prelogin

# ispname
# isppassword
# postlogin

# end of pppconfig stuff 

I tried Umtsmon,but i was only able to connect at the first run,afterwards it didnt connect,though it finds Network at detect-window but it doesnt connect.
I tried vodafone-thingy,its the same,first run ok after that no go.
I am a little bit desprate.
I have Network,it works in windows.
Thanks

---

### Post by naja on 2008-06-01
Hallo
I had a problem with Globalmenu,it didnt show the menu correctly so i couldnt change setting.
Now i am connected using 
[https://forge.vodafonebetavine.net/projects/vodafonemobilec/](https://forge.vodafonebetavine.net/projects/vodafonemobilec/)
adding static DNS and that was it.
Tanks

---

### Post by chmac on 2008-06-17
So just to confirm, the Huawei E169 works fine for you on Ubuntu? I'm considering getting one but Ubuntu compatability is a must, I don't have any other OSs. :)

---

### Post by naja on 2008-06-23
Hi
Yes it works very good but it has one drawback,you need to plug it before starting ubuntu and it should stay that way.If its unpluged while ubuntu is running,it will show an error messege.it should have to with the stick being detectet as card-reader and not as modem.i didnt investigate that.
Thanks

---

### Post by hellopaul on 2008-07-25
Hi naja,

I have just installed ubuntu and need to get my E169G modem to work. I've searched these forums and have seen another post detailing how to install it if you have the Linux install CD - which I don't.

Could you possibly reveal (to an absolute Ubuntu newbie) how you made it happen?

I'm in England using the Three mobile internet service quite successfully on Mac and Windows Vista.

Many thanks,
Paul

---

### Post by redcatgroup on 2008-07-25
Hi Paul

I'm in the same boat as you.  I've been trying on and off for a couple of months and have followed all sorts of different thread about installing vodaphone drivers, installing some software called Salutis... everything, and I just can't get it going.

I'm going to keep digging and I'll let you know if I find anything interesting!

Andy

---

### Post by chmac on 2008-07-26
Since my last post, I bought a Huawei E220. It took a while to get it to work. In the end, the solution was very simple. Plug it in, and it works!

To make things easier, I [upgraded to NetworkManager 0.7]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=797059"). Now NetworkManager manages the connection, so it's easy to bring it up / down, and all my apps get notified when the connection is on / off. Firefox, Evolution, Thunderbird, Liferea, etc all work nicely.

As an alternative, try plugging in the modem and using Gnome-PPP or similar to dial the connection. You need to set up the correct initialisation strings. Mine are:
Init 2: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Init 3: AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","ISPAPN"

Replace ISPAPN with the APN for your ISP.

Please post back here if you are successful for future readers. :)

---

