---
title: "[SOLVED] Mystical issues with gmail"
date: 2014-03-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by meamusta on 2014-03-13
Hi,

I'm experiencing really difficulty issues with gmail. The issues started yesterday when I opened my laptop at work. I couldn't connect to gmail, calendar etc, even google searches were not working as they used to. I could do one search and after that the second one just hangs up. 

Clearing the cookies helped a little. Each time after I cleared them I could do another search. For a short time I even got into the gmail and read a few emails, but then it freezes up. And it was not sure that clearing the cookies would allow me to connect gmail again, it only happened once or twice.

Then, when I got home and opened the same laptop and connected to my home wifi, everything works!

Now again I'm at my office connected to office wifi and can not access google mail or calendar. Google maps, analytics, play are working well, Drive not so well, but it loads. Before yesterday I had been using the same wifi connection for a cuple of weeks without any issues. Well, it had been a bit slow with larger files, but in normal browsing it  had no issues.

I'm using Ubuntu 12.04. Have tried Firefox and Chromium. 

Others here are using windows and have not experienced anything like this.

Would anyone have any ideas??

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-03-13
Gmail uses SSL and port 443 to push messages.  It is possible that your IT staff made changes to the router policy that limits port 443 traffic.  I would check with them and see if there were any changes.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-03-13
> **tgalati4 said:**
> Gmail uses SSL and port 443 to push messages.  It is possible that your IT staff made changes to the router policy that limits port 443 traffic.  I would check with them and see if there were any changes.

GMail also uses SSL and port 443 in Windows and we already know from the original post that > Others here are using windows and have not experienced anything like this so... Any other ideas?

---

### Post by meamusta on 2014-03-13
I found this [https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/877650](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/877650) It is exactly what I'm experiencing.

Their solution was to manually set the nameservers to Googles nameservers 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4.

I tried that by opening the "Edit Connections..." from the network manager menu which opens right clicking the wlan icon. Then selecting the "Wireless" tab and "Edit" the connection I'm using. I selected the Method to be "Automatic (DHCP) addressess only" and inserted "8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4" to "DNS servers" and saved the settings. But it didn't help even after a restart.

So the issue is something else, or my computer is not using those nameservers but something else. How could I check which server it is using? Is it logged somewhere?

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-03-13
tgalati4@Mint14-Extensa ~/Desktop $ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

# OpenDNS Fallback (configured by Linux Mint in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail).
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

```
man resolvconf
```

I presume that the Windows users are using Outlook and therefore don't care or use gmail.  So I always check the SSL and port 443 configuration first.

---

### Post by meamusta on 2014-03-14
Thanks. I added those nameservers into /ets/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail file and restarted my laptop, but my browser still can not find the accounts.google.com when trying to log in to gmail.

At least one of the others here used gmail with browser. She showed me that she can access gmail here.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-03-14
Does this happen with a newly created user ?
Is there a proxy at work ?

---

### Post by meamusta on 2014-03-14
> **bapoumba said:**
> Does this happen with a newly created user ?
Is there a proxy at work ?

No, it is the same user I created originally when set up the laptop.
I don't think there is a proxy. At least no-one has told me anything about it and I haven't configured anything related to it.

But, TADAA
The solution for this issue was to reboot the routers and adsl modem. After that Gmail is again accessible :)

---

