---
title: "problems with iptables"
date: 2022-02-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by georgschmidt on 2022-02-11
Hello all,

According to my understanding the following rule should allow me to continue surfing the web, because the answer from the webserver is a response to an already established connection. Therefore the 2nd command should allow the response to get through. 
sudo iptables -P INPUT DROP
sudo iptables -A INPUT -m conntrack -ctstate ESTABLISHED,RELATED -J ACCEPT

However, it doesn't it. Firefox does not show any website.

Strangely enough, doing exactly the same in Kali Linux works as I had imagined. 
sudo iptables -P INPUT DROP => no surfing possible
sudo iptables -A INPUT -m conntrack -ctstate ESTABLISHED,RELATED -J ACCEPT => surfing possible again.

It seems to be problem with the DNS resolution. 
ping google.com works on Kali but not on Ubuntu. Ubuntu shows the following error message: "ping: google.com: Temporary failure in name resolution"
But why? The answer to the DNS query should get through, because it is a response and not a new connection.

I would be really grateful for any explanation.

Georg

P.S. I am using Ubuntu 20.04 LTS

---

### Post by The Cog on 2022-02-11
Can the DNS request get out? I don't see any mention of outgoing rules.
Another possible hiccup: Can the PC talk to itself? Ubuntu often runs an internal DNS resolver on 127.0.0.53 on interface lo. It is normal to allow any protocol from lo to lo so that local applications and services can talk to each other.


When posting iptables rules for people to help with, please always post the output from [FONT=Courier New]**sudo iptables-save**[/FONT]. Other ways of showing the rules generally leave information out, but this command gives **complete** information.

---

### Post by georgschmidt on 2022-02-11
The Cog, thank you for your answer. 
I haven't set any other rules, so everything else uses the default values (OUTPUT: ACCEPT, FORWARD: ACCEPT)

# Generated by iptables-save v1.8.4 on Fri Feb 11 21:18:16 2022
*filter
:INPUT DROP [12:876]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [19:1345]
-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Feb 11 21:18:16 2022

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2022-02-11
First, try changing the INPUT policy from DROP to ACCEPT.  Does it work then?

Are you running this on a local workstation, or on a network gateway? I don't see any value to using rules like this on a normal workstation if it's behind a firewall router. If you're using a network gateway, make sure you've enabled packet forwarding in /etc/sysctl.conf.

---

### Post by georgschmidt on 2022-02-11
Thank you SeijiSensei. Yes, when changing the INPUT Policy to ACCEPT, it works. This is actually the default, INPUT, OUTPUT and FOWARD all set to ACCEPT, no other rules. It is running on  a desktop computer (VirtualBox). I was reading about IPTABLES and was playing around with it, to see whether I understood it correctly. It just didn't behave as I has imagined and I got curious. When I asked a friend, he tried it on his Kali and it behaved as expected. This made me even more curious :-)

---

### Post by Doug S on 2022-02-11
Please try an ACCEPT rule for the local interface, as The Cog mentioned. I think this:

```
sudo iptables -A INPUT -i lo -J ACCEPT
```

---

### Post by georgschmidt on 2022-02-11
Yes, that works. But why? I thought that with "[COLOR=#000000]-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT" I allow incoming traffic if it is a response to an outgoing one. Since I don't specify an interface, isn't that rule also valid for the lo interface. So the local host can send the response back. [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Or is it, because the local host is basically my machine as well, it doesn't receive the first request, because it is blocked by the INPUT rule. Is my understanding correct that if I send sth to local host, I basically send it to myself and it goes through the OUTPUT (because it comes from my machine) and INPUT channel (because my machine also receives it). So for anything to LO, both INPUT AND OUTPUT policy / rules are valid?
Thank you very much[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Doug S on 2022-02-11
> **georgschmidt said:**
> Yes, that works. But why? I thought that with "[COLOR=#000000]-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT" I allow incoming traffic if it is a response to an outgoing one. Since I don't specify an interface, isn't that rule also valid for the lo interface. So the local host can send the response back. [/COLOR]I don't know the answer because I have always had lo interface ACCEPT rules in my chains and never thought about it beyond that.

I wonder if the connection tracking table doesn't track lo interface connections. I tried to find the answer, but didn't with the time I had available. One could also watch the lo interface with tcpdump or wireshark, but I didn' try it.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2022-02-12
I'm still waiting to hear what role this machine plays in your network -- workstation, router, server, something else?

I'll just reiterate that I don't see any need for iptables rules on machines behind a firewall router. If you're setting up this machine as a router, that's one thing. But it doesn't seem like that what's you're trying to do.

---

### Post by georgschmidt on 2022-02-14
Hello SeijiSenesei,
Thank you for your response.  I thought I had answered that in my first response. It is a workstation. I tried this was because I was reading about iptables and wanted to check my understanding. I was surprised by the behaviour and wanted to understand why. The question was more for my understanding rather than for a concrete setting. 

You are right, normally this PC is behind a router firewall. However, I guess I a firewall would be useful if connected to a public wifi, so in that case the above settings might actually have some use after all.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2022-02-14
> **georgschmidt said:**
> Yes, that works. But why? I thought that with "[COLOR=#000000]-A INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT" I allow incoming traffic if it is a response to an outgoing one. Since I don't specify an interface, isn't that rule also valid for the lo interface. So the local host can send the response back. [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Or is it, because the local host is basically my machine as well, it doesn't receive the first request, because it is blocked by the INPUT rule. Is my understanding correct that if I send sth to local host, I basically send it to myself and it goes through the OUTPUT (because it comes from my machine) and INPUT channel (because my machine also receives it). So for anything to LO, both INPUT AND OUTPUT policy / rules are valid?
Thank you very much[/COLOR]

I think the issue is really that the rules apply to the packets without knowledge of the overall topology. It doesn't make the association between the outgoing request and the incoming request. 
There's an outgoing request sent to lo e.g. (127.0.0.1:50001 -> 127.0.0.53:53). 
The matching response (ESTABLISHED,RELATED) would be (127.0.0.53:53 -> 127.0.0.1:50001) so a rule for that is entered into the connection tracking table for that. 
Then an incoming request arrives on lo (127.0.0.1:50001 -> 127.0.0.53:53). That's not the expected response, that's a brand new incoming request, from a different IP and port number. And there's no rule for allowing such incoming requests, so it gets dropped.

Here's an interesting test: Open 3 terminal sessions. On the first, open a listening port with the command: ```
netcat -lv -s 127.42.123.66 -p 9999
```
Leave that listening and on the second terminal, connect to it (you can type messages between the two):```
netcat -v 127.42.123.66 9999
```
On the third terminal, look at current tcp connections:```
ss -ntp
```
You will see **two** entries for port 9999, one for each end. They have different remote addresses. In this case you're looking in a mirror and talking to yourself (because network 127), but the firewall rules don't know that.

---

### Post by georgschmidt on 2022-02-14
Thanks, The Cog. Interesting test you posted. 

I explained it to me with the following analogy. I have iptables protecting my house. Any person entering will go through the input lane, any person going out through the output lane. Whether someone is coming or going is quite clear when this person is coming or going from outside. Locahost is a bit strange, because I am accessing my computer from my computer. In my analogy this would be like walking from one room into another in the same house. Now whether I am coming or leaving is not so clear anymore. I am doing both, so I would go through the output lane and then immediately through the input lane. As you said the firewall, as no idea of the topology, it just sees going out and coming in. 
So the first package with the DNS request is NEW request for the input chain, not the response to an established one, hence it gets blocked.

---

