---
title: "1.5Mbps limit between two computers via SAMBA"
date: 2006-12-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-11
My downstairs computer is running Edgy with a 54mbps Wireless G card:
```

ath0      IEEE 802.11g  ESSID:"000740B6F60A"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.412 GHz  Access Point: 00:07:40:C4:3B:5E   
          Bit Rate:54 Mb/s   Tx-Power:9 dBm   Sensitivity=0/3  
          Retry:off   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=36/94  Signal level=-59 dBm  Noise level=-95 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:5  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

```

The computer Im on is directly wired into the router @ 100Mbps:
```

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:40:CA:70:19:A6  
          inet addr:192.168.11.4  Bcast:192.168.11.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::240:caff:fe70:19a6/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:4437131 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:1 frame:0
          TX packets:4604176 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:3705929032 (3.4 GiB)  TX bytes:3460081001 (3.2 GiB)
          Interrupt:201 Base address:0x2000 

```

The router between the two is an Airstation WBR-G54 Ver.2.20

But when transferring files between the two, 1.5M/sec is the highest it goes.  Where do you suppose that limit is being set, and how can I get it to match the max speed of the lower rate? (54Mbps)

---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-12
Even when I am using SAMBA to copy and paste 2 files from/to the remote SAMBA comp, the speed is 750rx and 750tx

No explanation

---

### Post by spd106 on 2006-12-12
Compare it to an FTP transfer. 

You might also want to use a packet capturing tool like wireshark to see if there is any other traffic causing conflicts.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-12
Mine is never faster than 1.2 MB/sec either. SAMBA is not the best option there is. FTP is much faster, NFS if you are running Linux in your network only. But SAMBA is very convenient.

---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-12
I will try FTP when I get back home today, but are you saying that SAMBA is actually setting those limits?

I do use Windows in the workgroup when I'm in VMWare and rarely when I have to dualboot into XP on an entertainment box in the living room :(  But then again one can have files shared both by Samba and NFS

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-12
> **marx2k said:**
> I will try FTP when I get back home today, but are you saying that SAMBA is actually setting those limits?
It definitely has limits, but usually it should be way faster than that. It's just that I have tried everything, simply wasn't very successful. Perhaps FTP does a better job here.

---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-12
The problem here is I would like these files mounted on a local disk so for instance they can easily be played via XMMS - NFS will be able to do that.

I'm still wondering what the problem is with this 1.5Mbps limit.  I'm wondering if possibly it's the router, but I don't think it is.  

Does anyone have any good suggestions as to how to break down a test on this sort of setup?

---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-13
Mounted everything under NFS and it's still hitting that 1.5, 1.6 M/sec limit.  Theoretically, what should the fastest rate of transfer be under a lan with the highest speed being 54Mbps wireless? 

I also disabled IPv6 on both computers - I read on a few threads that it may speed up the rate of transfer but unfortunately it does not.

Other threads also have the same LAN speed problem with no explanation and no solution is given in any of the threads as to how this can be overcome.

Does anyone have any thoughts on this? I'd love to hear any and all suggestions.

---

### Post by FrodoB on 2006-12-13
Borrow a different router and test that perhaps? I am anxious to hear the root cause of this.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-13
Again same problem here... Linksys WRT54G... Just for the record.

---

### Post by FrodoB on 2006-12-13
And this is just a Samba issue, or all protocols on this wireless router?

Also could this be a QOS issue on the wireless router?

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-13
Should not be a QoS issue because I am running no other services... Even in a state where I have disconnected my network from the Internet, performance is poor. But generally, there may be a problem with the overall network, perhaps wireless encryption is finally taking its toll.

---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-14
I am not using encryption at all, so I don't think that's my issue.  I don't believe I will be able to borrow another router any time soon :( I really do wonder what could be the cause of this.  This typically isn't that big of a deal given the uses I have for my network (streaming music and emulation roms for the most part) but if I try to transfer large files of ISO size (700M) it takes about 8 minutes or so.  DVD ISOs take forever.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-14
Can you try using NFS instead? Just to do some benchmarking... Have you got 2 Linux PCs available for testing? There is a nice NFS guide in the Wiki section.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2006-12-14
okay ... how about a bit more data.

you say you have two computer and one is edgy.  what is the second computer?  if windows, what version (windows firewall?)?  how about firestarter?

are you transfering files from edgy to your other computer? or from  you other computer to edgy?  what protocols are you using? smbfs vs cifs?

if smbfs, ditch it and go for cifs.

if both computers are linux ditch samba completely and go with nfs. <-- totally didn't read everything.  seems  you've tried nfs already.  sorry.  but if you've tried nfs and  you're getting the same problem, then i'd start looking into possible physical network issues.  particularly if you run into the same issue after trying ftp.

---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-14
Ok, today with absolutely no change short of resetting the router last night when Azureus was causing it to ping off the network, the transfer rates (using NFS) between two edgy machines has jumped to 3.4M/sec.  I'm not sure what this is due to.  I wonder if it's based on the router being reset.  And if that's the case, I'm wondering what resetting the router has changed.

But I am also wondering if this is the theoretical limit on 54Mbps wireless G?

---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-14
BTW-- I was using cifs to mount these before, not smbfs

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-14
Theoretical limit on a 54 MBit router should be 6.75 MB/sec if I am not mistaken. So we have room for improvement.

---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-14
Yep, looks like I'm getting half that :( I can't imagine that the TCP stack takes up half that bandwidth..?

---

### Post by David Mulligan on 2006-12-14
> **wieman01 said:**
> Theoretical limit on a 54 MBit router should be 6.75 MB/sec if I am not mistaken. So we have room for improvement.

I believe that it is actually half of that.  54Mbps is actually 26Mbps full duplex.

What is your actual connected rate?

David

---

### Post by cracker on 2006-12-14
My guess would be that you are losing packets over the wireless, or they are otherwise needing to be retransmitted. Get a network monitoring tool and watch what happens while you transfer a file. Also, check at what rate your wireless machine is connecting...if you don't have good enough signal, you could only be connecting at say 11 or 24mbps, which would be consistent with the slow speeds.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-14
> **David Mulligan said:**
> I believe that it is actually half of that.  54Mbps is actually 26Mbps full duplex.
Yes, you are right actually. Achievable net throughput should be somewhere between 20 & 25 MBit/s. So that said, 3.4 MB/sec would be pretty much the maximum you could achieve using SAMBA or any other protocol there is.

marx2k, 

I reckon your problem is resolved. Any idea what has lead to the increase?

---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-14
The only thing I can think of that may have resolved it is either rebooting the router (likely) or shutting down IPv6 services on both machines (unlikely) 

The signal to the wireless is weak, so I am connected at 48Mbps (Whats the max throughput of that in M/sec?) 

```

ath0      IEEE 802.11g  ESSID:"000740B6F60A"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.412 GHz  Access Point: 00:07:40:C4:3B:5E   
          Bit Rate:48 Mb/s   Tx-Power:9 dBm   Sensitivity=0/3  
          Retry:off   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=40/94  Signal level=-55 dBm  Noise level=-95 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:5  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

```

But it doesnt seem to have dropped any packets 
```

ath0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:11:50:D4:FD:E8  
          inet addr:192.168.11.8  Bcast:192.168.11.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:3584459 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:3104451 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:4050774661 (3.7 GiB)  TX bytes:2586702642 (2.4 GiB)

```

So that doesn't seem to be the  problem.

---

### Post by FrodoB on 2006-12-14
FYI:

[http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/wireless/2003/08/08/wireless_throughput.html](http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/wireless/2003/08/08/wireless_throughput.html)

---

### Post by rlozano on 2006-12-14
what is the MTU of your wireless AP or wireless router? and btw, don't expect to get 54mbps if you are using a wireless G or 11mbps in wireless B.

in wireless coneectivity, there are a lot of considerations in propagating your signal, compared to wired ones. you may have a lot of interference inside you house, and signals may not be boucing off nicely.

but yeah, to start, please check your MTU. should be 1492 or 1500.

---

### Post by marx2k on 2006-12-15
I think the problem in my case has actually turned out to be a crappy signal :( As we speak it's down to 36Mbps

How very crappy.

I guess I will either need to upgrade my router, throw a larger antenna on it.. or upgrade my wireless card (though I doubt thats what it is since the router is sitting 20 feet away through a doorway)

---

