---
title: "802.1x authentication support for Ethernet needed at installation time"
date: 2006-11-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Rounin on 2006-11-19
Hi!

My university network recently switched over to 802.1x based authentication for our Internet connections and is discontinuing its old Telnet-based systems. I'm thinking of installing Ubuntu Linux, but because of the new authentication scheme, 802.1x authentication for Ethernet connections would have to be available at installation time in order to connect to the Internet. Is this currently possible in Dapper Drake or Edgy Eft, or is any support being planned?

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-11-20
What protocol are they using? E.g.

EAP-TLS
LEAP
PEAP
EAP-TTLS

Please tell us a bit more about authentication & encryption methods uses, otherwise it will be hard to help.

---

### Post by Rounin on 2006-11-20
Thank you... It uses PEAP and EAP-MSCHAP v2. Which is apparently usable on Linux (my university even provides a script), but it has to be there at installation time, or I can't install to begin with.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-11-20
Ok, can you install this package first? Insert the Ubuntu CD...
> sudo apt-cdrom add
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install wpasupplicant
That done, you will have to configure:
> sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
Then choose your Ethernet adapter ("eth0"?) and replace the lines with this:
> auto [COLOR="Green"]eth0[/COLOR]
iface [COLOR="Green"]eth0[/COLOR] inet [COLOR="Green"]dhcp[/COLOR]
wpa-driver wired
wpa-eap PEAP
wpa-key-mgmt WPA-EAP
wpa-identity [COLOR="Blue"]your_identity[/COLOR]
wpa-password [COLOR="Blue"]your_password[/COLOR]
wpa-ca-cert [COLOR="Blue"]/etc/cert/ca.pem[/COLOR]
wpa-phase1 [COLOR="Red"]peaplabel=1[/COLOR]
wpa-phase2 [COLOR="Red"]auth=MSCHAPV2[/COLOR]
wpa-priority 10
I assume you are using DHCP, not a Static IP.

I have not tried this before... So don't be frustrated if this does not work immediately. Better ask your network administrator if the settings ( e.g. "peaplabel=1") are correct; you also need your own credentials as well as a certificate. Would be nice to hear from you if this works.

_**EDIT:**_
There is stuff for your reference in this thread: [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202834]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202834")

---

### Post by Rounin on 2006-11-20
Thank you very much. I'm not able to try this right away, but I'll use this as a reference when the time comes.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-11-20
> **Rounin said:**
> Thank you very much. I'm not able to try this right away, but I'll use this as a reference when the time comes.
Ok. Would be appreciated if you dropped me a line if this does the job. Just interested... Plus I will publish this & incorporate the script in my documentation so as to share it with others.

Thanks.

---

### Post by GenerationCX on 2006-12-03
hi!

i'm new to ubuntu and i have the same problem as mentioned above.

in the network i'd like to connect to ip's are distributed via dhcp. 

the only thing that is different is the authentification: i must use a md5-challenge.

is there a difference between the possible solution mentioned above by wieman01 or do i have to make something different.

sorry for the inconvenience, but i'm really new to ubuntu (and linux at all).

thanks in advance
stefan

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-03
What kind of authentication & encryption are they using? "MD5"... Does that mean they use LEAP? Please ask you network administrator for details, then post them here. It's better to know up front what kind of network we are talking about. 

I will try to help, but cannot promise anything because I have no means to test the script myself.

---

### Post by GenerationCX on 2006-12-05
thank you for your answer.

the network administrator is not in the house in the moment. i'll write again after talking to him.

thanks, stefan

---

### Post by dennis.groome on 2007-03-02
I have the same type of situation at school (802.1x with PEAP-MSCHAPv2 over ethernet) and I'm working on a solution that will let me access the network. With regards to the line wpa-ca-cert, should I already have the certificate from the Radius server on my machine for this to work?

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2007-03-04
> **dennis.groome said:**
> I have the same type of situation at school (802.1x with PEAP-MSCHAPv2 over ethernet) and I'm working on a solution that will let me access the network. With regards to the line wpa-ca-cert, should I already have the certificate from the Radius server on my machine for this to work?
Yes, I think that's the way it works.

---

### Post by perrishm on 2008-06-09
I have tried to implement this but could not come right. I suspect my certificate may be the culprit. My /etc/network/interface looks like:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
#auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
wpa-driver wired
wpa-eap PEAP
wpa-key-mgmt IEEE8021X
#wpa-key-mgmt WPA-EAP
wpa-identity john123
wpa-password *******
wpa-ca-cert /etc/wpa_supplicant/certnew.cer
wpa-phase1 peapable=1
wpa-phase2 auth=MSCHAPV2
wpa-priority 10
#wpa-conf /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf

``` I use dhcp and why i suspect the cert is because it's a .cer file i would think to e a x509 cert. In XP I install the cert, go to my Network settings, use 802.1 authentication and MS-CHAPv2 with the cert enabled. so I referenced the same cert in kubuntu 8.04. 
monitoring with wireshark, i noticed the image below, now do i need to regenerate or convert this cert, to a .pem for this to work.
I think the cert is verified usially then then I'm prompted 4 a username:pass (once off or periodically), part of my cert looks like:

```
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
MIID9TCCAt2gAwIBAgIQSJYG3OTs5aJItXmI1rrqnDANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQUFADBB
MRQwEgYKCZImiZPyLGQBGRYEY29ycDEXMBUGCgmSJomT8ixkARkWB3ZvZGFjb20x
EDAOBgNVBAMTB3ZvZGFjb20wHhcNMDQwNTEzMTMzNzEyWhcNMTQwNTEzMTM0NjM2
WjBBMRQwEgYKCZImiZPyLGQBGRYEY29ycDEXMBUGCgmSJomT8ixkARkWB3ZvZGFj
...
TaHACpIUS1EJvOC7nDHNQroRnUHU4hHd3ELlbs1I3nVH5HueVXyeKCz6jx8ldv5S
O1H/EEn12bnExkif3HHJGGK0owcQRLNuOF0DYc7DQGrVCxieVSNIW/v7tGOsCClb
Iyt4GbZD21et
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```
[IMG]http://www.geocities.com/perrishm/wireshark.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by perrishm on 2008-06-17
never mind ya all. I it just worked, restarted my networking again, nd it works like a charm

---

