---
title: "10.04 start pppoe on boot"
date: 2011-11-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Ciorapel on 2011-11-29
Hello.

I recently created an 10.04 server as a router for my home network. This server also have the deluge web gui installed for torrents. Everything works fine except the automatic connection on boot.

My /etc/netword/interfaces looks like this :
```
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interfaces

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp

auto dsl-provider
iface dsl-provider inet ppp
provider dsl-provider
```

and I tried deleting the connection and creating an DSL connection from Network Manager.

I also answered "yes" to pppoe's question about starting connection on boot time.

On this machine I have 2 interfaces. 

eth1 -> from ISP (internet)
eth0 -> to the switch (lan)

On every reboot I have to go to the server and type "pon dsl-provider" to wake up the connection.

Please help !

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-11-29
Hi,

the network-manager is preferred and it ignores the manual settings, if the value is "false" in the file [B]/etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf
[/B]
So change it to "true" and reboot.

---

### Post by Ciorapel on 2011-11-30
/etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf
looked like this :

```
[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile

no-auto-default=00:e0:4c:18:b8:ea,00:e0:4c:18:b8:e0,

[ifupdown]
managed=true

```

So it is already set to "true"; still no auto connection on start-up.

---

### Post by Ciorapel on 2011-12-01
bump

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-12-01
Are you member of the group "dip"?

```
sudo adduser $USER dip
```
then run ```
sudo pppoeconf eth1
``` again.
If you are using a Desktop-GUI then checkbox any user rights in "USERS&GROUPS", login again, and run "pppoeconf" again.

---

### Post by Ciorapel on 2011-12-02
```
The user `[myuser]' is already a member of `dip'.
```

I'll run the pppoeconf on eth1 when I'm connected thru LAN. Now I'm remote, miles away from server.

Thanx. I'll post here the results.

---

