---
title: "7.10 Crashing when WiFi disconnects"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by j2p2f2 on 2007-10-20
Hi, im using a Netgear WG111 usb wireless adapter for WiFi. I have installed the driver for this adapter using the newest version of ndiswrapper:

ndiswrapper -v
```
utils version: 1.9
driver filename:       /lib/modules/2.6.22-14-generic/ubuntu/misc/ndiswrapper/ndiswrapper.ko
version:        1.45
vermagic:       2.6.22-14-generic SMP mod_unload 

```


I also have the GUI shell for ndiswrapper. It says that my wireless adapter is connected and is in use. 

ndiswrapper -l
```
netwg111 : driver installed
        device (0846:4240) present (alternate driver: p54usb)
```

However, if i blacklist the p54usb driver, I don't get any wifi. This leads me to believe that the netwg111.inf driver isn't even in use.

Can someone please point me in the right direction? Crashes are spontaneous and unpredictable, but it only happens when I get disconnected from the network and it tries to reestablish a connection.

Thanks so much!

-Jeff

---

### Post by j2p2f2 on 2007-10-20
I reinstalled without the USB adapter in, and then i switched from WEP to WPA Personal and it seems to be working fine. It hasn't crashed yet!

---

### Post by ShahBucks on 2007-10-20
[B]I had some similar problems and was able to resolve them with a quick fix - 
I went into the */lib/modules/2.6.22-14-generic/ubunt*u directory and renamed the directory '*wireless*' to '*wireless_OLD*' (I was a bit sketchy about deleting it completely). I haven't had any problems since and ndiswapper has been running my Netgear like a champ. I'm not sure if you've already tried this, but maybe it will help![/B]

---

### Post by j2p2f2 on 2007-10-21
I will definitely have to try that. I hope it works!

I've determined it doesn't matter what encryption I have, it still crashes. I hope this gets fixed with the new version of the prism54usb driver. 

I still can't get ndiswrapper to be recognized as my wireless driver...

---

### Post by j2p2f2 on 2007-10-21
ShahBucks, I tried you suggestion but it left me without a wifi signal or option to connect wirelessly in the network manager. I renamed the folder back to wireless, and it worked for a little. It crashed again. I have no clue how to fix this problem. Ndiswrapper doesn't work for me apparently, its not being used as the driver for my wireless adapter. Im just about to go out and buy a new adapter so itll work.

---

### Post by ShahBucks on 2007-10-21
Sorry It didn't work! Grabbing a supported card might be the easiest option... - if you have the means. It might save the time of trying to tinker too much. I'm actually contemplating doing the same for my laptop in the near future. I've put too much time into tinkering with ndisswrapper just to get my broadcom card to work the way I'd like.

Best of luck!

---

### Post by j2p2f2 on 2007-10-23
I finally fixed the problem.

I found an old machine I had lying around. I put Windoze Performance Edition on it and installed my wireless dongle. Then I ran a crossover cable from my main machine to that machine and am using it as a host. Its the only thing I can do till I get a new wireless card.

I must say that this Ubuntu version is the greatest one yet. It is far greater than any other OS i have used. Excellent job developers :)

---

