---
title: ".netrc"
date: 2012-04-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tdm3732 on 2012-04-25
I want to download the Google android source tree, I have initialized repo and downloaded some stuff, I am in the "authentication" step now, and it should be auto ftp login using the .netrc file

1.it was the previous Ubuntu when I did the stuff and for the first time i entered the code (~/.netrc) and it showed up immediately, but when i pasted the code, i didnt know how to save and exit, so i closed the terminal but the auto login didnt work, no matter how much i tried to open it again, it either said (no such file or directory) or (permission denied), i loged on as root, changed permissions but nothing changed so i formatted my Ubuntu

2.now even i have never dared to play around with the file, but it says (no such file or directory) when i try to open it for the first time. I think there really is no file and I have to create it my self

i want to know how to use it, or how to create it. please someone help me use that auto login, I am so urgent!!

thanks in advance

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-25
> i entered the code (~/.netrc) and it showed up immediately, but when i pasted the code, i didnt know how to save and exit, It sounds like you simply displayed the file and not *edited* the file. In Linux, they are two different things. Please try:```
gedit ~/.netrc
```Make your changes and save and close gedit. You can get more information here:```
man netrc
```I've never used it before, so we are at the end of my skill level now.

---

### Post by tdm3732 on 2012-04-26
thank you for the reply chili!!
Although there is NO good tutorial on this on the whole internet, but i quite solved the case
netrc file have to be created normally(as far as i know) i created a simple text document and applied some permissions and it worked! the process  is not so hard, but its hard to come to this level

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-26
I'm glad it's working. Have fun!

---

