---
title: "7.10 wont connect to homehub"
date: 2008-01-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by m1k3uk on 2008-01-11
Hi.  Im just about to install ubuntu 7.10 as a dual boot with windows xp media center but before i go ahead with the installation i ran the live cd to check if my hardware was recognised namely my wireless usb adapter.  The internet is the main use of my pc so i really need this to work in ubuntu.  Anyways when i click the wireless manager at the top it shows a list of wireless networks so i go ahead and click on mine and it prompts for the network key, when i input the key it tries to connect and on the wireless icon the bottom of the two circles turns green but then it simply prompts for the key again and doesnt connect??

The key is correct because it works under xp perfectly and judging by seeing the list of wireless access points i presume the wireless driver is installed?  Could this simply be a problem with running the live disk and should i go ahead and install and hope it works or is this to do with anything else??

The router im using is the bt homehub and ive read all the other forum posts about this router and tried those solutions such as changing the host names but none have worked.  Thanks in advance for any help and just shout if you need more information!

Mike

---

### Post by Hightide on 2008-01-11
What wireless usb adaptor are you using?

My bro had a similar problem with BT Home Hub. It recognised the linksy usb adaptor, ask for wep key and after  then dropped out.  Still no solution.

:(

---

### Post by Zatarg on 2008-01-24
I am having the exact same problem right now. Any help? :)

EDIT: I have sorted the problem for myself:
This is how i did it.

First i visited [http://BTHomeHub.home](http://BTHomeHub.home) (on my desktop computer thats wired to the hub)  and logged in to basic config using admin as the username and password.
I then clicked wireless and changed the key to 128 bit. (Select in drop down box). I then copied the key again until it added up to 26 chars...
for example the 64bit key was "3456789abc" and i changed it to "3456789abc3456789abc345678". Then on ubuntu i chose to connect to the wireless network and selected 64/128 bit hex WEB and entered the key there. It connected then disconnected, and when i tried to connect again it connected first time.


YaaaaY! :)

---

### Post by m1k3uk on 2008-01-28
Yeh i managed to solve this a few days ago.  I couldnt help but think it was a problem with drivers because although i could see the network it just couldnt connect to it.  I eventually ripped the drivers from windows and used it with ndiswrapper and when i put the key in it connected straight away :) weird but im happy i got the net..........now to get compiz :)

---

