---
title: "8.04LTS pulls dhcp while /etc/network/interfaces is defined w/ static"
date: 2009-02-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by awreneau on 2009-02-19
I have a new 8.04 LTS server running postfix.  I have a static IP address defined in /etc/network/interfaces.  However at approximatley 4:20 every day it pulls a DHCP address.  I found the following in syslog.

Feb 19 16:19:32 WSCMR01 dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of <null address> on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Feb 19 16:19:42 WSCMR01 dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of <null address> on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Feb 19 16:19:50 WSCMR01 dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of <null address> on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Feb 19 16:19:57 WSCMR01 dhclient: DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 5
Feb 19 16:19:57 WSCMR01 dhclient: DHCPOFFER of 172.23.42.57 from 11.5.254.1
Feb 19 16:19:57 WSCMR01 dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of 172.23.42.57 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Feb 19 16:19:57 WSCMR01 dhclient: DHCPACK of 172.23.42.57 from 11.5.254.1
Feb 19 16:19:58 WSCMR01 dhclient: can't create /var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.eth0.leases: Permission denied
Feb 19 16:19:58 WSCMR01 dhclient: bound to 172.23.42.57 -- renewal in 39521 seconds.

I have no idea why this is happening.  This is a vanilla install w/ the exception of some edits to postfix.

Cron.Daily has the following contents:
[INDENT]apache2
apt
aptitude
bsdmainutils
logrotate
man-db
mlocate
standard
sysklogd[/INDENT]

Browsed those files and nothing was obvious.



/etc/network/interfaces is defined as follows:
#[INDENT] This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
#auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet static
#address 11.5.254.26
#netmask 255.255.255.0
#gateway 11.5.254.1
#dns-search EDITED
#dns-nameservers 11.5.254.24,11.224.130

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 11.5.254.25
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 11.5.254.1
dns-search EDITED
dns-nameservers 11.5.254.24,11.224.22.130
[/INDENT]

when I see that it's pulled a DHCP address I can run the following:

sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart 

and it will right itself.

Help much appreciated.

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2009-02-19
awrneau

it would certainly seem as though your /etc/network/interface file is set correctly, however, when I used 8.04 and had a static address I didn't need to worry about stipulating the server ID, I just had the address netmask and gateway.

It seems as though the gateway is also able to server IP addresses, as this is where the errant IP addressing is coming from (or so it would seem).

My suggestions aren't really that helpfull but.

you could set a cron job to check the IP and then automatically restart the networking as and when neccessary.

Change the gateway address to that of one of your servers (or vice versa) to see if that makes any difference.

DHCP normally comes in from UDP port 53 (if I remember correctly) you could allways force outgoing UDP port 53 messages to go to one of the 2 servers in your config?

If this really is getting a dynamic address, there should be extra in in the dhclient.eth0.leases file (I think it is i /var/lib/dhcp3/) you should do a <locate dhclient> to find exactly were it lives.

David

---

### Post by awreneau on 2009-02-19
theDaveTheRave, 

I'd given some thought to a cronjob but it seems to me that this should NOT be going on so rather and apply a fix/hack I want it to work correctly.  

I'll look into the dhcp lease and post back my findings.

Thanks!

---

### Post by awreneau on 2009-02-20
theDaveTheRave, 

/var/lib/dhdcp3/dhclient.leasees is empty

ideas?

---

### Post by awreneau on 2009-02-20
Found this ref to a bug
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dhcp3/+bug/38140/comments/13](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dhcp3/+bug/38140/comments/13)


When this machine came into production I edited /etc/network/interfaces and ran /etc/init.d/networking restart

while it did set the ip static there appears that dhclient was still running and continued to fulfill it's scheduled renew.

Will wait before marking as solved.

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2009-02-20
awreneau

I wouldn't even have though about the DHCP wanting to renew its lease!

I'm surprised that the dhclient.eth0.leases file is empty though, although it is on my setup also, I guess that as network manager is running it probably overides the requirement for this file?

Well I'm glad that you seem to be sorted... and it adds a thought in my head about a semi regular problem that occurs with IP addresses at work - where we generally run on static IP's, but every now and then one of the static IP's get nobbled by someone else, and no-one realises untll some poor soul can't get logged on!

David.

---

### Post by awreneau on 2009-02-20
Just a hunch but I think it's do in large part to the fact that it originally rand DHCP when I built it and when the production mail server died I cut over at 1:00 am by editing the /etc/network/interfaces file and ran /etc/init.d/networking restart

so the dhclient process was never stopped, althought I thought that restarting networking would have done that.  And in good linux form I've not had to reboot it :-)

---

