---
title: "8.10 wireless issue"
date: 2010-04-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cwilson85 on 2010-04-19
I have a Toshiba, satelite running ubuntu 8.10 

I have a wep security router for my wireless,  other pc's are receiving and connecting to the wireless fine.  So it's not equipment there.  But I don't know how to  even  search for a wireless network/connection with 8.10 or if it does it on it's own.  

some help lmao plz

---

### Post by bkratz on 2010-04-19
> **cwilson85 said:**
> I have a Toshiba, satelite running ubuntu 8.10 

I have a wep security router for my wireless,  other pc's are receiving and connecting to the wireless fine.  So it's not equipment there.  But I don't know how to  even  search for a wireless network/connection with 8.10 or if it does it on it's own.  

some help lmao plz

8.10 is kinda old--I think support is just about ready to expire, you might consider updating to a more recent version. Anyway, if you go to the terminal (Applications>>Accessories>>Terminal) and enter in

```
sudo iwlist scan
```

it should show all available A/P's . Since it is a sudo command you will have to enter your password which will not be dispayed at all, just enter it and press return. Also, I believe you can just left-click on the network icon and see them without all the extra data, like encryption etc.

---

### Post by cwilson85 on 2010-04-25
thank you so much i'm  going to try it.  i had 9.10 but it kept going all crazy

---

### Post by shaka_zulu on 2010-04-25
Also be aware that you have allowed on router option that more computers can access at the same time. Example: I have wireless router - one computer goes via ethernet and two laptops via wireless. If all of them are working at the same time there is no chance that fourth one can access. So check if you have number of allowed computers in the same moment configured.

---

