---
title: "16.04 to 18.04 upgrade broke vnc access"
date: 2018-11-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Markardi on 2018-11-30
Hi,

I built a simple headless Ubuntu server on 14.04 following a lifehacker guide.  It was not a true Ubuntu server install, but the desktop version so I had a GUI instead of a terminal.
That has been working fine and I could access the headless machine via TigerVNC on windows.  Upgraded to 16.04 just fine.

I recently did the upgrade to 18.04 and now VNC does not work; in fact, many network settings cannot be changed.
Desktop Sharing cannot be accessed by clicking the icon in the settings menu, it does nothing (or crashes in the background).
It can be access if I type gnome-control-center sharing in the terminal.  From there, if I try to turn on sharing followed by screen sharing, it just turns itself off.
The terminal displays:
[I](gnome-control-center:9787): sharing-cc-panel-WARNING **: 21:12:33.921: Failed to enable service vino-server: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown: The name org.gnome.SettingsDaemon.Sharing was not provided by any .service files

(gnome-control-center:9787): sharing-cc-panel-WARNING **: 21:12:33.922: couldn't list networks: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown: The name org.gnome.SettingsDaemon.Sharing was not provided by any .service files[/I]

If I try to turn on file sharing, it cannot as "No networks selected for sharing"
The terminal displays:
[I](gnome-control-center:9787): sharing-cc-panel-WARNING **: 21:14:42.600: Failed to enable service gnome-user-share-webdav: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown: The name org.gnome.SettingsDaemon.Sharing was not provided by any .service files

(gnome-control-center:9787): sharing-cc-panel-WARNING **: 21:14:42.600: couldn't list networks: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown: The name org.gnome.SettingsDaemon.Sharing was not provided by any .service files
[/I]
What's funny is the Plex media server running on this Ubuntu system just fine and I can still access the shared folders from my windows system.  Internet access is fine too.

I've seen things that this might be a bug with Vino?

Also thought about switching how I access to ssh as it's more secure, but I haven't found a client that provide a GUI/remote desktop.

I'm rather inexperienced with Linux/Ubuntu in general so are there any fixes for this?  Tutorial on how to fix it?

Thanks!
(it keeps showing **: o** with no space as the surprise emoji and I don't know how to stop that!)

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-12-02
I'll be honest with you......I have no idea what all those errors mean.  But what I can tell you is this: I rarely see an upgrade from one release to another work well.  Rarely.  And the time spent trying to fix everything is usually wasted as opposed to just doing a clean install after making sure you have everything backed up.

---

### Post by Markardi on 2018-12-04
I guess my concern with doing a clean install is I used Ubuntu's/Linux's software raid rather than a hardware raid on the two 4TB drives.
Will doing a clean install destroy the raid (mirrored)?  This Ubuntu system (raid drives) is my backup location along with my media server.

If I had know that upgrading rarely goes smoothly, I would have just kept 16.04 as it was LTS.

Maybe a better approach is to try and fix one thing at a time?  
I did a search about the no network for file sharing, but the solution did not work for me.
 Is this a known issue and is there a fix in the works?

---

