---
title: "14.04 - Cannot connect to VPN with either Open or PPTP"
date: 2014-05-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by peredur2 on 2014-05-04
I have just upgraded to Ubuntu GNOME 14.04. I have an existing account through PIA and now I can no longer connect to it. The VPN works on all other systems in the house so I know there is no problem there. I have tried both the OpenVPN option as well as PPTP and neither connects for some reason. I notice that on the PIA website the most current instructions they have for OpenVPN is Ubuntu 12.04. For PPTP it is Ubuntu 10.10. I have tried contacting their "tech support" but they really aren't much help.

Does anyone here have any experience with this? Any help is greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by signups on 2014-05-06
I'd like to echo this post. To provide more information:

This problem started immediately after upgrading to 14.04. 
I can connect just fine to the VPN server. Once connected I have no access to the internet. This occurs on PPTP and OpenVPN, and other systems are able to use the VPN connections fine.
I have tried completely purging the system of OpenVPN, then reinstalling. I have tried multiple servers with two protocols. I have disabled IPv6. This problem occurs on multiple WANs.
I suspect a routing problem.

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by Joe_Knapka on 2014-05-10
Maybe this will solve the problem for you, for PPTP: 

*When configuring your VPN connection, in the "Advanced" dialog, be sure that you **UN-CHECK** the PAP, CHAP, and EAP boxes, **AND THEN** check the "Use point-to-point encryption" box. If you don't do those things in that order, NetworkManager will incorrectly leave PAP, CHAP, and EAP enabled.* (It appears PAP, CHAP, and EAP are not OK to have enabled when MPPE is in use, but I'm not sure why that is.) Further details follow.

I can confirm that PPTP connections that work on 13.10 did NOT work for me when configured identically on a new install of 14.04. When I tried to connect on the 14.04 machine, I immediately get a toast saying "The VPN connection failed."

However, I WAS able to connect manually using the pptp-linux package and the instructions here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VPNClient](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VPNClient)

That led me to investigate the config data a bit, and I found at that the pptp-linux configuration had the options refuse-eap, refuse-chap, and refuse-pap enabled. Those options were also enabled for the NetworkManager PPTP connection on the 13.10 box, but were NOT enabled in the PPTP configuration on the 14.04 box. So I added the following lines to the file **/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/MyVPNConnection**:

```

refuse-chap=yes
refuse-eap=yes
refuse-pap=yes

```

After that, the connection succeeded.

Then I realized that when I checked the "point-to-point encryption" box in the VPN configuration, it disabled the PAP, CHAP, and EAP check-boxes, but it did not un-check them. So they stay enabled, even though they look like they aren't.

---

