---
title: "Wnda4100"
date: 2012-11-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-11-29
I'm trying to get my WNDA4100 wireless adapter to work in Ubuntu 12.10. The thing is, there's no driver for it *right*. However when I was installing the OS and was in the disc, it could totally see my wireless network up in the corner.

So the WNDA4100 supposedly can pick up internet during installation but not after? 

Help! I need to use Ubuntu but a wired internet connection is NOT an option. Guhh

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-09
Is there anybody out there? I'd really really like to get my computer online. =(

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-09
Please run and post:```
lsusb
```> The thing is, there's no driver for it *right*.Meaning what?

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-09
Be right back, booting over to Linux.

And meaning it doesn't make sense that there's no driver for it. During the installation of Ubuntu in the corner it could see my wireless connections. It was connecting, but not in actual Ubuntu.

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-09
BUS 003 Device 002: ID 0846:9012 Netgear, Inc. WNDA4100 802.11abgn 3x3 [Ralink RT3573]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-09
> During the installation of Ubuntu in the corner it could see my wireless connections. It was connecting, but not in actual Ubuntu.Perhaps you had the ethernet connected, because the driver installation is a fairly complex process and doesn't yet exist in any version of Ubuntu. You will need to download RT3573 USB here: [http://www.ralinktech.com/en/04_support/support.php?sn=501](http://www.ralinktech.com/en/04_support/support.php?sn=501) 

Drag and drop it to your desktop. Right-click it and select Extract Here. Now we need to modify two files. Navigate to os > linux and open the file config.mk with a text editor such as gedit. Be certain these lines are set to =y:```
# Support Wpa_Supplicant
# i.e. wpa_supplicant -Dralink
HAS_WPA_SUPPLICANT[COLOR="Red"]=y[/COLOR]


# Support Native WpaSupplicant for Network Maganger
# i.e. wpa_supplicant -Dwext
HAS_NATIVE_WPA_SUPPLICANT_SUPPORT[COLOR="Red"]=y[/COLOR]
```Proofread, save and close the text editor. Now navigate to common and open rtusb_dev_id.c with a text editor. Make the change I've highlighted here:```
#endif /* RT35xx */
#ifdef RT3573
	{USB_DEVICE(0x148F,0x3573)}, /* Ralink 3573 */
	{USB_DEVICE(0x7392,0x7733)}, /* Edimax */
	[COLOR="Red"]{USB_DEVICE(0x0846,0x9012)}, /* Netgear */[/COLOR]
	{USB_DEVICE(0x0B05,0x17AD)}, /*ASUS */
#endif /* RT3573 */
	{ }/* Terminating entry */
```All you are doing is adding the highlighted part. All else is unchanged. Punctuation, spacing, brackets, etc. is crucial and must be exact. Proofread, save and close the text editor.

Now we install the necessary build tools:```
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-generic
```Now we compile the driver:```
cd Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0
sudo su
make
make install
modprobe rt3573sta
exit
```Your device should now be working.

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-09
Nope, no way my computer can reach the ethernet. No idea how but during installation it could totally see my home network. Lol. 

Be right back, logging back over to Ubuntu to try this. That will all work without any connection prior?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-09
You will need an ethernet connection, ideally, to do this. It is possible to download many packages on USB key, but that's the last ditch option.

Did you get a connection on an internal wireless device, by any chance?

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-09
I can't get to an ethernet connection. =( And nope, no other wireless but the USB thing, and I can confirm that running the Ubuntu install disc again shows my wireless connections. It's a conspiracy!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-09
Do you have a USB key? Please run the live CD and open a terminal and do:```
lsusb > phys.txt
lsmod  >> phys.txt
dmesg >> phys.txt
iwconfig >> phys.txt
```Find the plain text file phys.txt in your user directory and drag and drop it to the USB key.Then post it here as an attachment using the paperclip tool at the top of the reply box.

:confused: :confused: :confused:

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-13
I don't have the disc currently. Damn roommate cleaned my room and I can't find it anywhere. =|

Do you have any form of instant chat like gtalk or anywhere or can you walk me through getting this thing working without a connection? 

Sorry.

Windows 8 is so awful and I'm dying to switch back to Linux.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-13
> Do you have any form of instant chat like gtalk or anywhere or can you walk me through getting this thing working without a connection? Sorry, all my responses are on the forum so that the searchers can learn the method. I only instant message with my sister and then usually only on her birthday!

I will post instructions in a few minutes. You might start by downloading the RT3573 USB package I linked above. Once we get everything downloaded, we'll transfer them in a batch to your Ubuntu computer and install them.

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-13
Okay. Found a USB drive, got the driver put on it. But I'm guessing there's a few other things I'll need to bring over too?

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-13
Also sorry this is such a pain and I really greatly appreciate all your help. =]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-13
> **ThePhysician said:**
> Okay. Found a USB drive, got the driver put on it. But I'm guessing there's a few other things I'll need to bring over too?Yes, indeed. You will need these packages: build-essential and linux-headers. I suspect that linux-headers is already installed, please check:```
sudp dpkg -s linux-headers-`uname -r`
```Those backticks are on the left side of my US keyboard on the same key with ~. If the report is:> Status: install ok installed..then we can proceed.

build-essential also requires, on a new install, dpkg-dev fakeroot g++ g++-4.6 libalgorithm-diff-perl libalgorithm-diff-xs-perl libalgorithm-merge-perl libdpkg-perl libstdc++6-4.6-dev libtimedate-perl patch

Please go here: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/)  Search for and grab all these packages. Be sure to get the i386 package if your install is 32-bit or amd64 if it is 64-bit. Find out:```
arch
```When all the packages are on the USB, drag and drop them on the desktop. Install all of them with:```
cd Desktop
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```The wildcard * means install *all* the .deb packages. 

Now go back to post #5 and finish up.

If you get stuck, post back and I'll be happy to help.

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-13
I'm sorry, one problem I have is I don't know where those packages break. Like I tried searching for the whole thing and it said nothing, it's just kind of unclear to me since I'm new to this. Can you like.. separate the different packages by a line or comma, or am I doing this wrong? lol

EDIT: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/dpkg-dev](http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/dpkg-dev) This?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-13
> EDIT: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/dpkg-dev](http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/dpkg-dev) This?Exactly. And then this: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/fakeroot](http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/fakeroot)

And so forth...

dpkg-dev 
fakeroot 
g++ 
g++-4.6 
libalgorithm-diff-perl 
libalgorithm-diff-xs-perl 
libalgorithm-merge-perl 
libdpkg-perl 
libstdc++6-4.6-dev 
libtimedate-perl 
patch

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-13
Okay. Grabbing all those. I'm on 64 bit by the way.

Problem, did that first bit of code you told me to do to see if those were installed and it gave back this

```
dpkg-query: package 'linux-headers-3.5.0-17-generic' is not installed and no information is available
Use dpkg --info (= dpkg-deb --info) to examine archive files,
and dpkg --contents (= dpkg-deb --contents) to list their contents.
```

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-13
> package 'linux-headers-3.5.0-17-generic is not installedThen you need it, too: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/linux-headers-3.5.0-17-generic](http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/linux-headers-3.5.0-17-generic) as well as: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/linux-headers-3.5.0-17](http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/linux-headers-3.5.0-17)

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-14
Problem. I did all this, seemed to be going fine. Got to the final step back on the last page. I got to like make install
modprobe rt3573sta and noticed there was an X in a red circle in the corner that told me to do something like "make install -f" to finish something?

Anyways. It can now see my wireless network, but once it connects to it the screen goes all black with text. Bottom lines said something about kernel panic? Errr? 

It doesn't freak out and go to that unless I let it try to connect.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-14
> there was an X in a red circle in the corner that told me to do something like "make install -f" to finish something?
I suspect you have a broken package on your system. Without an internet connection, you can't fix it directly, but you can probably identify the issue and correct it by downloading and installing another, perhaps different package on a USB key. Please open a terminal and do:```
sudo apt-get install -f
```Copy down exactly what it says and we'll try to figure out a solution.

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-14
That gave me no errors and said everything was fine.

However, I tried running all the debs on my desktop again.. and noticed this, sorry I think it happened the first time but I didn't catch it.

```
dpkg: error processing g++-4.6 (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of g++:
 g++ depends on g++-4.7 (>= 4.7.2-1~); however:
  Package g++-4.7 is not installed.

dpkg: error processing g++ (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Setting up libalgorithm-diff-perl (1.19.02-2) ...
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of libstdc++6-4.6-dev:
 libstdc++6-4.6-dev depends on gcc-4.6-base (= 4.6.3-10ubuntu1); however:
  Package gcc-4.6-base is not installed.
 libstdc++6-4.6-dev depends on g++-4.6 (= 4.6.3-10ubuntu1); however:
  Package g++-4.6 is not configured yet.

dpkg: error processing libstdc++6-4.6-dev (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Setting up libtimedate-perl (1.2000-1) ...
Setting up linux-headers-3.5.0-17 (3.5.0-17.28) ...
Setting up linux-headers-3.5.0-17-generic (3.5.0-17.28) ...
Setting up patch (2.6.1-3ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Setting up libalgorithm-merge-perl (0.08-2) ...
Setting up libdpkg-perl (1.16.7ubuntu6) ...
Setting up dpkg-dev (1.16.7ubuntu6) ...
Setting up libalgorithm-diff-xs-perl (0.04-2build3) ...
Errors were encountered while processing:
 g++-4.6
 g++
 libstdc++6-4.6-dev


```

Am I super screwed now that I didn't get those installed completely but already did the stuff on the first page? I mean I can see the wireless networks. 

Could you pretty please link to what else I need to download?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-14
> Package gcc-4.6-base is not installed.Please get and install this: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/gcc-4.6-base](http://packages.ubuntu.com/quantal/gcc-4.6-base)

Then try to reinstall g++-4.6, g++ and libstdc++6-4.6-dev.```
sudo dpkg -i <each one at a time>
```> Am I super screwed now that I didn't get those installed completely but already did the stuff on the first page? After you get all the debs in order, let's redo post #5:```
cd Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0
sudo su
modprobe -r rt3573sta
make clean
make
make install
modprobe rt3573sta
exit
```

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-14
Not going well at all, while trying to do the first one I've now been informed it needs cpp-4.6

I wonder how far back I'm missing.. ugh. I guess.. going to go and try to install cpp-4.6 this time, lol.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-14
In my all too brief experience, you'll find the one or two things that were missing and it will all fall into place. Don't forget to recompile rt3573sta after all the debs are in order.

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-14
I just got all the debs in order, nothing there seems to complain. But during "make" I get some errors I think?

```
root@xan-GA-890FXA-UD5:/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0# make
make -C tools
make[1]: Entering directory `/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/tools'
gcc -g bin2h.c -o bin2h
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/tools'
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/tools/bin2h
cp -f os/linux/Makefile.6 /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/Makefile
make -C /lib/modules/3.5.0-17-generic/build SUBDIRS=/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-3.5.0-17-generic'
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/crypt_md5.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/crypt_sha2.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/crypt_hmac.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/crypt_aes.o
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/crypt_aes.c: In function ‘AES_Key_Wrap’:
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/crypt_aes.c:1466:6: warning: format ‘%d’ expects argument of type ‘int’, but argument 2 has type ‘long unsigned int’ [-Wformat]
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/crypt_aes.c: In function ‘AES_Key_Unwrap’:
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/crypt_aes.c:1561:6: warning: format ‘%d’ expects argument of type ‘int’, but argument 2 has type ‘long unsigned int’ [-Wformat]
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/crypt_arc4.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/mlme.o
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/mlme.c: In function ‘MlmeResetRalinkCounters’:
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/mlme.c:562:3: warning: cast from pointer to integer of different size [-Wpointer-to-int-cast]
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/mlme.c:562:3: warning: cast from pointer to integer of different size [-Wpointer-to-int-cast]
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_wep.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/action.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_data.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rtmp_init.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rtmp_init_inf.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_tkip.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_aes.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_sync.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/eeprom.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_sanity.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_info.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_cfg.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_wpa.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_radar.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/spectrum.o
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/spectrum.c: In function ‘PeerMeasureReportAction’:
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/spectrum.c:1972:3: warning: format ‘%d’ expects argument of type ‘int’, but argument 3 has type ‘long unsigned int’ [-Wformat]
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rtmp_timer.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rt_channel.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_profile.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_asic.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_cmd.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../rate_ctrl/ra_ctrl.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../rate_ctrl/alg_legacy.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../rate_ctrl/alg_ags.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rtmp_chip.o
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rtmp_chip.c: In function ‘RTMPReadChannelPwr’:
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rtmp_chip.c:1336:2: warning: ISO C90 forbids mixed declarations and code [-Wdeclaration-after-statement]
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../sta/assoc.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../sta/auth.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../sta/auth_rsp.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../sta/sync.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../sta/sanity.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../sta/rtmp_data.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../sta/connect.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../sta/wpa.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../sta/sta_cfg.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rt_os_util.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../rate_ctrl/alg_grp.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/ba_action.o
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/ba_action.c: In function ‘convert_reordering_packet_to_preAMSDU_or_802_3_packet’:
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/ba_action.c:1553:2: warning: assignment makes integer from pointer without a cast [enabled by default]
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rt_led.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_mac_usb.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rtusb_io.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rtusb_data.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_data_usb.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rtmp_mcu.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/ee_prom.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/ee_efuse.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rt_rf.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rtusb_bulk.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rt28xx.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rt30xx.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rt35xx.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rt3593.o
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rt3593.c: In function ‘RT3593_ChipSwitchChannel’:
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rt3593.c:855:16: warning: comparison of distinct pointer types lacks a cast [enabled by default]
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rt3593.c:872:16: warning: comparison of distinct pointer types lacks a cast [enabled by default]
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../chips/rt3593.c:890:15: warning: comparison of distinct pointer types lacks a cast [enabled by default]
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/rtusb_dev_id.o
  CC [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/frq_cal.o
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/frq_cal.c: In function ‘FrequencyCalibration’:
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/frq_cal.c:198:18: warning: comparison of distinct pointer types lacks a cast [enabled by default]
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/frq_cal.c:211:18: warning: comparison of distinct pointer types lacks a cast [enabled by default]
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/frq_cal.c:227:18: warning: comparison of distinct pointer types lacks a cast [enabled by default]
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/frq_cal.c:252:18: warning: comparison of distinct pointer types lacks a cast [enabled by default]
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/frq_cal.c:265:18: warning: comparison of distinct pointer types lacks a cast [enabled by default]
/home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/frq_cal.c:281:18: warning: comparison of distinct pointer types lacks a cast [enabled by default]
  LD [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/rt3573sta.o
  Building modules, stage 2.
  MODPOST 1 modules
  LD [M]  /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/rt3573sta.ko
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-3.5.0-17-generic'
cp -f /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/rt3573sta.ko /tftpboot


```

Anyways. I unplugged the device when I did modprobe because it wouldn't let me do it with it plugged in. When I finished up and got out of that and plugged it back in everything was fun until it connected. Then I got a black screen of death with a bunch of text. 

It seems like whenever I try to do something internet related the whole thing crashes.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-14
I see warnings, but not errors. Would you please check this for me?```
cat /var/log/syslog | grep -i -e rt3 -e rt2 | tail -n20
```I think this is a 64-bit issue.

I am studying here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2092888&highlight=64-bit+ralink](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2092888&highlight=64-bit+ralink)

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-14
Yup. Brb. That'd be my luck. Every new release I hear 64 bit is more stable but that's never the case.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-14
> **ThePhysician said:**
> Yup. Brb. That'd be my luck. Every new release I hear 64 bit is more stable but that's never the case.I wouldn't cry if you decided to reinstall 32-bit. I actually think 64-bit is superior but the rt3573sta driver isn't yet written correctly for 64-bit. Let's see what the errors look like first.

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-14
```
Dec 14 16:33:24 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [  470.255667] usbcore: registered new interface driver rt2870
Dec 14 16:33:36 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [  482.272976] <==== rt28xx_init, Status=0
Dec 14 16:33:37 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [  483.236474] <==== rt28xx_init, Status=0
Dec 14 16:33:37 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [  483.254852] /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_asic.c:2583 assert KeyIdx < 4failed
Dec 14 16:33:37 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [  483.256476] /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_asic.c:2583 assert KeyIdx < 4failed
Dec 14 16:33:46 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [  492.904576] <==== rt28xx_init, Status=0
Dec 14 16:56:51 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   12.949838] [drm]     CRT2: INTERNAL_KLDSCP_DAC2
Dec 14 16:56:51 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   12.978755] rtusb init rt2870 --->
Dec 14 16:56:51 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   12.979598] usbcore: registered new interface driver rt2870
Dec 14 16:56:52 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   14.602384] <==== rt28xx_init, Status=0
Dec 14 16:56:53 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   15.557129] <==== rt28xx_init, Status=0
Dec 14 16:56:53 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   15.790820] /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_asic.c:2583 assert KeyIdx < 4failed
Dec 14 16:56:53 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   15.791443] /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_asic.c:2583 assert KeyIdx < 4failed
Dec 14 17:01:20 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   12.443927] [drm]     CRT2: INTERNAL_KLDSCP_DAC2
Dec 14 17:01:20 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   12.464424] rtusb init rt2870 --->
Dec 14 17:01:20 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   12.465291] usbcore: registered new interface driver rt2870
Dec 14 17:01:21 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   14.011971] <==== rt28xx_init, Status=0
Dec 14 17:01:22 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   14.965347] <==== rt28xx_init, Status=0
Dec 14 17:01:22 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   15.076445] /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_asic.c:2583 assert KeyIdx < 4failed
Dec 14 17:01:22 xan-GA-890FXA-UD5 kernel: [   15.077067] /home/xan/Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/../../common/cmm_asic.c:2583 assert KeyIdx < 4failed

```

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-14
Also, the black screen of death says this toward the top of what looks important, haha. 

kernel BUG at /build/buildd/linux-3.5.0/net/core/skbuff.c:127!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-14
> kernel BUG at /build/buildd/linux-3.5.0/net/core/**skbuff.c**:127!It's a 64-bit issue for sure. 

I must depart for a dinner date with Mrs. Chili. I will study further and report back later, perhaps tomorrow. In the meantime, you might email Ralink to ask about this: > filename:       Desktop/Forum/hours/Linux/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0/os/linux/rt3573sta.ko
version:        2.5.0.0
license:        GPL
description:    RT2870 Wireless Lan Linux Driver
[COLOR="Red"]author:         Paul Lin <paul_lin@ralinktech.com>[/COLOR]
srcversion:     8ABC831F2D99D3C564A9FFA
Be sure to give them:```
arch
lsb_release -a
uname -a
```Feel free to refer them to this thread.

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-14
Alrighty, thanks for all the help. I'm about to install 32 bit and try everything over.

---

### Post by iLikeRuby on 2012-12-15
Hi,

I have the exact same problem.  I've been going nuts trying to get this thing to work. I have two RT5370 devices and when I go to use them after a fresh install of the OS, they are really really slow.  Anyway, installed the driver under Linux Mint 14 (but also tried Ubuntu 12.10), and when I go to connect to the wireless device, the computer freezes and displays a kernels panic screen as already described.  I've reinstalled the OS and same problem.  I am using x64.  This is really annoying and I can't use Linux if I don't have Internet access!!!

I hope there's a patch or something!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-15
> **iLikeRuby said:**
> Hi,

I have the exact same problem.  I've been going nuts trying to get this thing to work. I have two RT5370 devices and when I go to use them after a fresh install of the OS, they are really really slow.  Anyway, installed the driver under Linux Mint 14 (but also tried Ubuntu 12.10), and when I go to connect to the wireless device, the computer freezes and displays a kernels panic screen as already described.  I've reinstalled the OS and same problem.  I am using x64.  This is really annoying and I can't use Linux if I don't have Internet access!!!

I hope there's a patch or something!I suggest you start your own new thread. This thread is for rt3573sta.

---

### Post by iLikeRuby on 2012-12-15
Okay.

I just thought that since the symptoms are exactly the same, the problem would probably  e the same and therefore the solution would probably be the same.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-15
> **iLikeRuby said:**
> Okay.

I just thought that since the symptoms are exactly the same, the problem would probably  e the same and therefore the solution would probably be the same.I'm waiting with a suggested solution...

---

### Post by DanZimm on 2012-12-16
Chili:

First off, people like you are insanely awesome. I have been googling around for a couple hours on the netgear wnda4100 driver and in just about every response your expertise shows up. So on behalf of all those who find this page, thank you!

Next I have the same kernel panic issue (meaning whenever I connect to the internet via the 3573 driver I get a kernel panic) and am on a 64 bit machine running the 64 bit version of 12.10.

My question is mainly how I could help to debug this? Should I just email the author as you suggested above? Should I get a core dump from the panic and then investigate from there? This is my first time coming over to linux and am used to the debugging Darwin but I'm sure there are similarities

If you want my lsusb, dmesg | grep rt3 and whatnot I would be glad to post it, just let me know what you would like to see :D

Thanks again mate!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-16
I have a highly experimental, may work, may not work suggestion. We are blazing a new trail here and you will be our scout. I suspect that skbuff.c is the culprit. Please see the link above. 

I noticed, Googling my afternoons away, that Opensuse has a patch for 64-bit Ralink drivers that we may adapt. [https://build.opensuse.org/package/view_file?file=rt5390sta-2.5.0.3-gcc-warnings-x86_64.patch&package=rt5390sta&project=driver%3Awireless&rev=a7e4da2081184d73d90ca63987d54734](https://build.opensuse.org/package/view_file?file=rt5390sta-2.5.0.3-gcc-warnings-x86_64.patch&package=rt5390sta&project=driver%3Awireless&rev=a7e4da2081184d73d90ca63987d54734)

The plain meaning of the patch is to open the file os/linux/rt_linux.c with a text editor. Find the lines about line 508 (??) that reads:```
                skb_reserve(skb, 2);
		NdisMoveMemory(skb->tail, pHeader802_3, HdrLen);
		skb_put(skb, HdrLen);
		NdisMoveMemory(skb->tail, pData, DataSize);
		skb_put(skb, DataSize);
```And change it to:```
 
 		skb_reserve(skb, 2);
		NdisMoveMemory(skb_tail_pointer(skb), pHeader802_3, HdrLen);
 		skb_put(skb, HdrLen);
		NdisMoveMemory(skb_tail_pointer(skb), pData, DataSize);
 		skb_put(skb, DataSize);
```All before and after is unchanged. Spacing, spelling, grammer, manners and cleanliness must be perfect. Proofread carefully...twice...save and close the text editor. Now recompile:```
cd Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0  [COLOR="Red"]<--or wherever you extracted the package[/COLOR]
sudo su
make clean
make
make install
modprobe rt3573sta
exit
```We anxiously await your report.

Thank you very much for your kind words. I enjoy what I do all the more when I get them.

---

### Post by DanZimm on 2012-12-16
So I reinstalled ubuntu 12.10 in order to eliminate any extraneous variables
With your patch I still got a crash but this time for some reason I was able to see the entire log of the kernel panic, INCLUDING the call trace

here is a picture of the entire log: [http://goo.gl/3nNUF](http://goo.gl/3nNUF)

and I am going to be looking into skb_try_coalesce

---

### Post by DanZimm on 2012-12-16
By no means am I a Linux kernel guru but I might have tracked down where exactly in the kernel it is tripping up...

[http://lxr.free-electrons.com/source/net/core/skbuff.c#L3398](http://lxr.free-electrons.com/source/net/core/skbuff.c#L3398)

If you look at line 3409 it calls skb_put and then if you look at skb_put ( [http://lxr.free-electrons.com/source/net/core/skbuff.c#L1232](http://lxr.free-electrons.com/source/net/core/skbuff.c#L1232) ) then at line 1238 it ends up doing the following:

```
 
if (__builtin_expect(!!(skb->tail > skb->end), 0)
    skb_over_panic(...);


```

and from my understanding that is essentially the following:

```


if ((skb->tail > skb->end) != 0)
    skb_over_panic(...);


```

or more clearly:

```


if (skb->tail > skb->end)
    panic(...);


```

While I am not sure what the skb buffer is used for I have the understanding that it has to do with networking. Unfortunately I do not have nearly enough understanding on the linux kernel to properly debug the driver to see where it is going wrong

Anyways if you have any other proposed fixes I will gladly try them. Happy researching! I know I will be :P

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-16
> Happy researching! I know I will beThat's all I know to do and I will.

You might email Ralink as suggested above. If they, by any chance, send you a 64-bit version, be sure to share it. I can put it on Dropbox.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-16
> **DanZimm said:**
> So I reinstalled ubuntu 12.10 in order to eliminate any extraneous variables
With your patch I still got a crash but this time for some reason I was able to see the entire log of the kernel panic, INCLUDING the call trace

here is a picture of the entire log: [http://goo.gl/3nNUF](http://goo.gl/3nNUF)

and I am going to be looking into skb_try_coalesceOur old friend skbuff...

---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2012-12-16
Yeah the only way I got mine to work was to reinstall as 32bit and then follow all those directions. Except with a lot of other dependencies needed as I mentioned earlier. cpp and stuff. But yeah it all works on 32 bit.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-12-16
> **ThePhysician said:**
> Yeah the only way I got mine to work was to reinstall as 32bit and then follow all those directions. Except with a lot of other dependencies needed as I mentioned earlier. cpp and stuff. But yeah it all works on 32 bit.I'm glad it's working at last but sorry it took a re-install. Now that it works, I'd do:```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic
sudo apt-get upgrade
```No doubt, the update will install a later kernel version, also known as linux-image. When you reboot, recompile:```
cd Desktop/DPO_RT3573_LinuxSTA_V2.5.0.0  [COLOR="Red"]<--or wherever you extracted the package[/COLOR]
sudo su
make clean
make
make install
modprobe rt3573sta
exit
```This will be required with each newer kernel until the driver is included in the mainline kernel.

---

