---
title: "802.11n not available on Ubuntu 10.10"
date: 2010-12-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by NexusN on 2010-12-19
Hi, thank you for reading.
I am using Ubuntu 10.10 on my notebook with wireless card Intel WiFi Link 5100.
Before switching to Ubuntu 10.10 I was using Windows 7x64 and I can connect to my router with 802.11n 300Mbps mode.

But now I found that the maximum speed under Ubuntu 10.10 is only 54Mbps and the BT speed is limited to 2.4MB/s(it used to be 9.8MB/s).

Is there any solution to it?
Thank you.

---

### Post by Souliz on 2010-12-27
+1

---

### Post by pedro.nariyoshi on 2011-01-03
I think there were some problems with the iwlagn driver while running at n rates. On Ubuntu they're disabled by default.

Try this:
```
sudo mv /etc/modprobe.d/intel-5300-iwlagn-disable11n.conf /etc/modprobe.d/intel-5300-iwlagn-disable11n.conf.bak
sudo rmmod -f iwlagn
sudo modprobe iwlagn
```

Check the original information at: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10023411#post10023411](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10023411#post10023411)

---

### Post by 3602 on 2011-01-03
I just noticed the same thing, although I don't download much anyway.
If the N-stuff is unstable, I'll just rename that file back and all will be fine, yes?

---

### Post by NexusN on 2011-01-03
> **pedro.nariyoshi said:**
> I think there were some problems with the iwlagn driver while running at n rates. On Ubuntu they're disabled by default.

Try this:
```
sudo mv /etc/modprobe.d/intel-5300-iwlagn-disable11n.conf /etc/modprobe.d/intel-5300-iwlagn-disable11n.conf.bak
sudo rmmod -f iwlagn
sudo modprobe iwlagn
```

Check the original information at: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10023411#post10023411](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10023411#post10023411)

Sorry for the late reply,
yes I have done the same thing before and successfully got the n mode but it was extremely unstable, dropped after some minus and never connect until restart....

---

### Post by jasrot1318 on 2011-01-12
Yeah, I'm new here. Same problem (with Intel link 5300.) No N access, I can see the router in my list and I can even attempt to connect to it but it keeps asking me for the wpa2 key, I'm the one who made it, its correct lol.

Has anyone found a stable working way to use 802.11n on this yet? 

I mean its a deal breaker for me, I have fios and the router they supplied doesn't even broadcast at the internet speeds ive subscribed to. So I have an N router and I have speed to spare. My router is at the other end of my house, its not moving and I like the fact that I can go to my garage or even the neighbors house and still access my internet and network with 0 problems, in windows. 

I love Linux and I was willing to keep it but this will seal the deal on going back to windows.
So any and all help will be appreciated!!

---

### Post by jasrot1318 on 2011-01-12
addendum ^^^ ive gotten it to work with enabling N
Ill post results, if I have an trouble, after I play around with Voip, NAS, etc etc

---

### Post by NexusN on 2011-01-12
> **jasrot1318 said:**
> addendum ^^^ ive gotten it to work with enabling N
Ill post results, if I have an trouble, after I play around with Voip, NAS, etc etc

but do you face any problem after using that mode?
I have tried to use N mode for my notebook with 5100 by changing the value of the file mentioned above but there is a problem of disconnection after some minutes.

---

### Post by jasrot1318 on 2011-01-17
Ehh, it works fine for some hours, then it slows to less thna b speeds its horrible i just restart, but once i updated my system i cant even get it to see my n router
so no this hasnt fixed anything now

---

### Post by compuguy1088 on 2011-03-21
> **pedro.nariyoshi said:**
> I think there were some problems with the iwlagn driver while running at n rates. On Ubuntu they're disabled by default.

Try this:
```
sudo mv /etc/modprobe.d/intel-5300-iwlagn-disable11n.conf /etc/modprobe.d/intel-5300-iwlagn-disable11n.conf.bak
sudo rmmod -f iwlagn
sudo modprobe iwlagn
```

Check the original information at: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10023411#post10023411](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10023411#post10023411)

Thanks for posting this. I have a Latitude D620 (Core Duo) that I swapped the 3945ABG for the 4965AGN. It seemed odd that it was not running at N speeds. This did the trick!

---

### Post by makrylemis on 2011-03-23
Hi I have been having similar problems with my 5100. If I go wired I get what I pay for, on wireless I connect with half the speed usually which is not that bad but gets to my nerves every time I realise I could be getting more. I am a bit sceptical about enabling N wireless since its not that stable from what people are saying about it. So I don't want to mess anything for now because I am relatively new to ubuntu (10.10 on Sony Vaio FW21M)so the moment I have a 20m ethernet cable across the house which solves the problem for now, although I tend to trip over it from time to time.

---

### Post by NexusN on 2011-03-23
> **makrylemis said:**
> Hi I have been having similar problems with my 5100. If I go wired I get what I pay for, on wireless I connect with half the speed usually which is not that bad but gets to my nerves every time I realise I could be getting more. I am a bit sceptical about enabling N wireless since its not that stable from what people are saying about it. So I don't want to mess anything for now because I am relatively new to ubuntu (10.10 on Sony Vaio FW21M)so the moment I have a 20m ethernet cable across the house which solves the problem for now, although I tend to trip over it from time to time.

It looks a driver issue on ubuntu, hopefully a fix will be available soon.

---

### Post by andypost on 2011-03-26
> **NexusN said:**
> Hi, thank you for reading.
Before switching to Ubuntu 10.10 I was using Windows 7x64 and I can connect to my router with 802.11n 300Mbps mode.


Got the same issue with ath9k driver. Laptop can connect but data could not be send.

Setting my router into 802.11b/g mode ubuntu works fine...

---

### Post by leejkennedy on 2011-04-18
I was having this exact issue recently and by re-setting the wireless security to use WPA2 and AES.  I'm now getting 150Mbps. It's strange but my windows 7 Home Premium dual boot could cope with my previous wireless settings which were WPA/WPA2-PSK with TKIP algorithm, but Ubuntu Maverick would just not work at a higher speed than 54Mbps until I reset as described.

FYI this was with the ath9k driver, I'm not sure if this fix is specific to my network card (an Atheros AR9285 built into a Samsung laptop) and hope this helps..

If anyone knows how to get 300Mbps please let me know :)

---

