---
title: "14.04 won't connect to password protected network - continuously asks for password"
date: 2015-02-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by hausekey on 2015-02-18
Hi everyone, 

My wireless connections were working perfectly until yesterday, when it suddenly stopped connecting to my wifi. It would continuously ask for a password which I enter correctly every time, and then eventually give up and connect to an unprotected network (no password required). The only possible change I have made was installing updates from Software Updater, but again, I'm not sure if that caused the problem.

I'm at university, so I use the school's password protected network, but since I can't connect to it anymore, I'm currently on the guest wifi network.

I used Wubi to install Ubuntu, and my laptop connects the networks just fine in Windows 7, and can only connect to unprotected wifis in Ubuntu. Again, it used to work perfectly, and then stopped working.

I have been working on this problem for hours now, and would really love any help.

Let me know if there is another thread that I could go to for this problem. Thanks!

Information when I run the Wireless wget script (I'm pretty new to Linux/Ubuntu so I don't know how to analyze it just yet):
[http://pastebin.com/RAf6LNDH](http://pastebin.com/RAf6LNDH)

---

### Post by hausekey on 2015-02-19
Hi jeremy31, thank you for the response, after I followed the instructions listed from that forum, and rebooted, I now have a new problem. 

First there is an error before the loading screen that states:

> iwlwifi 0000:03:00.0: failed to load module iwldvm (error 256), is dynamic loading enabled?

It is as if my computer can no longer have wireless access and "Enable Wireless" is gone from the Network Manager. I am currently on Windows 7 now since my laptop on Ubuntu can't access the Internet anymore.

I did some googling on the error, and the biggest hint I have is when I type the command 

```
dmesg | grep iwl
``` 

I get these messages:
[http://pastebin.com/9s8v6SwF](http://pastebin.com/9s8v6SwF)

The trend I see is that it seems like I have downloaded the wrong version: 
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Consolas]> loaded firmware version 39.31.5.1 build 35138 op_mode iwldvm

[/FONT][/COLOR]which leads to iwldvm not being able agree with the version?

If anyone knows how I can fix this and troubleshoot it, please let me know.

---

### Post by hausekey on 2015-02-19
The closest answer that I found online was this askubuntu thread:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/417436/networkmanager-doesnt-see-my-wireless-card](http://askubuntu.com/questions/417436/networkmanager-doesnt-see-my-wireless-card)

When I follow along the continued chat below:
[http://chat.stackexchange.com/rooms/12893/discussion-between-chili555-and-thaweatherman](http://chat.stackexchange.com/rooms/12893/discussion-between-chili555-and-thaweatherman) 

 I am not sure how to check my computer's driver package.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2015-02-20
Sorry posted that link in the wrong thread but it is simple to undue
```
cd ~/backports-3.18.1-1
```
```
sudo make uninstall
```
Reboot and it should be back to where it was

I would use the grub menu to select Advanced Options for Ubuntu or Previous Versions and select an older kernel to see if a kernel update might have caused the issue

---

### Post by hausekey on 2015-02-21
Thanks, and I have solved my problem, somehow... magically... after hours of confusion and frustration. For the kernel update part, I got reckless and reinstalled Ubuntu (I have all of my necessary files backed anyways), and the problem still arised.

After hours of trying different methods, I ended up using this simple solution:

[http://dept.stat.lsa.umich.edu/~jerrick/wicd_mwireless.html](http://dept.stat.lsa.umich.edu/~jerrick/wicd_mwireless.html)

Of downloading WICD and using PEAP with GTC. Emphasis on:
> **Note:** There's apparently a bug which results in "Bad Password" errors. Using PEAP with GTC may work.

I'm guessing the fact that I was trying to connect to this university network that uses WPA2 with PEAP made everything more complicated...

---

