---
title: "Connected but no connection. I learn quick IFCONFIG Please help!"
date: 2014-05-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jepse2 on 2014-05-24
Hi, i installed Ubuntu 14.04 and it seems to be connected to my router(wired) but i have no internet.
I am willing to take the time and wait for answers i'm only missing this part!!

When i do ifconfig i get this: 

eth0       

Link encap:Ethernet   HWaddr  bc:5f:f4:81:3f:d6
inet addr:192.168.1.1   Bcast:192.168.1.255   Mask:255.255.255.0
inet6 addr: fe80::be5f:f4ff:fe81:3fd6/64 Scope:Link
UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST   MTU:1500   Metric:1
RX packets:0 errors:1134 dropped:0 overruns:1133 frame:1
TX packets:290 errors:0 dropped:36 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)   TX bytes: 50859 (50.8KB)

lo

Link encap:Local Loopback
inet addr:127.0.0.1   Mask:255.255.255.0
inet6 addr: ::11/128 Scope:Host
UP LOOPBACK RUNNING   MTU:65536  Metric:1
RX packets:5113 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:5113 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
RX bytes:406313 (406.3 KB)   TX bytes:406313 (406.3 KB)


I am patiently waiting for the next troubleshooting steps :) 

Thanks you very much in advance! 


Jepse

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-05-24
Hi jepse2. Welcome to the forum ):P

Could you open a terminal, run these commands, and post the output (you can copy/paste the text)?
```
route -n

nslookup ubuntu.com

dig ubuntuforums.com

cat /etc/resolv.conf

nm-tool
```
Regards.

---

### Post by jepse2 on 2014-05-24
Hi, wow thanks for the short notice answer!

althought i couldnt copy/paste because im using a laptop to fix the Ubuntu Desktop but not a problem i will type it all! 

[[UPDATE]] i openned a virtual box inside windows i will be able to to copy paste i think

ok so...

route -n gives me:

Destination          Gateway          Genmask            Flags    Metric    Ref        Use   Iface
0.0.0.0               192.168.1.1       0.0.0.0              UG        0          0           0      eth0


nslookup ubuntu.com  

connection Timed out; no servers could be reached

dig ubuntu.com

DiG 9.9.5-3-Ubuntu  <<>>  ubuntuforums.com
;; global options: +cmd
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

cat /etc/resolv.conf
#Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#        DO NOT EDIT BLAH BLAH BLAH
nameserver 127.0.1.1


nm-tool

State: connected (global)

-Device: eth0  [Home] -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Type:             Wired
Driver:            Forcedeth
State:            Connected
Default:          Yes
HW Address:    BC:5F:F4:81:3F:D6

Capabilities:
Carrier detect:     Yes
Speed:               100 Mb/s

Wired properties
Carrier:               On

IPV4 settings:
Address:           192.168.1.112
Prefix:              24  (255.255.255.0)
Gateway           192.168.1.1

DNS:                192.168.1.1

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-05-24
Thanks.

I image that your routes is 192.168.1.1 is your router? Does it provide DNS services?

Could you ping the router?
```
ping 192.168.1.1
```
Are you able to access Google public DNS?
```
nslookup ubuntu.com 8.8.8.8
```
Regards.

---

### Post by jepse2 on 2014-05-24
Hi, Thanks again for following...it is my first forum experience tho :3

I am rebooting into Ubuntu to enter these commands because internet works in virtual box so answers wouldnt be right, ill post results in 2,3 minutes time to boot and try them

tyty

---

### Post by jepse2 on 2014-05-24
Huh Destination Host unreachable, i am just really bad with IPV4 setting i think :( sorry

It does say i am connected with the up/down arrows tho. I am confused

but no internet

does it have to do with drivers?

still trying to find a way to communicate the screen faster

thanks

---

### Post by jepse2 on 2014-05-26
[SOLVED] Hi, if you read this post and like me you tried everything... Are you running a AM3+ CPU? if you do, are you running it a Asrock motherboard? if you do keep reading...

There is problem with forcedeth mod(doesnt matter if you dont know what it is) i found a post that solved my problem and Fixed the "Shut down/Restart" issue as well so...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-2020571.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-2020571.html)  

Achkap explains the steps to fix and gives a permanent fix as well. 

VOILA! 
Big thanks to Papibe for looking into my problem!

Long live Linux!

---

