---
title: "AR424x 802.11abg + Jaunty + Wicd = No Wireless"
date: 2009-07-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by space-cake on 2009-07-14
Same old, same old. No wireless after I upgraded to Jaunty. 

lspci

[INDENT]02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR242x 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)
06:00.0 Ethernet controller: Attansic Technology Corp. L2 100 Mbit Ethernet Adapter (rev a0)[/INDENT]

lshw -C network

[INDENT]*-network               
       description: Wireless interface
       product: AR242x 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter
       vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: wmaster0
       version: 01
       serial: xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath5k latency=0 module=ath5k multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg
[/INDENT]

iwconfig

[INDENT]lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wmaster0  no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:""  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.412 GHz  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Tx-Power=27 dBm   
          Retry min limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr=2352 B   
          Encryption key:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality:0  Signal level:0  Noise level:0
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0[/INDENT]

I installed madwifi-trunck branch as described in [this]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/new-madwifi-now-supports-ar2425-in-madwifi-trunk-branch.html") post, but to no avail.

I'm using Wicd. Any ideas?

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-07-14
As your lshw shows, the wireless interface is still associated with the ath5k driver, so you should blacklist that one to stop it from loading and remove the ath_pci from the blacklist, so it gets loaded on boot.

Blacklist files can be found from */etc/modprobe.d/* and by default on Jaunty there's a file named *blacklist-ath_pci.conf*, which blacklists ath_pci and should be deleted (or the only meaningful line inside it commented), if you want to use the trunk version of ath_pci you installed.

After that just reboot and check lshw again to see if it swapped the driver.

---

### Post by space-cake on 2009-07-14
Thanks for the reply!

Ath_pci istn't blacklisted anymore, but the wireless interface is still associated with ath5k driver after I rebooted. How can I change this?

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-07-14
So, you blacklisted ath5k and it's still getting loaded? That's odd.


To temprarily (will only last until your next boot) fix it, try running the following commands (will unload ath5k and load ath_pci): ```
sudo modprobe -r ath5k
sudo modprobe ath_pci
```

---

### Post by space-cake on 2009-07-15
My bad, I thought I've saved the changes in the blacklist file, but it turns out I haven't. It all works well now. Thank your for your help!

---

