---
title: "Errors Tethering Blackjack"
date: 2007-07-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ds_sp00k on 2007-07-26
Hello!

This [**post**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=496389&page=2") describes how to tether a Samsung Blackjack to Ubuntu for modem use via USB.

I'm pretty sure I didn't hose up the procedure, but I receiving the following errors:

[INDENT]--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATX3
ATX3
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Sending: AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","isp.cingular"
AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","isp.cingular"
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT*99#
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT*99#
CONNECT
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
--> Don't know what to do!  Starting pppd and hoping for the best.
--> Starting pppd at Thu Jul 26 17:38:37 2007
--> Pid of pppd: 7719
--> Using interface ppp0
--> Disconnecting at Thu Jul 26 17:38:38 2007
--> The PPP daemon has died: A modem hung up the phone (exit code = 16)
--> man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
--> Try again and look into /var/log/messages and the wvdial and pppd man pages for more information.[/INDENT]

I looked over the pppd man, but couldn't find anything of use.  Can someone please give me a nudge (or shove) in the right direction?  Thanks!

---

### Post by ds_sp00k on 2007-07-27
bump

---

### Post by gangalee on 2007-08-13
bumpity bump

---

### Post by ds_sp00k on 2007-08-20
Bump Bump

---

### Post by bunted on 2007-08-30
I have this exact same problem.  Any one have any ideas?  I really want to get this to work.  Don't make me dual boot windows just to be able to surf the net on the road!

Is it possible that the name change from cingular to at&t has made the above information change?

---

### Post by infornogr4phy on 2007-09-02
sigh also getting this problem, anyone any ideas?

---

### Post by bdcheung on 2008-04-09
Also getting the same error.

---

