---
title: "router and weird DNS server"
date: 2013-03-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by contremaitre on 2013-03-22
Hi,

I have a netgear router configured to act as DHCP server.
My ubuntu computer get an IP, but there is a weird thing about DNS.
It seems it get 127.0.1.1 as DNS IP.
```

cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

```

```

dig www.google.com
[...]
;; SERVER: 127.0.1.1#53(127.0.1.1)

```

I can access websites, but I have an issue with a program which call [res_query]("http://linux.about.com/library/cmd/blcmdl3_res_query.htm") function. It timeouts.
If I boot under windows, I correctly get my router IP  as DNS server (192.168.0.1).

If I manually set some DNS in the network configuration tool, the res_query function works fine. 
But I would like to avoid that, and to understand what's going wrong here.

Thanks.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2013-03-22
In recent Ubuntu versions, they run a local DNS server, **dnsmasq**, and use that to serve the local PC. The idea is that it is able to cope with the additions and removal of VPN connections. You could either figure out how to configure dnsmasq, or you could remove the symlink from /etc/resolv.conf to /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf (which is auto-written by something when you boot) and write your own static config file.

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-03-25
> If I manually set some DNS in the network configuration tool

Which network configuration tool are you referring to here?

On Ubuntu Desktop 12.04 and higher, NetworkManager starts a dnsmasq instance as a local forwarding nameserver listening at 127.0.0.1 (in Ubuntu 12.04) or 127.0.1.1 (in Ubuntu 12.10 and higher). That's the address you see in resolv.conf. The upstream nameserver address is provided to dnsmasq so that dnsmasq can forward DNS queries to that address.

If you want to disable the NetworkManager-controlled dnsmasq instance, edit /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf and comment out the line "dns=dnsmasq". (Put a '#' at the beginning of the line.) Then do "sudo restart network-manager". After this you will see the upstream nameserver address in resolv.conf instead of 127.0.0.1. (That's assuming you didn't disable dynamic updating of resolv.conf by deleting the symbolic link at /etc/resolv.conf &#8212; which isn't recommended.)

---

### Post by contremaitre on 2013-04-05
Thank you,
I found the DNS used with the command nm-tool

So my problem is that when I use the DNS provided by my router, (192.168.0.1), the name resolution seems slow and res_query function timeout.
In my router settings I can see the DNS it use is the DNS provided by my ISP.

If I set my ISP DNS in networkmanager, then the res_query function works correctly.

How can I check if this is an issue with my router ?
I don't have this problem on windows when I am in DHCP.

---

### Post by cf16 on 2013-05-08
my problem is the same

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-05-09
> **The Cog said:**
> In recent Ubuntu versions, they run a local DNS server, **dnsmasq**, and use that to serve the local PC. The idea is that it is able to cope with the additions and removal of VPN connections.

That is true of Ubuntu Desktop, not of Ubuntu Server. Ubuntu Desktop includes NetworkManager in the default install and NetworkManager by default starts a slave instance of dnsmasq, using it as a forwarding nameserver listening at 127.0.1.1.

> You could either figure out how to configure dnsmasq, or you could remove the symlink from /etc/resolv.conf to /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf (which is auto-written by something when you boot) and write your own static config file.

This is a bit confused. The NetworkManager-controlled dnsmasq feature is distinct from the resolvconf feature. You can have either one without the other.

There is no good reason to disable resolvconf (by removing the symlink /etc/resolv.conf -> ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf) but there are known showstopper bugs in dnsmasq which make it advisable to disable the NetworkManager-controlled dnsmasq instance (by commenting out `dns=dnsmasq` in /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf).

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-05-09
> **contremaitre said:**
> So my problem is that when I use the DNS provided by my router, (192.168.0.1), the name resolution seems slow and res_query function timeout.
In my router settings I can see the DNS it use is the DNS provided by my ISP.

If I set my ISP DNS in networkmanager, then the res_query function works correctly.

How can I check if this is an issue with my router ?
I don't have this problem on windows when I am in DHCP.

Your statements are still a bit ambiguous so let's see if I have understood correctly.

Your Windows machine receives the nameserver address 192.168.0.1. This is the address of your router. Your router's upstream nameserver address is <isp-nameserver-address>. The Windows machine works fine.

Your Ubuntu machine receives the nameserver address 192.168.0.1. Its /etc/resolv.conf contains 127.0.1.1. Name service doesn't work properly. But if you put <isp-nameserver-address> in the "Additional DNS servers" field pertaining to your network connection then name service works properly.

If the above is correct then I think that dnsmasq could be the problem. Many, many people are affected by bug #1003842, for example, and you could be another such person.

* [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dnsmasq/+bug/1003842](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dnsmasq/+bug/1003842)

Disable the NetworkManager-controlled dnsmasq instance as I described in my previous post. Even if doing that doesn't solve the problem it will simplify your DNS setup which will help with debugging. Most people don't need a local forwarding nameserver.

---

### Post by contremaitre on 2013-06-18
> **jdthood said:**
> Your statements are still a bit ambiguous so let's see if I have understood correctly.

Your Windows machine receives the nameserver address 192.168.0.1. This is the address of your router. Your router's upstream nameserver address is <isp-nameserver-address>. The Windows machine works fine.

Your Ubuntu machine receives the nameserver address 192.168.0.1. Its /etc/resolv.conf contains 127.0.1.1. Name service doesn't work properly. But if you put <isp-nameserver-address> in the "Additional DNS servers" field pertaining to your network connection then name service works properly.


Yes that is exactly what's going on.

Unforntunately, removing the dnsmasq line in /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf does not solve the issue.

---

