---
title: "Restricted IP access thru RAS box"
date: 2007-12-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bigdaddyweed on 2007-12-08
Hello guys and gals, I am in need of a little help here again.

I have a ubuntu 6.06 box setup as in a dial-in Remote Access Server. The users dial-in via a serial modem. Everything is working fine with dialing and authenticating users the way I would like. I turned on IP Masquerading and set up the following IP table in /etc/sysconfig/iptables

> # Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Tue Dec  4 09:58:04 2007
*nat
: PREROUTING ACCEPT [670:50380]
: POSTROUTING ACCEPT [0:0]
: OUTPUT ACCEPT [5:348]
-A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Dec  4 09:58:04 2007
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Tue Dec  4 09:58:04 2007
*filter
: INPUT ACCEPT [936:66540]
: FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
: OUTPUT ACCEPT [500:85243]
-A FORWARD -d 66.98.149.197 -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -d 0.0.0.0 -j DROP
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Dec  4 09:58:04 2007
/etc/sysconfig/iptables (END)

NOTE: I put the spaces between the : and remainder of line so it doesn't show a :P . I know a little bit what i am doing :)

I am trying to limit IP forwarding to only 1 ip address (66.98.149.187) and what i have here doesn't seem to be working. 

Any suggestions on how to get this to work. Don't be bashful and I won't be offended if someone says "you really are going about this all wrong". Once your idea works, I will use it.

Regards,

---

### Post by bigdaddyweed on 2007-12-10
So, no one knows what is going on here?

Maybe a bit more info will help.

On the client (machine that dials in) it is passed an IP address of 192.168.1.55 on the same subnet as the server. Of course all this shouldn't matter as it is an ipforwarding/masquerading problem I am sure.

Any Ideas???

---

