---
title: "10.04 and Virgin media netgear wireless router issues"
date: 2010-09-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by aikitim on 2010-09-09
Hey guys I'm running Ubuntu 10.04 on a dell xps m1530 using broadcom STA wireless drivers and have never had issue connecting to a wireless network before. We just installed a Virgin Media netgear wireless router and now my pc wont connect properly. All of the other computers in the house, running windows, connect without a problem. Ubuntu seems to connect briefly, but leaves me with a "!" instead of a wireless strength signal. For two or three minutes the Internet works fine and then cuts out. This is even if I'm sitting four feet away from the router. Has anyone experienced anything like this before? 

Its a netgear VMDG280 router.

Edit: Ok it connects fine with a cable, and the router isn't blocking my MAC address or anything like that so i just can't seem to connect with my wireless card. Is it a driver issue? I've never had trouble connecting to a wireless internet connection before weather it be at home or a a wireless hotspot somewhere else. anyone have any insight?

---

### Post by luckyRed on 2010-09-11
I second this, I'm having the exact same problem. I use ubuntu 10.04 and have a broadcom wireless card. Once connected at ! mark appears in the tray and the connection to the router keeps dropping every few minutes, windows computers can connect fine.  I can also connect to other routers without a problem, can anyone help? 

Thanks in advance
jack

---

### Post by luckyRed on 2010-09-11
I should also note I too have a dell xps 1530m
cheers
jack

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2010-09-12
I don't really want to spread fear and panic, but my impression from reading the occassional thread on here is that Broadcom support isn't that great.  This could be a false impression though! Certainly though people have had issues in the past.  

Anyway, I've no clue if I'll be able to help at all, so I don't want to get your hopes up.  But... 

1) Why type of authentication are you using on your router?  WPA?  WPA2? AES?  

2) Can you post the termianl (Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal) output of:

```

lspci -vv
ifonfig -a
lsmod

```

---

### Post by luckyRed on 2010-09-16
Hi thanks for your reply,  the encryption is set to wpa/wpa2, I have also attached the appropriate outputs. 
Thanks again
Jack

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2010-09-17
The outputs there are as I thought, really.  

One thing you may like to try as a very temporary and horrible work around is to change the security on your wireless to AES.  I *seem* to remember reading elsewhere that making that change sorted someone else out.  I wouldn't recommend that as a long term solution though, but it would be interesting to know if that worked.  :)

As for a more permanent fix, I unforutnatel don't know much about Broadcom wireless issues as I've never used one.  You might find [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1390979") thread useful though.  It suggests a few things that you might like to try out.

---

### Post by aikitim on 2010-10-11
At this point it wont even connect to a wired connection without issue. I can get, on occasion, a few good minutes or even a couple of hours, and then it will just disconnect and not reconnect, without any changes having been made. It's absurd.

---

