---
title: "2Wire 802.11g PCMCIA help needed..."
date: 2006-08-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cat5 on 2006-08-22
Ok, so caveat emptor on some cards on ebay.. ](*,) 

I've been trying to get a 2wire 802.11g PCMCIA card working with Ubuntu 6.06LTS, but I can't ever see the card.

dmesg says it sees the card, but no driver can be found.

googling around, and even searching the forums only shows some 2wire gateway help q's, but nothing on this card.

Anyone know which driver could work? Perhaps I should try ndiswrapper and go that route?

- Cat5

---

### Post by NetworkGuy on 2006-08-22
Try NDISWrapper.  You can find some pretty good howto's in this forum. 

Let us know if you run into problems.

---

### Post by tturrisi on 2006-08-22
What's the vesion on back of card?  I have a 2wire and it uses orinoco_cs driver.

---

### Post by NetworkGuy on 2006-08-22
Not sure what you are asking.

You need to obtain the Windows drivers for your card.
I'm not sure exactly what the driver file names are for your card.

---

### Post by tturrisi on 2006-08-23
You should not need ndiswrapper for ANY 2wire cards, afaik they all have chipsets that are supported by linux drivers.  I have yet to see a 2wire card that is not supported.

---

### Post by NetworkGuy on 2006-08-23
Cat5,

Have you tried your card on a Windows machine?  Based on what tturrisi says above, the card should just work.

Have you tried typing ```
iwconfig
``` in a terminal to see if you get anything back with wireless extensions?  If you do, then the card is recognized and we just need to configure it for your network.

---

### Post by cat5 on 2006-08-23
I'll try the iwconfig, but from what I can see, It would not load any specific driver, ie: orinoco_cs.

I'll try again later today, and let you all know.

thanks for the feedback. I was just worried that I could not really find any information on the chipset. What I really want to do is to get this working with hostap in master mode for a little project.

May have to go out on ebay again and get a better card. :D

---

### Post by NetworkGuy on 2006-08-23
Don't give up so easily.  It might just take one quick tweak and it works..

---

### Post by cat5 on 2006-08-23
Really weird.. I manually loaded the orinoco driver, and it's not even seeing the  card.

.. Time to do some hacking around! :)

---

### Post by tturrisi on 2006-08-24
> **cat5 said:**
> I'll try the iwconfig, but from what I can see, It would not load any specific driver, ie: orinoco_cs.

I'll try again later today, and let you all know.

thanks for the feedback. I was just worried that I could not really find any information on the chipset. What I really want to do is to get this working with hostap in master mode for a little project.

May have to go out on ebay again and get a better card. :D
If the card has a lucent/agere/hermes chipset then the hostap driver won't work.  Hostap is for prism chipsets.

Look on back of the card, does it look like this?  Does it have an external antenna jack?
[http://www.pcliquidations.com/item.asp?id=1525](http://www.pcliquidations.com/item.asp?id=1525)

---

### Post by cat5 on 2006-08-24
OK, Orinoco it is. I guess I did a little too much driver patching, 2 other cards that I knew worked, didn't - including a pcmcia CF adaptor.

Installed Ubuntu 6.06 again on another laptop, retested the card, and boom, Orinoco!

Thanks everyone for the assistance.

- cat5

---

### Post by tturrisi on 2006-08-25
glad you got it working...

---

