---
title: "14.04: Eth0 stopped working, added another, also not working, added wifi works kinda"
date: 2015-05-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by spradlig on 2015-05-16
So I have a machine with an Asus Sabertooth mobo that runs 14.04 desktop. I have used it fine for months. After a week or so of being pulled on to other things I come back to the machine to find that eth0 won't work. I add a USB wifi I have sitting around. It works so I do apt-get update and upgrade. Then after several hours the wifi stops working.

Last week we had a late spring snow and it caused the power to flicker. The machines are posered by a UPS that handled it just fine. However, I'm not so sure about the switch the machine was plugged into. None of the other machines plugged into that switch have an issue though. So I grabbed an unused ethernet card from another machine. Plugged it in and the machine recognizes it as eth1 with a driver and everything. Still no access to the LAN or internet.

Since I suspected the switch I replaced it. Still no internet off either ethernet card. When I look at the new switch (a couple of them) the light for my connection to this machine flickers as if it is hot. My switch will show amber for 100T connection and green for 1000. The mobo and card are both 1000 and both show green (and flicker) on the switch.

Again 14.04 shows both ethernet cards as being active. The /etc/networking/interfaces file is still the default. I have removed the reserved addresses on the router in case that was an issue (it hadn't been before). I have even gone into the bios to see if something changed there - which it shouldn't have since I haven't touched it. Clearly the pots are active since the switches all show a hot link. But nothing I do gets an IP assigned to either eth0 or eth1.

I'm stumped. I've added the files that the Ubuntu tool in the sticky post creates.

---

