---
title: ".deb file for linc-daemon-1.2-1.i386.rpm"
date: 2006-06-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kagashe on 2006-06-10
Hi,

Finally I could install Xubuntu 6.06 on my daughter's desktop. The next step is to connect to internet. She has an ethernet connection and uses 24onlone Windows client for authentication. I have searched for the Linux client. The download is available in .rpm, source.rpm and source.gz on SourceForge.net on this [page]("http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=55535&package_id=78690&release_id=151021").

Please tell me the best way to install this.

Sould I use Alien to convert rpm to deb and install through dpkg?
or install through source.gz?

What about dependencies?

kagashe

---

### Post by BitTorrentBuddha on 2006-06-10
I think you should be fine as far as dependencies go, have you tried installing it? If so what did you get for errors?

---

### Post by kagashe on 2006-06-10
[QUOTE=BitTorrentBuddha]I think you should be fine as far as dependencies go, have you tried installing it? If so what did you get for errors?[/QUOTE]Thanks for your responce.
I called the ISP and was given download link to a Linux executable file "crclient" and asked me to keep it in the /home directory. After reading the "readme" file I typed the command
> ./crclient -u [Username]
in the terminal. It asked the server IP address and password and told me that the user successfully logged in to the server.
Before that I had set up the static IP address, Gateway etc as per settings in Windows.

The job is done without installing anything.

kagashe

---

