---
title: ".local domain error message."
date: 2017-03-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cliffratt on 2017-03-05
I have this message that has started to come up when I boot, “Network service discovery disabled.  Your current network has a .local domain, which is not recommended and  incompatible with the Avahi network service discovery. The service has  been disabled.” About the same time my networked HP printer has stopped working, seems to be a connection issue, PC can't find it. Now, the only way I can use my printer is to hook it up via USB. I'm not sure if the two are related but I don't have any other explanation for the printer to stop working when it was just fine. This appears to have started after an update. From what I've read this network discovery doesn't appear to be very important. Is there a way to repair this message so I can see if it will fix the printer issue. System is 12.04.5 LTS Libuntu. Thanks for any light you may be able to shed on this.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2017-03-05
Perhaps this will work: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2353783](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2353783)

To change the DNS servers graphically: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/2321/what-is-the-proper-way-to-change-the-dns-ip](http://askubuntu.com/questions/2321/what-is-the-proper-way-to-change-the-dns-ip)

---

### Post by WB0HYQ on 2017-03-10
This is ***exactly*** the same message I get on my wireless connection using Ubuntu 16.04. I've never heard of "Avahi Network Service". Has it been there all the time? If so, then did it break with the upgrade to 16.04 from 14.04?

BIll

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2017-03-11
It's been there for a while now. Avahi is the linux implementation of mDNS - a LAN side name resolution and service discovery mechanism. With it Linux, macOS, and Win10 can connect to each other with a "hostname.local" as in "ping linux-host-name.local". It's also the basis for cups-browsed:
> Description: OpenPrinting CUPS Filters - cups-browsed
 This package provides cups-browsed, a daemon which browses the Bonjour
 broadcasts of shared remote CUPS printers and makes the printers
 available locally, replacing the CUPS broadcasting/browsing which was
 dropped in CUPS 1.6.x.
Bonjour is the Apple implementation of Avahi so when I install a new version of Ubuntu all of the networked printers are automatically available to me without configuration - or at least all of those that are mDNS capable.

A problem arises if an ISP uses the ".local' domain within it's own WAN side DNS servers which is why Linux disables it. The "Your current network has a .local domain, which is not recommended and  incompatible with the Avahi network service discovery." error is meant to be a scolding to the ISP not the user.

---

### Post by WB0HYQ on 2017-03-11
That's an excellent explanation, Morbius. I appreciate it. However, understanding the reason doesn't solve the problem. I checked out those two links you posted. Didn't understand most of either. I guess my basic question is the same as the OP -- what to do about it? 14.04 worked and 16.04 doesn't. What changed?

@Cliffratt: I can start another thread (and in fact have), but I have a feeling the answer here will affect both you and I equally. My thread hasn't been even looked at more than a couple of times in a week.

Bill

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2017-03-11
If you have a 14.04 system and a 16.04 system running concurrently and one has the error and the other doesn't then the problem is something other that what I described above.

If both of them have the error then change your DNS server.
If only one has the error I don't have an explanation -- at the moment. 

I don't have the problem in my network but have experienced in other's that I have set up and changing the DNS server fixed it.

---

### Post by WB0HYQ on 2017-03-11
All of my machines are running 16.04 now. I upgraded them from 14.04. Two of them are desktops (dual boot with Windows 7) and the last is a laptop (Ubuntu only). The laptop and the others worked just fine under 14.04 but when I upgraded, the wheels fell off. I found that a lot of my software PPAs had been "disabled" in the update manager (like Variety and Open Office). If I check the box, the update manager fails until I uncheck them again.

But that's solvable, my network problem isn't - so far. I can surf the web fine with Firefox, but I cannot reach any of my Windows shared directories unless I specifically enter them into Gigolo. The Network tab of Gigolo shows "No workgroups detected", yet my workgroup in SMB.CONF is correct. In the File manager, any Gigolo-connected directories show up and I can access them, but when I double-click the "Windows Network" icon, nothing at all happens. If I am using the wireless connection, I get the popup message about Domain. If I am using my wired connection, nothing happens at all. My desktops can both access each others shared directories even when one of them is in Windows.

I guess it all boils down to making the domain error message go away. I'll try editing the DNS server change (after saving off a copy of the file first) and see if that works. I have trouble understand why I would have to do this for a simple upgrade of an OS. Strange.

Bill

---

### Post by WB0HYQ on 2017-03-11
Well I'll be toasted and buttered. Changing the DNS using the command

host -t SOA local 8.8.8.8

worked!

My laptop now connects (wired & wireless) and I can browse all my shared directores on the Windows machines using File manager.

The first command (host -t SOA local) still produces:

local.attlocal.net has SOA record ns1-etm.att.net. nomail.etm.att.net. 1 604800 3600 2419200 900

but my connectivity is restored. I don't profess to know how the 8.8.8.8 works, but it works. Now, if it only retains this after a reboot...

Bill

---

### Post by WB0HYQ on 2017-03-11
Yes! The setting does survive a reboot. Thanks so much for your input, Morbius. Much appreciated. I'll go mark my other post as solved.

The error still pops up, but that's no biggie.

Bill

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2017-03-11
> Changing the DNS using the command

host -t SOA local 8.8.8.8

worked!
I hate to bring this up but "host -t SOA local 8.8.8.8" does not change your DNS server. It's just a command to see if google's DNS server ( 8.8.8.8 ) uses a .local domain - which it does not.

You can verify this by running the command:
```
nmcli device show | grep "IP4.DNS"
```
I'm pretty sure nether of them are 8.8.8.8 unless you actually changes it some other way.

The fact that you can now browse to all your other shares appears to be coincidence.

---

### Post by WB0HYQ on 2017-03-11
A heck of a coincidence, then. Whatever that command did, seemed to kick something loose somewhere. I can turn off my laptop and bring it up from a cold start and still browse my shares again.

In over 50 years of computer work, I've learned to never look a gift result in the mouth. maybe the command just caused a bit of script to run that hadn't run before, setting a flag in the belly of the beast. I don't care.

Bill

---

