---
title: "Default gateway not added at restart"
date: 2012-09-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by pkj5ue on 2012-09-07
OS: Ubuntu 12.04
I have a lenovo g580. After updating the proprietary broadcom driver(STA?) it is able to connect to my router alright. It is in dhcp automatic mode. It is given a address and I can open my router page. But there is no default gateway provided. Every time I restart I need to issue the command:
```
sudo route add default gw 192.168.0.1
```
Here are some useful files:
This is after having attached to default gw from above command.
```
sudo lshw -class network
  *-network               
       description: Wireless interface
       product: BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: eth1
       version: 01
       serial: e0:06:e6:48:20:f2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=wl0 driverversion=5.100.82.38 ip=192.168.0.108 latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11
       resources: irq:17 memory:f0500000-f0503fff
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: AR8162 Fast Ethernet
       vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 10
       serial: f0:de:f1:f8:c0:45
       capacity: 100Mbit/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm pciexpress msi msix bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=alx firmware=alx latency=0 link=no multicast=yes port=twisted pair
       resources: irq:43 memory:f0400000-f043ffff ioport:2000(size=128)

```
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1

```
```

cat /etc/network/interfaces
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```

How can I make it automatic so that I don't have this issue.
The router is alright. Other machines with windows, ubuntu are connecting alright.
The connection ipv4 settings are dhcp automatic. Nothing else has been specified.

---

### Post by shreepads on 2012-09-07
Can you try this:

- Boot with wireless router switched off
- Do not apply your gateway fix
- Start tailing syslog/ dmesg
- Switch on wireless router and establish wifi connection (including IP assignment)
- Report any details/ errors in syslog/ dmesg and content of /var/lib/dhcpcd/dhcpcd*.info & /etc/resolv.conf (after connection is established)

---

### Post by shreepads on 2012-09-07
Oh and please close the other post with a pointer to this one...

---

### Post by nativehound on 2012-09-08
Ok, are you trying to edit /etc/network/interfaces
and add a gateway and NM throws errors and will not start after a reboot?
is this case?

---

### Post by pkj5ue on 2012-09-09
Nope. I am not trying to edit or do anything special. But rather totally relying on what comes out of the box as any newbie is expected to do. When I loaded up ubuntu, the wireless was not working. And neither was the wired connection. I somehow updated the driver of wired connection. After that I updated wireless drivers, and it was able to connect to the router. But I was not able to open any page other than router homepage. So I fell upon route command to add a gateway. And things started working. But apparently route command works only for one session. So after restart I need to do it again. I think if NM(Network Manager?) failed to start at boot up, I will not be able to connect to router itself, no?

---

### Post by pkj5ue on 2012-09-09
> **shreepads said:**
> Can you try this:

- Boot with wireless router switched off
- Do not apply your gateway fix
- Start tailing syslog/ dmesg
- Switch on wireless router and establish wifi connection (including IP assignment)
- Report any details/ errors in syslog/ dmesg and content of /var/lib/dhcpcd/dhcpcd*.info & /etc/resolv.conf (after connection is established)
only have dhcp folder in /var/lib on which ls gives a set leases. /etc/resolv.conf post after connection is established mentioned above. for other files, can you mention exact path and procedure. I have used wireshark to capture from router switch on to connection. Will posting it be helpful?

---

### Post by shreepads on 2012-09-10
> **pkj5ue said:**
> only have dhcp folder in /var/lib on which ls gives a set leases. /etc/resolv.conf post after connection is established mentioned above. for other files, can you mention exact path and procedure. I have used wireshark to capture from router switch on to connection. Will posting it be helpful?

Open terminal and use this to monitor syslog for new entries:
```
tail -f /var/log/syslog
```

Re Wireshark, I don't know how to read that info, but maybe someone else here will, so worth a shot...

---

