---
title: "7.10 wired connection problem"
date: 2010-12-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by corrrnbread on 2010-12-13
This morning I installed Kubuntu 7.10 on my secondary hard drive. The main one is running Windows 7 Ultimate. No internet connectivity is detected at all. I have the dreaded Realtek R8168 card which does not seem to work at all on my Kubuntu, but everything works fine in Windows. I have been perusing the forum (along with any other results google brings up) to find a solution. There are so many threads about this topic & most seem to all get solved... so I must be missing something or just going blind. Since I have to come to a different computer to ask this, it would be hard for me to post any command outputs, but from all the other threads I've been reading I am just baffled :( (I would have just gotten the newer version of Kubuntu, but that is the only cd I had available & obv no internet connect ;D )

my attempts so far:
[LIST]
[*]ethtool eth0 -->link detected: no
[*]ifconfig --> shows eth0 without any ip address or gateway, etc
[*]dhclient eth0 -->no DHCPOFFERS received. no working leases in persistent database -- sleeping
[*]ifup eth0/ifdown eth0 --> tried numerous times 

[*]I've removed a supposedly outdated nic driver & replaced it with the newer one.
[*]I've tried enabling/disabling Wake on Lan settings in Windows 7 & in my bios. (I tried each separately one at a time so I could pinpoint which, if any worked) Of course they didn't lol
[*]interfaces file matches other versions posted on the forum... windows tells me dhcp is what my connection uses. I also tried setting the addresses manually using what my Win7 uses, but that had no effect on anything.
[*]Even though the cable worked with Windows I swapped it out just for the heck of it, still the same responses.
[*]Shutdown computer while leaving it unplugged for a few minutes. I also tried the method of unplugging it & holding in the power button to release leftover power (supposed to reset the Wake on Lan setting?)
[*]Rebooted numerous times, all with the same results.
[*]Tried this stuff with no luck [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=538448](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=538448)
[*]I tried many more things, but I have been sitting here frustrated for so long that I'm sure I forgot several.
[/LIST]

One thread I was reading said that the link being down was a major problem, but I haven't a clue why it would be down. >:| If I could just update this darn kernel, but I don't have any CD/DVD's available & this bios doesn't run from usb <~~ :rolleyes: Just my luck haha. If anyone has any other suggestions, probably obvious and I am just missing them, feel free to smack me in the face with a large book :D Thanks in advance for any help or advice

---

