---
title: "resolv.conf keeps changing to VPN settings"
date: 2009-01-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by achilleas.k on 2009-01-31
Hi everyone,
here's my problem with all relevant information.
The problem:
 Upon login my resolv.conf looks like this:

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 194.xxx.xxx.xxx
nameserver 194.xxx.xxx.xxx
nameserver 192.168.1.1
search <*vpn host name*> <*isp hostname*>
```

With this configuration my browser can only open Google websites.
When I remove the 194.xxx.xxx.xxx lines and the vpn host name from the last line, everything works fine until I login again and resolv.conf looks like it does above again.

The background:
I was trying to connect to my University's VPN server. I tried the Cisco VPN client but there was some problem during installation so I gave up on that and instead used vpnc. I managed to connect a couple of times (at least the client logged in to the VPN server and the vpn daemon was running). At one point I was trying to kill the daemon (normally) but it wouldn't stop. I think **this** is where I made the mess. I killed it and with a little push from my frustration (from trying to configure the damn VPN all day) I just uninstalled vpnc. Now whenever I boot up, my resolv.conf gets reconfigured to use the VPN addresses and I have to delete them manually.

Where is resolv.conf getting the addresses from and how can I fix this? I gave up on trying to connect through the VPN so I just want it all to be "normal".

Notes:
- Running Intrepid Ibex 64bit
- Problem occurs on both wired and wireless connection
- I am quite a newbie around Linux in general

Thanks!

Achilleas

---

### Post by achilleas.k on 2009-01-31
I really hate bumping threads but I'd really like some help getting this fixed so... bump!

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-31
[This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=971064") thread is similar - see if its solution helps.

---

### Post by achilleas.k on 2009-01-31
It appears to have worked!!! Thank you very much. 

I found a file called tun0 in the /etc/resolvconf/run/interface/ directory which had the University addresses in it. Cleared the file, rebooted and it seems to be fine now.

Thanks again

---

### Post by crazysubguy on 2009-03-21
I recently started having the same issues and manually deleting the hardcoded entries in /etc/resolvconf/run/interface/tun0 solved the problem.

I think I figured out what went wrong in my case.  I installed kvpnc to see if network manager or kvpnc was easier to manage vpn connections. kvpnc gave me all kinds of problems so I gave up and uninstalled it.  Then the internet got slow.

It seems kvpnc created a file called tun0 with my vpn nameservers in the /etc/resolvconf/run/interface/ directory and never deleted it.  Those entries were getting added in front of my normal nameservers everytime resolv.conf was auto-updated. Deleting the file tun0 took care of the problem and now Network Manager works fine managing my vpn connections.

---

### Post by duncanmc on 2010-03-18
There is only one folder called "update-libc.d" under /etc/resolveconf in my linux. There is no other folder. I searched for the dns ip by "find" command and removed all the entries, but I still get this problem. My connection still keeps the VPN dns server after disconnection from VPN. I think this is a bug.

---

