---
title: "5.10 with an Orinoco gold 802.11b"
date: 2005-12-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kilometers on 2005-12-17
I had my wireless card set up with 5.04 do to the help of some friends.  I just installed 5.10 and now I forget what I need to edit so that my card is "configured."  My card is showing up in the pcmcia dump after I use the **dmesg** command, and when I use the **iwconfig** command the card shows up as **eth1**.  But when i type in **ifconfig** I only get **eth0** and **lo**.

I believe I have to edit the /etc/network/interfaces file in order for my card to be configured, but I am not sure what exactly to change.  Any ideas??

---

### Post by eddieroger on 2005-12-20
Same here, so bump. I'm going to keep playing with it, but this is kinda frustrating. I imagine some kernel work will need to come, although I know that won't solve the persistent monitor mode problem.

---

### Post by kilometers on 2005-12-20
I got my wireless working by add the lines refering to eth1 minus the "wireless mode-managed", which I found in this post.  
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=105764&highlight=wireless+pcmcia](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=105764&highlight=wireless+pcmcia)

Then click on the icon in the toolbar with the computers, I guess it is the nework connection manager, and open up **Network Settings**.  Check the box to enable the connection, give you essid and make sure your keytype is correct, probably hexadecimal and i suppose you would be using dhcp.

# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# This is a list of hotpluggable network interfaces.
# They will be activated automatically by the hotplug subsystem.
mapping hotplug
script grep
map eth0

# The primary network interface
iface eth0 inet dhcp

iface eth1 inet dhcp
wireless-key xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
wireless-essid myessid
wireless-mode managed

Hope that works...  I love the Ubuntu community!

---

