---
title: "Resolution"
date: 2009-06-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Mastermind1980 on 2009-06-22
First, I wanted to try linux. But no internet for my wpn111, after 5 days trying to get internet I decided to use Kubuntu to run in VirtualBox. But now I can't set the resolution higher then 800x600..... I need to edit some xorg.conf file but every time I change it and reboot, It starts running in low graphs mode. Pls help me, heres my xorg:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
   Identifier   "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
   Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
   Identifier   "Default Screen"
   Monitor      "Configured Monitor"
   Device      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Mastermind1980 on 2009-06-23
bump

---

### Post by Mastermind1980 on 2009-06-25
bumped by bumping billy

---

### Post by Divider on 2009-06-25
Try ubuntu jaunty out, i have a wpn111 by netgear and mine is FULLY supported and I mean literally, I even have packet injection. :P

---

### Post by aimwin on 2009-06-25
Try Live CD Ubuntu 9.04.  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=844856&highlight=wpn111](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=844856&highlight=wpn111)

wpn111 works flawless.

---

### Post by Mastermind1980 on 2009-06-26
ty, but I rlly dont want to test internet out again, I want to fix my resolution on my virtual box now. And errr. Jaunty? I know Kubuntu and Ubuntu.... Lol sorry

---

### Post by Mastermind1980 on 2009-06-27
bump

---

### Post by Otacon2k on 2009-06-27
I dont think bumping around like that will encourage people to help you. If I opened your thread, I would directly hit the back button of my browser...

---

### Post by Mastermind1980 on 2009-06-27
ty for helping bumping my friend lol

---

