---
title: "greg6113"
date: 2007-02-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by greg6113 on 2007-02-21
Ubuntu loaded without a hitch... how do I get hooked up to the internet through my Qwest ActionTec router.  Real new with linux, want to ween away from micro products.

---

### Post by gradedcheese on 2007-02-21
Can you describe your network a little?  Like for example:

laptop<->router<->dsl modem

or something?

---

### Post by greg6113 on 2007-02-21
Qwest DSL, ActionTec Router, Computer hook up eth0,  
Things that work... hooks to Ubuntu web site, I have 183 upgrades ready to download and install, clock sync, good... no faults on boot up.
Qwest DSL... can aquire ping, finger, etc... have IP, other info ... 

Appears that Qwest (phone company) and MSN not cooperating...

Once this works... I also have ZyXel wireless wlan, (2) desktop and (1) Laptop to spinup...
Ybuntu 5.10 currently loaded on these machines.

---

### Post by gradedcheese on 2007-02-21
> 
Things that work... hooks to Ubuntu web site, I have 183 upgrades ready to download and install, clock sync, good... no faults on boot up.


Ok, so you have perfectly usable internet access then?  What, specifically, doesn't work?

---

### Post by greg6113 on 2007-02-21
Nothing happens when I click on the FireFox icon... or if I type in a .com address...

I have disabled the Windows Firewall... that was a problem at first.

---

### Post by gradedcheese on 2007-02-21
ok, so if you run, in a terminal:

```

ping -c 5 google.com

```

what happens?  Maybe it's a DNS problem.

---

### Post by lunaz on 2007-02-21
i have a qwest router  too. did u try dhcp? that works for me.

btw gregg where are u from? o_o

---

### Post by greg6113 on 2007-02-22
When I attempt to surf outside of Ubuntu... I get not authorized access by primary internet provider proxy settings.  Primary IP is Qwest MSN premier.

DHCP is enabled

Do I need to have a IP loaded on my box to get to the internet?

The ActionTec router has a WEP... ?

I have no problem getting to Ubuntu, and the download of updates went blazing fast...

Still standing on the beach... wanting to surf...:confused:

---

### Post by greg6113 on 2007-02-23
when I ping c5 google .com or any other site ... unknown host is the response

when I host... any [www.site](www.site).   I get a IP response and a warning... malformed packet...

if I try to search from the Ubuntu page... I get this response... your firewall or proxy settings are incorrect

---

