---
title: "How to connect to internet connection?"
date: 2007-07-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bimaljr on 2007-07-25
hi,
I am a regular WindowsXP user, and want to try Ubuntu 7.04.
I have just installed Ubuntu 7.04 on my system on another HDD for just testing. and it works fine and I am impressed too.

Now, come to my problem.
I have internet connection on my Windows XP system. My Internet Service Provider have given us a mini "exe" which will create a dialer and also a shortcut on desktop. I don't know what type of this internet connection is this (like it is dsl or else.. I dont know). The internet connection is via LAN cable.

Whenever I format my WindowsXP system I just have to do this :

1. Enter *IP Address, Subnet Mask, Default Gateway* and two *DNS server* Address in **Local Area Connection properties > Internet protocol (TCP/IP)** window.

2. Install new protocol in **Local Area Connection** given by my ISP.

3. create dialer and shortcut via the EXE given by my ISP. (So I don't know how to connect to internet)

I have attached screenshots of my dialer generated by EXE given by my ISP. There are total 7 images, 5 images are attached with this post and another 2 images are attached in reply-post.

Please help me

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by bimaljr on 2007-07-25
**More Images >>>**

---

### Post by mips on 2007-07-25
There are to ways to do this.

1. PPPoE
2. Log into your router/modem and set it up to automatically log into your ISP, this way you only have to enable dhcp on the PC.

I always go for option two.

---

### Post by bimaljr on 2007-07-25
> **mips said:**
> There are to ways to do this.

1. PPPoE
2. Log into your router/modem and set it up to automatically log into your ISP, this way you only have to enable dhcp on the PC.

I always go for option two.

Thanks for fast reply.. Please specify step-by-step process I don't know how to do this.

---

### Post by mips on 2007-07-25
> **bimaljr said:**
> Thanks for fast reply.. Please specify step-by-step process I don't know how to do this.

I have done it to many times and not prepared to type it all out again. Try using the search function.

---

### Post by bimaljr on 2007-07-26
Please provide some hints... I am a new in Linux world

---

### Post by bimaljr on 2007-07-28
**It's Looks like there is no one here to help me..** :(

---

### Post by mips on 2007-07-28
> **bimaljr said:**
> Please provide some hints... I am a new in Linux world

Ok, I will try and help you.

1. What **brand & model **router are you using ?
2. Who is your[COLOR="red"] ISP[/COLOR] ? **Please provide a link to their site.**
3. Post the output from **ipconfig /all** in Windows here please.

---

### Post by bimaljr on 2007-07-28
> 1. What brand & model router are you using ?
I don't know about router, I am using LAN card to connect to internet with lan-cable. My LAN card is  " Realtek RTL8139 Family PCI Fast Ethernet NIC "   as in device manager.


> 2. Who is your ISP ? Please provide a link to their site.
My ISP is Anar Softcom who is providing VSNL and BSNL connection here in India.
Their website for login and see my account is : [http://61.246.200.17/cgi/login.php](http://61.246.200.17/cgi/login.php)
They don't have their own website. They are provider of internet connection of another Internet provider called VSNL and BSNL.

> 3. Post the output from ipconfig /all in Windows here please.
Attached as JPG image for not making spelling mistake.

Some Notes :
-- Whenever I connect to internet my internet IP address is changed. I see my internet IPs at [http://www.knowyourip.com/](http://www.knowyourip.com/) it gives me different IPs everytime I connect.
-- There is an RPM file for connecting internet but cannot work on ubuntu. I have attached this file as ZIP file.
-- They are providing me "log2space" zip file which contains protocols and the EXE.

More info here : [http://www.log2space.com/products/?dispMode=l2sDetails&PHPSESSID=c5655227ecbe838dee31f6b1e835abbd](http://www.log2space.com/products/?dispMode=l2sDetails&PHPSESSID=c5655227ecbe838dee31f6b1e835abbd)

---

### Post by mips on 2007-07-29
> **bimaljr said:**
> I don't know about router, I am using LAN card to connect to internet with lan-cable. My LAN card is  " Realtek RTL8139 Family PCI Fast Ethernet NIC "   as in device manager.


What does the other end of the LAN cable plug into, it must plug into something ? I need that devices Brand & Model.

I know BSNL and have helped other people set theirs up so it won't be hard, I just need to go and find my old posts but for now I need to know what the other end of the LAN cable plugs into please.

---

### Post by Minki on 2007-07-29
I'm in the same boat as you, bimaljr. The only difference si that I use a phone line to directly connect my dial-up modem to the phone socket on the wall. I'm keeping watch over this post cuz I was going to ask the same thing. :)

---

### Post by mips on 2007-07-29
> **Minki said:**
> I'm in the same boat as you, bimaljr. The only difference si that I use a phone line to directly connect my dial-up modem to the phone socket on the wall. I'm keeping watch over this post cuz I was going to ask the same thing. :)

This thread is not going to help you in the least bit to be honest as your situation is entirely different.

---

### Post by Minki on 2007-07-29
> **mips said:**
> This thread is not going to help you in the least bit to be honest as your situation is entirely different.

And how would you know that? You know, all you have to do is _say_ you don't wanna help. =;

---

### Post by mips on 2007-07-30
> **Minki said:**
> And how would you know that? You know, all you have to do is _say_ you don't wanna help. =;

Because like you said you use dial-up !!! The OP does not use dial-up. This could also be seen as trying to hijack the thread if you ask me.

Why would I want to lie to you ?  Grrr, some people....

---

### Post by carontis on 2007-07-30
Please forget for a moment the windows configuration etc You are using Linux and it's a little different.

Go to terminal and launch *ifconfig -a* and post the result here.
Now: in every Linux distro there is a possible automated configuration. I'm using Ubuntu 6.06 and I use go to System ==> Administration  ==> Network. In there I can see the net card and before Enabling I have to input all necessary datas, so: 
Deactivate your Interface
First of all select **Enable this connection** (if you have it there); second you'll have to input all datas you have had from the up told command (ifconfig -a); supposing now your net is 192.168.1.100 at ifconfig command, you will understand that the Gateway will be **.1** so you'll have 192.168.1.1 as Gateway. You'll have to proceed as:
192.168.1.3 (your new ip)
255.255.255.0 (subnet mask)
192.168.1.1 (you Gateway)

In the box for DNS you will write you dns as given from your isp (if one) or you can use those provided from [http://www.opendns.org](http://www.opendns.org) (they work fine when you don't have any). Remeber to Re-Activate your Interface or you will never have possible connection.

I hope you can understand all about, If not, feel free to ask more or send me an email.

---

### Post by Minki on 2007-07-30
> **mips said:**
> Because like you said you use dial-up !!! The OP does not use dial-up. This could also be seen as trying to hijack the thread if you ask me.

Why would I want to lie to you ?  Grrr, some people....

Oop ... Sorry ... :-&
I guess you can tell I was having a dumb, bitchy day. 

Anyway, forget I was ever here. I sorted out my modem last night. Smashed it to smithereens!!! :lolflag: Nah, just joking. But I sorted it out anyway.

---

### Post by mips on 2007-07-31
> **Minki said:**
> Oop ... Sorry ... :-&
I guess you can tell I was having a dumb, bitchy day. 

Anyway, forget I was ever here. I sorted out my modem last night. Smashed it to smithereens!!! :lolflag: Nah, just joking. But I sorted it out anyway.

Glad to hear you got it working !

---

### Post by Chappy7777 on 2007-07-31
> **Minki said:**
> Oop ... Sorry ... :-&
I guess you can tell I was having a dumb, bitchy day. 

Anyway, forget I was ever here. I sorted out my modem last night. Smashed it to smithereens!!! :lolflag: Nah, just joking. But I sorted it out anyway.
=========================================
I tried to figure out how to send you a private message so as not to be accused of thread rustlin', but I couldn't find it. I have been trying, off and on, since 7.04 came out to get connected to the net. I am using an external serial modem that works great w/6.06LTS. But 7.04's network connection "wizard" is a little different. It has no "autodetect" button which in 6.06 finds my modem and sets it up, ready to go. Or at least almost. 

So, Minki, can you start a new thread or PM me and tell me what you did to get your modem working. I'm glad you didn't smash it, since the problem is rarely the modem. 

Hope to hear from you,

Chappy

---

