---
title: "Networking tools"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by X1R1 on 2009-10-29
Hello all, I wanted to know a little about the options I have. I am a networking technitian and Im in need of some tools to work with ubuntu. I use windows for this task but I am aware that ubuntu/linux in general, has amazing networking tools to do jobs like:

- Check ip address availability in a network
- Sniff packets from a network to detect peaks in usage and correct problems
- Monitor bandwidth and system resources (servers, routers)
- Create and mantain a network topology map dinamically

So I was thinking that I could type the windows tools I use for this tasks and you can tell me some nice ubuntu/linux tools that do the same job.

a) For Ip address availability -> Solarwinds Ip address tracker
b) Sniffer -> Wireshark (I have it installed in ubuntu also)
c) Bandwidth and system resources -> none yet, searching for one. Im open to suggestions
d) Create and mantain network topology-> Solarwinds LAN Surveyor

Im having troble finding a,c and d for linux, so if you could point me in the right direction I would be glad. And If you have other tools than does different things than what I posted here, feel free to post them also and I will surely check it out.

Regards and thanks in advance.

---

### Post by dvlchd3 on 2009-10-29
For bandwidth/router/firewall tools, you will want to look into iptables.  Iptables are arguably the most expandable, secure firewall/router solution available.  You can even look for possible attacks and block those users.  However, iptables are very complicated, and hard to learn.  The below link should get you started.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo)

Also, Snort is a very powerful NIDS. (Network Intrusion Detection System)  You can utilize it to monitor network activity and look for very specific things.  Best tutorial I have seen is below:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=919472](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=919472)

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by X1R1 on 2009-10-29
Yeah, I have indeed heard something about IPtables but havent look into it yet, I surely will check out both of your links, snort is completely new to me, looks pretty cool. 

Still looking for the other tools I listed so keep posting:popcorn:

thanks in advance

---

### Post by mpokrywka on 2009-10-30
Some features of "ip address tracker" can be emulated by **nmap**,
but this is command line utility and requires "manual" parsing of its output.

It looks that you need some tool to manage network resources, probably **nagios** is what you want, but I have never used it...

---

### Post by X1R1 on 2009-10-31
> **mpokrywka said:**
> Some features of "ip address tracker" can be emulated by **nmap**,
but this is command line utility and requires "manual" parsing of its output.

It looks that you need some tool to manage network resources, probably **nagios** is what you want, but I have never used it...

I downloaded and installed nmap with a frontend (Zenmap). I need to tweak things a little to find that option but indeed its pretty good piece of software :D

still looking for something that helps me out with network topology.

EDIT(31/10/2009):

Today I found a couple of programs that do exactly what I need for the network mapping part. One is named AutoScan-Network that pings the entire range you set and shows the devices in the network. Link [HERE]("http://autoscan-network.com/download_linux")

The other is called Cheops-ng, apparently it is a frontend for Nmap which emphasizes on network host and devices discovery. link [HERE]("http://cheops-ng.sourceforge.net/index.php")

Nagios seems amazingly popular and good so I think I will grab some unused computer at work, install ubuntu server on it with nagios and keep monitoring constantly network infrastructure :popcorn:

Also I found a pretty good read about howto discover whos on your network and explains how Linux admins can use some tools to their advantage for discovery, map and store. Link [HERE]("http://www.enterprisenetworkingplanet.com/netos/article.php/3650131")

------------------------------------

If someone can help me out, I have trouble installing cheops-ng into karmic, cant compile it, apparently I need gnome-libs-devel but its not on the repos, I will put the output of the ./configure command to see if someone can help me out:

> checking for mkdir... yes
checking for select... yes
checking for socket... yes
checking for strdup... yes
checking for strerror... (cached) yes
checking for strstr... yes
checking for strtol... yes
checking for strtoul... yes
checking for gnome-config... no
checking for gnomeConf.sh file in /usr/local/lib... not found
configure: error: Could not find the gnomeConf.sh file that is generated by gnome-libs install


Note: I copied only the end of the output to simplify the post, if you want the complete output let me know and I will edit this post.

---

### Post by mpokrywka on 2009-10-31
When searching for specific files, try [http://packages.ubuntu.com/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/) page,
there is second search form that allows searching by file name.
Unfortunately it looks that in new ubuntu version (karmic) obsolete
gnome libraries are no more available.

Moreover, cheops-ng seems no longer developed, see:
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/cheops-ng/forums/forum/17325/topic/1733131](http://sourceforge.net/projects/cheops-ng/forums/forum/17325/topic/1733131)

You are probably out of luck... :(

---

### Post by X1R1 on 2009-11-01
Thanks for your reply, I think I will try another tool for network mapping, autoscan network is good but doesnt do what I need. Any ideas?

---

