---
title: "8.10 wireless on BCM4328 rev 3"
date: 2008-11-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by manulele on 2008-11-09
I've Ubuntu 8.04.1 installed on a Dell Inspiron 1521 and I've much problem to use my wireless on it (using ndiswrapper was very slow 5-10 minutes to get a valid scan of wifi network available) until ubuntu install on my nb WL restricted driver. IT WORKED VERY FINE for me!

Some day ago I update my system to 8.10 (using automatic update) and I got wifi not working, WL restricted driver installed and LAN working (LAN has alwais worked!).

I make some try and i found this solution:

sudo modprobe -r b43 b44 ssb wl
sudo modprobe wl

Now my wireless work very fine and the LAN doesn't exist...

If I reboot I got the same problem... LAN working and WIFI not.

This is my peripherals
Broadcom Corporation BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n (rev 03)
Broadcom Corporation BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX (rev 02)

Thanks for any suggestion!

Emanuele

PS: using AWN (Avant Windows Navigation) I've got 2 small vertical white line... why? Do you the reason (on ubuntu 8.04 it was better!)

---

### Post by ugtar on 2009-03-25
Hey man, I have the same rig. To get wireless and LAN working at the same time, I had to do this:

add a file 'wl' to /etc/modprobe.d/

in it: 

$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/wl
#ssb workaround, added `date`
install wl modprobe -r b44 ssb; modprobe --ignore-install wl $CMDLINE_OPTS; modprobe b44;

Hope that helps!

Uri

---

### Post by BillyPrefect on 2009-03-27
I had the same problems.  I had to the first time run rmmod on b44, b43, ssd, then modprobe wl, b43, b44, ssb.  This was a pain so I wiped the system, did a fresh reinstall, and took my time.

Ran 

sudo apt-get update

twice

First time it had proprietary drivers both nvidia and a wl driver which I installed after the first round of updates.

Second round, it found a broadcom proprietary driver, so I enabled that.  Then I had wired no problems, unplugged the wired and got wireless instantly.  Sweet potatoes!

Try it!

---

### Post by rxguy616 on 2009-04-02
Could someone start me from scratch on this BCM4328 rev3 wireless card problem. I have dell xps m1530 with ubuntu 8.10 and have done nothing yet to get it going. I tried the ndiswrapper route but the documentation had too many spelling errors. Could you give me the scoop when starting from scratch the best (most effecient) method.The only thing in the wirless card hardware drivers is a Broadcom  STA. thanks

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2009-04-02
> **rxguy616 said:**
> Could someone start me from scratch on this BCM4328 rev3 wireless card problem. I have dell xps m1530 with ubuntu 8.10 and have done nothing yet to get it going. I tried the ndiswrapper route but the documentation had too many spelling errors. Could you give me the scoop when starting from scratch the best (most effecient) method.The only thing in the wirless card hardware drivers is a Broadcom  STA. thanks

You will first want to check and see if you have a Broadcom **wired** ethernet card.  You can find this out by going to the Terminal and typing:
```
lspci -nn
```You should find an entry that contains:
```
Broadcom Corporation BCM4401
```If you do, you need to use the b44 module and will need a workaround.

Once you have done this, you will need to activate the Broadcom STA module in Hardware Drivers.  You will then need to type this into the Terminal:
```
echo -e '#ssb workaround, added `date`\ninstall wl modprobe -r b43 b44 b43legacy ssb; modprobe --ignore-install wl $CMDLINE_OPTS; modprobe b44;' | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/wl
```
This is a script that will remove the conflicting modules and then load the necessary ones in the correct order.  You can then reboot or else try:
```
sudo modprobe -r b43 b44 b43legacy ssb wl
sudo modprobe wl
sudo modprobe b44
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by Toady00 on 2009-04-17
> **Ayuthia said:**
> You will first want to check and see if you have a Broadcom **wired** ethernet card.  You can find this out by going to the Terminal and typing:
```
lspci -nn
```You should find an entry that contains:
```
Broadcom Corporation BCM4401
```If you do, you need to use the b44 module and will need a workaround.

Once you have done this, you will need to activate the Broadcom STA module in Hardware Drivers.  You will then need to type this into the Terminal:
```
echo -e '#ssb workaround, added `date`\ninstall wl modprobe -r b43 b44 b43legacy ssb; modprobe --ignore-install wl $CMDLINE_OPTS; modprobe b44;' | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/wl
```
This is a script that will remove the conflicting modules and then load the necessary ones in the correct order.  You can then reboot or else try:
```
sudo modprobe -r b43 b44 b43legacy ssb wl
sudo modprobe wl
sudo modprobe b44
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```

Hope that helps.

Will this solve my problem I have a post about at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1120879]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1120879")

---

