---
title: "My own nameserver not working..."
date: 2010-12-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ipyrro on 2010-12-25
Can anyone help me? 
I have a own firewall which is also acting as a nameserver for my own network. From Windows machines everything works perfectly i.e. I can access my computers / equipments with the defined names instead of ip-addresses. But not with Ubuntu machines!

Below example taken from my Ubuntu machine. 

Can anyone help?

xxxxx@yyyy:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.30.1
xxxxx@yyyy:~$ ping 192.168.30.244
PING 192.168.30.244 (192.168.30.244) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 192.168.30.244: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=13.3 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.30.244: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=5.14 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.30.244: icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=5.34 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.30.244: icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=4.92 ms
^C
--- 192.168.30.244 ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3003ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 4.926/7.181/13.317/3.546 ms
xxxxx@yyyy:~$ nslookup 192.168.30.244
Server:	 192.168.30.1
Address:	192.168.30.1#53

244.30.168.192.in-addr.arpa	name = site.name.local.

xxxxxx@yyyy:~$ ping site.name.local
ping: unknown host site.name.local

---

### Post by relay_man on 2010-12-26
Window$ uses NetBios to resolve hostnames.  This isn't possible in Ubuntu without some work.

 Look here:

 [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-88206.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-88206.html)


hope this helps or at least gets you started in the right direction

---

### Post by Boondoklife on 2010-12-26
@relay_man, I don't think he is talking about netbios here.

As far as why the dns is not working, what dns are you using and what are the entries for it to resolve the names to the ips? Need a lot more info to help ya in this case.

---

### Post by relay_man on 2010-12-27
@Boondoklife
Windows doesn't use NetBios to resolve hostnames within a domain?

---

### Post by Boondoklife on 2010-12-27
The OP said "I have a own firewall which is also acting as a nameserver", now I assume this means he is running a DNS.

Windows uses netbios by default for file sharing, this is true. I was simply stating that it does not sound like he is relying on netbios in this case. Either way we really need more info from the OP to tell what is really going on.

---

### Post by ipyrro on 2011-01-06
Hello all,...

I tried adding wins to /etc/nsswitch.conf file. It seems that it is not helping the situation.

And maybe to clarify a bit my situation. 

I have ADSL line coming from my ISP to my ADSL modem, obviously.
Then ADSL is connected to my firewall (Smoothwall) which also acts as a DNS for my "home network".

As I wrote earlier, from windows machines I can point to other machines with the IP-names (which I have defined in Smoothwall) but not from Linux machines.

Smoothwall is also a DHCP server to my home network.

Anything more what you would need to know to help me?

---

### Post by PatchesTheCaveman on 2011-01-06
Go to Applications > Accessories > Terminal and run:
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
and copy/paste.  That will show us whether DHCP is configuring the right nameserver on your Linux machine(s).

---

### Post by ipyrro on 2011-01-07
Here is the listing, I would not think that it is the reason...
ipyrro@ipyrro-linux4:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.30.1
ipyrro@ipyrro-linux4:~$ 

That address is where my Smoothwall (and DNS) is...

---

### Post by PatchesTheCaveman on 2011-01-07
You included that in your first post too!  I'm sorry.

What happens when you run:
```
dig site.name.local
```
Replacing site.name.local with a valid host on your network if that was just an example, of course.

---

### Post by ipyrro on 2011-01-07
Here the reply

ipyrro@ipyrro-linux4:~$ dig desktop.pyrro.local

; <<>> DiG 9.7.0-P1 <<>> desktop.pyrro.local
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 15579
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;desktop.pyrro.local.        IN    A

;; ANSWER SECTION:
desktop.pyrro.local.    0    IN    A    192.168.30.242

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 192.168.30.1#53(192.168.30.1)
;; WHEN: Fri Jan  7 09:04:51 2011
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 53

So it seems that it gets the ip-address somehow correctly, but ping does not still work?
ipyrro@ipyrro-linux4:~$ ping desktop.pyrro.local
ping: unknown host desktop.pyrro.local

That desktop.pyrro.local is a Windows 7 machine.

---

### Post by PatchesTheCaveman on 2011-01-07
Are you sure the firewall on the Windows machine isn't configured to block ICMP/ping requests?  Windows Firewall, the firewall built into Windows XP and later, does this by default, at least on Windows 7.

To allow ICMP/ping with Windows Firewall, you must open an administrative Command Prompt.  To do so on Windows Vista and 7, Press Start, type *cmd* and press CTRL+SHIFT+ENTER.  To do so on Windows XP or if you have UAC disabled, make sure you are logged on with a user account with Administrator rights, and press WindowsKey+R, type *cmd* and press Enter.

Then, run this command:
```
netsh firewall set icmpsetting type=all mode=enable
```

I just installed Windows 7 Ultimate fresh on one of my machines the day before yesterday.  I tested it just now and I was unable to ping it by hostname or IP address until I ran the above command.

If you use third-party firewall software, most such software on the Windows platform also comes preconfigured to block ICMP/ping by default.

---

### Post by ipyrro on 2011-01-07
Hmm..I do not know that for sure, I will check later...But, it fails similarly to other linux machines. For example I have another ubuntu machine in my home network (ipy-linux7.pyrro.local). With direct IP-address ping obvisouly works, but not with the IP-name.
Here also the dig command result for that. And yes, ping works with IP-name from Windows 7 machines. I would need this IP-name functionality for connecting the shared drives on different machines etc...

ipyrro@ipyrro-linux4:~$ dig ipy-linux7.pyrro.local

; <<>> DiG 9.7.0-P1 <<>> ipy-linux7.pyrro.local
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 32343
;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0

;; QUESTION SECTION:
;ipy-linux7.pyrro.local.        IN    A

;; ANSWER SECTION:
ipy-linux7.pyrro.local.    0    IN    A    192.168.30.247

;; Query time: 0 msec
;; SERVER: 192.168.30.1#53(192.168.30.1)
;; WHEN: Fri Jan  7 09:42:46 2011
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 56

ipyrro@ipyrro-linux4:~$ ping ipy-linux7.pyrro.local
ping: unknown host ipy-linux7.pyrro.local
ipyrro@ipyrro-linux4:~$ ping 192.168.30.247
PING 192.168.30.247 (192.168.30.247) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 192.168.30.247: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=8.30 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.30.247: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.167 ms
^C
--- 192.168.30.247 ping statistics ---
2 packets transmitted, 2 received, 0% packet loss, time 1001ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.167/4.234/8.301/4.067 ms

---

### Post by PatchesTheCaveman on 2011-01-07
Run these commands:
```
sudo bash -c "cat domain pyrro.local >> /etc/resolv.conf"
sudo bash -c "cat search pyrro.local >> /etc/resolv.conf"
```
Replace "pyrro.local" with the actual domain name if you obfuscated it.

Then try pinging again.  Does that fix your problem?

If so, you'll need to manually configure NetworkManager on all the computers to add your domain name to "Search domains" field on the IPv4 Settings tab, or configure the DHCP on your SmoothWall box to provide that information.  (This is achieved with a *option domain-name "pyrro.local"* field in the dhcpd.conf file for ISC DHCP included with Linux and most Unices.)

---

