---
title: "12.04 client no longer seeing Avahi services"
date: 2015-07-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ranger12 on 2015-07-31
Okay I have been using 12.04 for some time now and this has never happened. This is a strange one.

Ubuntu Server 12.04.5
Ubuntu Desktop 12.04.5

I have a ftp service setup and advertised via avahi on my network. I decided one day to try a sFTP session from the client into my server through Nautilus. It worked fine but after I shut the client down and booted it up later I can no longer see the advertised FTP service under Browse Network. I checked - nothing wrong with the daemons on both client and server. Vsftpd is still running. I can see the advertised service from the command line and log into the ftp service from the command line and from Firefox. I have an older Dell Inspiron that I installed 12.04.5 on and it sees the ftp service from Nautilus fine but I have not done a sFTP connection from it. I also have a T61 with 14.04.2 on it and it sees the advertised FTP service from Files - Browse Network. Also I have not done a sFTP connection from that laptop either. Something about doing that sFTP connection from the desktop client has done something with Nautilus and seeing avahi advertised services from my server. I wonder if someone has an idea about what is causing this. I wouldn't think doing a sFTP connection into the server from Nautilus would do this. Strange.

---

### Post by ranger12 on 2015-08-02
Hmm, I always seem to post issues that no one has an answer to. Go figure. :D Ah well I guess I am on my own again. Well I will keep at it until I find that answer. Their has to be something that was stored on either the client or the server that is now keeping Nautilus from showing avahi advertised services.

---

