---
title: "DNS issue with static IP in 14.04 LTS"
date: 2015-04-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jackw2 on 2015-04-10
I just installed 14.04 LTS and am having issues with DNS and connecting to the Internet. I can ping, I can go to google using IP (216.58.216.196), the same with other sites using IP address.

After setting up my static IP through network manager didn't work I looked around on the net for solutions, nothing has worked.

I've tried editing /etc/network/interfaces
```

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 10.0.0.89
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 10.0.01
dns-nameservers 162.253.119.65 162.253.108.30

```

I also tried editing /etc/resolv.conf
```

#Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#        DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND - - YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 162.253.119.65
nameserver 162.253.108.30

```

I've tried restarting the system and I still can't get to the Internet. Every other computer on my home network works (Windows and Linux) so I know the settings are correct.

Any help would be appreciated before I switch to another OS.

---

### Post by michi1983 on 2015-04-11
either it's a typo or you have set up a wrong gateway.
I guess it should be 10.0.0.1

does it work when you switch from static to dhcp?
if yes, please post a sudo ifconfig after switching to dhcp

---

### Post by jackw2 on 2015-04-11
Thanks michi1983,

It's a typo. The gateway is 10.0.0.1.

Switching to DHCP worked:

```

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:24:e8:35:72:59 
          inet addr:10.0.0.3  Bcast:10.0.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0 
          inet6 addr: fe80::224:e8ff:fe35:7259/64 Scope:Link 
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1 
          RX packets:2421 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 
          TX packets:1488 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:3193339 (3.1 MB)  TX bytes:155983 (155.9 KB) 
          Interrupt:17 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback 
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0 
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host 
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:65536  Metric:1 
          RX packets:428 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 
          TX packets:428 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:124079 (124.0 KB)  TX bytes:124079 (124.0 KB)

```

The router was switched back to static IPs after the test, which is where it needs to be.

---

### Post by michi1983 on 2015-04-11
so, is everything working now like you wish?

if not, and you atill want to use static ip, please check the settings of the router and what dhcp range the router provides. your problem might have been a problem because an IP conflict.

---

### Post by jackw2 on 2015-04-11
No. It is not working as I need. I want it to access the internet but I NEED it to work with static IPs.  DHCP is not an option other than testing that there is no hardware or driver issues. I have several devices on the network that NEED static IPs. 

There is no IP conflict, I used several IPs during testing that I know are not in use with anything else. 

The bottom line - Ubuntu 14.04 either works with static IPs or it is no use to me and gets replaced with another Linux distro that will work. or I plug in the Windows drive the computer came with and use that as much as I hate Windows.

---

### Post by michi1983 on 2015-04-11
well that's what YOU say ;)
as long as you don't post your relevant router settings we can't help you. but one thing is for sure, it's not ubuntus 14.04 fault because I run it as well with static IP and it works as espected.

---

### Post by jackw2 on 2015-04-11
The DHCP range for the router was 10.0.0.3 to 10.0.0.255. DHCP gave it an IP of 10.0.03 and I used that for the static IP when I took the router off DHCP and no internet since it was a static IP.

I've spent hours researching the issue before I posted here, and it seems a lot of people are having problems with this issue. I tried those fixes before posting. Ubuntu 10.04, what I'm typing on now, has no problems with the settings I use for the network. Nor does any other OS or device on my network.

If I input my networking settings in the manager when I set it up and it doesn't take then there is an issue. If those exact same settings are used via DHCP and it works then it reinforces that there is an issue. If I use the same settings as worked with DHCP on static and it doesn't work then there is an issue. The settings haven't changed, only the method of obtaining the network information has.

I appreciate the help, I really do. I like Ubuntu and want this latest version to work. I'm just frustrated. Fortunately there is nothing on the PC aside from some updates I ran when it was on DHCP, so blowing it away and starting over isn't a problem.

---

### Post by papibe on 2015-04-11
Hi jackw2.

A few ideas:

Unless you uninstall Network-Manager, which I don't recommend, editing directly /etc/network/interfaces won't work. Eventually, the dhcp client would renew the lease, and you loose your static IP.

Also editing /etc/resolv.conf won't work because it is generated automatically after every reset of the network. Make sure it is a symbolic link:
```
$ ls -l /etc/resolv.conf 
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 29 May 19  2014 /etc/resolv.conf -> ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf
```
If your router supports it, the easiest way to set an static IP would be to let the machine 'as is' and set a DHCP reservation on the router. If you can't do that, you have to select an IP address outside the DHCP range. Thus 10.0.0.3 is not a good choice, use 10.0.0.2 instead.

You can set up an static IP on the GUI using Network-Manager. Don't forget you need to set up IP, netmask, gateway, and DNS (hits [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP/StaticIP")). Once you set it up, restart your network like this:
```
sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0
```
If something is wrong, please open a terminal, run this command, and post back its results (you can copy/paste the text):
```
nm-tool
```
Hope it helps. Let us know how that goes.
Regards.

P.S.: in your first post, "gateway 10.0.01" that is not a valid gateway, I think you meant gateway 10.0.0**.**1

---

### Post by jackw2 on 2015-04-11
Hipapibe[[COLOR=#C61919]****[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=774785"), 

I decided to start from scratch and reinstalled 14.04 LTS.

I set up the symbolic link. I configured a static IP based on the link you provided, which was the same as I had done it before. Restarted the network. No good hitting the internet.  Restarted the computer, tried to get online, no go.

Ran nm-tool (typing by hand since no way to copy and paste):
```

NetworkManager Tool

State: connected (global)

- Device: eth0 [Wired connection 1]
 Type:             Wired
 Driver:            tg3
 State:             connected
 Default:           yes
 HW Address:   00:24:E8:35:72:59

Capabilities:
 Carrier Detect: yes
 Speed:           100 Mb/s

Wired Properties
 Carrier:          on

IPv4 Settings:
 Address:       10.0.0.3
 Prefix:           24 (255.255.255.0)
 Gateway:       10.0.0.1

 DNS:             162.253.119.65
 DNS:             162.253.108.30

```

I can ping IP addresses just as I could before. It still isn't resolving. Yes, that was a type on the first gateway.

---

### Post by jackw2 on 2015-04-11
An update. I tried switching out the DNS servers to 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4 since I've seen them used several times as I was reading posts on the issue. For whatever reason, it fixed the issue. It makes no sense since the original DNS servers worked for DHCP. But it worked so I'm not complaining.

I'm going say that the symbolic link and the 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4 DNS servers fixed the problem. I'm guessing it just likes those DNS servers, so they can stay.

Thanks for your help papibe and michi1983.

---

### Post by michi1983 on 2015-04-12
Hm, the symbolic link should get created automatically when you install 14.04 but however I´m glad it works now ;)

---

