---
title: "IPW2200 802.11b intel doesnt work(open net, mac prot)"
date: 2006-09-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by skrom on 2006-09-07
Ok here how it is: 

In windows i can connect both at the network at home(open, mac prot, broadcasting essid), and at school(wpa/wep prot with plain ascii)

In Linux i can connect at school, but not at home.
Its a dhcp network yes.

interfaces:

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
wireless-essid hund

auto eth2 
iface eth2 inet dhcp

auto ath0
iface ath0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp

iwconfig at school when im connected:

eth1      IEEE 802.11g  ESSID:"hist"
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: 00:12:7F:48:30:80
          Bit Rate=48 Mb/s   Tx-Power=20 dBm   Sensitivity=8/0
          Retry limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=82/100  Signal level=-48 dBm  Noise level=-85 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:8


I have heard it might be a problem with open network and ipw2200 intel card. Please tell me I don't have to recompile;)

I tried connecting at home manually, but I cant get a IP adress. I send a dhcp request, and i get an offer, then it times out. And I know that the router gets the request in security log, and yes the Mac is correct on the prot. And I cant change it to none security, since its not my network.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-09-07
The following section requires a key if you are saying that your home network uses security (WEP I assume):

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
wireless-essid **your_essid**
wireless-key **your_hex_wep_key**

Your WEP key must be in a hexidecimal format. Once you have done that, simply restart the computer.

---

### Post by skrom on 2006-09-07
Thanks for your reply;)

I want to connect to home network yeah, but its:

Open Network
Mac Protection
Broadcast ESSID

And the network at school is  WEP/ASCII encrypted. Which means I can connect at school on encrypted network, but not at home which was the network with the terms written above

Thanks

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-09-07
Well... if you are talking about an open home network this should definitely work:
> auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
wireless-essid your_essid
I don't really get the point to be honest. Which tool are you using to configure your wireless network? Have you tried "Network settings" under GNOME? If you can connect to a encrypted network at school as you say, your home network should be a piece of cake using that tool.

---

### Post by skrom on 2006-09-07
Yes i have tried the GUI tool as well as using commands manually to connect. 

Ill try once more and check.

---

### Post by skrom on 2006-09-07
Nope, nothing. I get an activating eth1 screen which hangs up.
And if i do it in the terminal i get endless dhcp request which never ends. So I suspect I never get an IP.

And another thing, I can find the network by the drop down menu in network. And my card seems to work fine, and I can connect to the wlan in windows.

And it seems im connected, when i look at connection properties, (i manually changed to eth1) it says im receiving 8976 packets, and sending 1425. But I cannot even ping anything. Or enter a webpage.

Tried to follow what was said in this thread, cant say it worked for me. :

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=196767&highlight=wlan+open](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=196767&highlight=wlan+open)

CODE
sudo ifconfig eth1 up

iwlist eth1 scan

sudo iwconfig eth1 essid [ESSID]

sudo dhclient eth1

If i use this method after doing as the thread above, i still get locked into the DHCP request. And it wont budge..


I can also add that I have tried with 2 other cards as well. Both being rejected.

---

### Post by skrom on 2006-09-07
so you cant connect to open networks using the Network tab?

---

### Post by skrom on 2006-09-07
> **wieman01 said:**
> Well... if you are talking about an open home network this should definitely work:

I don't really get the point to be honest. Which tool are you using to configure your wireless network? Have you tried "Network settings" under GNOME? If you can connect to a encrypted network at school as you say, your home network should be a piece of cake using that tool.

I havent tried "Network Settings" But a tab called Network. Which is a GUI option, I deactivate all the cards except the one I am going to use. I click on it, and use the properties tab, then I use pulldown menu to find ESSID, and leave key untouched as I am trying to connect to a open network. 

Then I choose dhcp in pull menu, as its dynamical ip on router. Then i press ok. This is when the problems starts. The activation screen runs untill i close it.

---

### Post by skrom on 2006-09-07
I've installer the ipw2200 driver and firmware + iee80211
and it still doesnt work.

I got a corrupted install, and now it wont recognize my card hehe, typicall;)

---

### Post by joshbates15 on 2006-09-14
> **skrom said:**
> I've installer the ipw2200 driver and firmware + iee80211
and it still doesnt work.

I got a corrupted install, and now it wont recognize my card hehe, typicall;)

Have you had any luck with this? I just removed the iee80211 + ipw2200 driver and I'm getting an error when I try to make the new versions of both. And now Ubuntu won't recognize my card either. Any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

