---
title: "7.10 &amp; Netgear GA311 Gigabit Ethernet 10/100/1000 Speed Issue"
date: 2007-11-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by KnightAR on 2007-11-18
Okay, Here is my problem. I have a 10/100/1000 Netgear GA311NA Gigabit Ethernet Controller with the chipset of rtl8169. It refuses to negotiate at 1000 and I've tried forcing it, It refuses to.

> knightar@router:~$ lspci | grep -i ethernet
00:04.0 Ethernet controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] SiS900 PCI Fast Ethernet (rev 91)
00:0a.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8169 Gigabit Ethernet (rev 10)

> knightar@router:~$ sudo mii-tool -v
eth1: negotiated 100baseTx-FD flow-control, link ok
  product info: vendor 00:07:32, model 17 rev 0
  basic mode:   autonegotiation enabled
  basic status: autonegotiation complete, link ok
  capabilities: 100baseTx-FD 100baseTx-HD 10baseT-FD 10baseT-HD
  advertising:  100baseTx-FD 100baseTx-HD 10baseT-FD 10baseT-HD flow-control
  link partner: 100baseTx-FD 100baseTx-HD 10baseT-FD 10baseT-HD flow-control


> knightar@router:~$ sudo ethtool eth1
Settings for eth1:
        Supported ports: [ TP ]
        Supported link modes:   10baseT/Half 10baseT/Full
                                100baseT/Half 100baseT/Full
                                1000baseT/Full
        Supports auto-negotiation: Yes
        Advertised link modes:  10baseT/Half 10baseT/Full
                                100baseT/Half 100baseT/Full
                                1000baseT/Full
        Advertised auto-negotiation: Yes
        Speed: 1000Mb/s
        Duplex: Full
        Port: Twisted Pair
        PHYAD: 0
        Transceiver: internal
        Auto-negotiation: on
        Supports Wake-on: pumbg
        Wake-on: g
        Current message level: 0x00000033 (51)
        Link detected: yes


I went ahead and downlaoaded [ftp://209.216.61.149/cn/nic/r8169-6.003.00.tar.bz2](ftp://209.216.61.149/cn/nic/r8169-6.003.00.tar.bz2) and tried to install, it gave me  the following error:

> knightar@router:~$ sudo mii-tool -v
SIOCGMIIPHY on 'eth1' failed: Operation not supported

Before someone asks, I do have a Gigabit switch, my windows machines are plugged into it and running at 1000.

Can anyone suggest a fix?

Thanks!

- KnightAR

---

### Post by noob12 on 2007-11-19
Ethtool output actually indicates a gigabit link here:

```

Speed: 1000Mb/s
Duplex: Full

```

Not sure what mii-tool is reporting here, but I would trust ethtool output more.  Do you have LEDs on the switch or on the card that can corroborate the link state?

If LEDs indicate it is actually at 100 and not 1000 mbps you can try:
(1) Swap in a known-good CAT6 / CAT5E cable and see if it improves.
(2) Try **sudo ethtool -s eth1 speed 1000 duplex full autoneg off**
If that works you can add a pre-up line to run this in **/etc/network/interfaces** as a workaround.

---

### Post by Devilotx on 2007-11-29
I've got the same issue, I've tried installing the latest driver from Realtek, but it hasn't improved things.

Is there is a good answer? when I Ran dapper, I could just drop back to the r1000 driver, is there a way to get the r1000 driver into Gutsy?

---

### Post by run.don't.walk on 2008-01-26
I have the same chipset in my $10 Trendnet Gig card, connecting to $30 Airlink 10/100/1000 switch.

lsmod 

r8169                  32260  0 


I found that restarting the networking service sometimes solves the problem. I created a launch button for quick access.

sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

Good luck.

---

