---
title: "10.04 - accessing samba shares from applications"
date: 2011-01-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Brad Morfay on 2011-01-04
Hi

I have a NAS running Samba. My Samba shares are accessed from a Windows computer, it works very well.

With the kubuntu 10.04 computer, things are different : I can see the Samba shares in Dolphin, and copy files to the local drive, but lots of applications don't allow me to open a file on a Samba share. 

Some applications such as OpenOffice let me browse to the share but refuse to open the remote file

Some other applications don't let me browse to shares at all.

What's up with that ? 
Surely I'm not the only one wanting to access files on a NAS ?
How do other people do it ? 

Thanks

PS I chose kubuntu 10.04 because the 10.10 install hangs, the "ui" workaround I saw here and there did not work, the only solution offered was to go back to 10.04

Needless to say, I'm not impressed so far....

---

### Post by PatchesTheCaveman on 2011-01-04
You can try mounting your Samba share as a normal directory on your system, which might make it easier to access in different programs.

To do so, run these commands on a terminal:
```
sudo mkdir /mnt/**whatever**
sudo smbmount //**server**/**share**/ /mnt/**whatever** -o username=**username**
```

---

### Post by Brad Morfay on 2011-01-05
> **PatchesTheCaveman said:**
> 
You can try mounting your Samba share as a normal directory on your system


That works much better, thanks.

However it has some unintended consequences with some apps.
(It's the app's problem though, I suppose, not kubuntu's).

Thanks for the tip.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2011-01-06
KDE programs and GNOME programs access network shares in different ways.

KDE has [**kioslaves**](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KIO), which allow for file management over a bunch of different protocols like samba, SSH, ftp, recently afc, and others. GNOME programs need to be KIO-aware to be able to access files this way. (A good start is to use the KDE open/save dialog!)

GNOME uses [**GVFS**](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GVFS), which mounts samba shares into a normal directory (under **~/.gvfs**), and as such provides access to it to any and all programs that can read and write to disk.

You can also consider using **smbnetfs** to mount your entire network to a directory. It will populate the directory with nearby workgroups, computers in them and then the shares you have access to. It's in the package with the same name. You may want to use the **-s** argument when using it though, to make it only use a single thread, since last I tried it wasn't thread-safe and crashed when you tried to do several file operations at once.

```
$ mkdir *<directory>*
$ smbnetfs -s *<directory>*
```

Then browse to that directory. Again, I've had some stability issues with this approach, but it's inarguably convenient. Unmount the directory with '**fusermount -u *<directory>***'.

Another nifty program is **Smb4K**, which is essentially a Samba Share Browser that lists available shares and allows you to easily double-click one to mount it. It has a pretty decent feature-set, so I recommend you try it too.

On another note, if you have 10.04 running you could try merely upgrading into 10.10. It worked nicely on my netbook, no issues.

---

