---
title: "Strange HOSTS behaviour"
date: 2009-08-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by giambolo on 2009-08-09
Hi everyone. I've just installed Ubuntu Jaunty on my new notebook. It seems that /etc/hosts is not working properly. E.G. /etc/hosts contain  127.0.0.1     myself 192.168.1.100 myselfagain 192.168.1.1   myrouter  >pinging these addresses I get the message  PING myself (62.210.183.39) 56(84) bytes of data.  Any suggestion from the community? Thanks in advance to everyone.

---

### Post by giambolo on 2009-08-09
I think I'd better add my /etc/nsswitch
# /etc/nsswitch.conf
#
# Example configuration of GNU Name Service Switch functionality.
# If you have the `glibc-doc-reference' and `info' packages installed, try:
# `info libc "Name Service Switch"' for information about this file.

passwd:         compat
group:          compat
shadow:         compat

hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4
networks:       files

protocols:      db files
services:       db files
ethers:         db files
rpc:            db files

netgroup:       nis

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-08-09
Actually, it would help if you posted your actual /etc/hosts file rather than trying to explain what's in it. There's no risk in revealing LAN information unless you don't trust your router's firewall.

---

### Post by giambolo on 2009-08-09
Well, I've reboot the  machine and hosts works like it should. I'll be checking if this happens again. Please, consider this thread closed. Thank you again for ypur reply.

---

### Post by giambolo on 2009-08-09
No, again it doesn't work. As soon as the wireless network gets connected I only have the two DNSs of my provider. I don't know how to force /etc/hosts to be queried before the DNS servers. The following tries to describe my configuration, feel free to ask for more details.
/etc/hosts
127.0.0.1 [www.joomla1.onme](www.joomla1.onme)
127.0.0.1 [www.joomla2.onme](www.joomla2.onme)
127.0.0.1 [www.joomla3.onme](www.joomla3.onme)
127.0.0.1 [www.joomla4.onme](www.joomla4.onme)

192.168.1.1  gw
192.168.1.1 dhcp

127.0.0.1 [www.didaco.rock](www.didaco.rock)


# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1 ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts

/etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 193.70.152.15
nameserver 193.70.152.25

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-08-09
All your hosts on 127.0.0.1 should be on the same line, like so:
```
127.0.0.1 localhost joomla1.onme joomla2.onme joomla3.onme joomla4.onme didaco.rock

[COLOR="Red"][B]192.168.1.1 gw dhcp
[/B][/COLOR]
# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1 ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts
```

I'm not sure I understand the line I've highlighted in red. I can think of no reason to include a DHCP server or GW in your hosts file.

Edit:
"www" is assumed and not needed in the hosts file.

---

### Post by giambolo on 2009-08-09
Thank you dmizer. Your suggestions do not bring me elsewhere. My problem is that Ubuntu doesn't read /etc/hosts and keep asking any name to the DNS server defined in the wireless network configuration of networkmanager. Which should be the standard for Ubuntu. I think I am to investigate the latter package. Thanks again.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-08-09
Please post the output of:
```
ls -la /etc/hosts
```

---

### Post by giambolo on 2009-08-10
elio@gazelle:~$ ls -la /etc/hosts
-rwxr----- 1 root root 368 2009-08-10 09:13 /etc/hosts

---

### Post by giambolo on 2009-08-10
dmizer, you got the point. I've changed the hosts file with chmod o+r /etc/hosts and it works now. It all started from the fact that I copied many files (as root) from the /etc of my previous pc to the /etc of this pc.
Many many thanks. It simply was too obvious

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-08-10
> **giambolo said:**
> It simply was too obvious

It's always the simple things that cause the most trouble ;)

---

