---
title: "Keep Network Manager from overwriting resolv.conf ?"
date: 2011-11-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by maskkkk on 2011-11-16
How do I keep Xubuntu 11.10 from overwriting `resolv.conf` everytime I reboot my machine?

Everytime I reboot, I get an overwritten `resolv.conf` that has the words `# Generated by Network Manager` and no nameservers specified.  

Someone on another forum told me that it had something to do with moving the time when resolvconf gets started up during a run-level, but I don't appear to have a symbolic link named S07resolvconf anywhere in my run level directories.

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-16
[Take a read of this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1881871") takes about what your seeing

---

### Post by maskkkk on 2011-11-16
So I need to either configure or uninstall NetworkManager.

Since the resolv.conf is only re-written if you're using a wireless connection, and I'm using a wired connection, I think I'll just uninstall it, it's kind of annoying.

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-16
I think Im like a good few people,
I dont use Nm anymore, 
I had a lot of bad experiences with it in the past, and just gave up on it.
I configure things manually myself (when you do that it means NM wont be involved.)

It may be great now, but NM and I have just grown apart

---

### Post by maskkkk on 2011-11-16
Okay, 

So I tried the following and rebooted...

sudo apt-get --purge remove network-manager
sudo apt-get --purge remove network-manager-gnome
sudo apt-get --purge remove network-manager-pptp
sudo apt-get --purge remove network-manager-pptp-gnome

I checked my resolv.conf and it's been overwritten again...

Is it some other package I should be looking for?

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-16
What is it being overwritten with?

Can you give an example of befre and after?
If your getting information via DHCP it will populate , however, if your using the same nameserver you should see the same nameserver each time....

---

### Post by maskkkk on 2011-11-16
No, I'm not using dhcp, I'm using a static ip address.

Before I have something like 

#Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

And then when I reboot it's
#Generated by NetworkManager

Which is weird because I uninstalled it.


Ah I dunno if this makes any difference, but I recently installed a different NIC, and it's been assigned eth1, and it doesn't come up automatically, I have to run 

sudo ifup eth1

to get it running.

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-16
In /etc/resolv.conf


remove the line 

#Generated by NetworkManager


The # means a comment which is not read.

Restart and see if that pops in again, I figure it will not

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-16
After my last post I noticed you have breezy in your Profile.

I was going to go AHA!!

But then saw your actually on 11:10 from OP

---

### Post by maskkkk on 2011-11-16
Okay nevermind I changed the eth1 to eth0 and rebooted, this time it didn't overwrite my resolv.conf

*shrugs* 

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-16
Ah, ok, rereading your posts you did mention the eth1

Missed that one.

Recommend you mark as solved and call me an idiot:-)

---

### Post by maskkkk on 2011-11-17
Hey thanks for the help! :)

---

