---
title: "7.04 installed, wg511v2 working, but....."
date: 2007-08-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Jeckler on 2007-08-12
Installed Feisty last night as a dual boot for XP, and have a couple issues.
I'm running a Dell Latitude C840 and a Netgear wg511v2 WLAN card.

I finally got ndiswrapper installed, and used the drivers downloaded from a post somewhere here. Someone had zipped the inf and sys files and had them available for download. So after figuring it out, there's a small issue. Not really a problem, just somewhat annoying.  I'm posting this from Ubuntu, so obviously it works. :)

First, in System /Administration / Windows Wireless drivers, it says "Hardware Present: No"
2nd, the little network monitors in the 'taskbar' don't show my connection. It's NetworkManager 0.6.4. If I click on it, then on Manual configuration, it shows the wireless, but shouldn't it show actual activity like XP?
Any ideas to get it to work the way I think it's supposed to, or should I live with it?
Keep in mind I am a complete Linux n00b, so I surprised myself getting this far, though there was some frustration getting ndiswrapper installed.

---

### Post by dougfractal on 2007-08-12
> little network monitors in the 'taskbar' don't show my connection
[rightclick icon] properties>general>name : wlan0

---

### Post by Jeckler on 2007-08-12
> **dougfractal said:**
> [rightclick icon] properties>general>name : wlan0
The only thing I get when I right-click is Enable Networking (which is checked), Connection information (which is grayed out), and About.

---

### Post by dougfractal on 2007-08-12
Have you updated your system?
> 
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade


Sorry I see the one you mean.
[rightclick panel] Add to panel >  Network monitor 

that one seems better.

---

### Post by Jeckler on 2007-08-12
Yep, found that about 5 minutes ago. I guess the icon for the NetworkManager app is static.  The network monitor icon lights up with activity, but there certainly doesn't seem to be a whole lot of contrast between lit ond not lit.

Any ideas on the first issue?

---

