---
title: "usb modem no longer works in 9.10"
date: 2009-11-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by BlissBryan on 2009-11-12
I have a hardware USB modem, the Best Data 56USB-SP/56USB-SPMAC/56USBP, that worked well under Ubuntu 9.04 and earlier. But after upgrading to 9.10, gnome-ppp is unable to find the modem. When I use the Detect feature in gnome-ppp, its says no modem was found. Yet with lsusb, I get:

$ lsusb
Bus 007 Device 002: ID 0572:1280 Conexant Systems (Rockwell), Inc. 

and in dmesg I get:
$ dmesg | grep -i cdc_acm
[   15.385757] cdc_acm 7-2:1.1: ttyACM0: USB ACM device
[   15.388194] usbcore: registered new interface driver cdc_acm
[   15.388200] cdc_acm: v0.26:USB Abstract Control Model driver for USB modems and ISDN adapters

Does anyone know how to get my hardware modem working again under 9.10?

Bryan

---

### Post by BlissBryan on 2009-11-13
Bump

---

### Post by pdc on 2009-11-13
go back to 9.04 

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/)

there are issues with 9.10; it is new software

---

### Post by jkohler2 on 2010-02-05
Please see Bug #469881.  I was finally able to connect to either the Zoom modem or the USR modem with the "modem manager" removed.

sudo apt-get remove modem manager.


Until now.  

I had reinstalled Ubuntu 9.04, and reinstalled gnome-ppp

sudo apt-get install gnome-ppp


I had also re-installed the driver from Linuxant.org:

sudo dpkg -i dgcmodem_1.11_k2.6.28_generic_ubuntu_i386.deb

It failed until I got the version of dgcmodem that matched the linux kernel in ubuntu 9.04.  It worked when I got the correct version of dgcmodem, under ubuntu 9.04.


It does not work now:


john@john-laptop:~$ sudo gnome-ppp
[sudo] password for john: 
WVCONF: /root/.wvdial.conf
GNOME PPP: Connecting...
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Cannot open /dev/ttyACM0: No such file or directory
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Cannot open /dev/ttyACM0: No such file or directory
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Cannot open /dev/ttyACM0: No such file or directory

---

### Post by jkohler2 on 2010-02-05
.... But it still works in 9.04:

GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Cannot get information for serial port.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Initializing modem.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Modem initialized.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATM1L3DT*70,,835-1941
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Waiting for carrier.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATM1L3DT*70,,835-1941
GNOME PPP: STDERR: CONNECT 45333/ARQ/V92/LAPM/V42BIS
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ** O1 Communications TermServ **
GNOME PPP: STDERR: Login: 
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Looks like a login prompt.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: jkohler2
GNOME PPP: STDERR: jkohler2
GNOME PPP: STDERR: Password: 
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Looks like a password prompt.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: (password)
GNOME PPP: STDERR:     Entering PPP Session.
GNOME PPP: STDERR:     IP address is 69.85.136.61
GNOME PPP: STDERR:     MTU is 1524.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Looks like a welcome message.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Starting pppd at Fri Feb  5 18:15:39 2010
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Pid of pppd: 5370
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Using interface ppp0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> local  IP address 69.85.136.61
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> remote IP address 69.19.217.20
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> primary   DNS address 66.81.1.250
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> secondary DNS address 66.81.1.252

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-02-06
hi

Re: ubuntu 9.10

from the terminal can you post the results of 

Code:

dmesg | grep -e "modem" -e "tty"

---

### Post by Hoffenbaum on 2010-11-18
Hi, I have a similar problem, just upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 and now Ubuntu can't find my USb Modem. At all, it does not even register it as a memory stick. It worked perfectly in 9.04.
Here is the output dmesg:

:~$ dmesg | grep -e "modem" -e "tty"
[    0.001297] console [tty0] enabled
[    1.681260] serial8250: ttyS1 at I/O 0x2f8 (irq = 3) is a 16550A
[   46.665193] ttyS1: LSR safety check engaged!

and from lsusb:

:~$ lsusb
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 003: ID 0af0:6971 Option 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

From want I can make it seems to detect that something is there, right?

Any help is much appreciated

/Hof

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-11-18
Maybe start a new thread :-)

but it's odd that it doesn't recognise anything about it, usually lsusb will pull the chipset, manufacturere and other stuff :-s

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-11-18
> **Hoffenbaum said:**
> Hi, I have a similar problem, just upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 and now Ubuntu can't find my USb Modem. At all, it does not even register it as a memory stick. It worked perfectly in 9.04.
Here is the output dmesg:

:~$ dmesg | grep -e "modem" -e "tty"
[    0.001297] console [tty0] enabled
[    1.681260] serial8250: ttyS1 at I/O 0x2f8 (irq = 3) is a 16550A
[   46.665193] ttyS1: LSR safety check engaged!

and from lsusb:

:~$ lsusb
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 003: ID 0af0:6971 Option 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

From want I can make it seems to detect that something is there, right?

Any help is much appreciated

/Hof

Hi

9.10 initial kernels (can't remember the numbers) had issues with certain devices
upgrading to latest kernels and installing usb_modeswitch helps

perhaps 10.10 would have been a better option

however suggest downloading Sakis3g

**[*Sakis3G*  - All-in-one script]("http://www.google.co.uk/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBcQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.sakis3g.org%2F&rct=j&q=sakis3g&ei=MbLlTJKANYOzhAf2tKzlDA&usg=AFQjCNFR0OA7GJQY3djYswddHkMjARyyDw&cad=rja")**

also a Handy tool to keep on a usb stick (Sakis3g usb_modeswitch embeded)

alexfish

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-11-18
are you using 9.10? :-)

guess I should have realised that :-)

---

### Post by Hoffenbaum on 2010-11-19
Thanks for the help, that is what I like the most about open source, there are so many helpful people out there, however...

I tried Sakis3g, but that gave the error "Device did not report GSM capabilities". 

Yes, 10.10 would have been a better option, I recently installed 10.10 on another machine and it worked like a charm. 

I have a LiveCD (or what its called) with 10.10 from that install, can I use that to upgrade my 9.10? From my shallow googling I guess that the best option would be to find a wlan and download and upgrade that way?

In the words of Lumbergh: Thanks a bunch!

/Hof

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-11-19
Hi

the point of sakis3g ( in this instance )

is to see if the device will configure , IE switch from cd mode to modem mode

there is a menu option ( configure device) here it may switch from storage to modem

test by seeing what the " lsusb command " gives before and after

then look for the tty ports

this thread may be of help

[How To : Mobile Broadband Connections [ Ubuntu  10.10 : 10.04 : 9.10 ]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466490")

also on same thread First Post  is a zip file in the attachments "usb-devices"

if on 9.10 " a handy script file for finding info about usb devices"

usage , run the script file , locate the lines which indicate the device , post only those
lines

alexfish

---

### Post by Hoffenbaum on 2010-11-23
Thanks for your help, but I am a lazy **** so I took the easy way out and did a fresh install of 10.10 and now my mobile broadband works like a charm.

Cheers!

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-11-23
> **Hoffenbaum said:**
> Thanks for your help, but I am a lazy **** so I took the easy way out and did a fresh install of 10.10 and now my mobile broadband works like a charm.
 
Cheers!
 
That's usually what I do when something becomes a little too much head work, though it's a good idea to have a seperate home partition for this and any future version upgrades, so that everything in the home partition is unafected :-)

---

