---
title: "Internet connected but not working"
date: 2010-03-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by popeye on 2010-03-25
Often i have an active connection on the tree network with an internet dongle  according networkmanager, but ping is not working and firefox and thunderbird also don't have a connection.
Skype however is working at that time. (testcall to skype is working)
My present solution is to disconnect and connect a couple of times again until i can ping a commonserver on the internet, and then everything is working normal.
Many are stating networkmanager is buggy, is this a known bug and is it worked on or do i need to install another program.
Has any of you an idea what could be going on and how to solve it, permanently. In the way it's automatically right when connecting.

My dongle is of type: Huawei E 1550 and often i have a normal connection.

Thanks.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2010-03-25
can you resolve domain names? 
what output do you get from 
```
nslookup ubuntuforums.org
```

---

### Post by popeye on 2010-03-26
When the networkmanager is connected, skype is working.
Result of:

ifconfig -a

ppp0      Link encap:Point-to-Point Protocol  
          inet addr:92.41.214.123  P-t-P:10.64.64.64  Mask:255.255.255.255
          UP POINTOPOINT RUNNING NOARP MULTICAST  MTU:1440  Metric:1
          RX packets:135 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:154 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:3 
          RX bytes:9594 (9.5 KB)  TX bytes:20197 (20.1 KB)

route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
10.64.64.64     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.255 UH    0      0        0 ppp0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 ppp0
0.0.0.0         10.64.64.64     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 ppp0

/etc/resolf.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager

nslookup ubuntuforums.org
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

Then i drop the connection, reconnect several times and there it's working.

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-03-26
Network Manager mobile broadband modems failing to return Primary and Secondary addresses


route  will not show the problem with gsm connections ,what we need is the primary and secondary servers

 

 If the problem is intermittent try adding this line to the ppp options files
 

 Code:
 
sudo gedit /etc/ppp/options
 
Add this line and save:

replacedefaultroute
 

 

 if this does not work then place a # in front of the entry to disable it
 

 then try the IPCP configure-NAKs returned before starting
 

 find the line # ipcp-max-failure <n> then remove the # and enter any number greater than 10 until you have a stable connection , hint start with 30 then work down
 

 IE
 

 ipcp-max-failure 30


 

 regards  
 

 alexfish

---

### Post by doas777 on 2010-03-26
I don;t do ppp so the last posters advice is most likely pertinent. 
your general issue is that you don;t have any dns servers associated with that connection. skype works on a different protocol, so name resolution isn't critical for it.

if nothing else works, try adding these dns server addresses in network-manager:
208.67.222.222, 208.67.220.220 (opendns.org)

---

### Post by Djuice512 on 2010-03-26
hi, i have also same problem.
my gsm modem from grameen phone (Huawei) 
connected but INTERNET is not working 
what should i do?
help me

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-03-27
Hi
 

 Djuice512  
 

 assuming you are using Network Manager
 

 If you are sure the modem appears to be connecting check this file
 

 /etc/resolv.conf  
 

 

 this is where the resolved addresses are returned in Ubuntu, if the system times out before the primary and secondary are returned then this file will be empty,check it with this code from the terminal
 

 gedit  /etc/resolv.conf  
 

 if the connection is fully established then you will see something like
 

 # Generated by NetworkManager 
 nameserver 4.2.2.1 
 nameserver 4.2.2.2
 

  today the addresses are as above , or else in your case it may be empty
 

 as you can see this is generated by the Network Manager  , this is a working file ,so it will change depending on the addresses returned when the name (APN) is looked up,below is the normal returned addresses, as which can be found in the   serviceprovider.xml databasefile used by the network manager,  
 

 # Generated by NetworkManager 
 nameserver 149.254.192.126
 nameserver 149.254.201.126
 

 as you can see from the above my Provider is using different server addresses although my APN is
 

 &#8220; general.t-mobile.uk &#8220;
 

 Changing the Network Manager Ipv4 settings to use Automatic (PPP) addresses only, then entering the addresses  IE: 149.254.192.126, 149.254.201.126 in the DNS servers box can  solve the problem ,check these details with your Service Provider
 

 Using opennics as mentioned, is another,this is useful when your ISP are using slow servers or at times when there is heavy traffic, however your ISP may not allow you to connect to opennics,you can only but try
 

 This leaves us with the problem of  negotiating the connection to named servers, for this refer to Post #4
 

 regards
 

  alexfish

---

### Post by popeye on 2010-03-27
Following below guide;

inserting the line replacedefaultroute did not work.

Then inserting ipcp-max-failure 25 worked out fine.

I have tested it 10 times, so i hope it will continue to work.

For now A BIG THANKS.  \\:D/\\:D/



> **alexfish said:**
> Network Manager mobile broadband modems failing to return Primary and Secondary addresses

route  will not show the problem with gsm connections ,what we need is the primary and secondary servers

If the problem is intermittent try adding this line to the ppp options files

 Code:
 
sudo gedit /etc/ppp/options
 
Add this line and save:

replacedefaultroute
 
if this does not work then place a # in front of the entry to disable it
 
then try the IPCP configure-NAKs returned before starting

find the line # ipcp-max-failure <n> then remove the # and enter any number greater than 10 until you have a stable connection , hint start with 30 then work down
 
IE

ipcp-max-failure 30

regards  
alexfish

---

