---
title: "8.10/Huawai E169 connection (or lack of)"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jpzrfreek on 2008-12-22
As a **[COLOR="Red"]Newbie[/COLOR]** to Linux and of course Ubuntu (8.10) I am somewhat frustrated by my inability to get my Huawai E169 3G Modem to work with My Asus VX2 Laptop despite the apparent ease of installation (at least according to the www). I have followed the various instructions (2 on this forum and 2 on the www) as closely as I can but there always seems something I can't do... As an example of what I mean: to stop myself going mad with the lack of progress with the internet connection and bouncing my brand new computer off the wall I am trying to partition my HDD. I went to help and typed in "creating partitions" and am on 2.2.2 Creating a new partition, which starts by saying "To create a new partition"
[INDENT][/INDENT]1, Select the device from the drop down list at top right of the main window.
All I have there are the Icons for Bluetooth, Wireless connections, Volume then the date and time, there is nothing below that nor is there anything that suggests, even remotely how to partition the HDD.

I will admit that I am not offay with all the terminologies associated with Linux/Ubuntu and all my previous experiences have been with Microsoft software but I am so **** with them.

I have to admit that my experiences with Ubuntu aren't all bad and I am enjoying many aspects of using Ubuntu for the first time but I find it difficult to understand why everybody seems to have different version of the same Operating System and there seems to be no one solution for seemingly the same problem.

I have surfed the net looking to see if drivers are required but nothing comes up and the articles I have read suggest none are needed, and following procedures that have solved other peoples problems (as mentioned earlier) haven't worked for me despite having a new folder that I created to connect.
[http://www.i-jk.co.uk/blog/2008/09/25/3-mobile-broadband-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex](http://www.i-jk.co.uk/blog/2008/09/25/3-mobile-broadband-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex)
In the case of this link I get to the last item on number 3 and I cannot find a label saying type anywhere....and I am unsure whether type means enter data.

Please forgive me if this has been said before but at the rate my hair is falling out I'll be a "chrome dome" by christmas.

I'm hoping that someone out there may have further ideas that I can try to get connected.

Seasons Greetings

P

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-12-23
I bought one of these dongles today. I put the sim card in, plugged in the dongle, and after a few seconds a setup wizard appeared. I selected 3 as my network provider, and within seconds had a connection. No problems what-so-ever.

And I might add, that although this is a 3.6Mbps connection, it seems faster than my 8Mbps (or 6.5Mbps tested) ADSL connection. And so much more reliable.

---

