---
title: "Disable SLAAC?"
date: 2015-01-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by MACscr on 2015-01-19
I am not sure what its called, but I dont want any ipv6 unless I statically assign it to an interface. I have at least 4 nics in every system and some systems with LXC guests with multiple interfaces as well. Im seeing some interfaces with 6 ipv6 address and I havent assigned a single one. So with all of that said, how can I easily disable this auto ipv6 feature on all my systems immediately (without reboot) and also permanently (survives reboots). Ive seen some options, but not ones that seem to apply immediately nor seem to work on all interfaces. Doing each one individually is just going to take to long. I will definitely make sure i add this to my Foreman/puppet templates though so it doesnt happen again in the future. Im running Trusty and Precise for most of my systems and a few Debian 7.7 systems. Thanks so much for your help and ideas!

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2015-01-19
disable ipv6 in your router

---

### Post by MACscr on 2015-01-19
> **kerry_s said:**
> disable ipv6 in your router

I dont have access the the routers and there is almost certainty that they wont turn it off for me. Also, arent some of the ipv6 ip's self generated by the kernel. Some sort of privacy or temp ip's?

---

### Post by kpatz on 2015-01-20
To disable auto-creation of ipv6 addresses on an interface, add this to /etc/network/interfaces for the interface(s) you want to disable. The below example is for eth1, change to suit:

```

pre-up /sbin/sysctl -w net.ipv6.conf.eth1.autoconf=0

```

If you want to disable SLAAC entirely (don't get default routes or anything), use this as well:
```

pre-up /sbin/sysctl -w  net.ipv6.conf.eth1.accept_ra=0

```

You can also set the above value(s) in /etc/sysctl.conf if you want them to be persistent no matter what, you can also disable on all interfaces by using net.ipv6.conf.all... instead of net.ipv6.conf.eth#...

To change them manually and immediately without rebooting, just run the above /sbin/sysctl commands with sudo.

---

### Post by MACscr on 2015-01-24
> **kpatz said:**
> To disable auto-creation of ipv6 addresses on an interface, add this to /etc/network/interfaces for the interface(s) you want to disable. The below example is for eth1, change to suit:

```

pre-up /sbin/sysctl -w net.ipv6.conf.eth1.autoconf=0

```

If you want to disable SLAAC entirely (don't get default routes or anything), use this as well:
```

pre-up /sbin/sysctl -w  net.ipv6.conf.eth1.accept_ra=0

```

You can also set the above value(s) in /etc/sysctl.conf if you want them to be persistent no matter what, you can also disable on all interfaces by using net.ipv6.conf.all... instead of net.ipv6.conf.eth#...

To change them manually and immediately without rebooting, just run the above /sbin/sysctl commands with sudo.

I added the following to my /etc/sysctl.conf and then rebooted and i still have multiple global and link scope ipv6 addresses assigned to each of my interfaces:

```
net.ipv6.conf.all.autoconf = 0
net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_ra = 0
```

---

