---
title: "9.10 wired ethernet - no connection; but still works under feisty"
date: 2010-01-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by berwickrc on 2010-01-09
Issue: unable to get hardwired ethernet working under new 9.10 install on Dell Dimension 8200. *Both* Feisty and Windows XP on same hardware (other partitions) are *still* working fine -- Belkin F5D5005 pci gigabit ethernet, either using DHCP (windows) or static IP (Feisty).  Setup: Running through gigabit cable router connected to internet. When booting under 9.10, one can see the router and computer connect momentarily, and then the activity lights on both sides wink out, so 'no link.'

I must be doing something wrong, but what?  I've tried removing NetManager, using known good cables, rebooting router, using wicd; replacing wicd with just /etc/network/interface and /etc/resolv.conf files, and all possible variants for the search domains and nameserver.   Nothing so far has worked. Under 9.10, ifconfig always reports link down after network restart.

ethtools reports:
driver: r8169
version: 2.3LK-NAPI
firmware-version: 
bus-info: 0000:02:0a.0

Link reported down by lshw ('link=no')
lshw -C network:[INDENT]  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL-8169 Gigabit Ethernet
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: a
       bus info: pci@0000:02:0a.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 10
       serial: 00:11:50:9b:9a:ee
       size: 10MB/s
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list rom ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=half ip=192.168.1.109 latency=64 link=no maxlatency=64 mingnt=32 multicast=yes port=MII speed=10MB/s
       resources: irq:19 ioport:e400(size=256) memory:fe1ff800-fe1ff8ff memory:20000000-2000ffff(prefetchable)
[/INDENT]-- Modified /etc/network/interfaces and /etc/resolv.conf to read as follows, neither dhcp nor this static IP work:[INDENT]auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
#static ip address
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.109
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
mtu 1500

[/INDENT]/etc/resolv.conf is here (yes - tried using just the gateway 192.168.1.1 here as well; in fact, under feisty, just the 'search' and 'nameserver 192.168.1.1' work fine, but not under 9.10).[INDENT]search hsd1.ma.comcast.net
nameserver 68.87.71.226
nameserver 68.87.71.242
[/INDENT]This extract from dmesg shows the link is down and not ready - works fine under feisty and windows:[INDENT]...
[    1.845558] r8169 Gigabit Ethernet driver 2.3LK-NAPI loaded
[    1.845587] r8169 0000:02:0a.0: PCI INT A -> GSI 19 (level, low) -> IRQ 19
[    1.845624] r8169 0000:02:0a.0: no PCI Express capability
[    1.846631] eth0: RTL8110s at 0xe080a800, 00:11:50:9b:9a:ee, XID 04000000 IRQ 19

....

[    9.751479] r8169: eth0: link down
[    9.751609] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth0: link is not ready
[/INDENT]Any help, tips, pointers, would be appreciated, thanks - most frustrating linux install i've done after literally hundreds of difft systems over many years.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-01-09
I presume the machine won't **ping** the router. Curious, since **lshw** is showing an IP address. Does **ifconfig -a** show anything interesting?

---

### Post by berwickrc on 2010-01-09
> **Iowan said:**
> I presume the machine won't **ping** the router. Curious, since **lshw** is showing an IP address. Does **ifconfig -a** show anything interesting?
Exactly, pinging router 192.168.1.1 fails.  ifconfig -a gives the (correct) IP inet address of
192.168.1.104, all other numbers fine, except, of course the tag RUNNING is not there
and there are 0 packets shown transmitted or received.  The link is not up (the pci card has
a green led that flashes on activity - it is completely off.  This light goes green with
activity under feisty, and under windows, since on *those* OS's with the same hardware
the ethernet is still working.  Very, very strange.)

---

### Post by berwickrc on 2010-01-10
> **berwickrc said:**
> Exactly, pinging router 192.168.1.1 fails.  ifconfig -a gives the (correct) IP inet address of
192.168.1.104, all other numbers fine, except, of course the tag RUNNING is not there
and there are 0 packets shown transmitted or received.  The link is not up (the pci card has
a green led that flashes on activity - it is completely off.  This light goes green with
activity under feisty, and under windows, since on *those* OS's with the same hardware
the ethernet is still working.  Very, very strange.)
Update: well, to answer my own question, I put in another pci card with a 100bt ethernet device, and, using the same files with the same entries, *this one* works.
So, this narrows things down to something that is not being properly loaded at boot time, and turning off the other pci card.  At least I have a working internet connection now.

---

### Post by MeKino on 2010-01-11
Hi,

I had internet connectivity problems with 9.10 and only resolved them by reverting to 9.04.

There are numerous posts about internet problems with 9.10 - it looks like there is a real bug with it.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-01-11
> **berwickrc said:**
> ... At least I have a working internet connection now.Glad you made progress - with or without support. :oops:

---

