---
title: "11.04 no longer connects with Droid Hotspot"
date: 2011-06-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cjpetrie on 2011-06-26
Sony Vaio X upgraded to 11.04 with 2.6.38-8-generic i686 which improved some features but which introduced a serious WiFi problem: while other WiFi works well, connecting via my Droid hotpsot fails consistently despite reboots of everything and renaming of SSID. Another laptop running 10.04 still works fine with the Droid hotspot. One hint: upon upgrading, there was the warning that the laptop hardware did not support Unity and I always get the classic Gnome display.
The Droid hotspot shows up in the list of SSIDs but attempts to connect always fail, even when it is made totally unsecured.

Atheros AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter
Qualcom Sony Gobi 2000 Wireless Modem
ifconfig shows no packets with wlan0 or any connectivity.
iwconfig shows correct SSID and other info.
dmsg shows "wlan0: direct probe to f8:7b:7a:2b:a7:d1 timed out"
Restarting the network has no effect but there is a message that 
"Running /etc/init.d/networking restart is dprecated because it may not enable again some interaces"

I don't find this same problem in the forum so perhaps it is some configuration error on my part. Please comment if you have any clues.

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2011-06-26
The first place to start is the Ubuntu Wireless Troubleshooting Guide.  In order for your device to work properly you need the physical connectivity (plugged in all the way and/or turned on via your machine's BIOS), a driver to communicate between the device and the operating system, and then the proper configuration of the device which typically is via DHCP.  Please follow the guide and indicate at what point you are having difficulty.

It sounds to me like there's some problem with the driver although I can't see anything (from what you described) that indicates a corrupted driver but there appears to be some configuration with that driver.  You can see which one you're using with:
```
lshw -c Network | grep driver
```

---

### Post by cjpetrie on 2011-06-28
Would it be a driver if the problem is only with a Droid hotspot? As I said, all other hotspots work fine.

---

### Post by cjpetrie on 2011-06-28
configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath9k driverversion=2.6.38-8-generic firmware=N/A ip=172.16.31.2 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=sky2 driverversion=1.28 firmware=N/A latency=0 link=no multicast=yes port=twisted pair

---

### Post by cjpetrie on 2011-06-28
Ah, found this thread: "Android 2.2 WLAN 3G Hotspot and"
Seems there is some fundamental problem with 11.04 no
longer working with Droid hotspots.

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2011-06-28
That doesn't make sense.  WiFi is a standard - I don't see how Droids could be running some type of proprietary communication protocol.

---

### Post by cjpetrie on 2011-07-05
> **MaindotC said:**
> That doesn't make sense.  WiFi is a standard - I don't see how Droids could be running some type of proprietary communication protocol.

Yes,I agree it does not seem to make sense. But on this forum you can find lots of other people having the same problem, and not only with the Droid hotspot but even with tethering.   

Something is fundamentally broken and it's a big deal for those of us who depend upon the Droid hotspot and our laptops. And it only started with 11.04.  

Again, note that other hotspots work fine. Those are the facts on the ground.

---

### Post by cjpetrie on 2011-07-05
Oh, and the Droid hotspot still works fine with 10.04.

---

### Post by ChrisHodgesUK on 2013-02-01
I know this is an old thread, but I'm still using Natty on my netbook, and having the same issues with a defy+ (also motorola with the stock ROM, bought unlocked), with the same atheros wlan adaptor.  My kindle can connect fine to the same phone.

Was there ever a fix found?

(btw, for the benefit of anyone else trying to sort this, I had to change the "APN type" from "default" to "" otherwise the 3g dropped as soon as a wifi device connected)

---

### Post by ChrisHodgesUK on 2013-02-01
I think I've got it:
I installed the 3.6.8 ath9k driver from:
[http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Download/stable/#compat-wireless_3.6_stable_releases](http://linuxwireless.org/en/users/Download/stable/#compat-wireless_3.6_stable_releases)

and it worked.  Should keep me going until I have time for a major upgrade on the netbook (Xubuntu 12.04 LTS to match my desktop I think)

Natty and a Defy+ as above.

---

