---
title: "16.04 Network only works with a specific ethernet adapter. Initramfs issue?"
date: 2018-05-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rsteinmetz70112 on 2018-05-28
I have been struggling with this for a while. I have made other posts but so far no solution.

I have a 16.04 Ubuntu LTS system which has been upgraded in both hardware and software over the years. It has had 2 Ethernet adapters one on the motherboard and one in a PCI slot. I am anticipating upgrading to 18.04 LTS when 18.04.1 comes out.
I recently replaced the motherboard and everything went fine the system came back up and rebooted fine.
I needed to do some reconfiguration including upgrading the storage, that went fine. 
I also wanted to remove the second adapter and replace it with a new PICe adapter. Both the old and new adapters have REALTEK chips and use the same kernel driver.
However whenever I boot without the PCI adapter which identifies as eth1 the networking does not work.
[LIST]
[*]If I boot from a Live 16.04 LTS DVD in any hardware configuration everything works as expected. 
[*]If I boot without the specific PCI card the following issues appear
[LIST]
[*]I cannot ping outside the local network.
[*]I can pingv6. 
[*]Browsers do not work.
[*]nslookup works.
[*]There is no background on the desktop.
[*]NetworkManager works but when I save the windows do not disappear.
[/LIST]
[*]It does not matter if the network is configured under NetworkManager or /etc/network/interfaces
[*]It does not seem to matter how /etc/resolv.conf is configured.
[*]I have recently found that there was a file in /etc/udev/rules.d//70-persistent-net.rules whihc configured eth1 but moving it out of the way didn't change anything.
[*]I also found /var/tmp/mkinitramfs_ftOkz3/lib/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules which also configures eth1 so perhaps udev and initranfs are involved.
[/LIST]
I'm completely at a loss as to what I can do next. The only thought I have is to remove the udev rules from /var/tmp/mkinitramfs_ftOkz3/lib/udev/rules.d update initramfs and see if that helps.

---

