---
title: "11.10: IPv6 using radvd + dhcpv6"
date: 2011-12-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Cyber Dog on 2011-12-24
I have two machines running 11.10: one acts as the network router, the other a standard internal client.  I have networking successfully set up on the router to provide both external IPv4 and IPv6 connectivity to the client.  All works great except for one exception: I'm unable to get the client to use DHCPv6 to obtain configuration from the router.

**radvd on router**:

interface lan {
  AdvSendAdvert on;
  AdvManagedFlag off;
  AdvOtherConfigFlag on;
  AdvLinkMTU 1480;

  prefix [ipv6]::/64
  {
    AdvOnLink on;
    AdvAutonomous on;
  };
};


**dhcpd6 on router**:

# option definitions common to all supported networks...
option dhcp6.name-servers [nameserver];
option dhcp6.domain-search "search1", "search2";

subnet6 [ipv6]::/64 {
}


**dhclient on client**:

send host-name "<hostname>";

request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
        domain-name, domain-name-servers, domain-search, host-name,
        netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope, interface-mtu,
        rfc3442-classless-static-routes, ntp-servers,
        dhcp6.domain-search, dhcp6.fqdn,
        dhcp6.name-servers, dhcp6.sntp-servers;


Amazingly, my router config works *correctly* on Windows 7!  Not only do the route advertisements get picked up from radvd, but Windows gets the nameserver and search path from DHCPv6.  This tells me my radvd and dhcpv6 daemons are running and essentially correct.

The Linux workstation does not do as well.  /etc/resolv.conf still comes entirely from DHCPv4.  I'm at a bit of a loss for what to change to get the linux machine to take its config from DHCP, at least without having to kill radvd.  Advice would be appreciated.

---

### Post by wsteffen on 2012-04-23
I had a simular problem. In my /etc/network/interfaces file I had both
IPv4 & IPv6 dhcp configured (two seperate lines). In this setup, dhclient-script is run twice. In the script, resolv.conf is REPLACED, so
which ever protocol is configured (IPV4 or IPv6) last replaces which ever was configured first.

[email]wsteffen@comcast.net[/email]

---

