---
title: "16.04.1 WOL preset to &quot;g&quot; - why? locked to g"
date: 2016-09-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-09-30
I have been experiencing occasional loss of wired internet connection.
I set UFW logging to full and it indicated that the MAC address had changed from normal to 01, to all zeros at the time of the problem.
I thought that setting system settings - network - wired - options - wake on lan to "ignore" would do it. Nope.
If I do
                        nmcli dev status   to find name of connection (eno1)
sudo ethtool eno1   to find settings which are:  
Supports wake-on: pumbg
Wake-on g   (magic packet)
sudo ethtool -s eno1 wol d    (disable) resets to g on reboot

So I can set it to d but on reboot it's back to g.
That's with the mobo's Intel I217-V NIC chip.  BIOS is set to disable WOL.

Plugged in a PCI-E NIC with a realtec chip.  I find that it's default is also g but I can set it to d and it will hold over a reboot.

Why?

What am I missing?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2016-10-01
First of all, I doubt that setting WOL to d when WOL is already disabled in the BIOS would make the slightest difference; however, if I have learned anything in quite a few years at this, it is to expect the unexpected. So, please tell us; when you set:```
sudo ethtool -s eno1 wol d 
```Then are your disconnections solved? If so, I shall fall off my chair in amazement and then suggest that you do:```
gksudo gedit /etc/rc.local
```Use nano or kate or leafpad if you don't have the text editor gedit.

Right above the line exit 0, add a new line:```
ethtool -s eno1 wol d 
```Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor. You should be all set.

If your disconnects are not resolved, we'll look else where for the cause and solution.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-10-01
right!
Thanks for the code! I would not have known that.
I will first run this for a few days on the addon NIC to see if it really DOES work, and then fall back to the builtin NIC and do as you suggest, which essentially sets it on each bootup, I believe.
THANKS!!!

EDIT1: I let it run all afternoon with no prob so swapped the RJ45 back to the mobo NIC, and I ran your code and added the line and after boot checked and it was d, so now we'll see...
EDIT2: no probs yet...

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-10-04
okay @chili555 I think it's time for you to fall off your chair.  Thanks for your code.  Haven't lost connection since.  Returned the other NIC to MC today.  What I don't understand is WHY Ubuntu defaults to "g" even though no wake on lan is set in BIOS., and forces g on reboot. Hey devs???

---

### Post by chili555 on 2016-10-04
Ouch! 

I learned something today and I appreciate it. The more experience I have, the less I know, it seems.

In any case, I'm glad it's working.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-10-04
Yeah, who woulda guessed! THANKS!!!

---

