---
title: "12.04, internet timeout when browsing Intel Wireless 4965"
date: 2012-07-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by anglachelw on 2012-07-21
I have been a happy Ubuntu 12.04 user for a while now, but after an update yesterday, my internet has not been working properly.

I have a strong and steady wireless connection to my router, but I constantly get timeouts when I surf the Internet. When I watch a clip on Youtube it will only buffer a minute or two, and downloads will only run for the first couple of MBs. Homepages need to be refreshed a couple of times before they respons.

I have been Googling and surfing these forums all day, but nothing I have found seemed to work. Alas I turn to the community for help.

I am rather inexperienced at troubleshooting so any information required need to be specified.

I run Ubuntu 12.04.
I use both Chrome and Firefox, both exhibit the same behaviour.
I can dual-boot into Windows 7, and the Internet works flawlessly.
Wireless card: Intel Pro 4965 AGN.

I have tried some fixes, which were issues in previous version of Ubuntu eg. disabling ipv6 and disabling the N-radio. Neither have worked.

I have also tried shifting between Google Public DNS and my providers DNS server, as well as booting into previous Linux Kernels. But they all give me the same result.

Any help or tips will be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-07-21
Have you tried disabling the "N-radio" both on the card and the router? As far as I know, that issue hasn't been fixed in either older or newer versions, and I strongly suspect that it's a very low priority bug for Intel.

---

### Post by anglachelw on 2012-07-21
I have tried adding: 
options iwl4965 11n_disable=1

to a new config-file in 
/etc/modprobe.d/

I guess the name of the config file doesn't really make a difference since it varies from solution to solution. I have not tried to disable the N-radio on the router, since it has worked just fine for more then a year now on various versions of Ubuntu.
The problem only occurred after I installed some 30 updates yesterday.

However, I will try and disable the N-radio now.

---

### Post by anglachelw on 2012-07-21
Unfortunately, disabling the wireless N-radio of my router didn't make any difference.

Thanks for the suggestion anyway.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-07-21
I've posted [a thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2020541") regarding the same hardware about two weeks back, and, though I am not sure the problems are the same, you should probably add some of the outputs to yours, to give our experts something substantial to look at.

---

### Post by anglachelw on 2012-07-21
My connection is back to normal.

However, it seems like I am still getting a lot of corrupted packages. @mikewhatever: I will post some output in the thread.

For future reference, I think the key change was adding the following line  to  /etc/modprobe.d/options.conf

> 
options iwl4965 swcrypto=0


I had previously added the line:

 > 
options iwl4965 11n_disable=1


But I will try and enable the N-radio again.

---

### Post by anglachelw on 2012-08-10
Well. I installed the latest batch of updates yesterday and now my connection is rubbish again.

This is most visibly seen my Youtube videos only buffering for one and a half minute and thats it.

So I guess my fix didn't work and I am back to scratch.

I just simply do not understand why it can work perfectly one day, and then suddenly be broken by an update. 12.94 was supposed to be LTS right?

Update: Really strange. I just downloaded *linux-backports-modules-cw* to see if it helps and the download manager gulped down 150MB without breaking a sweat. Is there some different way used for accessing web pages and downloading from the repositories. If so the issue may not be with my wireless card...

---

### Post by patrickdk on 2012-09-01
Yep, I'm having issues too, with both iwl4965, and iwlwifi (6300n card)

Both seem to have the exact same issues. Intermittant connections on 2.4ghz, and won't connect at all on 5ghz.

Tried disabling N, but that had no effect.

I haven't tried the backport modules on 2.4ghz yet, but they won't solve the 5ghz issue.

I also tried several different AP units, to make sure it wasn't my issue.

---

### Post by rfporto on 2012-09-12
Why is this marked as solved?  I am having the same issue with a 6300 card and could really use the help.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-09-13
> **rfporto said:**
> Why is this marked as solved?  I am having the same issue with a 6300 card and could really use the help.

Post a new thread. You have a different wireless card, and possibly a different solution.

---

