---
title: "why gnome-ppp doesn't work?"
date: 2006-07-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by fghubusdfs on 2006-07-09
system:
ubuntu 6.06, default installtion from live cd.
gnome
pci hcf modem
gnome-ppp, downloaded from archive.ubuntu.com (.deb pack for ubuntu 6.06) and installed separately.

symptoms:
when press connect button opens small dialog with status message "sending password" and action anymore.
if press log button then following log text appears:
------
--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.55
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: AT+MS=V90,1,75,33600,75,56000
AT+MS=V90,1,75,33600,75,56000
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Please enter password (or empty password to stop):
-----

additional info:
although in log prensents record "Sending: ATZ - ATZ OK" no really modem initialization occurs. i know this because no specific modem clicks that sounds when modem really initialized.

because gnome-ppp is gui wrapper over wvdial i has been tested wvdial itself.
wvdial is works.
when i run it with "sudo wvdial" it connects, connection works fine, and on ctrl+c connection finishes.

i tried to edit ~/.wvdial.conf by changing
Modem = /dev/modem
to
Modem = /dev/ttySHCF0 (that is real modem dev)
but it's no helps.

pon/poff is also works ok.


what can i do to correct gnome-ppp?

---

### Post by aldin on 2006-07-09
type ur usrname&passwd& use "remember/save" password...then connect


ps:
worked for me with that option otherwise wont

pps:
u can check which is made with gnome-ppp
~/.wvdial.conf

---

### Post by fghubusdfs on 2006-07-10
> **aldin said:**
> type ur usrname&passwd& use "remember/save" password...then connect


ps:
worked for me with that option otherwise wont

pps:
u can check which is made with gnome-ppp
~/.wvdial.conf

type usrname&passwd & use "remember/save password"
it works.
thank you for help.

very strange feature :)
seems like this feature is in wvdial? not working if no pwd in wvdial.conf?

---

