---
title: "Help me connect to this wireless network"
date: 2008-01-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by slackjack on 2008-01-08
Hey all,

How can I use wicd to connect to this network? Below are the instructions for windows xp.
[http://www.brooklaw.edu/it/wireless/instructions.pdf](http://www.brooklaw.edu/it/wireless/instructions.pdf) (pdf file)

Thanks.

---

### Post by Hightide on 2008-01-09
HI, can you give us a bit more information on your problem?

:)

---

### Post by slackjack on 2008-01-09
> **Hightide said:**
> HI, can you give us a bit more information on your problem?

:)

Well I tried using wicd with the security configuration of PEAP - TKIP. I entered my student ID and password. But in the path to "CA Certification" I left it black. Then tried connecting, but it won't get an IP address.

So I did the same as the above, but I just placed some random path (my home dir) for the CA certification. But it still does not work. (I have no idea what the certificate is).

I also tried the second PEAP security setting on wicd, but that doesnt work!! :cry::mad:

I have been trying to get this thing for over a year now. Its so frustrating. I've gotten no where with wifi-radar. I've even tried experimenting with wpa_supplicant. That got me no where. I would assume that wicd uses wpa_supplicant also.

And can someone please **read** the instructions linked in the OP and walk me through this.

Thanks.

---

### Post by imdano on 2008-01-10
Wicd does use wpa_supplicant, you can find the templates it uses to build the configuration files in /opt/wicd/encryption/templates.  The PEAP-TKIP template that wicd provides is *almost* exactly what you need, the difference is that your school doesn't require a ca_cert file (which is why you uncheck the "Validate server certificate" box in Windows).  Try opening up /opt/wicd/encryption/templates/peap-tkip (with sudo/gksudo) and editting the file to look like this:
> name = PEAP with TKIP
author = Fralaltro
version = 1
require identity *Identity password *Password
-----
network={
        ssid="$_ESSID"
        scan_ssid=$_SCAN
        proto=WPA
        key_mgmt=WPA-EAP
        pairwise=TKIP
        group=TKIP
        eap=PEAP
        identity="$_IDENTITY"
        password="$_PASSWORD"
        phase1="peaplabel=0"
        phase2="auth=MSCHAPV2"
}
If that doesn't work, try editting the "phase1=" line above to be
> phase1="peaplabel=1"If that still doesn't work, let me know.  But to be honest I'd probably be out of ideas at that point!

---

### Post by slackjack on 2008-01-12
That unfortunately does not work. Could it be the driver I'm using. I have a 2wire card. The that wpa_sup is using is wext.

Is there anyway to view the wpa_sup logs and see whats really happening?

---

### Post by imdano on 2008-01-12
Yes, you run the command ```
wpa_supplicant -i <interface> -c <configuration file>  -D wext
```You can use -d or -dd to add more debugging output.  The configuration file that wicd uses is in /opt/wicd/encryption/configurations, and the name of the file will be the MAC address of your access point.

The vast majority of the time wext is the driver you want to use, so that probably isn't the problem.

---

### Post by slackjack on 2008-01-15
Hi!

Here the output of wpa_sup. Apparently I;m missing something?
```

wpa_supplicant -i eth0 -c /usr/share/wicd/encryption/configurations/000b0e0d7cc4  -D wext 
ioctl[SIOCSIWAUTH]: Operation not supported
WEXT auth param 7 value 0x1 - ioctl[SIOCSIWENCODEEXT]: Operation not supported
ioctl[SIOCSIWENCODE]: Invalid argument
ioctl[SIOCSIWENCODEEXT]: Operation not supported
ioctl[SIOCSIWENCODE]: Invalid argument
ioctl[SIOCSIWENCODEEXT]: Operation not supported
ioctl[SIOCSIWENCODE]: Invalid argument
ioctl[SIOCSIWENCODEEXT]: Operation not supported
ioctl[SIOCSIWENCODE]: Invalid argument
ioctl[SIOCSIWAUTH]: Operation not supported
WEXT auth param 4 value 0x0 - ioctl[SIOCSIWAUTH]: Operation not supported
WEXT auth param 5 value 0x1 - ioctl[SIOCSIWAUTH]: Operation not supported
WEXT auth param 7 value 0x0 - ioctl[SIOCSIWAUTH]: Operation not supported
WEXT auth param 5 value 0x0 - ioctl[SIOCSIWAUTH]: Operation not supported
.

```
I would have to explicitly kill the command [C-c] around line "WEXT auth param 4 value 0x0", or else it just sits there.

---

### Post by imdano on 2008-01-15
I think you need to run the command with sudo.  See if that helps.

---

### Post by slackjack on 2008-01-15
Sudo? There is no need for that as the command was run as root. I'm on slackware based machine.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-01-15
Can you post your wpa_supplicant.conf file, or whatever file you are passing to wpa_supplicant as the configuration file? 

I need to see it exactly.

---

### Post by slackjack on 2008-01-16
The configuration file I used with the wpa_sup command in post #7, was the one that was generated by wicd. Here are the contents:

```

ap_scan=1

network={
        ssid="bls"
        scan_ssid=0
        proto=WPA
        key_mgmt=WPA-EAP
        pairwise=TKIP
        group=TKIP
        eap=PEAP
        identity="username"
        password="passwd"
        phase1="peaplabel=1"
        phase2="auth=MSCHAPV2"
}

```

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-01-16
Try adding this under ap_scan:

ctrl_interface=/var/run/wpa_supplicant


Are you trying to connect to a WPA1 network??

---

### Post by slackjack on 2008-01-18
Adding ctrl_interface=/var/run/wpa_supplicant does not seem to do anything.

I'm not sure which version of wpa I'm using. What would I do in either case? I'll try and see if I can get that info by tomorrow.

---

### Post by spacefreak86 on 2008-03-19
*Bump*

This has similar things to my school network, only we have WPA-Enterprise with PEAP and TKIP encryption. The info from connecting through Windows XP (which connects on my laptop) is posted here:

[http://occs.odu.edu/gettingconnected/wireless/wxp_sp2_wireless.pdf](http://occs.odu.edu/gettingconnected/wireless/wxp_sp2_wireless.pdf)

I've been trying for at least two to three weeks to get my laptop to connect on campus but I have yet to connect once. Does anyone know how to get this working?

---

### Post by spacefreak86 on 2008-03-19
Nevermind, I got it somehow. Using wicd, I went into the templates for it and removed the lines related to the CA certification, aka, turning off certificate authentication. it works and now I'm happy!

---

### Post by imdano on 2008-03-19
spacefreak, could you post your exact wpa_supplicant.conf file?  You can find it in /opt/wicd/encryption/configurations/<your access point bssid>.  I'd like to gather up as many of them as I can.  Eventually I might make some kind of UI to create the conf files in wicd, and I want to know what Windows settings map to what wpa_supplicant settings.

---

### Post by spacefreak86 on 2008-04-26
Basically I had to edit the interface for my school wireless network, which uses WPA with TKIP-PEAP with no CA certification. While WiCD out of the box supports TKIP-PEAP (or at least a hell of a lot easier than I could figure out KNetworkManager (evil program), it wouldn't connect for the TKIP-PEAP due to the CA certification.

Here's what I did:

Went into /opt/wicd/encryption/templates

Clicked on "Edit as root" to gain access to the folder

Opened up the file peap-tkip

Removed anything related to CA cert. 

This is what my file currently now looks like:

name = PEAP with TKIP
author = Fralaltro
version = 1
require identity *Identity password *Password
-----
network={
        ssid="$_ESSID"
        scan_ssid=$_SCAN
        proto=WPA
        key_mgmt=WPA-EAP
        pairwise=TKIP
        group=TKIP
        eap=PEAP
        identity="$_IDENTITY"
        password="$_PASSWORD"
        phase1="peaplabel=0"
        phase2="auth=MSCHAPV2"
}


Note that this removes the option for CA certification within wicd, but only for this specific type of encryption.

---

