---
title: "14.04 LTS on Dell Inspiron 1520 with BCM 4311, no wireless OR ethernet connection"
date: 2014-12-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Hollywithaneye on 2014-12-15
I'm an absolute beginner at Linux, and thought to dip my toes in with a fresh install of Ubuntu on an old laptop in the house. Mid-installation with the computer hooked up to router via cable, the option to install updates grayed out and upon finishing the installation, the computer no longer recognizes an ethernet connection, nor my wifi. It claims there are no network devices available, despite my BCM4311 and the BCM4401-B0 still showing up in the list of PCI devices. I have tried to install the driver and firmware updates I've found poking around via USB, since I cannot connect to the internet at all, but with no success. In addition, the computer is hanging on the Ubuntu screen upon shutdown or reboot, an issue I suspect is related to the Broadcom drivers.

 If there is anyone who might have suggestions or recommendations for this greenhorn, I'd appreciate any input. Thank you in advance!

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2014-12-15
Ideally we need to see:

From a terminal the result from this:
```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=SmartGothic]lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net[/FONT][/COLOR]
```

You could try getting this:
[https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/10573557/b43_firmware/b43_08_2014.zip](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/10573557/b43_firmware/b43_08_2014.zip)

Extract and copy the b43 folder to
/lib/firmware

To make it easy, put the b43 folder in your /home/username 
then open a terminal and do
```
sudo mv b43 /lib/firmware
```
Then reboot

---

### Post by Hollywithaneye on 2014-12-15
Thanks for the quick response.

The results of first code:

03:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX [14e4:170c] (rev 02)
     Subsystem: Dell Device [1028:01f1]
03:01.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394) [0c00]: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C832 IEEE 1394 Controller [1180:0832] (rev 05)
- -
0c:00.0 Network Controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN [14e4:4311] (rev 01)
     Subsystem: Dell Wireless 1390 WLAN Mini-Card [1028:0007]
     Kernel driver in use: wl

Upon the second code:

mv: cannot move 'b43' to 'lib/firmware/b43': Directory not empty

There is a b43 folder already in the firmware, I assume from a prior attempt of mine to install drivers and firmware, but it has 123 items as opposed to the 117 in the version you directed me to. Suggestions? Safe to simply replace the existing with this one? At the risk of sounding foolish I'm terrified of mucking it up so I will wait to hear back.

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2014-12-15
You are using the driver 'wl'
Which will blacklist b43

It should be working

---

### Post by Hollywithaneye on 2014-12-15
Seems like that did the trick! Thank you so very very much for your help!

---

