---
title: "8.10 no internet via liveCD or hdInstall"
date: 2009-04-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by borgman on 2009-04-04
linksys 54g router (dhcp)

no internet (livecd or install) for *nix only

winxp/win2k can access to the router to get ip addresses while ubuntu cannot (even static ip wouldn't work)

ubuntu installs fine so i doubt the distro is damaged in any way

any suggestions would be helpful thanks.

ifconfig result below

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1e:8c:16:79:9b  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:11 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:1902 (1.9 KB)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:19 Base address:0xdead 

eth0:avahi Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1e:8c:16:79:9b  
          inet addr:169.254.6.100  Bcast:169.254.255.255  Mask:255.255.0.0
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          Interrupt:19 Base address:0xdead 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:126 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:126 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:9752 (9.7 KB)  TX bytes:9752 (9.7 KB)

---

### Post by axelroo on 2009-04-04
Quite simple. You're wireless device isn't even detected. Chances are, it doesn't have the driver for your wireless card. This all really depends on the type of desktop or laptop you're running it on. As of late, Netbooks and laptops often require some tweaking and installing to get the device going. This can be done through either ndiswrapper which uses the windows drivers or by locating and installing an official kernel driver for your device whatever that may be.

Could you tell me your specific model of machine or laptop? Usually there is a site to support a specific model of laptop or wireless card. Ill try to dig it up.

---

### Post by borgman on 2009-04-04
eth0 is supposed to be the built-in lan, does it mean that ubuntu was unable to find a compatible driver to activate it? so if i find the correct driver from the mobo page, i can just double click the file and ubuntu should correctly install and activate eth0?

---

### Post by axelroo on 2009-04-04
Sorry about that, when I hear Linksys 54g, I think wireless.  One thing to try is to invoke DHCP manually with this command: "sudo dhclient eth0"  that may give some deeper informatino on whats going on with it.

---

### Post by borgman on 2009-04-04
sudo dhclient eth0 returns:

no dhcpoffers received
no working leases in persistent database - sleeping

i presume that either ubuntu is not properly communicating with the router (since the router is configured to give out dhcp addresses) or the router is incompatible with ubuntu

unfortunately i don't have any other routers to test it

---

### Post by axelroo on 2009-04-04
I guess the next question to ask is: What kind of computer or laptop are you using. A laptop model, or desktop motherboard, or ethernet card name might help in looking this up.

---

### Post by borgman on 2009-04-04
am using ASUS P5S02-VM with SIS191 gigabit lan

---

### Post by borgman on 2009-04-05
a friend mentioned that i might have to do a kernel update to make the built-in lan work... tried out a few liveCDs to determine if the built-in lan is working or not, and they are so it seems to be a kernel issue.

---

### Post by axelroo on 2009-04-05
Yep. It seems the driver 8.10 is using isn't an exact fit so it looks like its there physically but doesn't do anything beyond just existing. I've done some digging and found the link to the linux drivers for this device from Asus

[http://dlcdnet.asus.com/pub/ASUS/mb/socket775/P5SD2-VM/LinuxDrivers.zip](http://dlcdnet.asus.com/pub/ASUS/mb/socket775/P5SD2-VM/LinuxDrivers.zip)

I don't yet how this installs. Hopefully its just a binary with no compiling needed.

Added: I found this bit of information about the driver from this link:

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/38994](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/38994)


QUOTE:

john zhang said on 2008-09-16:

Got this help from somewhere online forum. Forgot where. But it solved the problem of sis191
LAN port problem on ASUS P5SD2-VM motherboard. This involves re-compile kernel module.

In file drivers\nets\sis190.c, add one line of
           { "Atheros PHY AR8012", { 0x004d, 0xd020 }, LAN, 0 },

to mii_chip_table[], make it look like

static struct mii_chip_info {
        const char *name;
        u16 id[2];
        unsigned int type;
 u32 feature;
} mii_chip_table[] = {
        { "Atheros PHY AR8012", { 0x004d, 0xd020 }, LAN, 0 },
 { "Broadcom PHY BCM5461", { 0x0020, 0x60c0 }, LAN, F_PHY_BCM5461 },
 { "Broadcom PHY AC131", { 0x0143, 0xbc70 }, LAN, 0 },
 { "Agere PHY ET1101B", { 0x0282, 0xf010 }, LAN, 0 },
 { "Marvell PHY 88E1111", { 0x0141, 0x0cc0 }, LAN, F_PHY_88E1111 },
 { "Realtek PHY RTL8201", { 0x0000, 0x8200 }, LAN, 0 },
 { NULL, }
};

then re-compile it to sis190.ko. Copy this sis190.ko to /lib/modules/your_version/kernel/drivers/net and reboot. For example, on my ubuntu 8.04, the place is /lib/modules/2.6.24-19-generic/kernel/drivers/net.

This is tried on both kernel source version 2.6.24 and version 2.6.26. And they both worked.
/QUOTE

---

### Post by borgman on 2009-04-08
thanks gonna give it a try

tyvm :)

---

