---
title: "Network Issue"
date: 2009-06-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by huangyingw on 2009-06-13
Hello,
    My laptop with wire connection, has problem to connect to the outside Internet.
    What is the problem? If further message need, please let me know.
    Bellowing is my interface file
    ```

root@LapTop:~# cat /etc/network/interfaces
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.0.6
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.0.1
nameserver 192.168.0.1
auto eth0
root@LapTop:~# 
    
```
Bellowing is my resolv.conf file:
```

root@LapTop:~# cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.0.1

```
And I could ping my home router.
```

root@LapTop:~# ping 192.168.0.1
PING 192.168.0.1 (192.168.0.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 192.168.0.1: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.245 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.0.1: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.278 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.0.1: icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.269 ms
^C
--- 192.168.0.1 ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 3 received, 0% packet loss, time 1998ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.245/0.264/0.278/0.013 ms

```
While, there is no result when ping google and other outside network.
```

root@LapTop:~# ping www.google.com
PING www.l.google.com (74.125.153.147) 56(84) bytes of data.

```
Using the IP of google, also return me no result.
```

root@LapTop:/media/comprehensive# ping 74.125.153.99
PING 74.125.153.99 (74.125.153.99) 56(84) bytes of data.

```

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-06-14
Do you have another machine connected to router that CAN connect to Internet?  Internal connection appears to work - I'm wondering about router setup.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-06-14
post output of **sudo iptables -L** and **route -n**

---

### Post by huangyingw on 2009-06-16
> **Iowan said:**
> Do you have another machine connected to router that CAN connect to Internet?  Internal connection appears to work - I'm wondering about router setup.
Yes, I have two machine within the same router, one is Ubuntu, and one is windows XP, and I am posting on my XP machine now.
:)

---

### Post by huangyingw on 2009-06-16
> **superprash2003 said:**
> post output of **sudo iptables -L** and **route -n**
Sorry for late reply.
```

Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

```
```

Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
172.16.94.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 vmnet1
172.16.72.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 vmnet8
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 eth0

```

---

### Post by jhannah on 2009-06-17
It might be worth running mtr to get an idea of what the path looks like. I expect you'll get up to the 192.168.0.1 IP but not any further. Try installing and running MTR against google.com and the IP it resolves to and post the results. You might also want to look at the output of tcpdump while running the test to see if there is anything anomolous there. 

The below command should do the trick:
```
tcpdump -vvxXns0 -i eth0
```

Lastly, what does the ARP table look like? Considering you can resolve names, I figure there is a valid ARP entry for 192.168.0.1 but it is worth checking:

```
arp -na
```

---

### Post by huangyingw on 2009-06-17
> **jhannah said:**
> It might be worth running mtr to get an idea of what the path looks like.```
arp -na
```
    Thanks. I just found a curious situation. Just after launching, I connect to it using putty, at that time, I found that the resolv.conf file is changed to without nameserver value. So, I have to manually update it with nameserver. After this action,
it could ping [www.google.com](www.google.com) successfully. But just after I accessing it with NX client later, and try to search for best software source, the search action would fail with a notice to ask me to check my network connection. And, when pinging at this time, the [www.google.com](www.google.com) is not available again.
    I have tried to delete nameserver value in resolv.conf,save, and add the nameserver value in resolv.conf again. And re-ping, this time, it could not success.
    So, it seems that after the NX client connection, the network connection would have problems on my laptop:(

---

### Post by huangyingw on 2009-06-17
> **jhannah said:**
> 

the output of mtr [www.google.com](www.google.com) show nothing. And I have difficulty at copying and pasting here:(.
The output of arp -na
```

root@LapTop:~# arp -na
? (192.168.0.1) at 00:22:b0:cb:ed:63 [ether] on eth0
? (192.168.0.2) at 00:e0:4d:7b:96:62 [ether] on eth0
? (192.168.0.1) at 00:22:b0:cb:ed:63 [ether] on wlan0

```
The output of the following command 
```

tcpdump -vvxXns0 -i eth0

```
    returned me with a vast amount of data, which part should I past here?
    Pasting all of them might cost me the criticism of the forum admin, I think:(

---

### Post by jhannah on 2009-06-17
From looking at the ARP table, it looks like you also have a wireless interface up which is connected to the same network. Just to simplify matters, can you disable this interface and try connecting again? To quickly disable it, you can run the below commands:

```
ifconfig wlan0 0.0.0.0 down
```

After running this, all traffic will definitely be sent out eth0.

With regard to MTR, you can use the below command to get a report you can copy and paste:

```
mtr --report -c 5 google.com
```

This of course will only be relevant if you can resolve google.com. If not, try running the MTR against 74.125.45.100.

Also, are you using NetworkManager? If not, you might want to remove it all together to make sure it isn't overriding the configuration you are setting up /etc/network/interfaces. To test this, stop the NetworkManager service using:

```
/etc/init.d/NetworkManager stop
```

Then modify /etc/resolv.conf to include your name servers and remove the 'nameserver' line from /etc/network/interfaces (as this isn't a valid way to set name servers). Finally, restart the networking service with:

```
/etc/init.d/networking restart
```

If that fixes your issue, you can remove NetworkManager all together using:

```
sudo apt-get remove network-manager network-manager-gnome
```

or simply disable it:

```
update-rc.d -f NetworkManager remove
```

Lastly, I also agree that it would be best to not paste the results of the tcpdump in this thread if you are seeing a large amount of traffic. The fact that you are seeing traffic across the interface answers the question I had anyway.

---

### Post by huangyingw on 2009-06-18
> **jhannah said:**
> 
Yes, according to your guide, my network connection is working well now.
So, our conclusion is that the NetworkManager disturb the /etc/network/interface to work correctly?
After this wired connection works, I will next try to set up the wireless network.:)

---

