---
title: "connect to a dial up connection"
date: 2009-08-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jrev on 2009-08-15
Hi all,

I just installed the ubuntu 9.04 version on my PC and couldn't remenber the procedure to configure my dial up connection (low speed transmission with 56k modem)

I have a speed'com external modem on the PC serial socket.

I downloaded all the necessary files and I am able to connect to the server.

But I cannot go further and get the following messages :

[HTML]unable to run /usr/sbin/pppd
check permissions or specify a "pppd path" option in wvdial.conf
[/HTML]

jean@jean:~$ gnome-ppp
WVCONF: /home/jean/.wvdial.conf
GNOME PPP: Connexion en cours...
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Cannot set information for serial port.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Initializing modem.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Modem initialized.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATM1L3DT0860095556
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Waiting for carrier.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATM1L3DT0860095556
GNOME PPP: STDERR: CONNECT 45333
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: Tiscali Telecom - apx07.par
GNOME PPP: STDERR: Login:
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Looks like a login prompt.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: [email]jrev0105@alice.fr[/email]
GNOME PPP: STDERR: [email]jrev0105@alice.fr[/email]
GNOME PPP: STDERR: Password:
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Looks like a password prompt.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: (password)
GNOME PPP: STDERR:     Entering PPP Session.
GNOME PPP: STDERR:     IP address is 213.36.8.5
GNOME PPP: STDERR:     MTU is 1524.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Looks like a welcome message.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Unable to run /usr/sbin/pppd.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Check permissions, or specify a "PPPD Path" option in wvdial.conf.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Looks like a welcome message.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Unable to run /usr/sbin/pppd.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Check permissions, or specify a "PPPD Path" option in wvdial.conf.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Looks like a welcome message.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Unable to run /usr/sbin/pppd.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Check permissions, or specify a "PPPD Path" option in wvdial.conf.

jean@jean:~$ ifconfig ppp0
ppp0: erreur lors de la recherche d'infos sur l'interface: Périphérique not found

Can you help ?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-08-15
Hope [this]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto") help page will be useful.

---

### Post by jrev on 2009-08-16
Thanks a lot Iowan this is the help I needed

:)

It appears that this pppd has no right of execution in the new ubuntu 9.04 version.

This might be the trouble !

I will check it at home to night

---

### Post by jrev on 2009-08-31
Still impossible to connect to the server 2 weeks later.
There has been some changes in the 9.04 version and as a result the connection cannot be achieved.
I cannot say exactly why the changes prevent now the dial-up connection.
I reinstalled the 8.04 and everything is fine 
Thanks for your attention 
jrev

---

### Post by _duncan_ on 2009-09-01
enter the following in a terminal:

```
sudo adduser [COLOR="Blue"]yourUserID[/COLOR] dip
```

replace [COLOR="Blue"]yourUserID[/COLOR] with your actual user ID.

The command will add your user ID to the 'dip' group. This will hopefully remove the pppd permissions problem.

---

### Post by jrev on 2009-09-02
Thanks Duncan, that was the last straw that made the system to work !
When two devils meet :D

---

