---
title: "ubuntu network desktop to wireless laptop"
date: 2007-08-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mickeythecat on 2007-08-08
After many hours searching these boards and google, I cannot get my simple ubuntu 7.04 feisty network to work.

I have a desktop PC and a laptop (Mac ibook G4powerpc converted last night to ubuntu).  I want both computers to see and be able to write to the /home directory of each other and both to mount automatically.  Both are using ubuntu 7.04.

First I installed nfs-common via Synaptic Package Manger.
Installed the following packages:
libevent1 (1.1a-1)
libgssapi2 (0.10-4build1)
libnfsidmap2 (0.18-0build1)
librpcsecgss3 (0.14-2ubuntu1)
nfs-common (1:1.0.12-4)
nfs-kernel-server (1:1.0.12-4)
portmap (5-24)

then I created the mount points sudo mkdir /mnt/mac (command from my desktop 'mickeythecat' machine) and also created similar file on mac.

I then screwed around with these 3 files on both machines, but could not get it to work
/etc/hosts
/etc/fstab
/etc/exports

Then I installed ntfs-config via Syn P Manager.
Installed the following packages:
fuse-utils (2.6.3-1ubuntu2)
libfuse2 (2.6.3-1ubuntu2)
libntfs-3g0 (1:1.328-1)
ntfs-3g (1:1.328-1)
ntfs-config (0.5.5-0ubuntu1)

Running this program (ntfs-config) did not do much
I also tried right clicking the /home folders and selecting 'share' - did not work

I think I figured out the 'fstab' format and even 'export' file but am not sure on the hosts file (which is related to the 'export' file)

Both computers individually show in the 'hosts' section of "Network Settings" the same IP address
127.0.1.1	mickeythecat   (on the desktop machine)
127.0.1.1	cynmac    (on the laptop machine)

I also did a chmod 777 of both home folders
[B]
Error message I get after command:  sudo mount -a
 mount: cynmac:/home/cyn failed, reason given by server: Permission denied[/B]

So if anyone out there know what should go in these 3 files, please tell me.  Here are the contents of the 3 files /etc/hosts, fstab, and exports


**mickeythecat@mickeythecat:~$ more /etc/hosts**
127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.1.1       mickeythecat
[COLOR="Red"]127.0.1.1       cynmac[/COLOR]

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts


**mickeythecat@mickeythecat:~$ more /etc/fstab**
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=ae4a7229-4d15-4d3f-adf0-62a15d45cf05 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=585e5cc6-0358-45ba-9a05-173be68078fd none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdb1 /media/windows_40mb vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0
/dev/hdb2 /media/ubuntu_40mb ext3 defaults 0 1
[COLOR="Red"]cynmac:/home/cyn /mnt/mac nfs defaults 0 0[/COLOR]

[B]
mickeythecat@mickeythecat:~$ more /etc/exports[/B]
# /etc/exports: the access control list for filesystems which may be exported
#               to NFS clients.  See exports(5).
#
# Example for NFSv2 and NFSv3:
# /srv/homes       hostname1(rw,sync) hostname2(ro,sync)
#
# Example for NFSv4:
# /srv/nfs4        gss/krb5i(rw,sync,fsid=0,crossmnt)
# /srv/nfs4/homes  gss/krb5i(rw,sync)
#
# /home/mickeythecat cynmac(rwx)
[COLOR="Red"]/home/mickeythecat 192.168.1.1/24(rw)[/COLOR] 

Thanks.

---

### Post by anubhavrocks on 2007-08-08
instead of using *hostnames*  try using the IP addresses.

---

### Post by anubhavrocks on 2007-08-08
Also make sure that nfs-server starts up at boot time

---

