---
title: "[SOLVED] Changing NIC MAC: anyway to make Hardy Heron autodetect it?"
date: 2008-09-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by xrvjorn on 2008-09-27
I've installed 8.04 LTS server in a VMWare machine. This means that I have a virtual network card with a MAC address generated by VMWare.

When I move or copy the VMWare machine, VMWare generates a new MAC address. After that, Ubuntu won't find the network anymore. 

The answer to my thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=484718](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=484718) about the same problem in 6.06LTS was easy; just delete **/etc/iftab**, and the problem is gone. 

In Hardy Heron, it seems that the **/etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules** file does the same job. If I delete it and reboot, Hardy accepts my new MAC address and everything is fine. The problem is that the reboot creates a new 70-persistent-net.rules, and I will have the same problem all over, next time I move the VMWare machine.

Is there any way to keep the 70...rules file from being resurrected?

---

### Post by xrvjorn on 2008-09-29
Has anyone else moved around VMWare machines without getting the above problem?

---

### Post by xrvjorn on 2008-09-30
Strangely, it seems I'm the only one here moving around Hardy in VMWare machines. Anyway, just in case anyone else does the same thing, you will get the same problem and here's the solution:

In /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules, there's a line looking like
```
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:0c:29:a4:7e:b2", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"
```

I took a wild guess and removed the **ATTR{address}** stuff, and to my surprise and delight, it worked! Now, it looks like
```
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"
```
...and Ubuntu doesn't change the file when it reboots, so I can freely let VMWare create new id's for my machines when I copy or move them, without losing the network.

---

### Post by apreston on 2009-02-23
Hi, 

Just wanted to say that you're not the only one who moves Hardy VMs around. I had some other methods for trashing the persistent-net.rules when needed but it never occurred to me to simply remove the address attribute. Well done!

Thanks, 
Andrew.

---

### Post by Wamiduku on 2010-03-24
Seems to be the same problem in 9.10, but removing ATTR{address}, as proposed here, solved it. Wouldn't it be easier if Ubuntu never put the address hard coding in there to start with?

---

