---
title: "Ltsp server subnet - how to log clients to the parent domain?"
date: 2011-03-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ggsict on 2011-03-10
Hi All,

New member here. Apologies if this has been answered elsewhere but I couldn't find it.

I'm an IT tech at a school and I want to demo Edubuntu with thin clients to the senior management and help them see the light.

I have an Edubuntu server with two nics joined to the primary windows domain and I can log on with domain credentials and everything is AOK. I used LikewiseOpen 6 to join the server to the primary domain.

So, on my Edubuntu server eth1 is connected to the primary domain and has a static IP. eth2 also has a static IP and is the DHCP for the thin client subnet, connected to a switch. IP forwarding is enabled.

DOMAIN - eth1 - Edubuntu Server - eth2 (SUBNET) - switch - clients

So far, so good: I can log on the thin clients with one of the local accounts specified on the Edubuntu server and with that account I can surf the net and, if I supply domain credentials, browse the primary domain.

Problem I have is:

I can't work out how to log on to the primary domain with a Active Directory account directly from a thin client. If I try DOMAIN\user to log on, after giving the password, the password screen refreshes and 'domainuser@11.*.21.*'s password' appears under the blank password box. The IP in that message is the IP for the subnet and not the primary domain.

I feel like I'm miss-understanding some basic simple step but I just can't figure it out.

Thanks

---

### Post by ggsict on 2011-03-14
If it helps anybody answer my problem here's some of the configs:

**etc/network/interfaces**

auto lo 
iface lo inet loopback 
 
auto eth1 
iface eth0 inet static 
  address 10.73.16.29 
  netmask 255.255.252.0 
  gateway 10.73.16.1 
  broadcast 10.73.19.255 
 
auto eth2 
iface eth2 inet static 
  address 11.69.21.1 
  netmask 255.255.255.0 
  up iptables-restore < /etc/ltsp/nat 
 
 
**DHCP.conf** 
 
# 
# Default LTSP dhcpd.conf config file. 
# 
 
authoritative; 
 
subnet 11.69.21.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 { 
    range 11.69.21.20 11.69.21.250; 
    option domain-name "Edubuntu"; 
    option domain-name-servers 10.73.16.7; 
#    option domain-name-servers 11.69.21.1; 
    option broadcast-address 11.69.21.255; 
    option routers 11.69.21.1; 
#    next-server 11.69.21.2; 
#    get-lease-hostnames true; 
    option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0; 
    option root-path "/opt/ltsp/i386"; 
    if substring( option vendor-class-identifier, 0, 9 ) = "PXEClient" { 
        filename "/ltsp/i386/pxelinux.0"; 
    } else { 
        filename "/ltsp/i386/nbi.img"; 
    } 
} 
 
 
**resolv.conf **

 Generated by NetworkManager 
search gtravesend gravesend.local 
nameserver 10.73.16.7 
nameserver 10.73.16.12 
 
**IP ROUTE **
root@edubuntu-server:~# ip route 
11.69.21.0/24 dev eth2  proto kernel  scope link  src 11.69.21.1  
10.73.16.0/22 dev eth1  proto kernel  scope link  src 10.73.16.29  metric 1  
169.254.0.0/16 dev eth2  scope link  metric 1000  
default via 10.73.16.1 dev eth1  proto static  
root@edubuntu-server:~#

---

### Post by headvampyre@hotmail.co.uk on 2011-03-14
have you tried logging on with:

[email]DomainUser@fqdn.domain.com[/email]

does this bring up the same error?

I've never actually worked with likewise open, only samba4, but im sure you might be able to logon with WinBind aswell :S

---

### Post by ggsict on 2011-03-16
Hi,

Thanks for your reply. 

I tried your suggestion and got the same error. 

I'll have a look into WinBind. 

It's just weird that if I plug a laptop (not a thin client) into the subnet (a regular school set up - already joined to the primary domain) I can't log on to the domain as I get told it is unavailable but if I log on the laptop locally as administrator I can ping all the servers and PCs on the primary domain and the outside world (such as [www.ubuntu.com](www.ubuntu.com)).

---

### Post by ggsict on 2011-03-16
Also,

here is the /etc/hosts file on the ltsp server (named edubuntu-server)

**/etc/hosts **
 
10.73.16.29 edubuntu-server.gravesend.local edubuntu-server # Added by NetworkM$ 
127.0.0.1 localhost.localdomain localhost 
::1 edubuntu-server.gravesend.local edubuntu-server localhost6 
# ::1   edubuntu-server localhost6.localdomain6 localhost6 
127.0.1.1 edubuntu-server.gravesend.local edubuntu-server 
# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts 
::1 localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback 
fe00::0 ip6-localnet 
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix 
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes 
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters 
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts

---

### Post by sindhughanti on 2011-06-09
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10921039#post10921039](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10921039#post10921039)

pls help!

---

### Post by ggsict on 2011-06-20
I have fixed this. Details of what I did are over at the Likewise forum, here: [http://www.likewise.com/community/index.php/forums/viewthread/1073/](http://www.likewise.com/community/index.php/forums/viewthread/1073/)
 
Thanks for everyone's input.:guitar:

---

