---
title: "Ipn2220"
date: 2005-05-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Kurai on 2005-05-14
Ok here's the thing I have Ndiswrapper installed fine got it in the boot modules but i can't use it.  I try to disable eth0 and it tells me that it's not configured and it remains up.  Wlan0 won't come up either.  Does anyone know the problem/how to fix it?

---

### Post by blueplazma on 2005-05-14
Can you give the exact error message and the command you run to get it?

---

### Post by Kurai on 2005-05-15
```
ifconfig
``` 
it lists eth0, lo, and carrier:0
```
sudo ifdown eth0
ifdown: interface eth0 not configured
```
and its still up when I do ifconfig.  Then
```
sudo ifup wlan0
ignoring unknown interface wlan0=wlan0
```

---

### Post by blueplazma on 2005-05-15
Can you post your /etc/network/interfaces file, please?  You might have something wrong in there.  Also, try ```
ifconfig eth0 up
```

---

### Post by Kurai on 2005-05-15
```
root@ubuntu # ifconfig

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:0F:B0:5E:55:8C          
inet6 addr: fe80::20f:b0ff:fe5e:558c/64 Scope:Link          
UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:5 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
RX bytes:0 (0.0 b)  TX bytes:378 (378.0 b)
Interrupt:19 Base address:0xa000
lo        Link encap:Local Loopback         
inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0          
inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
RX packets:1607 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:1607 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 
collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
RX bytes:144862 (141.4 KiB)  TX bytes:144862 (141.4 KiB)
root@ubuntu # iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.
wlan0     IEEE 802.11g  ESSID:off/any          
Mode:Managed  Channel:0  Access Point: 00:00:00:00:00:00     
Bit Rate:1 Mb/s   Tx-Power:0 dBm    
RTS thr:2347 B   Fragment thr:2346 B      
Encryption key:off         
Power Management:off         
Link Quality:100/100  Signal level:56/154  Noise level:0/154          
Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0          
Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0
eth0      no wireless extensions.
sit0      no wireless extensions.
```
edit: also I cannot configure wifi for some reason help is definately needed for that since i'm not doing it right

---

### Post by Staesys on 2005-05-16
Here's probably a really stupid question... Did you install the XP driver with ndiswrapper? Simply adding it with apt or synaptic won't work on it's own.

Also, the /etc/network/interfaces file would be helpful.

---

### Post by alessios on 2005-05-20
Hello, i had the very same problem (driver load, but no mean to get the wlan working)

I found this package for ark-linux

[http://rpm.pbone.net/index.php3/stat/4/idpl/1756488/com/driver-ipn2220-2.10.03.2004-1ark.i586.rpm.html](http://rpm.pbone.net/index.php3/stat/4/idpl/1756488/com/driver-ipn2220-2.10.03.2004-1ark.i586.rpm.html)

and converted it with alien

sudo alien --to-deb driver-ipn....rpm

obtaining a .deb, then installed it with dpkg

now loading the provided driver with ndiswrapper works (not tried with WEP yet)

HTH,
Alessio

---

### Post by alessios on 2005-05-20
Update: works with WEP encryption, too.

HTH,
Alessio

---

### Post by ssck on 2005-05-20
[QUOTE=alessios]Hello, i had the very same problem (driver load, but no mean to get the wlan working)

I found this package for ark-linux

[http://rpm.pbone.net/index.php3/stat/4/idpl/1756488/com/driver-ipn2220-2.10.03.2004-1ark.i586.rpm.html](http://rpm.pbone.net/index.php3/stat/4/idpl/1756488/com/driver-ipn2220-2.10.03.2004-1ark.i586.rpm.html)

and converted it with alien

sudo alien --to-deb driver-ipn....rpm

obtaining a .deb, then installed it with dpkg

now loading the provided driver with ndiswrapper works (not tried with WEP yet)

HTH,
Alessio[/QUOTE]


Hi Alessio and all,

I tried with the driver at the website you mentioned.I downloaded, converted it to deb and installed it with dpkg.then i used ndiswrapper to load it.no problems.

but i still get destination host unreachable.what could be the problem with or without wep key.

this are my settings in the /etc/network interfaces file ;


# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# This is a list of hotpluggable network interfaces.
# They will be activated automatically by the hotplug subsystem.
mapping hotplug
        script grep
        map eth0

# The primary network interface
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.2.10
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.2.1


iface wlan0 inet static
wireless_keymode open
wireless_mode managed
#wireless_nick REPLACE WITH YOUR HOST NAME
address 192.168.2.239
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.2.0
broadcast 192.168.2.255
gateway 192.168.2.1
# dns-* options are implemented by the resolvconf package, if installed
dns-nameservers 202.188.0.133
wireless-essid Hex3
wireless-key open

auto wlan0


auto eth0


anybody has any idea ????? i really want to get this working

---

### Post by ssck on 2005-05-21
hi all,

just to let you guys know that everything is finally sorted out.thanks to everybody's help. :)

---

### Post by Scarzz on 2006-07-28
hey

i've browsed different threads about wireless lan on an IPN2220 card.
As far is can understand and collect from all those:

There isn't a native driver for ubuntu?
But you can load windows drivers with ndiswrapper
but that will only work if you don't use WEP ?

And then there is the rpm package?
which you can convert with alien

can anyone explain from then on?

---

### Post by Scarzz on 2006-07-28
i'm sorry for the stupid questions...

i think i got it...
(it doesn't work yet)
but i installed the deb package
then in it's properties, i saw it installed the ipn2220 driver in usr/share/drivers
so i did the ndiswrapper installation
with that file
is that correct?

well i tried that
but still no change

my wlan shows up in network
he does find some network (mine and neighbours)
but he does not connect...
i have wep (so has neighbours)
what to do?

---

