---
title: "Optiplex 960 - 682567LM-3 - 9.04 connection problem"
date: 2009-04-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by barmanoo on 2009-04-18
My 9.04 RC x86_64 installed on an Optiplex 960 with the is not able to connect to internet. The led on my router is on when my computer if off and if off when my computer is on. I checked the router with another wired computer.

I read the thread about the similar problem with Optiplex 760 ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1085073](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1085073)) and follow the procedure described.
After rebooting the problem was not fixed and the version of driver is the old one (0.3.3.3-k6) and not 0.5.18.3 that I added.

Any idea?

Thank you in advance

Olivier

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-04-18
> After rebooting the problem was not fixed and the version of driver is the old one (0.3.3.3-k6) and not 0.5.18.3This is quite mysterious. I installed this myself yesterday to try to help another poster and mine stuck through a reboot. Would you please:```
cd e1000e-0.5.18.3
sudo make install
```Please let us know of any errors or warnings, other than the harmless man page issue. Then do the usual:```
sudo ifconfig eth0 down
sudo rmmod -f e1000e
sudo modprobe e1000e
```I notice in the README that configuration is specified as static:> 6. Assign an IP address to the interface by entering the following, where
   x is the interface number:

     ifconfig ethx <IP_address>It would surely seem that DHCP ought to work just as well, however, let's try:```
sudo ifconfig eth0 192.168.x.x up
```Finally, does it now survive a reboot?

---

### Post by barmanoo on 2009-04-18
> **chili555 said:**
> This is quite mysterious. I installed this myself yesterday to try to help another poster and mine stuck through a reboot. Would you please:```
cd e1000e-0.5.18.3
sudo make install
```Please let us know of any errors or warnings, other than the harmless man page issue.

I
```

cd e1000e-0.5.18.3/src
sudo make install CFLAGS_EXTRA=-DDISABLE_PCI_MSI install

```
and optain no error except for man page creation. 

> 
 Then do the usual:```
sudo ifconfig eth0 down
sudo rmmod -f e1000e
sudo modprobe e1000e
```I notice in the README that configuration is specified as static:It would surely seem that DHCP ought to work just as well, however, let's try:```
sudo ifconfig eth0 192.168.x.x up
```


OK
the version driver (lshw -C network) is the correct one.
But the led on my router is still off...

> 
Finally, does it now survive a reboot?


Led off after rebooting...
Version driver is 0.3.3.3-k6 again.

I do not understand.
Olivier

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-04-18
> sudo make install CFLAGS_EXTRA=-DDISABLE_PCI_MSI installFirst, is this a typo or did you really put 'install' in there twice? Second, from the README:> TROUBLESHOOTING: Some systems have trouble supporting MSI and/or MSI-X 
interrupts.  If you believe your system needs to disable this style of 
interrupt, the driver can be built and installed with the command:

     # make CFLAGS_EXTRA=-DDISABLE_PCI_MSI installSo, why do you think you need this parameter? I strongly suggest that you try again without a parameter that you may or may not need:```
cd e1000e-0.5.18.3
sudo make install
```Also, may we please see the result of:```
cat /usr/share/misc/pci.ids | grep 82567
```Thanks.

---

### Post by barmanoo on 2009-04-18
> **chili555 said:**
> First, is this a typo or did you really put 'install' in there twice? 

Sorry it's a typo 

```
sudo make CFLAGS_EXTRA=-DDISABLE_PCI_MSI install 
```

> 
Second, from the README:So, why do you think you need this parameter? I strongly suggest that you try again without a parameter that you may or may not need:


I tried first without CFLAGS_EXTRA and obtained the same result

> 
```
cd e1000e-0.5.18.3
sudo make install
```


Do you mean?
```
cd e1000e-0.5.18.3/src

```

> 
Also, may we please see the result of:```
cat /usr/share/misc/pci.ids | grep 82567
```Thanks.

Here are various commands results after all procedure and before reboot:

```

ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:22:19:1f:90:23  
          inet addr:192.168.1.5  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:240 (240.0 B)  TX bytes:240 (240.0 B)


cat /usr/share/misc/pci.ids | grep 82567
	10be  82567 Gigabit Network Connection
	10bf  82567LF Gigabit Network Connection
	10cb  82567V Gigabit Network Connection
	10cc  82567LM-2 Gigabit Network Connection
	10cd  82567LF-2 Gigabit Network Connection
	10ce  82567V-2 Gigabit Network Connection
	10de  82567LM-3 Gigabit Network Connection
	10df  82567LF-3 Gigabit Network Connection
	10e5  82567LM-4 Gigabit Network Connection
	10f5  82567LM Gigabit Network Connection


lshw -C network
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: 82567LM-3 Gigabit Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 19
       bus info: pci@0000:00:19.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:22:19:1f:90:23
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=e1000e driverversion=0.5.18.3-NAPI firmware=0.5-3 ip=192.168.1.5 latency=0 link=no module=e1000e multicast=yes port=twisted pair
  *-network DISABLED
       description: Ethernet interface
       physical id: 1
       logical name: pan0
       serial: 2a:df:72:d3:50:81
       capabilities: ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=bridge driverversion=2.3 firmware=N/A link=yes multicast=yes

```


Thanks

Olivier

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-04-18
Everything looks perfect...except, it doesn't actually connect! Two things are troubling to me:> The led on my router is on when my computer if off and if off when my computer is on.And I don't like:> ip=192.168.1.5 latency=0 [COLOR="Red"]link=no[/COLOR] module=e1000eI realize I am grasping at straws here, but have you checked the integrity of the cable? Is it possible you have accidentally plugged in a crossover cable?

---

### Post by barmanoo on 2009-04-19
> 
I realize I am grasping at straws here, but have you checked the integrity of the cable? Is it possible you have accidentally plugged in a crossover cable?

I checked the cable with another wired computer and everything goes well.
I tried also with another cable.

I am agree with you: it's very strange that the led 
turn off 1 second after the computer turn on.

I found this topic:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555)

but this problem seems fixed.

I will try to connect my computer to internet installing windows XP Pro to check if the Intel NVRAM is corrupted.

Thanks

Olivier

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-04-19
> to check if the Intel NVRAM is corrupted.I very much doubt that it is since an interface, eth0 is created and it accepts an IP address or asks, via DHCP, for an address. The case I've seen of corrupted EEPROM, the NIC was not even detected. You might gain some insight with:```
dmesg | grep e1000e
dmesg | grep eth0
```However, as long as the link is not detected, I doubt it will connect.

---

### Post by unrevealed01 on 2009-04-28
i had the same issue with 82567LM-3 platform  Ubuntu 9.04

what i did was change the version of the lan device from 82567LM-3 to 82567LM-2. The lan worked just fine. Currently i'm testing and trying to solve the issue with 82567LM-3. If you guys still want to use the lan device on the board maybe you want to considering to change the version of the device.

---

### Post by unrevealed01 on 2009-04-28
chili555 you are correct, i have the very same problem that you mentioned but in my situation the network is not detected. I have loaded EEPROM dump file from another workstation and it worked! Is there any other method that i can use to clean the Corrupted EEPROM? 82567LM-3 for is working at the moment because i used EEPROM dumo file fron another workstation. If in the situation where i could not find any EEPROM dump file what can i do?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-04-29
> **unrevealed01 said:**
> chili555 you are correct, i have the very same problem that you mentioned but in my situation the network is not detected. I have loaded EEPROM dump file from another workstation and it worked! Is there any other method that i can use to clean the Corrupted EEPROM? 82567LM-3 for is working at the moment because i used EEPROM dumo file fron another workstation. If in the situation where i could not find any EEPROM dump file what can i do?You can create a backup of your EEPROM file with:```
sudo ethtool -e eth0 > savemyeep.txt
```I don't yet know the exact method to restore it, but if you have done so, perhaps you can fill in that piece of the process. I keep this file in my /home/chili directory forever.

In my reading, I understood that this is fixed in kernel version 2.6.28; that is, Jaunty with updates.

I used my e1000e based Intel NIC yesterday with no problems.

---

