---
title: "Can't resolve hostnames of terminals"
date: 2009-09-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by taenny on 2009-09-18
Hi there,

i'm new to Ubuntu so please be patient with me ;-)

I set up my first linux-box (Ubuntu 9.04) on a Dell Precision 350 in a mid-size client-server environment. Already do some network monitoring with nagios and in general it works great.

Problem: 
I cannot ping certain hostnames namely Fujitsu Terminals A220, which are in the same IP-Group (10.0.0.x). My windows machines resolve the same hostnames correctly.

Ubuntu receives an IP from a Windows DHCP Server and the DNS entries seem to be correct in /etc/resolv.conf - Resolving a windows workstation hostname, which has an entry within DNS is no problem.

user@ubuntu:~ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain my-domain
search my-domain
nameserver 10.0.0.2
nameserver 10.0.0.7

The funny thing is, that the hostnames of theses terminals I wish to monitor, have no static entries at the DNS. (they also receive their IP by DHCP).
Writing the Hostnames to /etc/hosts manually is not an option for me - we're talking about ~100 terminals.

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by jdripper on 2009-09-18
If your terminals receive their IP from a windows DHPC server and windows clients can resolve their names to addresses, then it sounds like they are using WINS for name resolution and not DNS.

Easy enough to verify, on ubuntu do:
nslookup "name of Fujitsu terminal here"

Can you ping the IP address of the terminals ?
Can you ping the IP address of the DNS server ?
Does nslookup work for other host names in DNS ?

If the first nslookup fails and the answer to the other 3 questions is "yes", then you probably need to have ubuntu work as a WINS client (windows machiens do this by default )
See here :

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1770797#post1770797](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1770797#post1770797)

---

### Post by taenny on 2009-09-18
It seems that you are perfectly right with everything. What a shame I didn't think of WINS myself...

nslookup MyTerminal:
;; Got SERVFAIL reply from 10.0.0.2, trying next server
Server:        10.0.0.7
Address:    10.0.0.7#53

** server can't find MyTerminal: SERVFAIL


Can you ping the IP address of the terminals ? YES
Can you ping the IP address of the DNS server ? YES
Does nslookup work for other host names in DNS ? YES

Installed winbind the way described in the link above and it worked out :)
Thanks a lot (for the fast answer and the solution for the resolution ;-) !)

---

