---
title: "What are these entries in /etc/resolv.conf"
date: 2010-10-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by zozza on 2010-10-22
My /etc/resolv.conf shows:

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain someuniversity.ac.uk
search someuniversity.ac.uk
nameserver 128.85.161.265
nameserver 128.85.161.241

I understand nameserver but what is the usefulness and relevance of "domain" and "search"?

Thanks .

---

### Post by luvshines on 2010-10-22
```
man resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by zozza on 2010-10-24
Point taken - thanks. 

So:

 domain Local domain name.
              Most  queries  for  names within this domain can use short names
              relative to the local domain.  If no domain  entry  is  present,
              the  domain  is  determined  from the local hostname returned by
              gethostname(2); the domain part is taken to be everything  after
              the  first  '.'.   Finally,  if  the hostname does not contain a
              domain part, the root domain is assumed.

Therefore the "domain" is just used for searching for ftp or http or whatever sites on that specific domain.

and:

search Search list for host-name lookup.
              The search list is normally determined  from  the  local  domain
              name;  by default, it contains only the local domain name.  

I'm not so sure what this means.  What is the search list - derived from the local domain name - for; for what does it search?

Let's say my /etc/resolv.conf file shows: search name1.name2.somewhere.co.uk then what would the search list search for?

Thanks.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2010-10-24
The "search" directive provides a set of additional domain extensions that the resolver uses when dealing with "unqualified" host names.  So if you enter "billspc" it will first try billspc with the domain entry attached, then try it with each extension in the search list until the name resolves.  Having both the "domain" and "search" parameters identical seems pretty common these days, though I don't think the "search" entry is needed in that case.  It only matters if you want to resolve unqualified names across a number of pre-specified domains other than the one appearing in the "domain" directive.

---

