---
title: "Network Manager with VPNC - updating /etc/resolv.conf"
date: 2006-12-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by PhrankDaChickenGeek on 2006-12-26
I'm using Network Manager 0.7.0 with the vpnc plugin. I can connect to the vpn, but network manager fails to update my /etc/resolv.conf file to point to the new nameservers.
If I run vpnc using the terminal, resolv.conf is updated correctly.

Does anyone know how to get Network Manger to update my resolv.conf file?

---

### Post by Lysi on 2007-01-03
Do you have resolvconf installed?
Maybe it isn't able to grab the DNS information from the plugin.

---

### Post by PhrankDaChickenGeek on 2007-01-15
> **Lysi said:**
> Do you have resolvconf installed?
Maybe it isn't able to grab the DNS information from the plugin.

I installed resolvconf, and it is taking over the resolv.conf file, but it still doesn't change the DNS server when I connect to VPNC.

---

### Post by dallingham on 2007-05-02
Has there been any resolution on this? I can connect to my VPN using network-manager, but I also have the problem of the /etc/resolv.conf file not getting updated.

Without name resolution, this really isn't too useful.

If I run vpnc-connect from the command line, /etc/resolv.conf is handled properly.

(Yes, I have resolvconf installed)

---

### Post by frediE on 2007-05-07
I'm feeling the same pain.
some other posts added the following to the interfaces file but it didn't seem to help my setup.

sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces

auto tun0
iface tun0 inet dhcp

---

### Post by frediE on 2007-05-08
Here is where the good times come in.  i actually  **removed resolvconf** and it fixed my issue!!!!!

i read the def of the resolvconf package and ...sets itself up  as the intermediary between programs...
and i thought to my self... why can't NetworkManager to it by itself?  well, finds out it can.  it seems to be working perfectly now.  and surprisingly when i cat resolve.conf it tells the truth....

cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!


vpnc 0.4.0
network-manager-vpnc 0.6.4

---

### Post by dgar on 2008-01-16
For those having problems with /etc/resolv.con NOT updating via network-manager-vpnc:
  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=325581](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=325581)

The following fixed it for me:
   sudo apt-get remove resolvconf

It just works now.

---

### Post by gratefulgibbon on 2008-04-30
I'm also experiencing this problem. Specifically, after using network-manager-vpnc to connect the nameservers that the cisco vpn returns are completely ignored and I can't resolve private server names. I can of course ping them by IP.

With resolvconf installed: using network-manager-vpnc has no effect on /etc/resolv.conf--it continues to list only the nameservers from my DSL's DHCP and I can't ping the private servers by name.

After removing resolvconf: using network-manager-vpnc updates /etc/resolv.conf. *BUT* it overwrites the nameservers from my DSL's DHCP. When you disconnect it puts them back. While connected *ALL DNS traffic* goes through the VPN to the private nameservers. I verified this by running "dig www.google.com" and getting a name resolution from the private DNS server.

With resolvconf installed: using vpnc-connect causes resolvconf to pick up the new name servers and it puts them at the top of /etc/resolv.conf and backs them out when you disconnect. Even in this situation *ALL DNS traffic* goes to the private name servers first because of the order they are listed in resolv.conf. I verified this by running "dig www.google.com" and getting a name resolution from the private DNS server.

I started writing this response thinking I understood the desired behavior. Now I'm realizing that different priorities would dictate different ways of handling this. If you want speed resolving private names you probably want the private DNS servers listed first. If you want only private name traffic to go to the private DNS servers then you probably want them listed second (not failproof). If you want to be guaranteed that your public DNS requests won't go to your private nameservers then you probably like it that network-manager-vpnc completely ignores the private names servers.

If you need ultimate control I read that you can setup dnsmasq to filter *.company-A.com to AsNameServer and *.company-B.com to BsNameServer and everything else to your normal nameservers. In my case I only have a few private names that I care about so I'm just going to add them to /etc/hosts and keep running resolvconf. Since I only want work traffic going through work networks I use the "Only use VPN connection for these addresses" option and I like to verify by running "dig www.google.com", "tracepath www.google.com", "cat /etc/resolv.conf" and "route -n" when I'm connected.

I'm on a fresh install of Hardy with these package versions (from Synaptic):
network-manager 0.6.6-0ubuntu5
network-manager-vpnc 0.6.4svn2422-0ubuntu5
vpnc 0.5.1r275-1
resolvconf 1.38ubuntu1

---

