---
title: "20.04 - LDAP &amp; SMB Issue"
date: 2024-07-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dansss on 2024-07-31
Hello,

I'll start by saying how i'm not great with Ubuntu or any other flavour of linux so please bear with me.

We have some Ubuntu machines where we can log in using our Active Directory credentials and this works absolutely fine.

Today I tried to access a new server share by using smb://fileserver which is a Windows 2022 machine, i'm asked to provide my login credentials which I do then i'm able to see the folders but when I access them it came up with an error saying "this location could not be displayed, Sorry, could not display all the contents of "fileserver location here":Success".

So I done some digging around and somewhere said to modify the smb.conf, where it says workgroup = mydomainhere, enter in the following lines.

I added in client min protocol = SMB1 and client min protocol = SMB3 then rebooted the machine.

I am now unable to log back into the machine using my AD credentials, just receive the message "Sorry, that didn't work, please try again"

So I then log back in using local admin password and remove the settings I put in for smb.conf and reboot I can then log back into the Ubuntu machine, but I still cannot access the share

Another thing which is weird, is if I go to my domain name, I can see the shares there like SYSVOL etc, just not the new server which I guess is using SMB3.

I also did something where I was able to access the new share, but AD login stopped, then I removed it and put the settings back in and neither new share works now nor AD login

Any ideas?

Thanks

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2024-07-31
I cannot answer the larger question about LDAP / Active Directory as that is above my pay grade but:

> I added in client min protocol = SMB1 and client min protocol = SMB3 then rebooted the machine.

** Did you mean to use **client min protocol** & **client [COLOR="#FF0000"]max[/COLOR] protocol**?

** Samba calls SMB1 NT1 to confuse the uninitiated so the line should read:
```
client min protocol = NT1
```

*** And client max protocol is set by default to SMB3.1.1 so you don't need to specify it in smb.conf which is only used to override the default settings.

*** Just a side note: Never used a WIn2022 server but I find it unlikely that it requires SMB1 (NT1) on the client.

---

### Post by dansss on 2024-08-02
Hello,

In the end I gave up too needlessly difficult, not sure if its because the share i'm trying to access was a true windows DFS share (rather than ad sysvol dfs) and Ubuntu just doesn't understand.  In the end I just went to files > other locations and where it says connect to server I typed in smb://myaddomain.blabla.com and worked so I copied what I needed to.  

I was able to do some weird mounting command but then it wasn't visible in the GUI as a mount so couldn't drag and drop, odd!

---

