---
title: "Wireless network troubleshooting: Connect to network but can't get on Internet"
date: 2011-04-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by paulcook on 2011-04-15
Hi,

I have an Acer Aspire 1 110L netbook running Ubuntu 10.10, and I'm having trouble connecting to the Internet through my home network.

I have a Dlink DI 624 router that is connected to my cable modem.  The router is set to assign addresses using DHCP and has a WEP password.  My netbook connected to the Internet through this setup without problem until about two weeks ago.  (I'm not aware of changing any settings at this time.)  My netbook connects successfully to other wireless networks with a similar setup, and other computers (running OSX) can connect to this network (I don't have another computer running ubuntu to check whether it can connect).  If I connect my netbook to the modem or router using a wired connection, it works fine.

I've attempted to fix the problem using various online tutorials (e.g., [https://help.ubuntu.com/10.10/internet/C/troubleshooting-wireless.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.10/internet/C/troubleshooting-wireless.html)) but I'm stuck.

The network manager applet indicates that my netbook is connected to the network.

I've included the output of netstat -nr, ifconfig, iwconfig, and /etc/resolv.conf below.  I am able to ping my router (192.168.0.1) and my computer (localhost, 127.0.01, and 192.168.0.105).  I am unable to ping other IP addresses.

Any help would be very much appreciated.  Thanks!

~$ netstat -nr
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U         0 0          0 wlan0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U         0 0          0 wlan0
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 wlan0

~$ ifconfig 
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1e:68:d4:f1:6e  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:44 Base address:0x4000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:24 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:24 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:1776 (1.7 KB)  TX bytes:1776 (1.7 KB)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:22:69:64:42:bb  
          inet addr:192.168.0.105  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::222:69ff:fe64:42bb/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:966 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:210 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:307097 (307.0 KB)  TX bytes:25966 (25.9 KB)


~$ iwconfig 
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:"cookernetski"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.437 GHz  Access Point: 00:1E:58:02:FA:7C   
          Bit Rate=36 Mb/s   Tx-Power=20 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=52/70  Signal level=-58 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.0.1

---

### Post by dandnsmith on 2011-04-16
What you show suggests that you've correctly connected to the network - you have a valid IP address, and the routing is fine.

Since you say you can ping the router, I'd suggest that the problem is in the router settings - almost as if the router is blocking your IP address to stop it going further.

If other machine(s) (regardless of OS type) can use the internet through that Dlink router, then the router is basically working.

I don't have any suggestions, not knowing what facilities that router has.

Sorry

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-04-17
Is this how your router's management interface looks like? :[http://support.dlink.com/emulators/di624_revc/h_dhcp.html](http://support.dlink.com/emulators/di624_revc/h_dhcp.html)

Check logs under "Status" tab and firewall and filters under "Advanced" tab.

Snapshots of your router's settings may help. Also, maybe the outputs of the same commands as you posted first (except iwconfig) - this time when connected through cable and connection working fine - could help.

And please wrap your pasted outputs in [ code] ... [ /code] tags, or just select the pasted text and click on the '#' mark on the top of edit box. It helps improving the readability of the output.

---

### Post by paulcook on 2011-04-18
Thanks for the help.

I reset the router to factory settings and reconfigured it. (I couldn't access the router otherwise because I forgot the password...)  And now everything works fine.

---

### Post by dandnsmith on 2011-04-19
It's good to hear the problem has gone away - pity we don't know exactly what it was (but then, I still don't know why my netgear router appears to lock out the internet at times, while still reporting a viable connection - have to pull the power to get it reset).

---

