---
title: "$50.00 thru Paypal to anyone who can successfully install and get working my WiFi."
date: 2006-08-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by chingazo on 2006-08-20
Hi Everyone,

I have been an ubuntu user since hoary, and with my last notebook, Dell Inspiron 6000, the wireless card has worked perfectly.  Recently I upgraded my notebook to a Dell XPS, and the wireless card is not only not working, but not even showing up in the network configuration.  All that is listed is eth0, and lo, which I am assuming stands for Loopback, but no wlan.

I have tried several walkthroughs already with ndiswrapper with no success and really don't want to keep following up on the post, so here is my plan.  I will allow someone who is confident he can get this working to connect to my laptop via vnc under the root account.  Might sound stupid, but this is essentially my last resort.

This is a bcm4311, Broadcom chipset.

So it goes as follows.  The first person who can successfully get this working will get a payment of $50.00 through paypal.  The payment will be $50.00 before paypal fees, which I don't know off the top of my head.

Thanks,

GC

---

### Post by op_iyean on 2006-08-20
wow, thats a nice thing to offer for someone to help you. i know nothing about any of this, but i thank you for the person who will be able to get this all up and running (it's a nice thing to do, and i'm sure there are people  who could really use this money)
by the way, i only wish paypal wouldnt add fee's to people's accounts who get money. i'm not sure about the amount, but i thought it was around 34 cents...maybe i'm wrong however.

---

### Post by chingazo on 2006-08-20
i know what you mean.  paypal gotta make their money too i guess, but all in all, the fee's are relatively small.  i don't see myself as having any other option.  i've tried all kinds of walkthroughs, and nothing seems to work.  i figure someone can make some quick cash and help me out.  it's a win win.

---

### Post by Jeroen Vernooij on 2006-08-20
Hmpf I think this kinda sucks (no offence) to offer money to get more help. You are pulling the help to you with your money I think that's the wrong attitude. Why don't you donate that money to Canonical, in that way Ubuntu will get improved, and we all profit from it!

However, I understand that your pissed off that your card doesn't work.
AFAIK you need an app called madwifi for broadcom chips.

Edit: have you followed this link: **[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=185174&highlight=bcm4311]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=185174&highlight=bcm4311")**

---

### Post by chingazo on 2006-08-20
I see your point, and respect your opinion, but my opinion is that this is worth it for me to have to pay to have this problem fixed.  If I can't get my wifi working, I won't be an Ubuntu user, which I have been using pretty much exclusively for the last year or so.  If I had a desktop, yeah, I could live with a wired connection, but not a with a notebook.  

Also, I have donated to Canonical in the past, but I ain't gonna pay the $250.00 for one year of support with the only problem I haven't been able to figure out through the forums is this problem.

I didn't try that walkthrough cause it says,"Okay so you have a wireless card that shows up in ubuntu but doesnt connect to any wireless network?".  My wireless card won't show up in System >> Administration >> Networking, so that walkthrough is not for me.  I have looked at that one in the last couple of days.

If others object to this post, then I will remove it, but honestly, I see nothing wrong with it.

---

### Post by mithras86 on 2006-08-20
Just a stupid question: is it enabled in your BIOS? Does it really works (eg, does *humph* Windows recognise your wifi card?)?

---

### Post by whatrucrazy on 2006-08-20
hmmm, kinda not the best way to do things on a community forum like this but i understand what its like when you really do need it fixed. 
if the person who gets the cash wants to give it to cannonical though, thats good, but if not..
i don't particularly like the precedent this sets, but at the same time sometimes you just need to give some kind of reward to get the help you require. maybe if it wasn't a cash donation it might be different. 
i guess the problem is that of offering cash for a service on a community forum. no-one wants to see a tiered relationship develop where those with money on offer get preferential service. if you want to pay for help perhaps you should go to someone who specialises in that kind of relationship, as in a linux knowledgable computer tecnician in store.
or just keep posting (bugging) till someone with the know-how helps.

tricky issue.:-k

---

### Post by chingazo on 2006-08-20
yeah, windows will recognize it, and it works in windows.

dapper will recognize that it's there, but not a wireless card.

lspci | grep -i broadcom
0000:0c:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation: Unknown device 4311 (rev 01)

My ethernet controller get's recognized and is working, but not the wireless.

---

### Post by mithras86 on 2006-08-20
To all previous posters of this thread: ok, it's not the best way to ask for help, but he really need it working. So if it's fixed, the one who gave him the clue, may decide what chingazo should do. Donate it to Canonical, give it to the one who helped him... but first help him ;)

/edit: does your XPS only have a wifi interface, and no wired ethernet?

---

### Post by whatrucrazy on 2006-08-20
have you checked whether your WiFi's chipset is supported by linux? tried a site like [http://linux-wless.passys.nl/](http://linux-wless.passys.nl/)
also, i'm no wireless guru but for that $50 can't you just buy a usb wireless  card, or a pcmcia WiFi... etc?
that way if your chipset is not supported now, that will get you through to a time when it may be. just thinking out loud.

---

### Post by Jeroen Vernooij on 2006-08-20
[http://bcm43xx.berlios.de/](http://bcm43xx.berlios.de/) says the driver is built-in kernel 2.6.17

So you just need to install the newest kernel. I think dapper doesn't have it in the repos (maybe though, through backports) but you can compile the newest kernel from kernel.org with this guide:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217657](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217657)

If you got that kernel it should work.

---

### Post by bsky1 on 2006-08-20
Go to eBay and buy a Netopia 3D Reach pc wireless card model SWL-2300N item# 290018433725 or similar one donate what left of the $50 to Linux project.

Regards,

---

### Post by Jeroen Vernooij on 2006-08-20
Nahh buying a new card is dumb IMO. His card will work out of the box in Edgy. 

If you can't be bothered by compiling the kernel yourself with the last link I gave, just install the kernel from edgy. It's a .deb you can install also on Dapper.

I don't know which version you need (32bit or 64bit) so decide yourself and download it here:
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/edgy/base/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/edgy/base/)

you need 
linux-image-2.6.17-6-686 and 
linux-restricted-modules-686 (2.6.17.4) [restricted], I think.

---

### Post by chingazo on 2006-08-20
my chipset is supported and there are walkthroughs on these forums that have successfully got this chipset to work, but none of them have worked for me, and i followed them exactly and have tried several.

i guess i could buy a pc card or usb adapter, but honestly, why do that when i have a perfectly good wifi card already, that i cannot get to work, but others have and have documented their process to get it to work.  for some reason, they don't work for me.  believe me, i have been working on this for the last 3 days and for some reason, i cannot get it to work.

i can see everybodies point here, and i can see how some might think this is a really bad idea, but i really don't want to open a thread on getting it fixed, when there are several walkthroughs available that don't work for me, but probably work for others.

i am totally open to the idea of donating the money to canonical and would encourage anybody who actually fixes this for me to have it donated, but bottom line is i gotta have this working.  i'm not paying because i don't want to do this myself.  i would rather do this myself, but i tried that, and i can't get it to work.

i don't want to sound arrogant, but the forum guidelines don't address this type of post (offering compensation), therefore i will continue this thread.  if you don't agree with this, i can respect that, but this issue is crucial to me and like i said before, basically this is my last resort.

---

### Post by bsky1 on 2006-08-20
Why not buy the card get wireless working then take time to figure out the problem with your existing card later?

---

### Post by lupine_nickt on 2006-08-20
I'll have a crack at it... but you can keep your $50 to yourself ;)

I've helped one other person who was having problems with the 4311 chipset, I couldn't get it working at the time (got the card recognised, but it wouldn't connect to any networks)... however, I'm pretty confident that I know what the problem was in that instance.

[E-mail me](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/sendmessage.php?do=mailmember&u=47721) if you want me to have a go. 

xF,

...Nick

---

### Post by mcarlson on 2006-08-20
<quote>I've helped one other person who was having problems with the 4311 chipset, I couldn't get it working at the time (got the card recognised, but it wouldn't connect to any networks)... however, I'm pretty confident that I know what the problem was in that instance.</quote>

Please share.

I've spent hours and hours in the same situation.  I have a compaq presario V5204NR with the Broadcom 4311 chipset.  Just as the original poster I've followed a number of the given guides.

Where I'm at now:
1) Using ndiswrapper 1.17
2) using the bcmwl5.inf and bcmwl4.sys files from the guide
3) Using network-manager
4) using firmware extracted from wl_apsta.o (from the guide)

What it's doing.
I can hit turn on/off the wireless using the hardware button (at last the light goes on/off but I dont' know how to test if it's doing anything otherwise)
iwlist wlan0 scan shows network and a few others in the neighborhood
network signal strength in the connection properties shows 0%

What I know:
The wireless card is listening to the router (identifies networks that are out there)

dmesg shows "[17180657.468000] wlan0: no IPv6 routers present"

Any help would be greatly appriciated.
At this point I'm tired, frustrated, and lost.

Thank you,

M@

---

### Post by haiku99 on 2006-08-20
I had a hard time getting my 4311 card to work too (on a HP nx6310), tried various howto's, nothing worked until I installed and setup the latest version (1.23 a/o when I did this last week) using the procedure at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper)
also, FWIW I later installed network manager and that did NOT work for me, had to remove it and reload Ubuntu to get wifi back....but this could very well have been caused by operator error

---

### Post by lupine_nickt on 2006-08-20
mcarlson: FWIW, my procedure used the bcm43xx (native linux) driver, not ndiswrapper. It does seem that the 2.6.15-* kernel Ubuntu uses does have a module for this built-in (patched in, perhaps? It's only meant to be for .17 onwards). Anyway, the solution I came up with (but is untested) is based on the assumption that the two are in conflict - if you remove one, then the other one should function fine. 

Try running lsmod |grep bcm43xx and see if it lists a loaded module - if it does, try adding it to the blacklist (add 'blacklist bcm43xx' to the /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist file, and reboot). 

I've actually spent an hour or so knocking up a shellscript to (relatively) automate setting up the linux driver (assuming you've got a linux module already present... you can find out by running 'slocate /lib/modules/`uname -r` | grep bcm43xx.ko'). I can't test it's effectiveness (not having one of these cards!) but if you want to give it a shot, you'll find it at [http://www.lupine.me.uk/bcm43xx/install_bcm43xx.sh](http://www.lupine.me.uk/bcm43xx/install_bcm43xx.sh)

[size=+4]WARNING[/size]
[size=+2]Completely untested and without warranty; in addition, it is *guaranteed* to uninstall ndiswrapper, and PURGE your current ndiswrapper settings.[/size]

IOW, don't try it unless you're desperate ;)

xF,

...Nick

---

### Post by mcarlson on 2006-08-20
I just got mine to work:
Sorry it wasn't the script.. though I tried.

1) I started with a clean system.
I reinstalled from the Dapper liveCD and did not update.
(I'll try updating next and see if it still works)
I'm guessing it will.

2) I installed the latest version of ndiswrapper (1.23)
and built from source

get the latest version here:
[http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=93482](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=93482)

see this how to for install directions:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=193350&highlight=4311](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=193350&highlight=4311)

One modification.  Since I did not update I needed to use synaptic to install the headers for 2.6.15-23-386

3) I used ndiswrapper to install the correct drivers from the R115321.EXE
they are already extracted for you by the friendly person who wrote that howto.  Directions for this step are also the same as the above howto.

HERE IS THE REALLY IMPORTANT STUFF!!!

4) At this point my wlan light was on but 'iwlist wlan0 scan' didn't show any networks.  I went into system->administration->networking (where the wlan card showed up!) and opened the preferences for the wireless connection.  I DIDN"T CHANGE ANYTHING!  After I was in preferences I went back to the terminal and did another 'iwlist wlan0 scan' and my network showed up.  Prefs must do some sort of initialization.  At this point I cancled out of everything.

5) I used the command line to set up wlan0
a) sudo iwconfig wlan0 essid YOURESSID

I have WEP enabled on my router so here was the big thing I was missing
CHECK THIS!  My router was set to OPEN but wlan0 defaulted to RESTRICTED.
So.. to set the key I needed to do this
sudo iwconfig wlan0 key open MYHEXKEYHERE

at this point an iwconfig showed that link quality went from 0/100 to 100/100!!!  The access point log showed that my machine was conneced, and the access point info was filled out in iwconfig.

Still now done.  I couldn't ping anything.
ifconfig didn't show an ip address yet.

sudo ifdown wlan0
sudo ifup wlan0

That was it!  At this point my router sent an ip address and I was on the network!!!

M@

---

### Post by mcarlson on 2006-08-20
It seems that I need to go through steps 4 on after a reboot.

Any ideas on what networkworking->properties is initalizing?
I'm trying to write a script to go through the steps but until I figure out what's being done here I'll have to do that manualy.

M@

I'm also updating right now.  I should know in a few hours if this works with the 26 kernel.

---

### Post by mcarlson on 2006-08-20
Confermation after update.

I just updated my system, recompiled ndiswrapper for the updated kernel and went through the steps again and I'm up and running just like before!

So.. you probably don't need to wipe your system to get this thing working.. good new no? :-)

M@

---

### Post by lupine_nickt on 2006-08-20
It's good news... but curious behaviour :D

Maybe you could contact the developers of the program directly, and ask them what it's up to? It would be very useful to find out.

xF,

...Nick

---

### Post by chingazo on 2006-08-20
To all.

I thank everybody who contributed.  I followed the links provided by mcarlson, and they worked.  I am sending this post through my wifi by following the links provided in his post.  I will contribute the $50 to canonical on behalf of everyone who helped out and assisted.  Can't say the offer of money didn't attract the right attention though, but I won't be doing another post like this...too much controversy.

I want to thank lupine_nickt for taking me up on my offer, but not for payment.  I didn't have to take him up on it cause I managed to get this to work, but the problem seems to be older version of ndiswrapper is not compatible with this chipset.

v1.23 works like a charm.  Anyone who has problems with this chipset, I would recommend starting from a fresh install and not update anything.  Just download the source along with all the packages listed in the walkthrough to compile it, along with all the other instructions.  That is essentially what I did.

---

### Post by chingazo on 2006-08-20
Your payment for $50.00 USD to [email]donations@ubuntulinux.org[/email] has been sent.





-----------------------------------
Payment Details
-----------------------------------


Amount: $50.00 USD

Transaction ID: ################

Note:
on behalf of all who posted on:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=239982](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=239982)

---

### Post by mcarlson on 2006-08-20
it turns out that you don't need to open preferences first.
here is the simple script I use to start my wireless after a reboot.
make sure to 'chmod a+x FILENAME' to make it executable.
I named it wiup.sh so I run it by typing 'sudo sh wiup.sh'
It's pretty bad, I'm sure someone with better script skills and more time and sleep can improve it but it works for me. :-)

#!/bin/bash

# assume wlan0
# Get ESSID and WEP key
echo
echo "Enter your ESSID: ";
read ESSID;
iwconfig wlan0 essid $ESSID

echo "Enter WEP key (or none): ";
read WEP

# assume open network
# assume HEX wep key
case "$WEP" in
        none)   ;;
        *)      iwconfig wlan0 key open $WEP;;
esac

#shutdown eth0 probably not needed but hey..
ifconfig eth0 down

#assume DHCP will set everything up
ifdown wlan0
ifup wlan0

exit 0

---

### Post by Rmorris84 on 2006-08-25
Seems like this is quite a problem. I have a Compaq Presario V5204nr with the same problem going on. I recently installed Ubuntu and Im a total Linux novice. Ive been researching and googlin about how to get my wireless to work, then i stumbled upon this soulution. Can someone possibly give me some type of direction on where I need to be going.

"see this how to for install directions:
http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.p...highlight=4311" 

I went to that page... but like i said Im a total linux novice. I would rather plug up my cord than risk messin up my computer trying to get this to work. 

If someone could possibly help me with this same problem, please repost or if you have AIM that would be the best way to reach me. My AIM is: IAteaLitleBabie (dont ask old inside joke) and ive put my settin on here where i can receive emails from members if you would rather shoot me an email.

Any help would be apprectiated.

R. Morris:-D :-D :-D :-D :-D

---

### Post by chingazo on 2006-08-25
hey.  i know how much this problem sucks, but if you follow the walkthrough that was mentioned earlier in the post about downloading the source to ndiswrapper 1.23 from sourceforge.net, then compile that, then you are closer to getting this thing working.  the version that ships with the install is 1.17, i think.  then you will need the correct driver.  the person who started that walkthrough was kind enough to include an archive with the driver files you need for this chipset.

from what i understand, you can't mess up your system by installing ndiswrapper, and trying to install a driver for it.  if anything, your wireless would just continue to not work.

you can get the latest sources for ndiswrapper at:
[http://sourceforge.net/project/showf...group_id=93482](http://sourceforge.net/project/showf...group_id=93482)

then follow the walkthrough here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.p...highlight=4311](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.p...highlight=4311)

the walkthrough shows ndiswrapper v1.17, but just follow that guide exactly with v1.23, and that is what worked for me.

---

### Post by Rmorris84 on 2006-08-25
Surprisingly I got it working. I fiddled and fiddled with it just doing little random things... then I rebooted and when i right clicked it said enable wireless network... the only thing is I had to use a program called KWifiManager and it connected to my WLAN and I was in business! :-D :-D  Few Questions, I have to start that program everytime I boot up... How do i Get it to do that? :-k :-k 

Does anyone have a good tutorial for getting started in linux... Bc its not as easy as ::cough::Windozzzz::cough:: But Im getting to where I can do pretty much what I need to do on here.

Also how about a site on finding great software to use on here?:p 

Thanks For all the help EVERYONE who has posted on this thread and everyone on the Ubuntu Forums. Lets keep up the great work! 


RMorris

---

### Post by chingazo on 2006-08-26
good for you.  i'm glad another person got the wifi problem resolved.

i agree.  linux is not easier than windows.  maybe that is somewhat skewed as most people have been using windows since they  were young, so they don't remember the learning curve.

as for getting started, have you tried the dapper starter guide?
[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Dapper](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Dapper)

this is a great place to start to install lots of very useful software as well as get mp3 and dvd funtionality.  you could go through the guide, which i recommend if you have never installed these things before to get familiar with how it's done.  if you have gone through this before, then you can take a shortcut by installing automatix.

[http://getautomatix.com/wiki/index.php?title=Installation#Installing_with_Apt](http://getautomatix.com/wiki/index.php?title=Installation#Installing_with_Apt)

this essentially installs all that stuff in the starter guide but through a gui.  basically pick and choose the stuff you want to install, and it will install it for you.  i would rather have someone install the media players through automatix.  just easier and more reliable.

as for getting software, it's basically all in the repo's.  make sure you add all the optional repo's in your sources.list file, update apt-get, then do searches in the forums and google for the functionality you are looking for, and you will find software that you need and all can be install easily via the terminal.  coming from windows, you will find that none of the software has a linux port, but linux has an equal alternative, just got to search to find what it is.

what i consider a must have is the vmware server, which recently is now free from vmware.com.  this will let you install windows or any other x86 os, and run it in a windows.  great for running windows apps that you can't live without.

---

### Post by loriand on 2006-12-14
Thanks for everyone for very good How to.
Unfortunately my laptops wifi (HP nx6310 ) wasn't wok.:confused: 
Finally I switched a BIOS parameter, and NOW WORKING GOOD!!!:D 

*_The parameter setting in the BIOS:_*
power on
press <**F10**> key after get Hp logo and f9 and f10 messages
In the BIOS menu go to **[System Configuration]**
Select the **[Bulit-in Device Option]**
Switch the **[LAN/WLAN Switching]** line parameter to** [Disable]**
press **<F10>**
in the menu go to  **[File]**
Select the **[Save Changes And Exit]**
press** <F10>**

That's all.

---

