---
title: "8.04 - Boot Freeze when bcm43XX card is installed"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by TubaTodd on 2008-04-27
I just got done doing a fresh installed of Ubuntu 8.04 on my wife's Sony Vaio desktop. Everything works (although some of it was a little annoying), however I have one nagging problem.

If I install the Linksys WMP11 (broadcom bcm43XX based) card in the case and boot up, it only gets to about 1 inch on the boot up meter on the splash screen and then freezes. If I remove the card, it boots up perfectly.

We had this wifi card working on Feisty, but i can't even boot with it in Hardy. Any ideas?? Thanks

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-04-27
Sounds definitely like a driver issue to me.  How did you attempt to install the driver?  Although I have not upgraded to Hardy yet with my Broadcom card, it still seems from all the posts here so far in the last few days, the ndiswrapper/bcmwl5 combination is still the best bet -- sorry b43 driver.

---

### Post by TubaTodd on 2008-04-27
> **kevdog said:**
> Sounds definitely like a driver issue to me.  How did you attempt to install the driver?  Although I have not upgraded to Hardy yet with my Broadcom card, it still seems from all the posts here so far in the last few days, the ndiswrapper/bcmwl5 combination is still the best bet -- sorry b43 driver.

Well, considering that if the card is physically in the PCI slot, the computer does not boot...I have yet to configure the drivers for use. At some place in the boot sequence there is a point where it simply freezes. 

Do you happen to know how to get Hardy to boot without the splash. This way I can see what the screen is saying when it gets hung up.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-04-27
What version of the wmp11 card are you using?

---

### Post by nullmind on 2008-04-27
I use ndiswrapper because bcm43xx and b43 work very poorly for me. There was a bug in beta when I set up ndiswrapper that caused my system to lock-up much like how you are describing. I'll explain it here, but my blog post describes the fix: [http://devangelist.blogspot.com/2008/03/ubuntu-804-beta-hardy.html](http://devangelist.blogspot.com/2008/03/ubuntu-804-beta-hardy.html)

Before Hardy the bcm43xx module was used for native wireless using Broadcom devices. It's been replaced by the b43 module, as you've noticed. You can still use the bcm43xx module, and I assume they are very similar at this time. Somewhere in all of that is the b43legacy.

One thing I noticed in Hardy (which is a result of the new kernel) is that b43 seems to be broken up into more modules. There is no a module called ssb which I believe handles some of the common properties between Broadcom devices, such as b43 and the ethernet counterpart b44.

The bug that caused my system to freeze in Beta was due to ssb being loaded (because both b44 and b43 depend on it) before ndiswrapper, likely owning some hardware resources that ndiswrapper wants. The workaround I use is to unload b43, b44, ssb (the whole shabang) and then load ndiswrapper. I then reload ssb and b44 for my ethernet. This can be done as an init.d script, which is inside the blog post I mentioned earlier. 

(This is not blog spam, I've changed that script many times as I discover bugs, and fixing it without spreading broken copies has saved many people heartache, as that blog post is one of the first results of google for the keywords "b43" "hardy" and "ndiswrapper")

Cheers,
Kris

---

### Post by TubaTodd on 2008-04-27
Ok, I stopped it from freezing on boot. I blacklisted b43legacy, because that was the point of failure when it would freeze during bootup. Now I need to get the card working.

---

### Post by nullmind on 2008-04-28
My blog post explains how to use ndiswrapper with Broadcom cards.

---

