---
title: "ipw3945"
date: 2007-03-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bachisanerd on 2007-03-24
Hello, all, and good morning, at least from where I am.

I installed Edgy a few days ago, and it seems like after the fresh install my wireless card,  ipw3945 seemed to work, but has since stopped working.

I've been all over the forums here and at sourceforge where the drivers are available, and here are some of the fixes I've found and the problems I've had with them:

1)   Install fresh from source (from sourceforge, following instructions found there):
After removing the old (broken?) kernel modules from /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/
and the ieee80211 subsystem from /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/net/ieee80211/
I was able to rebuild the ieee80211 subsystem and install it.
But when I try to make the driver,

```
ERROR: A compatible subsystem was not found in the following path[s]:

        /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/include/ /lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/

You need to install the ieee80211 subsystem from [http://ieee80211.sf.net](http://ieee80211.sf.net)
and point this build to the location where you installed those sources, eg.:

        % make IEEE80211_INC=/usr/src/ieee80211/

or use the 'make patch_kernel' within the ieee80211 subsystem to patch your
kernel sources.

make: *** [check_inc] Error 1
```


and when I try to make patch_kernel from the ieee80211 source folder,


```
bach@aranha:/media/sdb3/ieee80211-1.2.16$ sudo make patch_kernel
-e 
 This will install this IEEE80211 subsystem into your
 kernel tree located here:

/lib/modules/2.6.17-11-generic/build

 If you would like to instal to a different location, run
 this as follows: make KSRC=/path/to/kernel patch_kernel 

Do you wish to continue? [Yn] 
cp: cannot stat `{*.c,in-tree/{Makefile,Kconfig},compat.h}': No such file or directory
make: *** [patch_kernel] Error 1
```

And that's where I get stuck with that method.

2) Install through repositories
Instructions: [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/62452](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.17/+bug/62452)
I can't find anything with ipw3945 in them, as the instructions I've found suggest should be the case.  They've said one should install the linux-restricted-modules-generic and reload the driver and it should work.  The problem I have with this one is that I don't know how to install that repository.

I know the package must be on the Ubuntu install CD, and I have that selected as a source in Synaptic but the only ipw drivers are for ipw2xxx or something.

That's where I get stuck with that one.

And somehow in the process I've messed up my /etc/apt/sources.list file, the line that points to the CD-ROM is malformed or something, so if somebody out there could post the 3rd line of their sources.list file so I can fix mine, I'd appreciate it.

Anyway, that's the trouble I'm having, anybody been down this road before and found a fix?

Thanks, all!
-BacH

---

### Post by Zoney on 2007-03-24
You must have a hp dv2130, maybe ;) At least we got the same problem with the ipw3945, and the same error messages that comes out. Well, I just started a few hours ago to try get things running, so will give it some more time.
Good morning btw :)

---

### Post by bachisanerd on 2007-03-24
An HP DV8000, actually, but close enough.  Let me know what you find out!

-BacH

---

### Post by bachisanerd on 2007-03-24
So my card is working now.

Apparently, the reason my card wasn't working was the lack of the driver daemon, which should be here:

/sbin/ipw3945d

The file is part of the package:

linux-modules-restricted-generic

I didn't realize that was a package, so you can go into Synaptic and search for that.  The problem is that this package also has an Nvidia driver, so you've installed the latest one, you may have to use some nerdy tricks to get the daemon out without installing the Nvidia driver over what you have.  I had my more experienced brother SSH tunnel into my machine and watched him do some things, I'll try to post the important parts here for the community's reference.

If you're not worried about the NVIDIA driver, just install the package from Synaptic and run modprobe ipw3945.  that ought to do it.  If you are worried about your video driver, try this:

How to get the ipw3945d daemon out of linux-modules-restriced-generic without overwriting your NVIDIA driver:

Note that the following was performed as root, so you either need to set a root password (not recommended by some) or run sudo before each command or run "sudo -s" once before you get started to put the shell in sudo mode.

First we used apt-get to download the package without installing it, I think it went something like this:
```
user@host: /# apt-get -d linux-modules-restricted-generic
```
Then go to where it downloads:
```
cd /var/cache/apt/archives/
```
And tell it to install without certain packages, in this case NVIDIA stuff:
```
root@aranha:/var/cache/apt/archives# dpkg --install linux-restricted-modules-generic_2.6.17.11_i386.deb 
```
Ought to generate this output:
```
(Reading database ... 98849 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace linux-restricted-modules-generic 2.6.17.11 (using linux-restricted-modules-generic_2.6.17.11_i386.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement linux-restricted-modules-generic ...
Setting up linux-restricted-modules-generic (2.6.17.11) ...
```
If that goes without a hitch, then do this:
```
user@host:/#modprobe ipw3945
```
And your wireless light should start flashing.

I hope these instructions at least give you a general idea of how to do this, I wasn't the one typing the commands so I can't say that I didn't miss something.  If anybody happens to notice something wrong with this say something so I can make an edit and fix it.

-BacH

EDIT:  Turns out I had to run the NVIDIA driver installer again anyway, since something apparently got messed up in all of that, so I'm not sure it does any good to go through the whole process, but the NVIDIA utility took all of... 1 1/2 minutes so it wasn't a big deal

EDIT: More fallout.  I sure hope I do more than confuse some poor soul...  besides myself.  Apparently doing the above will break the package and Synaptic won't do anything (install new software) until it's either reinstalled or removed.  I copied the /sbin/ipw3945d file out of the sbin directory in case synaptic deleted it, removed the package to make synaptic happy, and the daemon file was still where it was.  I ran modprobe ipw3945 again and my wireless still seems to be fine.  Hopefully it stays that way even after I reboot.

---

### Post by Jamshedk on 2007-03-28
Any updates bud?

---

### Post by bachisanerd on 2007-03-28
Updates, eh?

Well... after I removed the package things worked well until I rebooted.  After that the wireless card didn't work, even though the daemon file was still intact.  I didn't want to spend the time figuring out why, so I just went straight past all of the difficulty we went through getting the package installed without the NVIDIA driver and just straight-out installed the package.

The wireless card worked, but of course that set the NVIDIA driver back.  I ran NVIDIA's driver installer tool, and things worked peachy after that.

Until I rebooted.

Now every time I turn the computer on I have to re-run the NVIDIA driver tool to get GDM to run.  I haven't figured out what is breaking that yet, but at least I have a WLAN card and a video card driver that works (with a little persuasion).  I hope to be able to find the config file that is not right, causing GDM to fail at boot.  I'm also having some fair instability with GDM, but I suspect this is related to Beryl.

And that's where I am now.  I may just start over from scratch when the next version of Ubuntu is released, now that I understand better how this stuff goes together.

---

