---
title: "Dial up connection problem with external modem"
date: 2008-06-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dgruver3 on 2008-06-05
Yet another modem problem *sigh*  I'm a newbie using Hardy, and having tossed aside 4 winmodems which wouldn't work, went and bought a used external US Robotics modem connected via the serial port.  

I've been through the Networking dialogs and it seems successful to a point, but never connects to the ISP.  I've tried dialing out via the networking icon in the top panel, via the terminal, and via gnome-ppp.  Same results everytime:  
[LIST]
[*]I can get a dial tone
[*]I can hear the modem dialing the ISP
[*]I can hear lots of screeching and hissing, so the ISP and my modem are presumably "talking"
[*]Then... nothing... happens...
[/LIST]

To get the modem to give it another try, I do have to disconnect manually, via the double-computer networking icon up in the top panel (or "poff" in terminal, or "quit" in gnome-ppp), but between the point the screeches stop and I click or type some quit command, my regular phone gets a dial tone, so I don't think the modem is connected, just not freed up for another try.

Of course I've checked the phone number, username, password, DNS numbers repeatedly.  Still no good.

WHen I open up the log window in gnome-ppp, this is what I get:
> --> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L1DT5055009
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L1DT5055009
NO CARRIER
--> No Carrier!  Trying again.
--> Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
--> Disconnecting at Thu Jun  5 17:19:24 2008


When I used the setserial command in Terminal, this is what I got (don't know if this is useful or not...)
> jkg@juli-desktop:~$ setserial /dev/ttyS0
/dev/ttyS0, UART: 16550A, Port: 0x03f8, IRQ: 4

Any ideas about where I should go next?

---

