---
title: "[SOLVED] HowTo: Dial Modem..."
date: 2007-07-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sksurhio on 2007-07-07
Hi, I have recently scaned my modem through scanModem, and installed drivers that scanModem asks in modemdata.txt. After that i have installed GnomePPP, in which I only detect the modem in setting, and after when I m connecting to ISP (Dialing), modem dials the ISP number but do not complete the network, the log is this:

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT13111891
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT13111891


Can any one solve my problem???
Thanx in advance...

---

### Post by Bartender on 2007-07-07
I was just screwing around with this stuff yesterday.  Although those first and third lines look like something's wrong, that's exactly what mine said and I still got online with an external serial modem that was detected on ttys0.

I'm an amateur with wvdial logs, but everything looks OK to me up to the last couple of lines.  

What kind of modem?  Maybe someone will know what to do.

Also, who's your ISP?  Have you talked with them about whether Linux will work with them?  Don't ask them if they support Linux (most will say no) just ask them if you should be able to connect if you have everything set up correctly.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2007-07-09
I looked at my wvdial log.

My "AT" line goes like this.  I changed the actual phone number but you'll get the idea:

ATM1L1DT*70,5551212

I assume the modem decides what code to use for the ATM1L1DT part of the line, because that part was just there.  The *70, part is to disable call-waiting.  I wasn't sure that would work but the modem dialed successfully with or without the call-waiting code.

Your AT line  -   ATM1L3DT13111891  - is 13111891 the number you dial?  That's too many digits for a typical North American phone number but I don't know what phone numbers look like in Pakistan.  I also don't know what ATM1L3DT does vs. ATM1L1DT.  That might be something to look into?

---

### Post by Mark_in_Hollywood on 2007-07-11
Yes, I've had the same screwy line with both an internal controller-based modem and my current Creative 56 flash external.

I can get online, I have no problems that I can recount and I thank my lucky stars for that and Ubuntu.

---

