---
title: "8.04 wireless only connects to certain routers"
date: 2008-05-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rlwhite86 on 2008-05-16
Just recently installed Ubuntu 8.04 using WUBI on windows vista. 

I have two wireless routers in my apartment, a Linksys WRT54G and a Belkin Pre-N f5d8230-4.  Ubuntu and the network-manager can see these two routers, and many others...however, it will only connect to the linksys router, and stalls trying to connect to the Belkin.  

I originally had a WPA passkey on the Belkin, and when it wouldnt connect I took off the passkey and restored all factory settings.  Still no luck.  So next I tried removing network-manager and installing WICD.  I can still see all the same networks, and the linksys connects perfectly, but the Belkin router stalls at "Obtaining IP address", and refuses to connect.  If I force it to connect with a static IP, it says signal strength 0.

Both connections work from Vista... the wireless card is a Intel Wireless/PRO 3945abg.  Thanks

---

### Post by rlwhite86 on 2008-05-17
bump

---

### Post by sunny_nwho on 2008-05-28
same here mate..hunting for answers

---

### Post by oldschoolrockstar on 2008-05-28
You have to install the drivers for it. Unfortunately I'm a noob, and a total dedadee. Forgot what the thing was called. I'm on here waisting time trying to find a solution to my prob, but maybe I could help out. There's a deal in add/remove programs that would help you install the drivers, and a few wireless programs, that should allow you to connect to the other router. (see what help I am. Forgot the names of these things, meh) well maybe this would lead you towards the right path.

---

### Post by nicedude on 2008-05-28
While I can't answer your question for sure since I don't have any Belkin equipment ( In my opinion it is substandard VS linksys or netgear components ) . But I can suggest something to look at and that would be check what firmware is loaded in the Belkin and then check their support site to see if updated firmware is available as this might fix your problem.

Heres a link to the firmware page for your router
[http://www.belkin.com/support/article/?lid=en&pid=F5D8230-4&aid=5632&scid=0](http://www.belkin.com/support/article/?lid=en&pid=F5D8230-4&aid=5632&scid=0)

I see at their site that there are 2 versions of this model 1000 & 2000 and each has an updated firmware from the original one that it was shipped with. Their support doesn't list the changes the updated firmware addresses but I would look to see if you still have the original firmware and if so update it and try again as it may very well be your problem. 

If you can't figure out how to update your belkin firmware then PM me and I will tell you how to do it. Please by PM though as I probably wont see it if you just post it here.

I am also assuming that you are saying that your linksys works and allows you to surf etc. If so then it is not an Ubuntu problem so to speak but a Belkin router one. If however you can't surf the net for instance with the Linksys router either then I would say you have a wifi driver problem as well.

Hope that is it and fixes it, and in the future buy Netgear or Linksys products as they are superior in both quality and support :-)

nicedude

---

### Post by rlwhite86 on 2008-05-28
Thanks for the replies.

I've looked at the firmware, and I have the newest release for my model (2000, firmware version 2.01.02).  I wonder if it would help to downgrade?

Yes, the linksys works flawlessly and allows me to browse, but it is no longer online (my roommate downstairs left for the summer, and turned off their cable/power), so all I have is the belkin.

---

