---
title: "Intel Dial-up Modem Help"
date: 2008-04-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mooreted on 2008-04-17
I have a Gateway laptop with an internal dial-up modem. I used the modem scan script from the instructions I got this:

For candidate card in slot 00:1f.6, firmware information and bootup diagnostics are:
 PCI slot	PCI ID		SubsystemID	Name
 ----------	---------	---------	--------------
 00:1f.6	8086:24c6	107b:0360	Modem: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM 

So, I installed the sl-modem deamon and the modem is now recognized. However, when I try to connect using Gnome PPP I get this:

/home/john/.wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvModem<*1>: Cannot get information for serial port.
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATX3
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATX3
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Modem initialized.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATM1L3DT5302246888
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier.
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATM1L3DT5302246888
WvDial Modem<*1>: NO ANSWER
WvDial<Warn>: No Answer.  Trying again.
WvDial<Warn>: Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
WvDial<*1>: Disconnecting at Thu Apr 17 17:24:01 2008

I know I am so close. What can I do to make a connection to my ISP?

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-18
It looks like it is not getting an answer on that phone number. Dial it by hand. Does it answer? Does it send a carrier tone? Do you need to dial a 1 first?

---

### Post by mooreted on 2008-04-18
> **dstew said:**
> It looks like it is not getting an answer on that phone number. Dial it by hand. Does it answer? Does it send a carrier tone? Do you need to dial a 1 first?

When I dial the number, I get the basic handshake squelch.

Hmm. I better check my phone line at the shop. If it's just a phone problem I should be good to go.

Will check back in later today.

Thanks.

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-18
Another thing to try is to disable carrier-detect. Edit your configuration file, and in the modem setup string change &C1 to &C0. However, the result code was translated as "No answer" and not "No carrier", so I am not sure this will help. Worth a try though.

---

### Post by mooreted on 2008-04-18
> **dstew said:**
> Another thing to try is to disable carrier-detect. Edit your configuration file, and in the modem setup string change &C1 to &C0. However, the result code was translated as "No answer" and not "No carrier", so I am not sure this will help. Worth a try though.

I checked the phone line. It works. When I enable Detect Dial Tone I get No Dialtone.

I will try your suggestion. Thanks.

---

### Post by mooreted on 2008-04-18
> **mooreted said:**
> I checked the phone line. It works. When I enable Detect Dial Tone I get No Dialtone.

I will try your suggestion. Thanks.

Nope, Stuck on No Dialtone.

:(

---

### Post by dstew on 2008-04-18
> When I enable Detect Dial Tone I get No Dialtone.If you can hear a dial tone, but the modem cannot detect it, that sounds like something is wrong with the modem hardware. Can you hear the dial tone through the modem speaker? Maybe the plug socket on the modem is bad. Does the modem work under Windows? It could also be a modem firmware error of some kind.

---

### Post by mooreted on 2008-04-18
Going to send it back to the end-user. It looks like his modem must not work.

Thanks for trying to help.

:)

---

