---
title: "14.04 LTS Keeps asking for wifi password"
date: 2014-07-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by joshua33 on 2014-07-18
Hey guys i just got a new laptop with ubuntu already installed but am having some problems with the wifi. Forgive me if i say something stupid as i have been using windows my whole life and this is the first time ever that i have used linux. So my probelm is whenever i try to connect to my home wifi, i type in my password correctly and after 10 seconds it asks me for the password again. I have read everything in the sticky and have tried a few things from googleing but seem to have come short. Any help would be appreciated ! below is just a section of the wireless script that the stiky said was kinda important dont really know if it will help you understand my problem. 

```

##### lspci #####

02:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation Wireless 3160 [8086:08b3] (rev 83)
    Subsystem: Intel Corporation Dual Band Wireless-AC 3160 [8086:0070]
    Kernel driver in use: iwlwifi

03:00.1 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168/8411 PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet Controller [10ec:8168] (rev 12)
    Subsystem: CLEVO/KAPOK Computer Device [1558:5455]
    Kernel driver in use: r8169

```

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-07-18
Network Manager is not asking for a user password but the password/pass phrase/wireless key/WPA-PSK key that the router requires to allow Network Manager to connect to the router.

Regards.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-07-21
Welcome to the forums joshua33!

If what grahammechanical mentioned above doesn't help, please post the full report of the wireless_script. I personally suggest running an experimental version of the wireless_script as it provides some more useful information helpful in troubleshooting problems. Here is the post with instructions to download and run it : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=13024222](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=13024222)

---

