---
title: "802.1x WIFI at UWF ArgoAir PEAP / CERTS... not working need help!"
date: 2008-09-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by blak on 2008-09-19
I am using Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron, on an eeepc 1000h, with gnome and network-manager. I have configured wpa_supplicant as well. Everything works great, except for the problem of trying to connect to my Universities "unsupported" for Linux systems wifi.


I am at the University of West Florida. We have what is called ArgoAir for our wireless throughout campus. This system uses 802.1x Radius/LDAP from what I can tell. I can get everything to work except for the certificate part that seems to be where I am hung up.

I use WPA enterprise, select peap, mschap v2 (don't have to it seems), put in my user and password... it trys to connect for quite some time then it pops up asking me for a key. This is where I believe it is looking for me to have the certificate that of course Windows and Mac OS X somehow can get very easily. My ITS department does not support Linux for what reasons I do not know why. They support the iphone though...

Anyway here is a direct link to their site [https://nautical.uwf.edu/utility/serviceinfo/?serviceid=5666](https://nautical.uwf.edu/utility/serviceinfo/?serviceid=5666)

After you go there then click on the "Setting Up ArgoAir" link. You can see in the upper right area of that page all of the different methods they have for everything to get on our wifi except for Linux.

Currently I am thinking I may have to attain a certificate directly form ITS... very unlikely they will cooperate. Maybe someone can analyze how they have Mac OSX connecting and WinXP and you can find a way that I can get this to work (I hope so). I have the apt-get of the certs done and I have 4 Digital Signature Trust Global ones that I am going to try tomorrow, since I just realized that could possibly help with this...

There are some older threads, one especially that seemed useful, but no longer works with the wifi at UWF apparently.... it is at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249654](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249654) ... The thread died on December 4th, 2007. And if there was any success there it no longer works with the current wifi setup at UWF.

Any help is greatly appreciated, sorry for the long post, but I wanted to be detailed and informative.

Thanks,
blak

---

### Post by T-MAN3000 on 2008-09-19
Maybe you can try wicd. After I struggled with NetworkManager for three days, wicd worked like a charm on my 1000h. I believe it also supports EAP-MSCHAP v2. Creating your own template for it might be a hassle though, I'm still struggling with weird error codes...

---

### Post by blak on 2008-09-19
I didn't make this very clear, now that I look at my first post, but my real problem here is dealing with getting a cert or certs automatically (or if I have to manually) like it seems winxp or Mac OSX or even the iphone does for my schools wireless network. Everything else I have down, but this part is proving difficult. This is my main problem. Sorry for not making that as clear as I could have.

I'm not having trouble with connecting to any other type of wireless network though except for this one that is using the certificates (UWF's argoair). I think there must be something about needing to find a way to handle certificates like winxp or mac os x seems to do, reference those links in my first post as to how mac os x is set to connect or winxp to get an idea of what I mean.

I'll try wicd though, but I am thinking I will still hit that problem with the cert area.

Thanks,
blak

---

### Post by blak on 2008-09-20
Still no luck with wicd. Anyone got any other ideas?

-blak

---

### Post by FRed_is_dead_7x on 2008-09-28
I have the same problem with the same school.

I was able to have a very short conversation with the ITS people about their network settings, and it seems they use an automatically distributed cert.  From everything I can see, Linux does not support this.

If anybody knows differently, I too would like help.

---

### Post by blak on 2008-10-01
Wow, that is good to know that I am not the only one that uses Ubuntu, or Linux and is having this problem at my University! I had figured it is something automatic involving a cert, but as you have pointed out, it doesn't seem Linux supports this kind of thing.... I know I have read a lot of articles that frown on how bad Linux support of Wifi is.... really tragic imho.

My e-mail is bel5 (at) students.uwf.edu ... you can find me on AIM at (xblak) ... maybe we can get in touch and figure something out with this or at least start a group of students for supporting linux on ArgoAir! Lol... but seriously maybe that is what it will take?

-blak

---

### Post by randomnumber on 2008-10-07
step by step instructions with pictures for UWF. 


I do not know if this works if you have to use a wrapper for wireless but I have never had a problem. The IT people will never help you when you say anything about Linux so always leave that part out when you ask them anything. 

good luck!

---

### Post by CodeAlias on 2008-11-09
Hi,

In EAP-PEAP you may not need your actual school's certificate, you may just need to have the certificate of the Root Certification Authority (e.g. verisign) that issued your school's certificate.

All what you need to do is to know which Root CA issued the certificate for your school's access network (you can figure this out by examining the certificate of your school's https server) then tell wpa_supplicant where to find the certificate of this Root CA.

You can find root CA certificates under /etc/ssl/certs

I haven't tried using root CA certificates from "/etc/ssl/certs", please give it a try and let me know.

As for configuring EAP-PEAP in wpa_supplicant,
this is a guide here :

["Wireless security (WPA/WAP2) with EAP-PEAP using wpa_supplicant and client SSL certificates Linux setup"]("http://www.codealias.info/technotes/wireless_security_wpa/wap2_with_eap-peap_using_wpa_supplicant_and_client_ssl_certificates_linux_setup")

Hope it helps.

---

