---
title: "7.10 problems with connecting using my wireless card"
date: 2007-10-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by glebss on 2007-10-29
I'm not sure what is going on with my wireless connection. My wifi card is recognized thanks to the restricted drivers (firmware for broadcom 43xx chipset family) and pulls up many available connections, generally when i go to a new place it connects just fine. But when i need to reboot my system at the same location as soon as my computer starts up it tries to connect to the same location but it fails and after that it can not connect to any other sources. Also it has problems connecting to private unsecured networks even though the signal strength is very high.

---

### Post by elephant007 on 2007-10-29
I too have problems similar to this, I can connect to a secure wireless signal without a hitch.  I cannot connect to an open signal though.
Have you noticed that your WIFI indicator light turns off when you try to connect after a reboot?  Mine did that too.  I'm running the broadcom wifi on a Dell E1505.
Glad to know I'm not the only one having problems connecting to an insecure wifi signal

---

### Post by elephant007 on 2007-10-29
check this out, I'm trying it tonight
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=592068]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=592068")

---

### Post by glebss on 2007-10-29
I've tried the ndswrapper i still can not connect to a network that is unsecured. Could it be that it is too far away and the signal strength is not as strong as my nm-applet shows it to be because once i do connect to a network that initially shows a signal strength of 90% drops down to around 50%. If that is the case is there anything i can do to improve the signal strength because i have no problems connecting to a network using windows partition.

---

### Post by raeb on 2007-10-29
Have you tried using wicd instead of the gnome's connection manager?  Worked wonders for me:  wicd.sourceforge.net .

---

