---
title: "Can connect to network, but not Internet"
date: 2014-10-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Dirguis on 2014-10-04
Hello
 

 I have Ubuntu 14.04 on a computer from system76. I am using my landlord's Internet via a wireless connection. My problem is that although I can connect to the network, I do not have access to Internet, as if the router was refusing me the connection. At work, I use a wireless network without any problem. To get around that problem at home, I share the connection with my phone (which can access Internet) via bluetooth. Then, when I connect to my landlord's network, I have these characteristics:

   

This is what I get if I run ifconfig


```

   

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 80:fa:5b:06:27:0e   
           UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1  
           RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0  
           TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0  
           collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000  
           RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  
 

 lo        Link encap:Local Loopback   
           inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0  
           inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host  
           UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:65536  Metric:1  
           RX packets:6195 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0  
           TX packets:6195 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0  
           collisions:0 txqueuelen:0  
           RX bytes:606343 (606.3 KB)  TX bytes:606343 (606.3 KB)  
 

 wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 30:3a:64:0e:62:17   
           inet addr:192.168.1.8  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0  
           inet6 addr: fe80::323a:64ff:fe0e:6217/64 Scope:Link  
           UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1  
           RX packets:945 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0  
           TX packets:2585 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0  
           collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000  
           RX bytes:255705 (255.7 KB)  TX bytes:273418 (273.4 KB)



```

   
If I run iwconfig, then I get:
 ```


 eth0      no wireless extensions.  

 

 lo        no wireless extensions.  
 

 wlan0     IEEE 802.11abgn  ESSID:"7B60D4"   
           Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: 00:03:D8:7B:60:DA    
           Bit Rate=6.5 Mb/s   Tx-Power=16 dBm    
           Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off  
           Encryption key:off  
           Power Management:off  
   
          Link Quality=29/70  Signal level=-81 dBm   
           Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0  
           Tx excessive retries:285  Invalid misc:111   Missed beacon:0  


```

   As well, I have second old computer which has no problem connecting to the Internet. When I compare the settings between the 2 computers in the "connection information" section, they are identical, and the IP addresses are similar but different: 192.168.1.8 and 192.168.1.9. My phone is 192.168.1.3, so no conflict there.
 If I look at "edit connection", there again, they are identical.
 

   If I open /etc/resolv.conf, I have:
 ```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)  

 #     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN  
 nameserver 127.0.1.1 
 search home

``` 

 There again, the same on both computer.
 

 nm-tool tells me that the computer is connected:
 ```
  Type:              802.11 WiFi  

   Driver:            iwlwifi  
   State:             connected  
   Default:           yes  


```

Finally, if I try to ping 8.8.8.8, I get more than 70% of the packets lost...

So at this point, I do not really know what to do. Internet works fine, the wireless on my computer works fine, but I cannot access Internet. Any suggestions?

Thank you for your help!

---

### Post by Michael_McKenney on 2014-10-04
Check your gateway address and setup your ISPs DNS servers.  You can also check your speed and duplex.  On most routers you want 1000 Mbps full duplex.  ethtool eth0.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2014-10-04
Hi, copy and paste this command in the terminal (ctrl+alt+t) please:
```
 wget -N -t 5 -T 10 http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script
```
It will download a script and create a file named (wireless-info.txt, or wireless-info.txt.tar.gz)depending on the size of the file and it will be placed in your home folder. The wireless information will help to diagnose your wireless issue, the Mac address, WPA key and WEP key are removed for your security, then reply back, click on the paper clip and attach the (wireless-info.txt, or wireless-info.txt.tar.gz) file as a zip file. 

If you do not have ethernet connection then follow the directions at this link for running the script without internet.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12350385](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12350385).
Thanks

---

### Post by Dirguis on 2014-10-04
Hello

Thank you for the answer

The gateway is similar for both computers:

  On both computers, when I type route -n:

 ```


 Kernel IP routing table 

 Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface 

 0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 wlan0 

 192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     9      0        0 wlan0 


```

I do not want to set up any servers though and I do not have access to the router. Although if I know what the problem is, I could ask to have access to it and try some changes, although I better know what is going on before I mess with my landlord's Internet.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2014-10-04
To help find out what the issue is you need to post the file from the script in my previous post.
Thanks

---

### Post by Dirguis on 2014-10-04
Hello Wild Man

Yes sorry, you posted as I was replying to the previous post. I ran the script and it is attached. Since I do not have access to the net, I just copied/past in my home folder and ran it from there. The computer was connected to the network.

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-10-05
Please try -
```
echo "options iwlmvm power_scheme=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwlmvm.conf
echo "options iwlwifi 11n_disable=8" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
```
..followed by a reboot.

And can you convince your landlord to change the encryption type in the router to pure WPA2-PSK with AES (CCMP)? It is currently using WPA/WPA2 mixed mode with TKIP which hinders performance and may even cause problems sometimes. This link shows an official response about it that should help convincing him : [https://communities.intel.com/message/214103#214103](https://communities.intel.com/message/214103#214103)

---

### Post by Dirguis on 2014-10-05
Hello Varunendra

Thanks for the reply! Now it works like a charm. For curiosity and if you have time, how did you know that adding these two lines in these 2 files would solve the problem? The file iwlwifi.conf existed before and appears in the file resulting from the execution of the script that I posted, and you made the other file iwlmvm.conf and added just the option.

Yes, I will send an email to my landlord and try to explain the problem.

Anyway, thanks for the help again!

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-10-05
> **Dirguis said:**
> For curiosity and if you have time, how did you know that adding these two lines in these 2 files would solve the problem?
We almost never know, we just guess, and the guess comes from experience and feedback from users like you. :)

The current versions of 'iwlwifi' driver need that "11n_disable=8" option is a well known fact now, should be fixed soon so that users don't need to do that manually.

> **Dirguis said:**
> The file iwlwifi.conf existed before and appears in the file resulting from the execution of the script that I posted, and you made the other file iwlmvm.conf and added just the option.
The '-a' options makes the 'tee' command 'Append' the echoed line. Without the '-a' option, it would have overwritten the existing file.

The option I proposed with "iwlmvm" driver is just to keep the card active (not going to 'sleep' to save power) all the time (well, as long as you don't manually turn it off from Network Manager or the hardware switch). It is just another guess that it might help stability, at the cost of a little power that it could possibly save otherwise. Feel free to experiment by deleting that file, and recreating if required.

And you are always welcome here. Hope you'll enjoy the community as well as your OS. :)

---

### Post by Dirguis on 2014-10-05
Alright, thank you for the explanation and the welcome! I do enjoy the OS. That was the only bug I was having. I will pass on that info to the company which makes the computer (the company sells computer with Ubuntu installed), to let them know.

---

