---
title: "18.04.3 Internet connection cuts off in a weird way (everything but Google)"
date: 2019-09-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-11
"weird way" in this case meaning that since I dual boot installed Ubuntu 3 weeks ago only thing either a browser or ping finds, is [www.google.com](www.google.com) and nothing else that I've tried. This loss of connectivity happens around 30 minutes since I boot up. Trying to get to any other sites yields the error "network is unreachable". No software can get online  except the previously mentioned and in that capacity. I can search with Google but I can't open links. The network icon in the top right is covered with a question mark, but claims it's connected.

What should I do?

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2019-09-11
is this machine on an office or business network or on a home network with a residential ISP?  is it connected by a cable or wireless?

---

### Post by (kyT%0) on 2019-09-11
try this :

Settings > Privacy > Connectivity Checking > Off

might need a re-start.

---

### Post by Skaperen on 2019-09-11
can you do "[COLOR=#0000cd][FONT=courier new]traceroute -n [www.google.com](www.google.com)[/FONT][/COLOR]" both _before and after_ the problem starts?  if that fails in either case, try "[COLOR=#0000cd][FONT=courier new]traceroute -n 8.8.8.8[/FONT][/COLOR]" in both cases.  you may need to install that package to do it if you get command not found.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-11
Thanks for the replies.

Actually, turns out Proxy was off. Setting it to automatic seems to have solved the problem. Or at least it has stayed connected for almost 3 hours now. I'll get back to you if it starts acting up again.

Just a regular household ADSL. I think it failed the... erm... I know it refreshes something from the ISP regularly or the connection starts acting up. Can't remember what it was.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-12
Celebrated too soon. It cut off again.

So, it's a regular Inteno ADSL router/modem connected with Ethernet cable and is in household use. Wifi connection works fine all the time as does Windows' connection.

Privacy -> connectivity checking -> off didn't help.

traceroute gives 

traceroute to [www.google.com](www.google.com) (172.217.20.36), 64 hops max
  1   192.168.1.1  0,659ms  0,477ms  0,499ms 
  2   *  *  84.248.160.2  2084,456ms 
  3   141.208.195.157  13,007ms  12,314ms  12,481ms 
  4   62.115.143.50  12,837ms  12,611ms  12,492ms 
  5   62.115.123.26  19,899ms  19,587ms  19,574ms 
  6   62.115.141.205  19,880ms  19,403ms  19,738ms 
  7   74.125.32.56  20,035ms  19,971ms  19,750ms 
  8   *  *  * 
  9   209.85.242.98  22,308ms  21,688ms  21,463ms 
 10   108.170.253.166  21,012ms  20,605ms  20,707ms 
 11   108.170.254.33  21,591ms  21,118ms  21,212ms 
 12   108.170.232.35  20,600ms  20,604ms  20,242ms 
 13   172.217.20.36  20,762ms  20,300ms  20,176ms 

When connected and says it can't reach network with both addresses when the connection goes under questionmark, but I also noticed that in addition to Google.com, Google maps works as well.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-09-12
I'm no networking expert, but it seems possible to me that your IPv4 network is dropping, but your IPv6 network is staying up.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-12
Allright. Howe could I check that?

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-12
Found a website that allowed the check. When everything works, both IPv4 and 6 are up, when things go south (it could still reach the site) only IPv6 was up. The stats did show that IPv4 name server could direct me to an IPv6 address, but IPv6 name server couldn't direct me to an IPv4 address.

I wonder what takes the IPv4 connection down.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-13
Right. I've now set up the DNS addresses for the IPv4 connection manually (instead of automatic) to those specified by my ISP. Let's see if this helps.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-13
Nope, didn't.

Trying something new now (I'll link it here if it works), but I'm still open for suggestions.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2019-09-13
*Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless a more appropriate sub-forum**.*

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-09-13
Maybe include this:
```
cat /etc/gai.conf 

```
may help user's to figure stuff. (Slang)

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-09-13
Try editing /etc/gai.conf and uncommenting the line:
```
sudoedit /etc/gai.conf
```
Look for and edit the line like the below:
```

#
#    For sites which prefer IPv4 connections change the last line to
#
precedence ::ffff:0:0/96 100
```
Save and exit terminal.

This lets you keep IPv6 enabled, but sets the order of precedence to prefer IPv4 over IPv6.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-13
Ok. Done. It's the one line that's uncommented now.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-14
6h now without the connection dropping. Starting to get hopeful. I'll give it a day or two and if things stay good, I'll mark this as solved.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-14
And now it dropped again. Same thing. Ran

```
sudo dhclient -r
```

and then 

```
sudo dhclient
```

and then everything was just fine and dandy. Is there a way (I expect there is) to make this process automatic when the IPv4 connection goes down?

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-09-15
> **ilenisaatio said:**
> Is there a way (I expect there is) to make this process automatic when the IPv4 connection goes down?

If it were me I'd open a ticket with my ISP. Then you'll know whats happening, instead all of the guessing. (Too many hands on the NetWork wheel causes conflict)
BTW: Do you need IPV6?

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-15
Hmm... Might be best. I googled my ISP after your post and it seems I'm not the only one with these problems. They seem to have their stuff set up so that it only leases IPv4s for a short time for some reason. I'll call them in the morning.

I don't really know too much about networking so I don't know if I need IPv6 at this time. Why do you ask? It's on by default so I just thought it's needed.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-09-15
> **ilenisaatio said:**
> 
I don't really know too much about networking so I don't know if I need IPv6 at this time. Why do you ask? It's on by default so I just thought it's needed.
I ask so I don't add to the problem, I have IPV6 blocked by default on my side.
You can also check if ignoring IPV6 helps with just using the terminal:
```
sudo sysctl -w net.ipv6.conf.all.disable_ipv6=1
sudo sysctl -w net.ipv6.conf.default.disable_ipv6=1
sudo sysctl -w net.ipv6.conf.lo.disable_ipv6=1
```
For the settings to take effect use:
```
sudo sysctl -p
```
Now this will only last for the current session, meaning it won't set after a reboot.
Try this for a time period that your comfortable with, and if happy and want to make it permanent let me know.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-15
Gotcha. Will do.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-09-15
> **ilenisaatio said:**
> They seem to have their stuff set up so that it only leases IPv4s for a short time for some reason. 
The reason is that the world has run out of IPv4 addresses. Even though this was identified as a problem decades ago, leading to the creation of IPv6, everyone involved just dragged their feet rather than tackling the changeover. As a result there are now all sorts of bodges and hacks to keep things more or less working most of the time.

Your IPv4 failing is unfortunate, obviously, but your IPv6 working is actually a good sign. It means your ISP is making an effort to work towards an IPv6-only future. My ISP still has no IPv6 connectivity at all.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-16
Just read about this that they're out already. What my last update was, was that they were about to run out.

What was the general tone of complaints on their forums, was that their DHCP server assigns new IP addresses even while the connection is up and not only between connections. Many were of the mindset that this should not happen because it's a security risk and that the IP address change for a device should only happen when the old connection is terminated and a new connection is established.

Anyways, I dumped this all to my ISP's service desk and got the reply of, "Erm... Linux is a completely alien environment to me and I don't know if anyone here knows about it, but I'll ask around and call you back if I find someone." and the person also didn't answer my questions about what I wrote in the previous paragraph claiming to not know about the matter. Oh well. I guess I have to pay a visit to my alma mater's IT dept. If the head of department is still the same, I should get help from there.

---

### Post by ilenisaatio on 2019-09-16
Right. Here's how it seems to go after testing, calling around and checking: My ISP has a fixed IP lease of 20 minutes. Some renews fail (obv), but some people's systems fail to correct that on IPv4 and the connection goes down. The ISP says "tough, but that's our policy" and I'm stuck with them because it's an apartment block-wide contract for them to be the exclusive provider. I'm marking it solved and maybe open a new thread later if I can't figure out a way around this.

---

