---
title: "Network manager (nm-applet) won't remember any settings"
date: 2007-07-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Kashirigi on 2007-07-20
For a while, Network Manager was working fine. All was well, and I could log into my work network without entering the certificate location, username and password every time.

Then, it all stopped.

Now I have to manually enter everything in every time I want to log into the network. 

For the record, I'm running Feisty 7.04, using XFCE, and gnome-keyring-daemon is running fine.

I've purged and reinstalled nm-applet, the keyring daemon, the keyring-manager, and deleted/recreated ~/.gnome2/keyrings/default.keyring

I'm not having any difficulty in connecting, I'm just getting irritated that I have to re-enter all the information EVERY TIME I log in. That's even more annoying when I also have to enter my keyring password when I log in, too.

If anyone can help me with this issue, my sanity and I thank you.

---

### Post by odiseo77 on 2007-07-20
Could you post the output of ***cat /etc/network/interfaces***?? (of course, hiding your WEP password and ESSID).

Probably you should add something like ***auto YOUR_WIRELESS_DEVICE*** at the beginning of the wireless section.

---

### Post by Kashirigi on 2007-07-20
It's as basic as it gets, because network-manager doesn't like anything unusual in /etc/network/interfaces

Here's the whole thing!

[FONT="Fixedsys"]auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
[/FONT]

I'm not necessarily convinced it's a network problem so much as a keyring problem. . .

---

### Post by odiseo77 on 2007-07-21
Well, I'm not sure, but try putting something like this in your 'interfaces' file:

```
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
wireless-essid YOUR_ESSID
wireless-key YOUR_KEY
```

(Or if you're using an ASCII key try: 'wireless-key s:YOUR_KEY')

Restart the network:

```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```

(You can also use 'stop' and 'start' instead of 'restart')

Finally test if it works by rebooting your machine

Regards.

---

### Post by Selage on 2007-07-26
i have a similar problem, he cant remember the pass

I'm using WPA-PSK as encryption.


I'm giving this a shot:

```
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
wpa-driver wext
wpa-ssid <your_essid>
wpa-ap-scan 1
wpa-proto WPA
wpa-pairwise TKIP
wpa-group TKIP
wpa-key-mgmt WPA-PSK
wpa-psk <your_hex_key>
```

Where your Hex_key is generated by doing:

```
wpa_passphrase 'your_essid' 'your_ascii_key'
```
Minus the ' '

Original post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1884945&mode=threaded#post1884945]("HOWTO: Wireless Security - WPA1, WPA2, LEAP, etc.")

all these added in the Interfaces file.
And restart by command 'see above'

Is this working for you?

---

### Post by odiseo77 on 2007-07-26
@Selage, I don't know if this helps, but this is what I have in my '/etc/network/interfaces' file for WPA-PSK and it always connect on boot:

```
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
pre-up iwconfig eth1 essid MY_ESSID
pre-up iwconfig eth1 mode Managed
pre-up iwpriv eth1 set Channel=11
pre-up iwpriv eth1 set AuthMode=WPAPSK
pre-up iwpriv eth1 set EncrypType=TKIP
pre-up iwpriv eth1 set WPAPSK=MY_HEX_PASSWORD
pre-up iwpriv eth1 set TxRate=0
```

You'll have to change the eth1 device for your device. After that, stop the network:

```
/etc/init.d/networking stop
```

and start it again:

```
/etc/init.d/networking start
```

(If you have your network running, you can also do: ***/etc/init.d/networking restart***)

Finally reboot to see if it works; if you have internet after reboot, you're done.

P.S.: If you're on KDE using some of its wifi managers, you probably want to stop them to connect to your AP, because this could override the settings in the interfaces file.

---

### Post by Kashirigi on 2007-07-31
Now nm-applet can remember the passphrase for my home network, but not the settings for my work network. My home network requires a passphrase, but my work network requires a certificate.

It all worked nicely before, and I can't figure out why it doesn't now.

Anyway, changing /etc/network/interfaces probably wouldn't be my strongest move, because I'm constantly switching between two networks.

I guess I will put up with it for now, until I can investigate deeper and find a real solution.

---

