---
title: "Intermittent / low bandwidth networking"
date: 2011-11-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-21
Very _very_ odd one for you (or at least I think so).

Quick summary: I have two HDDs in my PC, one with Ubuntu 11.04 which experiences very poor network performance, one with Windows 7 on which the networking is perfect! 

Long version: I had some issues with my network card after a power cut - at one point I thought it might be a hardware issue so I took out my Ubuntu hard drive, and put an old one in, and installed Windows 7 on it. I found that it worked perfectly. I have good speeds reported from speedtest.net.

Out of interest I then installed lubuntu on that same drive, and I found that I also had a a connection, althought it seemed very slow - webpages wouldn't always load, and if they did they were slow. Intensive sites didn't load at all (e.g. Facebook). I ran speedtest.net and got very low scores (<2Mbps compared to my usual >15Mbps).

Upon rebooting back into my original Ubuntu 11.04 installation I find that the performance is also very bad.  As before, webpages sometimes fail, or are very slow. My video server doesn't load, and I cannot connect to the computer using NX; all (networky) things which worked perfectly before the power cut. I get low speeds from Speedtest.net (if it manages to load).

Testing Windows 7 again, I get >15Mbps download rate and 1.5Mbps upload, as expected. I then reasoned that perhaps lubuntu (or Flash in lubuntu) is a bit buggy so I booted to a clean Ubuntu 11.10 live CD (well, USB stick), and found the same performance issues.

As a final test, I loaded my Windows 7 virtual machine from within my original Ubuntu 11.04 installation and found the same issues. (I did this to rule out Flash issues in Ubuntu - speedtest.net uses Flash. I usually get the same or better speedtest.net results from within my VM). My VM uses a bridged connection so it goes directly out the the WWW without any Ubuntu interference (as I understand it).

This is really confusing me. How can I get such good performance from Windows but awful performance in Ubuntu, even a clean install of Ubuntu?

To summarise:
Clean WIndows 7 install - perfect networking performance as far as I can tell
Existing Natty install - very poor
Clean lubuntu install - very poor 
Oneiric Live boot - very poor

I would have simply re-installed Ubuntu on my system if it wasn't for the fact that I seem to be getting crappy networking even on a clean install (well, Live boot).

Thanks,
Paul

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-11-21
Hi,

what hardware is that?
```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
cat /etc/resolv.conf
lsmod
ifconfig -a
```
please. If its wireless, too, additionally:
```
iwconfig
sudo iwlist scan
iwlist chan
rfkill list
```

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-21
Hi, thanks. Sorry, should have included that. It's wired.

spci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
```
l
07:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller [10ec:8168] (rev 06)
	Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. P8P67 Deluxe Motherboard [Realtek RTL8111E] [1043:8432]
	Kernel driver in use: r8169

```

cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain Home
search Home
nameserver 192.168.0.1

```

lsmod output attached

ifconfig -a
```

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr f4:6d:04:60:b5:27  
          inet addr:192.168.0.6  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::f66d:4ff:fe60:b527/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:58272 errors:0 dropped:58272 overruns:0 frame:58272
          TX packets:44904 errors:0 dropped:360 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:72646151 (72.6 MB)  TX bytes:5174372 (5.1 MB)
          Interrupt:47 Base address:0xa000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:1035 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1035 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:127119 (127.1 KB)  TX bytes:127119 (127.1 KB)

```

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-11-21
Install the driver r8168 according to this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11477748&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11477748&postcount=4)

Additionally you can uninstall the firewall (normally not needed):
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge ufw gufw
sudo iptables -t filter -n -L -v
sudo iptables -F
sudo iptables -X
```

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-21
Sir, you are my new best friend, that seems to have done the trick. Thanks very much for taking the time to help me out.

Any idea why a simple power cut would have caused this issue?! It was working perfectly before. Anyway, fixed now, I hope for good.

Thanks again,
Paul

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-11-21
Maybe some firmware was "stuck"?! Next time take anything off the current for about 10 minutes (note-/netbooks for 30 minutes incl. battery), and put it together again

---

