---
title: "[CRITICAL REGRESSION] Mobile broadband"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Quirriff on 2009-11-05
Ever since I switch to karmic (clean install BTW) I've been having problems with my mobile broadband. It sets up easy enough like it did in jaunty, except the iso-image in it is mounted (never was before).

And when I supposedly connect with it, it cannot connect to any servers. It's effectively a connection to nothing. A dead connection.
I *sometimes* get it working, by unplugging it, waiting till the Iso is mounted and then attempt a connection.

Something's changed. Is there a way to F&&(*&king (please excuse me I'm frustrated and acutely aggravated.

64 bit OS if that helps.

---

### Post by petermoffat on 2009-11-05
I think if Karmic conUbuntusitantly sees your USB dongle, you are fine.

Disconnect connection

System, preferences, network proxy

Click Direct connection and apply system wide

In firefox, go to edit, preferences, advanced, network, settings

select use system proxy

ok

Now connect and it should work

Just sorted this with a mates E220, but for some reason mine doesn't work](*,)](*,)](*,)

---

### Post by CbrPad on 2009-11-05
See launchpad bugs as below.  This is definitely a critical regression, but there has been no solution found yet.  Probably best to go back to 9.04 or another distro til it's sorted out.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/446146?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/446146?comments=all)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/449394](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/449394)

---

### Post by Spin Doctor on 2009-11-07
I was having problems with my E220 broadband moden after upgrading to 9.10. It would take me severeral attempts to get online. The modem would say it is connected, but could not access anything on the internet.

I found a solution on the swedish ubuntu forum that works for me. 

Basically -- when connecting to the modem -- network manager fails to update:
> /etc/resolv.conf with the correct dns-settings. Basically -- it has not included any nameserver details needed for you to be able to go online.

So what I did was to find out my dns-settings that I needed, and then manually update resolv.conf with the correct nameservers. After this I could with no problem get online. 

```
sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf
```Then make sure you add the correct nameserver info. (check with your ISP)

> # Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver xxx.xx.xxx.xx
nameserver xxx.xx.xxx.xxIp-adresses above marked out.

Hope this could be any help for someone. I found my nameserver Ip-address after getting connected (after several attempts), by looking at the resolv.conf-file, and writing down those ipadresses -- so I can use these to manually fill them in when network manager fails to insert them.


(Credit to :**[CryingFreeman]("http://ubuntu-se.org/phpBB3/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=5158")**)

---

### Post by lewisdeane on 2009-11-09
> **petermoffat said:**
> I think if Karmic conUbuntusitantly sees your USB dongle, you are fine.

Disconnect connection

System, preferences, network proxy

Click Direct connection and apply system wide

In firefox, go to edit, preferences, advanced, network, settings

select use system proxy

ok

Now connect and it should work

Just sorted this with a mates E220, but for some reason mine doesn't work](*,)](*,)](*,)

Had a very similar problem and at first just deleting the connection in network manager and redoing it worked but not today. However, I'd just like to confirm that your solution *has* worked for me, so thanks, though I don't know how long it will last.
Those who are saying, rather pompously, it's a 'critical regression' without a current solution can not be correct. If some of us, some of the time can connect a mobile broadband dongle, then there obviously are various temporary solutions. To advise people to 'regress' to 9.04, after having installed, updated, configured etc is, in my opinion, ridiculous. Bandwidth cost money, especially when ones only means of connection is a payg dongle like me.

---

