---
title: "Can't use internet connection"
date: 2010-07-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cbbnewbie on 2010-07-08
hello to all, I'm using ubuntu 10.04 dual boot with windows xp. Recently I'm having problems using the internet, I can connect to our wireless network but can't use the internet, firefox just says error on opening the page. But when im in windows xp i can surf and use the net. Is their a way to diagnose whats causing the problem. I use a Realtek RTL8187 wireless lan, it works fine before its just now that its not working with ubuntu.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-07-08
Does **ping** work - can you ping internet by IP address (try 74.125.95.99). You might also check **route -n** to see what is being used for a gateway, and **cat /etc/resolv.conf** to see what is being used for DNS. If the local network is working, it probably isn't a problem with networking being disabled...

---

### Post by Scott_G_B on 2010-07-19
I have the same problem. I came home from holidays, there was a few upgrades waiting, I installed them, now I can't contact any websites.  I get a message that connection is refused - unknown error.

The network connection is ok, I can still use synaptic etc. in fact I am going through that computer now since it is my home server connected to my router.

I downloaded Midori, it too cannot connect, so it is not browser specific. ( I have three browsers now - Firefox, Chromium, and Midori),(operating system is Edubuntu 10.04 32 bit)

---

### Post by ioargento on 2010-08-24
I'm getting the same over here. I have Ubuntu 10.04 64bit and Vista in the same notebook, but in Vista the connection works ok. 
In another computer Ubuntu 10.04 32bit, I'm having the same issue. 
I can browse the web using any browser but randomly i get the message "Unable to connect". Then, if I press F5 a couple of times, I get the webpage loaded. 

Also while updating repositories I sometimes get "Connection Refused". Transmission get the same error while contacting trackers. 

Here is the information of my 32 Ubuntu installation:

```
  $ route -n

Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0

```

And

```
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 200.51.211.7
nameserver 200.51.212.7
```

Those DNS are OK (Speedy)

Thanks in advance!!!!

---

### Post by ioargento on 2010-08-24
I found another thread with similar issues but to be honest, I dont know what they are talking about. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1518808&highlight=connection+refused](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1518808&highlight=connection+refused)

May be it's useful to someone else.

---

