---
title: "7.10 Ethernet Bonding + DHCP"
date: 2008-05-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bailout00 on 2008-05-23
I'm going to try to keep this short...

I've been trying to get this setup to work forever, and I'm starting to loose my patients.  I can't imagine what is stopping this from working.  In short, this is what I want this box to do.

1) the machine has three eth cards, a wireless card and a usb connection to my cable modem.  I've tried every combination I could think of, and started with only the three eth cards.

2) I have two cable modems, same provider (I work for them) and at very least i want to have a failover connection, but I'm really trying to setup some sort of load balancing (ALB / round robin).  Because they are on the same cmts this should work no problem according to some ppl i work with.

3) I want two cards for the ethernet bond (both of which need to use DHCP, which seems to be the hangup) and one for the internal network to be a DHCP / DNS server, which i have working no problem.

I have tried every tutorial, script, configuration, that i have found on the web... Anyone care to help me out in getting this thing working?  At the moment i figures the simplest way to get it all working was to hook (eth0 & eth2) up to a dumb hub and to the cable modem.  I would think this way the traffic should be balanced on the nics. I am a newb when it comes to linux, but as i said i work for my ISP, so when it comes to network knowledge i think I'm pretty well off...

help?  :lolflag:

Thanks for you time in advance

---

### Post by bailout00 on 2008-05-23
wow... 4 pages deep already... bump

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2008-05-23
I'm struggling to understand why you need 3 NIC's etc. in the same box?

If you could detail your objective step by step that would be helpful.  

Did the set up what you're are describing work with another OS that most of us here care to forget about?

---

### Post by bailout00 on 2008-05-23
Like a said i want to do load balancing with two of the NICs (dual WAN) and the third is the LAN connection which will be DHCP/DNS.  And I don't think winblowz can do it... anything bsd/unix based probably can

---

### Post by ChriSterling on 2009-01-16
Didn't see a resolution to this issue, I've also tried all of the tuts and guides on the net to no avail so far.  Should be easy?

Setup:
2 cable modems
1 Ubuntu 8.10 box with 3 nics

Goal:
use both modems simultaneously with arp trickery eth-bonding driver in mode6 or balance-alb, 

and use 3rd nic to act as dhcp server to my wireless access point that will feed the home. 

( or, if needed to simplify, just staticly feed to my wireless router and let the router handle dhcp.)

# i'm desperate to solve this
Thank You!!
Chris

---

### Post by pRoFiT on 2009-04-23
I'm trying something similar. I have dual gigabit nics in a NVR system. I want to use bonding with DHCP. But everywhere i look it says i cant. My big problem is that these are production units. The MAC's are going to change each day. I guess i could setup static ip's for each image...ps. running a test os from a 4GB usb key.

Any dhcp bonding with needing to have predefined macs? Thanks guys.

---

### Post by teguh.umar on 2009-11-03
i'm just a newbie, this may be could help
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LinkAggregation](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LinkAggregation)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBonding](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBonding)

---

### Post by jbarbieri on 2010-01-18
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8129464](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8129464)

I am doing this on 9.10, but should be valid.

---

