---
title: "9.04 Samba shares visible but not accessible"
date: 2009-07-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by DrDevice on 2009-07-15
Hello fellow Ubuntuers!  The good doctor coming at you yet again! ):P
This time it's with a problem that I just can't wrap my brain around.

It all started when I decided to try 9.04 after using 8.10, and this was good.  9.04 starts faster, runs better, let my microphone work properly in a few Wine applications that didn't go so well before, yay!  Even more time spent in Ubuntu!

Everything went so swimmingly that I never noticed until recently a big problem: Samba apparently doesn't work!  Well, I think it's Samba, anyways.

I have 3 machines, 1 XP, 1 Vista, and 1 Ubuntu.  All machines are able to see the network, browse WORKGROUP, etc, but none can access the Ubuntu folders.  We can see them, but not access them.  From windows they gripe about permissions and such, and when I use "Network" and go to my Ubuntu machine from Ubuntu, I get a window saying  ```
Unable to mount location
Failed to mount windows share
```.

Now ironically, 8.10 sharing was even better than Windows' out-of-the-box, so naturally I'm a little surprised at the difficulty I've had to figure out where the problem is.  I've checked smb.conf, which looks good.  I've cleared firewalls, made sure permissions were set, all looks OK...I'm stumped!

Anybody know what I can do to get this working?  I don't wanna hafta drop back to 8.10, 9.04 is so nice to work in.  Thank you!

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2009-07-16
> **DrDevice said:**
> 

Anybody know what I can do to get this working?  I don't wanna hafta drop back to 8.10, 9.04 is so nice to work in.  Thank you!

You will probably find the answer here: [http://ubuntu.swerdna.org/ubulanprimer.html](http://ubuntu.swerdna.org/ubulanprimer.html)

---

### Post by DrDevice on 2009-07-16
Thank you SteveDee, that's an excellent primer on SAMBA setup.  Unfortunately, it didn't work.  I followed the steps exactly, setup a no-write share, restarted everything, then rebooted the ENTIRE network (router & modem included).  I can browse and access every other share on the network, but no machine (including Ubuntu) can access the Ubuntu share. :confused::confused:

Here's my smb.conf: ```
[global] 
workgroup = WORKGROUP
netbios name = MY_MACHINE_NAME
server string =
name resolve order = bcast host lmhosts wins
map to guest = Bad User
os level = 33
usershare allow guests = Yes
usershare max shares = 100
usershare owner only = False

[archive]
path = /media/archive
guest ok = yes
```

I'm stumped.  I have all the modules/daemons/etc.  I have smb.conf setup to work with my network (as far as I can tell).  ufw is set to have the right ports enabled (this doesn't work with ufw enabled OR disabled, BTW).  What's left?

P.S.
Let me clarify:  From XP/Vista comps:  Can see my Ubuntu machine in Network Neighborhood, can double click on it and get a list of what's shared, but when I click on that folder, it comes back with the error.  Pretty much same with the Ubuntu machine, I can see it under "Networks", can see what folders are shared on it, but get the above error when I try to open them.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-07-16
Please post your current /etc/samba/smb.conf file.

---

### Post by DrDevice on 2009-07-16
LOL, what I posted *is* my smb.conf. =)  Pretty much built straight from the guide I got from SteveDee. :)

But I think I have a clue!  For $#its and giggles, I used Nautilus to share a folder in my Home directory, and et voila, it's fine.  So it's NOT samba.

Since root owns /media/archive, root has to be the one to share this puppy, right?  In Hardy I ran ```
gksu nautilus
```, and then shared it, no problems.  I started out trying to do the same in Jaunty, but that no longer works, which leads me to my current problem...

To test my theory, I tried to share /bin using the Nautilus method, and it too worked!  Then I thought maybe I'd bungled into solving the problem.  I cleared out the [archive] section in smb.conf, restarted samba, went to my Root Nautilus, and tried sharing archive again.  Now, this time I noticed something I hadn't reported, having taken it as trival before.  A pop-up appears asking about permissions (see "error" attachment).  Now in Hardy, I just clicked on "Add the permissions" and it worked fine.  Now it's not.   Hmm...what's the difference?

Difference:  Groups

/bin is owned & grouped to root
/media/archive is owned by root but grouped to 'plugdev'

So I *think* I hafta edit my fstab to correctly mount the drives to allow sharing since plugdev is the group.  What do y'all think?

Thanks for taking the time to meddle with this, I appreciate it greatly!

---

### Post by DrDevice on 2009-07-16
Solved!  (mostly)

I was right, for some reason it was the /etc/fstab settings for umask and gid.

I removed just those from my fstab, remounted them, and now I can share them even from my regular user account (which means I pooched my security, I know).

Now I just gotta find the right settings for those to allow me to have root control sharing again and I'm all set!  But that's tweaking, the actual problem has been solved. =)

---

### Post by junitZ on 2009-07-16
hi.
i'm absolutely new to this ubuntu stuff...
and i'm having a similar problem as the Dr.
concidence?

i have the same setup as him... one XP machine and a vista laptop, which i connect wirelessly most of the time...

i partitioned my 500gb HDD into windows/ubuntu so i could try it out.
after the samba installation/setup everything went fine. i see the UBUNTU in my workgroup computers and all, but everytime I access it to see the shared files, it asks me for a user/pass. in the samba preferences i set it up for open access to everyone, but I still get the same box on both windows PC's. I tried all my Windows logons, and also the ubuntu ones to no avail.

I'm really still on diapers on this command-line ubuntu stuff, so if anyone know a step-by-step picture-based guides, that would be awesome.


Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-07-16
> **junitZ said:**
> but everytime I access it to see the shared files, it asks me for a user/pass.

Nope, your problem isn't the same. :) You'll need to open a new thread.

---

### Post by junitZ on 2009-07-16
> **dmizer said:**
> Nope, your problem isn't the same. :) You'll need to open a new thread.

I said similar... but ok.    :confused:

---

