---
title: "BCM4312 802.11b/g HP Mini - Karmic"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Crucias on 2009-11-01
On the live usb the wireless and wired connections worked flawlessly. They also worked flawlessly on 9.04

After install they do not. I can connect to a router via lan and the lan port lights up on the router as connected, no connection on the HP.

Prop drivers finds the BC STA Driver as usable and asks me to activate, activate, authenticate, crash to desktop.

I have USB ports only and no CD Drive. So i cannot use the cdrom fix someone else found. I tried mounting the iso but it wouldnt accept it as a authentic source for synaptic.

In a nutshell, HELP!!!

Cheers,

Chris

---

### Post by gpgp on 2009-11-01
Sorry I cant really offer any help. I just tried a fresh install to see if it would help with this problem. I had wireless working fine in the Alpha release, lost it on Beta and still no. I see i do not have proprietary drivers in place yet, tho. I have the same chipset as you. So subscribed.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-11-01
Some people have had success with this card by reinstalling the **bcmwl-kernel-source** package. You should try running the following to see if this solves your problem:
```
sudo apt-get reinstall bcmwl-kernel-source
```

---

### Post by Crucias on 2009-11-01
I cheated, i need the HP for study now so cannot afford to wait for help with wireless. 

I installed 9.04 Ubuntu without any extra addons, leaving 2gb free space on my 8gb SSD (2gb is swap) and used the upgrade from update manager. 850mb and 1 hour later i am on 9.10 with all features working.

Turtle.net had suggested this if you installed from live USB

"Ok don't panic.
You just have to let your system think that you already downloaded the package. If you installed from a liveUSB then the packages needed should be on this USB key.
Locate the bcmwl-kernel-source package on your usb key. then copy it to /var/cache/apt/archives (you need root privileges, so you should use the command line).
You may also need the dkms, linux-libc-dev, libc6-dev and linux-headers-generic packages.
Do the same trick and launch synaptic, install bcmwl-kernel-source and that should be ok."

I hope this helps, im marking this solved as my solution while a Windows solution (o.O) worked.

Good Luck

---

### Post by gpgp on 2009-11-01
That worked for me !
Thanks Codename, Crucias.


gpgp

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-11-03
> **gpgp said:**
> That worked for me !
Thanks Codename, Crucias.


gpgp

No problem, I'm so glad that I could help you. ;-)

---

### Post by pocketprotector on 2010-01-11
I just want to confirm that this is working on a HP Pavilion dv3.

I've tried other documentation for Karmic, but this method seems to fix the wireless driver on my laptop. I appreciate all of your help. Who would have thought the fix was so easy!

---

