---
title: "wireless connected but no internet"
date: 2010-08-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dj_k_lex on 2010-08-29
Hello,

I'm new to using Ubuntu.  I installed 10.04 onto my old Dell XPS Gen 2 laptop and the first thing I tried after the successful install was to connect to the internet.  I setup the wireless connection and Ubuntu seemingly connects successfully.  However, when I open a Firefox window and try to hit google.com, I just receive a "Server not found" page.  I logged into the router from my desktop machine and while Ubuntu says it is connected, I do not see the Ubuntu laptop in the list of current wireless connection.  The connection uses WPA2 Personal as security.

My router is a D-Link DIR-655.  Wireless info from the Ubuntu machine:

djmike@xpsgen2:~$ ifconfig -v
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:12:3f:d1:c8:76  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:18 

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:12:f0:97:20:ae  
          inet addr:10.42.44.1  Bcast:10.42.44.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::212:f0ff:fe97:20ae/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:27 errors:0 dropped:3 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:6745 (6.7 KB)
          Interrupt:17 Base address:0x6000 Memory:dcfef000-dcfeffff 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:2452 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:2452 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:192288 (192.2 KB)  TX bytes:192288 (192.2 KB)


lspci -v | less output
03:03.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 2200BG [Calexico2] Network Connection (rev 05)
        Subsystem: Intel Corporation Device 2721
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 64, IRQ 17
        Memory at dcfef000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: ipw2200
        Kernel modules: ipw2200

Any help is greatly appreciated!

Cheers.

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2010-08-29
It certainly is odd that you don't see the Ubuntu machine in the access point's DHCP log, but you do have an address and IP configuration (which should be issued by the access point).  It appears to be a name resolution issue.  Post the output of /etc/resolv.conf and you can chat with me directly in #ubuntu-us-ny.

---

### Post by dj_k_lex on 2010-08-29
What's even weirder is that the ip address that is assigned is not one one that would be assigned by my router.  My router assigns out the typical ip LAN addresses of 192.168.*.*, but it looks like the laptop has an ip of 10.42.44.1.  :confused:

The only text that is in /etc/resolv.conf is "# Generated by NetworkManager".

I'm signed into freenode irc webchat right now with the same nick as my username here.  Hit me up if you are on.

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2010-08-29
It seems like you're not pulling down DHCP information from the access point (please don't use the term router).  I've been on irc but I can't locate you by username - or at least I don't know how to unless we are in the same channel.  Please come to channel #ubuntu-us-ny.

---

### Post by dj_k_lex on 2010-08-29
Fixed.

Wireless connection setting was "Ad-hoc" and needed to be "Infrastructure".
IPv4 setting was set to "Shared to other computers" and it needed to be set to "Automatic (DHCP)".

Thanks so much for your help.  Sorry we didn't connect on irc.

Cheers!

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2010-08-31
Great!  Thank you for posting your solution as it will definitely help others with the same issue in the future.  Please come to #ubuntu-us-ny if there's anything else with which I may be able to help you.

---

### Post by Pough913 on 2010-08-31
I had the same problem at first, I even had to get a friend to come fix it...

---

