---
title: "SSH out with public keys works as normal user, but not as root or in cron"
date: 2010-03-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by essox on 2010-03-01
Hi all, 

first of all, as you can see I am new to this forum, after quite a lot of research without finding a solution, I decided to try here..

My situation is as follows: 

I have set up a server and a client with ssh public key authentication to be able to synchronize using unison and ssh.

user@server has got the public key of user@client in it's ~/.ssh/authorized_keys and user@client can connect to user@host without entering the password. so far so good. 

When I figured out this didn't work from cron, though the command is executed with user@client privileges,  I tried to set the same up for root, without success.
After I generated the key for root and ssh-copy-id'd it to the server, I still cannot do a 'ssh user@server' from the client's root account without entering a password.

I am obviously missing something important, but just cannot tell what this could be.. Help is very appreciated.

Thanks in advance
Essox

UPDATE 1: After regenerating the key for root@client, I can now access user@server without entering the password. however, doing the same from cron still fails with:
> 
Contacting server...
Permission denied, please try again.
Permission denied, please try again.
Permission denied (publickey,password).
Fatal error: Lost connection with the server


---

### Post by essox on 2010-03-08
OK if no one else answers, I will ;-)

As the stupid user I am, I finally stumbled upon ```
keychain
```, which does some magical stuff to your computer and let's everything work properly.. or so.

After adding ```
keychain
``` to my Startup Appliances in gnome and executing
```

#!/bin/sh
. /path/to/file/generated/by/keychain-sh
#the path can be found by typing 'keychain' into your shell

```

before executing the script I really want to run, everything works fine.

Here's some output of ```
man keychain
```
```

NAME
       keychain - re-use ssh-agent and/or gpg-agent between logins
DESCRIPTION
       keychain is a manager for ssh-agent, typically run from ~/.bash_pro&#8208;
       file.  It allows your shells and cron jobs to share a single ssh-agent
       process.  By default, the ssh-agent started by keychain is long-running
       and will continue to run, even after you have logged out from the sys&#8208;
       tem.  If you want to change this behavior, take a look at the --clear
       and --timeout options, described below.

```

Hope this helps someone out there.

Essox

---

### Post by birdy62 on 2010-04-07
[QUOTE]to my Startup Appliances in gnome and executing
```
#!/bin/sh
. /path/to/file/generated/by/keychain-sh
#the path can be found by typing 'keychain' into your shell
```

Can anybody clarify what is being suggested here? I am hoping that it may offer the solution to my identical problem, but I am not clear about what is being suggested here. Writing this script, adding it to a directory in $PATH ? The file generated by keychain , if I am guessing right is [COMPUTER NAME]-sh and on my system looks like this 

```
SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/tmp/keyring-oqYIVb/socket.ssh; export SSH_AUTH_SOCK;
SSH_AGENT_PID=1711; export SSH_AGENT_PID;
``` 

I have tried  every other suggested solution to this problem that I could find and hope that this may correct the problem. Just as an aside, does anybody know why this problem is not encountered on BSD systems? Previously I have used cron jobs to back up with rsync and it just works,on both NetBSD and FreeBSD . Is it something to do with the shells used or the version of cron? Not a flame, just a question, generally ubuntu takes a lot less fiddling than any of the BSDs.

Thanks

---

### Post by essox on 2010-04-07
> 
Can anybody clarify what is being suggested here? I am hoping that it may offer the solution to my identical problem, but I am not clear about what is being suggested here. Writing this script, adding it to a directory in $PATH ? The file generated by keychain , if I am guessing right is [COMPUTER NAME]-sh and on my system looks like this 

 
I tried to explain that I installed the keychain package and afterwards let it run every time I log on. Once I ran it and executed the resulting shell script, I could connect to my server without the need for a password. 
 
However, I don't fully understand the behaviour and thus cannot explain that in detail.. if anyone is more experienced in how all of that fits together, their help is very welcome.
 
Essox

---

### Post by birdy62 on 2010-04-07
Thanks for taking the effort to reply. I see that I understood what  you did at least superficially. It seems I have done the same and it didn't fix my problem (cron will not run the command, ok when run from inside a terminal). Oh well the search goes on!

---

