---
title: "7.10 doesn't store my WPA key"
date: 2007-11-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kingofhell on 2007-11-04
Every time I start my system now, I have to enter the WPA key to connect to my wireless AP. There was no such problem in 7.04. Network manager also doesn't give me any choice to store the key. Appreciate help from fellow Ubuntu users.

---

### Post by xshakakee on 2007-11-04
First, do you use any kind of wired networking?  I am assuming that you don't.

You just turn on your computer, the wireless card comes up, and you want to hop right on the network, right?

OK, so what's probably happening is that there's a problem with your /etc/network/interfaces file.

Please do the following.  Open up a terminal and type:
```
sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```
Copy and paste the results to this forum.  Please leave out any private data, like your WPA key or SSID.  Here is mine, for comparison:
```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet static
address <my ip address>
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.2.1
dns-nameservers <name_server_1>, <name_server_2>

pre-up ifconfig wlan0 up
pre-up ifconfig wlan0 down
pre-up ifconfig wlan0 up
pre-up ifconfig wlan0 down
pre-up iwconfig wlan0 mode Managed
pre-up iwconfig wlan0 essid "<My SSID>"
pre-up iwpriv wlan0 set Channel=1
pre-up iwpriv wlan0 set AuthMode=WPAPSK
pre-up iwpriv wlan0 set EncrypType=TKIP
pre-up iwpriv wlan0 set WPAPSK="<my_secret_key>"
pre-up ifconfig wlan0 up

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet loopback
```

Obviously, I have dhcp disabled, so you may have a different result.
The important stuff is all that ifconfig, iwconfig, and iwpriv crap.  If you don't have that, then Network Manager is going to throw feces at you every time you boot up.

Before making any changes to this file, though, you might want to back it up:
```
cd /etc/network/
sudo cp interfaces interfaces.bak
```
This way, you won't waste valuable time trying to remember what you changed it from, if you screw up.

Try changing it in /etc/network/interfaces and see if that helps.

---

### Post by Ventiman on 2008-02-26
Hi. Have the same problem: WPA-key is not 'remembered' by my Gutsy. 
Here's my /etc/network/interfaces...
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```

Which code do i **have** to add there to have a stable fast and automaticly connecting connection at home, but still being able to connect anywhere while traveling?

Thanks in advance, 
Ventiman

---

### Post by dptxp on 2008-03-19
It seems that I am not the only one with this problem.

Any solutions ?

I am using 64 bit

---

### Post by chilinski on 2008-03-19
> **Ventiman said:**
> Hi. Have the same problem: WPA-key is not 'remembered' by my Gutsy. 
Here's my /etc/network/interfaces...
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```

Which code do i **have** to add there to have a stable fast and automaticly connecting connection at home, but still being able to connect anywhere while traveling?

Thanks in advance, 
Ventiman

Interestingly, my /etc/network/interfaces file is exactly like Ventiman's and wireless works fine. On occasion, I'll have to reenter a password, but very, very seldom. I've connected at home to a Belkin, at work to a Linksys, at UVa Hospital on whatever they have, etc.

---

### Post by whirlybird on 2008-03-19
I am having the same problem.  Wireless network is not automatically connecting at start up.  I am able to connect to my network but I have to click on my SSID from the Wireless Networks list that I see in order to connect. Is there a How-to to set automatic connection on startup? I am running Gusty and trying to connect to a D-Link-624 router with WPA1 security.

Here is my "/etc/network/interfaces/" file:
***********************************************
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto eth1
#iface eth1 inet dhcp

auto eth2
#iface eth2 inet dhcp

auto ath0
#iface ath0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
#iface wlan0 inet dhcp
***********************************************

Thanks in advance

---

