---
title: "0.0.0.0"
date: 2008-08-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sulekha on 2008-08-19
Hi,


 what exactly  is the purpose of the reserved address 0.0.0.0 ? Is it used as a broadcast source address ?

---

### Post by SpaceTeddy on 2008-08-19
0.0.0.0 is no address - or all addresses, depending on it's context.

if an interface has the address 0.0.0.0 it means it has no address - thus is unconfigured.

If a routing table contains the 0.0.0.0 it is the default gateway - meaning a router of last resort. Anything than cannot be handled by specific routes will be send there. 

hope it helps :)

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2008-08-19
i think it's a all ip listening address. i used it as a blocking address in /etc/hosts.

example:
0.0.0.0 google.com

would block google.

---

### Post by sulekha on 2008-08-19
> **kerry_s said:**
> i think it's a all ip listening address. i used it as a blocking address in /etc/hosts.

example:
0.0.0.0 google.com

would block google.


that is not true . i tried 0.0.0.0 google.com in /etc/hosts file in  my 8.04 machine then  i re-started network services ,but still i am able to access google.com

---

### Post by SpaceTeddy on 2008-08-19
afaik is the hosts file a static dns file for hostname and ip lookup. If you put 0.0.0.0 google.com in your hosts file, this should result in your computer trying to access google at te ip 0.0.0.0 (what is garbage) - so i guess it is clever enough to make a dns query and find the proper IP's.
I am not too sure on this (i never worked with the hosts file, really), but that entry looks very strange to me... 

cheers,

---

### Post by tim2706 on 2008-08-19
[SIZE="7"]hello go to : Help-with-linux.webeden.co.uk for linux live help in the next hour only (until 2 pm) see you soon[/SIZE]

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2008-08-19
> **sulekha said:**
> that is not true . i tried 0.0.0.0 google.com in /etc/hosts file in  my 8.04 machine then  i re-started network services ,but still i am able to access google.com

strange, maybe there was a change, i'm pretty sure that's how we use to do it. found it: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=241460](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=241460)

sorry, i stopped using the hosts file blocking some time back. now i just do the fix and that's it.
```
127.0.0.1	localhost debian.myhome.westell.com debian
127.0.1.1       debian.myhome.westell.com debian

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts


```

---

