---
title: "Trying to install D-Link DGE 530T"
date: 2008-07-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by TheRequiem13 on 2008-07-04
Hi there,

I'm trying to install the drivers for the D-Link 530T gigabit nic. I found some instructions this old thread here: [http://ohioloco.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5315352](http://ohioloco.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5315352)
but its archived, and does not seem to be getting any attention.
I am running into a problem (detailed below).

My post from over there:

> **danielmncastro said:**
> Simple algorithm: 

1) Get the driver from the CD

2) Get the necessary packages (apt-get or synaptic) to compile the driver: build-essentials and linux-headers

3) Create a symbolic link to the headers.
```
 # ln -s /usr/src/linux-headers /usr/src/linux
```

4) Change the symbolic link of the default shell from **dash** to **bash**
```
#rm /bin/sh
#ln -s /bin/bash /bin/sh
```

**OR**
Edit the **install.sh** script (that comes with the driver), changing the first line from 
```
#!/bin/sh
```
to
```
#!/bin/bash
```

5) Execute the **install.sh**. It will compile and install the driver.

6) Configure IP address and start using your new card.

- Daniel


[COLOR="Red"]**NOTE: The driver from D-Link website is outdated. DO NOT USE IT. Get the driver from the CD.**[/COLOR]

Daniel,

I have tried following the steps you give, and come very close to success, with one small hitch.

When I do ```
apt-get install linux-headers
``` I am told to be more specific, and pick a version such as 
```
linux-headers-2.6.24-19
linux-headers-2.6.24-19-generic
linux-headers-2.6.24-19-server
linux-headers-2.6.24-19-386
```
and many more options.

Which should I install and link to? I have tried to use the four I gave as examples above, but the DLink install script fails due to unrecognize kernel header versions, and does not complete the install.

I'm very close, but this is a brick wall for me.

I tried using ```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r)
``` (which i found at [https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/9235](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/9235) )and it grabbed version 2.6.24-19-server. I linked that to /usr/src/linux, and the install script **still failed**. It's last few lines of output are:

```
Execute: make oldconfig (done)                                       [   OK   ]
Check kernel header version (not recognized)                         [  warn  ]
Check kernel functions (Changed: nothing)                            [   OK   ]
Compile the kernel (error)                                           [ failed ]

An error has occurred during the compile proces which prevented 
the installation from completing.                              
Take a look at the log file install.log for more informations.  
Installation of sk98lin driver module failed.
```

Full log file: [http://www.goorpy.com/tmp/install.log](http://www.goorpy.com/tmp/install.log)

Now that I think I've got the right version being used, I'm at a complete loss as to why the script is failing.



Anybody have any suggestions? Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by TheRequiem13 on 2008-07-04
Anything? :/

I've tried to understand the log and errors myself with no success.
Tried logging in as root and doing everything. Same result. Ugh.
Very frustrating that it seems so close.

---

### Post by TheRequiem13 on 2008-07-05
I've also tried 

```
modprobe skge
```
but it still fails to recognize the device. And

```
modprobe sk98lin
```
and find the module

---

### Post by wenhui100 on 2009-01-12
yA can anybody shed light on the issue .... i am totally confuse myself too ... have been trying to install the drivers for dge-530t ... end up failing .... pls help ubuntu people ...

---

### Post by Glu3 on 2009-01-25
I am getting the exact same error as this. Does anyone know how to sole it?



Any suggestions or points in the right direction would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by JohnYYC on 2010-01-27
Anyone?

---

### Post by sharkllama on 2011-10-25
Wow, 
  I'm running into the same problem years later.  Here's the relevant portion of the install.log file that is generated by the install.sh script:


+++ Compile the driver
+++ ====================================
make: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.32-34'

  WARNING: Symbol version dump /usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.32-34/Module.symvers
           is missing; modules will have no dependencies and modversions.

  Building modules, stage 2.
  MODPOST 0 modules
/bin/sh: scripts/mod/modpost: No such file or directory
make[1]: *** [__modpost] Error 127
make: *** [modules] Error 2
make: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.32-34'
+++ Compiler error


Perhaps this will help someone ...
-Brant

---

