---
title: "10.04 wireless better work on new Eee PCs - *fist-shake*"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by CaptSaltyJack on 2010-04-29
Last I checked (10.04 release candidate), wireless did NOT work on my Asus Eee PC 1001P, nor did the brightness controls. Come on, guys. Every Ubuntu release, I pay for just to pitch in and donate. I will not be donating for this release if they don't fix these issues! It would seem logical to me, to TEST these releases out on the latest netbooks, especially the highly popular Eee PCs!

Ok, end of rant.

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2010-04-29
Did you file bugs?

Since canonical and Ubuntu devs can't possibly own every model of every brand of PC and component out there to test against, guess how they test to see if this stuff works?

---

### Post by CaptSaltyJack on 2010-04-29
Yes, that's part of the issue.. it's a known bug, for a long time now. Seems like it might be pretty important to fix that one.

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2010-04-29
Let's hope so, though my guess is that it is considered an upstream issue, and assuming it gets fixed it probably won't be fixed on Ubuntu's timeline.

---

### Post by tonytonitone on 2010-04-29
its not working on the b202..

---

### Post by CaptSaltyJack on 2010-04-29
Unbelievable!!

---

### Post by khunter1 on 2010-04-30
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/521967](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/521967)

---

### Post by tonytonitone on 2010-04-30
> **tonytonitone said:**
> its not working on the b202..
 
Sorted just had to create /etc/Wireless/RT2860STA/RT2860STA.dat
 
:)

---

### Post by slimeruk on 2010-04-30
Worked out of the box with a 904HD. :)

Shame the machine sleeps every 20 seconds. But thats another story, not for this thread.

---

### Post by Sven6210 on 2010-05-01
> **tonytonitone said:**
> Sorted just had to create /etc/Wireless/RT2860STA/RT2860STA.dat
 
:)


What exactly do you mean? I would like to install Ubuntu 10.04 on my EeeBox B202 but I am struggling to get the WiFi to work. Everything works perfectly on my EeePC 900a but the EeeBox has a different WiFi Chipset, not supported out-of-the-box.

---

### Post by Sven6210 on 2010-05-07
I found the solution how to get WiFi to work on the EeeBox with the Ralin[FONT=Verdana, sans-serif]k RT2860. Please see:[/FONT]

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9255730](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9255730)

---

