---
title: "8.04: Can't mount Samba share using nounix, cifs"
date: 2008-05-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by c0njur on 2008-05-29
I followed the instructions in [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=288534") howto, but I still get an error message when I mount after editing fstab.

```

sudo nano /etc/fstab
sudo mount -a
mount error 13 = Permission denied
Refer to the mount.cifs(8) manual page (e.g.man mount.cifs)

```

Here is my fstab:

```

# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=a5f55dd1-9b16-4e28-b51e-a6b981114f6b / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/sda4 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/ARCHIVE ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
//192.168.0.99/archive3 /media/Archive3 cifs    credentials=/root/.smbcredentials,nounix,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0



```

I'm running Samba on a Debian server and trying to access the share from Ubuntu 8.04. I can view the share and its contents by going through smb://192.168.0.99/archive3, I just can't mount it through fstab. I added "nounix" and I still get the error mentioned above.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by c0njur on 2008-06-01
*bump*

I would really *love* some suggestions. Even if you don't know how to fix my problem I would really appreciate it if someone could tell me where else I could find some advice. I've consulted ```
man mount.cifs
``` and found no mention of the error I received.

---

### Post by c0njur on 2008-06-11
Bump

Still looking for an answer...

---

### Post by GreatGariny on 2008-06-18
I'm running the exact same setup as you and I could never get cifs to work.  On Hardy I installed "smbfs" and changed from cifs to smbfs in my fstab.  However, I am trying to get this to work on Fedora 9 and smbfs is not an option in it.  I would like to use cifs in Hardy too, so any responses would be appreciated.

---

### Post by richempire on 2008-06-22
try

sudo mount -t cifs //192.168.xx.xx/the_shared_dir /media/mount_point/ -o username=your_username,uid=your_username,gid=users

pls. let me know if it works, I'm getting a read only error with it

here's a reference

[http://tr.opensuse.org/SDB:Access_to_Windows_Shares](http://tr.opensuse.org/SDB:Access_to_Windows_Shares)

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-06-23
c0njur, please try this command:
```
sudo aptitude install smbfs
```
if that does not work, please post in my howto, and i will be more than happy to assist.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-06-23
> **GreatGariny said:**
> I'm running the exact same setup as you and I could never get cifs to work.  On Hardy I installed "smbfs" and changed from cifs to smbfs in my fstab.  However, I am trying to get this to work on Fedora 9 and smbfs is not an option in it.  I would like to use cifs in Hardy too, so any responses would be appreciated.

smbfs is not an option in hardy either.  even if you do "sudo apt-get install smbfs" in hardy, you only get cifs.  so, unless you compiled smbfs from source, you don't actually have smbfs.  so, if you use "smbfs" in your fstab line, hardy will just use cifs.

---

### Post by c0njur on 2008-06-24
richempire:

Your command worked, after I entered a password, so its a step in the right direction. However I would have to enter that command each time I restart, for multiple shares, so I'm looking for a way to mount them through fstab automatically.

---

