---
title: "dwa-552"
date: 2007-08-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by blahfod on 2007-08-05
has anyone managed to get the dlink dwa-552 wireless pci card to work in Feisty (or another version ubuntu)?

I have spent days trying to get this to work, i have tried a number of how to's and have also tried ndiswrapper from the ubuntu repositories combined with the original windows drivers. I am at my wits end. If anyone has had any remote luck with this card, please point me in the right direction.

thanks in advance,

BlahFod

---

### Post by delax on 2007-08-09
Bump


I wouldn't mind the help as well, i just bought this wireless adapter and i've been looking around the forums for help but there aren't many threads about this card.

---

### Post by William Sharkey on 2007-08-30
I am in the same boat. ( This is the limiting factor that keeps me on Windows XP )
S.O.S.

A temporary workaround I thought of  but not tested is: Use VMWare to load Ubuntu. Then create a "network bridge" between the host (XP in my case) and Ubuntu. Please correct me if this idea is silly or not optimal.

---

### Post by abstractism on 2007-10-10
bump for great justice.

I'm considering getting a D-Link draft N router, since the netgear one I have is junk. I'll never trust netgear for anything reliable anymore.

---

### Post by Lambert on 2007-10-10
> **abstractism said:**
> bump for great justice.

I'm considering getting a D-Link draft N router, since the netgear one I have is junk. I'll never trust netgear for anything reliable anymore.

802.11N is not currently supported in linux. You can invest in a pre-n router if you like for future purposes. Right now just set it up for 802.11g and at some point in the future you can switch over to .11n.

If anybody has this card, would be interested in the chipset. If they could post output of 

lspci -nn

There is no guarantee with what's going to happen to the 802.11n standard. It is expected that any routers pre-n will be able to update their firmware and support the final standard. Just be aware its possible something changes and current devices could have problems with the final draft.

---

### Post by supergumby on 2007-10-13
I got mine working following this procedure couple months ago:
[http://i-eat-noobs.blogspot.com/2007/08/get-wireless-working-in-ubuntu-704.html](http://i-eat-noobs.blogspot.com/2007/08/get-wireless-working-in-ubuntu-704.html)

But, since yesterday, it's not working anymore, my system won't boot at all, even recovery mode, even previous kernel, even previous kernel recovery mode if my dwa-552 is plugged in.... I'm really sad about it. I don't know where to start to debug this, any suggestions?

---

### Post by needlern32724 on 2007-10-15
@Lambert - here is the pertinent output of "lspci -nn" on my dwa-552 that does not work on my new kubuntu 7.04 build for linuxMCE:

05:07.0 Network controller [0280]: Atheros Communications, Inc. Unknown device [168c:0023] (rev 01)

Will probably hold on to it and just research another 11.g card that does have a driver and buy it.

Bill

---

### Post by Lambert on 2007-10-15
> **needlern32724 said:**
> @Lambert - here is the pertinent output of "lspci -nn" on my dwa-552 that does not work on my new kubuntu 7.04 build for linuxMCE:

05:07.0 Network controller [0280]: Atheros Communications, Inc. Unknown device [168c:0023] (rev 01)

Will probably hold on to it and just research another 11.g card that does have a driver and buy it.

Bill

[168c:0023] = ar5416 which was not supported natively in 7.04. You will need to look at ndiswrapper as an alternative. you will also have to ensure you use a newer release then is in the repositories. I believe at least 1.45 or newer and I think 1.48 is current.

see this howto

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=574501](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=574501)

---

### Post by Lambert on 2007-10-15
> **supergumby said:**
> I got mine working following this procedure couple months ago:
[http://i-eat-noobs.blogspot.com/2007/08/get-wireless-working-in-ubuntu-704.html](http://i-eat-noobs.blogspot.com/2007/08/get-wireless-working-in-ubuntu-704.html)

But, since yesterday, it's not working anymore, my system won't boot at all, even recovery mode, even previous kernel, even previous kernel recovery mode if my dwa-552 is plugged in.... I'm really sad about it. I don't know where to start to debug this, any suggestions?

Have you checked to see if anything is logged in /var/log/syslog

Also i believe when you boot you can hit escape to watch verboose which might show any errors if you get that far in the boot process.

---

### Post by stun on 2008-01-16
I don't know if this will help configuring the driver.
I was playing with Back Track linux Live CD.


I booted it with the Live CD and my DWA-552 was working fine and I can browse the internet and etc.
I am not that good with Linux for configuring Linux drivers. :confused:

Can anyone figure out how to get the DWA-552 working by looking into Back Track linux Live CD? :KS

---

