---
title: "10.4, wifi N choke under stress"
date: 2010-08-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by lpchouinard on 2010-08-03
Hi, been running Ubuntu for 5 years now and still love it. Since i upgraded to 10.4(64) my laptop wifi (N) connection is crashing when copying large files. If i connect to the access point as G it work fine but with N the network completely freeze when copying or downloading.

Laptop is a Dell Latitude E4310 (bios a03) with an Intel 6300 wifi card.

router should be fine since wireless N still work as expected with other device when the problem show up.

please help

---

### Post by lpchouinard on 2010-08-04
tried the backports-modules, same problem persist...

Anyone care to point me in the right direction, log, debug?

Thanks

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2010-08-04
If you have other computers on the network it may be putting more stress on the network. 10.4 is in beta. I assume you use 10.04.

---

### Post by lpchouinard on 2010-08-09
> **corrytonapple said:**
> If you have other computers on the network it may be putting more stress on the network. 10.4 is in beta. I assume you use 10.04.

Thanks for your reply

lol you assume right, i'm running 10.04 sorry for the confusion

I've shutdown other machines, so even if my laptop alone on the wireless network the problem persist. It's really a problem with Ubuntu and my hardware, but where to start to get some good debugging data?

---

### Post by lpchouinard on 2010-08-25
a little bump, can someone help me out?

---

