---
title: "11.10 Weird browser networking problem, please help!"
date: 2011-12-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Xlorep DarkHelm on 2011-12-29
I'm getting pretty fed up with this, and still have not figured out what is going on here. First, the details:

Ubuntu 11.10 system. Wired network connection.

I can provide more specifics for the system as needed.

My network connection works flawlessly, except in a specific case: Periodically, when I try to use the web (in either Firefox or Google Chrome), the web browser looses the ability to communicate with a particular site (I'm not certain if it is a DNS issue or not -- everything I've used to check DNS ability seems to check out fine). For instance, I can go to Google, but when I try to search for something on it, sometimes nothing happens.... and once it does that for one of my browsers.... it stays like that until I actually reboot the computer (simply disconnecting/reconnecting my network connection does nothing). The even weirder thing is... if I did that on Firefox, but then went to Chrome, I *can* connect to Google, and get my search results there, but then eventually Chrome also looses connectivity with Google (and Chrome without Google connectivity is not a very helpful browser).

The same thing also happens if I use elinks or lynx or any other browser (Opera, etc.) Eventually, the internet becomes a real small place on my computer until I reboot it. Curiously enough, sometimes a site might be usable again for a little while, and then it goes back to being unable to be accessed at all. The browser gets stuck on "Sending request..." or other similar statements where it doesn't seem to get a response from the server I'm trying to communicate with... then eventually the session times out.

I *do* have my home network going through a DD-WRT-based router, and I have all HTTP traffic being sent through a squid3 (with squidGuard) proxy... however no other device or computer on my home network has this problem... only my Ubuntu desktop.

I have tried watching the connections with EtherApe to no success, the network connection appears to be flawless, yet the computer seems incapable of contacting a server, usually whenever that server has been contacted a lot of times (like with Google servers, or Facebook, etc.). It appears to get triggered whenever submitting a response to a server (like submitting a search term to Google, or trying to log into Facebook), and once it happens, the server in question might as well simply not exist... all requests sent from my computer to the server seem to disappear, and no response is ever given from the server itself.

Any help would be most appreciated.

---

### Post by tfertil on 2011-12-29
Hi,
Have you tried changing your DNS server? Maybe you can use openDNS ones (208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220)...

Also: are you sure the problem is *only* with certain sites? I mean: if you cannot connect to Google, for instance, did you tried another site?

Regards,

---

### Post by Flash__Gordon on 2011-12-29
You are not alone! I have been having this issue on my wireless since installing Ubuntu 11.10 on brand new Asus K53E. My daughter (who has a very recent HP is also having same issue) I have 2 other older laptops which are not having these issues though they are running 10.04.3 and use different wireless chipsets. The two with the issue are running RTL8188CE and RTL81** (can't recall last digits of HP wireless chip) The other two are BCM43 based. Can't seem to get any answers on here tho. I have tried changing DNS to use 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.8.4 at router, no change. downloaded and installed NON-Free and updated firmware packages. NO change, Works fine on wired. I have been using Ubuntu for 5+ years and this is the first time I have not been able to fix, workaround, or resolve an issue. I think there is a bad driver or something in kernel as it appears to affect other OS's using V3. Just a thought. Also is not restricted to browsers. Also lose internet access to email (evolution) at same time. Can monitor network traffic (via system monitor) and will see "send" signals but no return. Sometimes it will recover, other times if I disconnect network via switch (or FN-F2) then reconnect after few seconds may work for a bit.

---

### Post by Xlorep DarkHelm on 2011-12-29
> **tfertil said:**
> Hi,
Have you tried changing your DNS server? Maybe you can use openDNS ones (208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220)...

I'll try that, I've been configuring through DHCP, just like every other computer on my network, and the others have no problems whatsoever, the Ubuntu 11.10 one is the only affected computer. So I'm thinking it isn't a DNS server issue...

> Also: are you sure the problem is *only* with certain sites? I mean: if you cannot connect to Google, for instance, did you tried another site?

Regards,

Yes, if Google can't be reached, other sites can be reached, and if Google can't be reached in Firefox, that doesn't mean it can't be reached in Chrome. I've had cases where (for example) Chrome can't reach Google, but Firefox can, and Firefox can't reach Facebook, but Google can, and both of them can't access my bank's site, but otherwise the rest of the web is accessible as normal. It is bizarre, to the extreme. Plus, if a site can't be reached on a browser (like Chrome) from my login, it might be able to be reached from my wife's login, and vice-versa.

I'm thinking there is something weird when submitting data.... like the OS is intercepting my requests and sending them to nowhere, breaking the communication with a given site. I'm thinking it is something low-level in the computer, not high-level (IE, not the application layer like Firefox or Chrome, but lower, like on the driver level or something). I'm really at a loss.

Recreating my Eth0 connection doesn't have any effect. Flushing my routing tables also has no effect. Physically unplugging and re-plugging the network cable has no effect. So far, the only thing that can successfully "reset" this is to reboot the computer, which is simply an unacceptable option, in my opinion.


> **Flash__Gordon said:**
> You are not alone! I have been having this issue on my wireless since installing Ubuntu 11.10 on brand new Asus K53E. My daughter (who has a very recent HP is also having same issue) I have 2 other older laptops which are not having these issues though they are running 10.04.3 and use different wireless chipsets. The two with the issue are running RTL8188CE and RTL81** (can't recall last digits of HP wireless chip) The other two are BCM43 based. Can't seem to get any answers on here tho. I have tried changing DNS to use 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.8.4 at router, no change. downloaded and installed NON-Free and updated firmware packages. NO change, Works fine on wired. I have been using Ubuntu for 5+ years and this is the first time I have not been able to fix, workaround, or resolve an issue. I think there is a bad driver or something in kernel as it appears to affect other OS's using V3. Just a thought. Also is not restricted to browsers. Also lose internet access to email (evolution) at same time. Can monitor network traffic (via system monitor) and will see "send" signals but no return. Sometimes it will recover, other times if I disconnect network via switch (or FN-F2) then reconnect after few seconds may work for a bit.

I've read something online (googling for it once) about that.... someone with a similar issue with the current Linux kernel, their solution was going back to a previous version of the kernel... kinda a pain, and not something I really want to do if I can avoid it, but if push comes to shove...

---

### Post by Xlorep DarkHelm on 2011-12-30
I may have found a solution, someone else with a similar problem, as outlined here:

[link]http://askubuntu.com/questions/71550/network-problem-with-ubuntu-11-10[/link]

Their solution:

> 
I have news about our network problem.
It's seems to be an icmp-redirect bug with Linux kernel >= 3.0.0
The kernel adds entries in the ARP table from ICMP redirect message and should not.

The solution is :

Edit /etc/sysctl.conf to add :
net.ipv4.conf.all.accept_redirects=0
net.ipv4.conf.default.accept_redirects=0
Reboot


I tried it, and everything seems to be working as expected now. yay, such a simple fix for an annoying problem (but that's normal for software development... the bigger the bug, the simpler the fix...)

---

