---
title: "10.04 - Atheros AR928x driver help needed"
date: 2010-05-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by henry cow on 2010-05-31
I have tried a bunch of stuff to try to get the built-in wireless card in my laptop to work. 

Apparently some things work for some people, but nothing has worked for me.

Madwifi might be OK for older versions, linux-backports worked for somebody.

Systems/Preferences/Network Connections/Wireless never returns anything.

System/Administration/Windows Wireless Devices will gladly "install" it if I show it where it is, and cheerfully report "Hardware Present" but it is never really there.

Has anybody gotten a driver for this card to work under Lucid? HOW?

It runs great under Windows 7.

Thank you.

---

### Post by henry cow on 2010-05-31
Hey folks - 

I am typing this via a wireless connection on my Atheros AR928X via  Lucid!

Can you believe it, I can't.

NUB had the answer, (so did Dave) the Windows XP driver worked like a  charm. Obviously, the later stuff just hasn't caught up yet.

If any of you are reading this because your Atheros AR928X wireless card  will not work under Lucid, get the Windows XP driver and run that. One  of these days there may be a better choice, but this worked for me when  everything else failed. I wish I had tried it first instead of 15th.

There are a few strange anomalies, for example the switch button for the  antenna seems to work now, but not the LED. It stayed on solid after  the latest clean install of Lucid, even though not connected, but  installing the wireless driver seems to have turned it off permanently.  Mildly annoying, but no biggie.

Whether ethernet or wireless, it seems that whenever I make any  connection change such as unplugging the ethernet or switching the  button off or on, I am dead until I reboot. Is there not "hot switching"  in Linux? In Windows I can go back and forth at will.

All-in-all, this has been quite a learning experience for me, and an  acid test of my dedication to my migration from Micro$oft. If I had not  been trapped in a hotel room out of town for weeks on end I am not sure  if I could have pulled through.

Meanwhile, if anybody else has an Atheros wireless card under Windows 7  that will not run under Lucid, don't waste countless hours trying  convoluted fixes, get the XP driver below and be online in minutes. 

Trust me, that is the way to go.

---

### Post by MeOfCourse on 2011-06-13
How, exactly, does one download a Windows XP driver from a laptop with Ubuntu? I've been googling and all I get is ad sites.

---

### Post by henry cow on 2011-06-29
I have a dual-boot setup, so I probably did the Windows download and saved it to a directory where I had access both ways.

Presumably, other kind people have helped you out with this. My laptop trips and stumbles with a new network, but after about 3 tries and reboots it usually finds the network.

---

### Post by Drone4four on 2011-06-29
My wireless card is an AR9285. I've found the Windows 7 Atheros driver for it.   I run the windows installer, setup.exe using wine but the installer chokes after I accept the EULA.  The error says: ```
The Device may not be present or could have been ejected/unplugged from the system.  Insert or reinsert now.  
```  My thread which documents my troubleshooting so far is here:  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1658885](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1658885)

henry cow, you say:
> **henry cow said:**
>  Meanwhile, if anybody else has an Atheros wireless card under Windows 7  that will not run under Lucid, don't waste countless hours trying  convoluted fixes, get the XP driver below and be online in minutes. 

Trust me, that is the way to go.

What do you mean?  What driver "below"?  What are you referring to?

---

### Post by nm_geo on 2011-06-29
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1740056.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1740056.html)

You might try this method.

```
sudo su

echo "options ath9k nohwcrypt=1" > /etc/modprobe.d/ath9k.conf

```reboot

It has worked for some users and still may be a common problem.  I saw the same problem on launchpad and same fix.  Hope it helps.

---

### Post by Drone4four on 2011-06-30
Thanks, nm_geo.  That command improved the performance of my wireless connection on my home network in a marvelous way.  However, I still couldn't connect to the wireless network in the PyCamp classoom.  PyCamp is over.  Oh well.  Thanks again, nm_geo.

btw, nm_geo, I like your avatar.

---

### Post by nm_geo on 2011-06-30
> **Drone4four said:**
> Thanks, nm_geo.  That command improved the performance of my wireless connection on my home network in a marvelous way.  However, I still couldn't connect to the wireless network in the PyCamp classoom.  PyCamp is over.  Oh well.  Thanks again, nm_geo.

btw, nm_geo, I like your avatar.

Yeah it is fragile lotus.. Glad you got some improvement.

---

