---
title: "7.10 Samba Config Help?"
date: 2008-06-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gschoppe on 2008-06-29
Hi, I'm running Samba on Gutsy to share media with several machines, most of them windows xp.

I need all client computers to have full privileges to read, write, and delete, regardless of user name or account.  (security is not an issue in this case)


currently, I'm using Webmin to control my settings, but it seems to limit my abilities... my current share allows read only, despite my best efforts.


How can I set this up?

---

### Post by wo_shi_big_stomach on 2008-06-29
A few possible factors:

1. In the smb.conf configuration file, you may need to specify which address(es) your clients connect from. For example:

hosts allow = 10.0.0. 192.168. localhost

2. In the smb.conf configuration file, you may need to specify that clients have write access to shared directories. For example, if we create a share called "homes" then the config file would need an entry something like this:

#============================ Share Definitions ==============================
[homes]
        comment = Home Directories
        browseable = yes
        writeable = yes

There are are probably other directives as well; this is just an excerpt to get write access working.

3. Obviously the shared directory permissions must allow write access. You might consider creating a group called "clients" or "users" or whatever, adding all users to that group, and then changing group ownership for the shared directory. For a group called "clients", changing ownership works like this:

chgrp -R clients /path/to/shared/directory

Hope this helps.

/wsbs

---

