---
title: "9.04 on Lenovo W500 wireless radio light keeps blinking"
date: 2009-06-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by randomlyrandom on 2009-06-25
Hi,

I have Ubuntu 9.04 installed in my Lenovo W500 laptop. The wireless radio light below the laptop screen keeps blinking. What could be the issue?

I didn't see this behavior in 8.10. After upgrading to 9.04 I am seeing this issue.

And another issue is, laptop gets over heated and makes it very tough to use it on lap.

Regards,
-P

---

### Post by philcamlin on 2009-06-25
network activity?

and some laptops have a cooling issue with theirs when they have ubuntu installed...:(

---

### Post by randomlyrandom on 2009-06-25
Network seems to be ok. Wireless works seamless so far. My laptop is brand new, around 2 weeks old.

But it gets heated very badly.

Regards,
-P

---

### Post by philcamlin on 2009-06-25
have you tried any other os then ubuntu ??

if yes was it hot then ? 

maybe it could be the laptop itself ?

---

### Post by randomlyrandom on 2009-06-25
Hi,

I have dual boot with windows. No issues in windows. And before 9.04, I had Ubuntu 8.10 running with no such issues. Only after upgrading to 9.04, I am seeing these 2 issues. 

Regards,
-P

---

### Post by philcamlin on 2009-06-25
the network light isnt an issue because thats normal most likely your rinning inrternet applications.

ther heat though... are there any fans running? :P

---

### Post by randomlyrandom on 2009-06-25
How to check if fans are running and at what speed? How can I control fan speed? What is the maximum supported fan speed for Lenovo W500?

---

### Post by randomlyrandom on 2009-06-26
Anyone folks? Is the overheating bug solved yet or not?

Regards,
-P

---

### Post by dBuster on 2009-06-26
What is the wireless card in the laptop?  I know of the Atheros card that will blink with activity while running Ubuntu, particularly Jaunty, and in windows it is just a solid light that wifi is on.  

I would not be concerned about the blinking and watch, if it blinks more while loading a web page or downloading something versus just sitting there not getting anything from the internet then I would say it is safe to say that is just wifi network/internet activity blinking away.

As far as the heat goes, have you checked the power settings for the laptop??  You may have to go in and make sure that they are set for laptop and not defaulted to desktop.  My laptop, a compaq was the same way until I verified the power settings.

---

### Post by randomlyrandom on 2009-06-27
Hi,

Thanks for the response. Where should I change power settings to laptop? I dont see any such option in System--preferences--Power Management?

Regards,
-p

---

### Post by randomlyrandom on 2009-06-29
I think i narrowed it little further. My laptop heats only when on wireless. If I disable wireless and work with wired network, i don't see this issue. My wireless card details below. Please let me know if there is a workaround for this [except disabling wireless of course :-)]

pnagral@pnagral-ubuntu:~$ ifconfig -a wlan0
wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:21:6a:15:53:ac  
          inet addr:192.168.0.101  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::221:6aff:fe15:53ac/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:6255 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:5460 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:4180207 (4.1 MB)  TX bytes:1099885 (1.0 MB)

pnagral@pnagral-ubuntu:~$ sudo lshw -C network
[sudo] password for pnagral: 
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: Wireless WiFi Link 5300
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: wmaster0
       version: 00
       serial: 00:21:6a:15:53:ac
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwlagn ip=192.168.0.101 latency=0 module=iwlagn multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abgn

Thanks
-P

---

### Post by randomlyrandom on 2009-07-03
Folks..anyone plz!! I am not seeing any response for my question. Please spend few mins and respond if you have answer!

Thanks
-P

---

### Post by bhupinderjitbawa on 2009-12-15
i have same problem i.e blinking led of wireless,,
i think reason behind it is,,,led blinks only when ,,,there is data transfer,,even for few bytes,,and it stops blinking for just 2-3 seconds when data transfer rate goes down to 0 kbps as per system monitor saying,,,

just have a little experiment over it,,,keep monitoring the system monitor and watch the blinking light,,,u ll find that light blinks only when bytes of data transfers on n/w.

---

