---
title: "[9.10] WUSB54G v4 - cannot connect to wlan"
date: 2009-11-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by eintag on 2009-11-20
Hey Community,
i have a big problem. I just installed Ubuntu 9.1 and my WUSB54G v4 by Linksys is not working correctly (chip: rt2500usb). Ubuntu is able to find all networks but it cannot associate the ip. I tried everything - ndiswrapper, wicd. Nothing helped. Additionally i have to say that i am a newbie so for me it is not everything as easy as many would expect. I would be so glad for help.

jan

---

### Post by headvampyre@hotmail.co.uk on 2009-11-20
have you ever connected to a server coz sometimes this can cause probs

---

### Post by eintag on 2009-11-20
I am online via LAN. My WLAN-Adapter just tried to connect to my Fritz.Box-Router. Could be the Encryption cause the problem? My Router accepts WPA and WPA2 but in Ubuntu there is only WPA2 displayed. My Adapter can handle WPA only. Could that be the problem?
I think the new kernel is the reason because i also installed suse 11.2 to test the function of my adapter - but still no connection.

---

### Post by eintag on 2009-11-21
Has Nobody an idea?

---

### Post by blitzracer on 2009-11-24
Im running 9.04 on the same network card, when I upgraded to 9.10 it stopped working. It was nice, the wusb54g had worked right after plugging it in, that's rare on a linux machine. Im gonna' be studying up on it today so I can upgrade to 9.10 and take a crack at it. I'll see what I can find and come back to tell you the news. :)

---

