---
title: "9.10 Wireless issues (dhcp not working)"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by plrobert on 2009-10-31
[FONT=Arial][SIZE=3]Hi,

[/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Arial][SIZE=3]I have been running 9.04 for a few weeks, everything was running smoothly, wireless worked with no configurations other than my wep key. 

Now I just updated to 9.10 and I cant connect to the internet... I don't seem to be getting an address from DHCP. When I assign a static address I can ping my gateway, resolve names, but for some odd reason I cant open webpages or connect to pidgin etc... [/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Arial][SIZE=3]


With the static address it seems like my connections are simply being severed avec a few seconds. When I try to open a web page it looks like it's starting to load as I get the title of the page showing in my browser but the page never loads.

It's the weirdest thing.

I'm currently running on a live 9.04 cd so it confirms that my hardware and network are working fine.

Any help would be appreciated, this is getting pretty frustrating.

thanks


[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by plrobert on 2009-10-31
Update:

As suggested in another thread I tried removing network-manager and installing WICD (I installed v 1.6.2) and have the exact same issue, so I doubt it's related to connection managers. Might be an IP issue (but what do I know >.<)

---

### Post by plrobert on 2009-10-31
Update 2:

Tried disabling IPv6 (in my menu.lst) without any success. IPv6 is disabled and I still have the same issue. Any ideas or insight would be greatly appreciated.

---

