---
title: "[resolved] Network settings keep resetting"
date: 2004-11-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ILikePretzels on 2004-11-30
In the Network Settings menu, I made some changes to the DNS servers and search domains.  After I restarted my computer, the changes were gone.  I then created a profile and saved it with the same information.  Upon rebooting again, the current network profile had gone back to "Unknown".

How can I make my changes stick around permanently?

---

### Post by wallijonn on 2004-12-07
Isn't that part of [COLOR=Blue]/etc/resolv.conf[/COLOR] ?

---

### Post by dkitty on 2004-12-11
I'm having the same problem. I tried editing resolv.conf but as the file says...

DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

Any other ideas?

---

### Post by mpjbrennan on 2004-12-26
I got my settings to persist by commenting out the function make_resolv_conf() in /etc/dhcp3/dhclient-script.

patrick

---

### Post by AndyGates on 2005-01-08
[QUOTE=mpjbrennan]I got my settings to persist by commenting out the function make_resolv_conf() in /etc/dhcp3/dhclient-script.

patrick[/QUOTE]
 Weird, I tried that and it still changed them back!  Any other ideas?

---

### Post by dkitty on 2005-01-08
Ditto Andy. I've been poking around in Debian lists here and there to see if anyone else has the same problem or solution. I haven't looked much yet, and haven't found anything.

---

### Post by billputer on 2005-01-08
I was having the same problem, but editing out make_resolv_conf() fixed it.  Good luck.

---

### Post by AndyGates on 2005-03-09
I have a nice bodgy solution which seems to stick  :) 

The file **/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base** contains entries which will always be added, regardless of what resolv.conf also adds.  It's empty by default.  If you edit it:

*sudo gedit /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base*

And add lines for your nameserver(s):

[I]nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx[/I]

Then when resolvconf runs on startup, it will produce a resolv.conf file something like this:

[I]# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
nameserver 127.0.0.1
nameserver yyy.yyy.yyy.yyy[/I]

...and that works.

---

### Post by dkitty on 2005-04-16
When resolv.conf was rewritten each time on startup I think it kept grabbing my Actiontec DSL modem's IP as a DNS entry. So I had a DNS entry along the lines of:

```
17.xxx.xxx.xx
``` 

And it wasn't working. Each time on reboot I had to delete that line from resolv.conf, open the network(ing) settings panel and do it there, or switch to a network profile (also via the network settings panel) that had valid DNS entries. It was a pain to do each time.

At first when I read mpjbrennan's suggestion to comment the make_resolv_conf function out of /etc/dhcp3/dhclient-script I only commented out the first line of it. :roll: Yeah, I'm a n00b.  :grin: But I eventually found [this post](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=116857&postcount=2) which detailed it a bit further. I smacked my forehead quite a bit when I first read it.

After properly commenting out the make_resolv_conf function and then writing my ISP's DNS entries into the network settings panel, I don't have any worries. Resolv.conf is no longer rewritten with my modem's IP at startup and I have instant internet access after I boot. Dig it.

---

### Post by dbreese on 2005-12-23
Just came across this post and wanted to give advice on what I've done to fix this actiontec dsl modem dns issue.

The dhclient3 client runs /etc/dhcp3/dhclient-script can be extended by simply creating your own scripts under /etc/dhcp3/dhclient-*-hooks.d/.  Check out the man pages for dhclient-script ($ man 8 dhclient-script) and read the HOOKS section.

What I did was just dropped the following script in as an exit hook, so it is executed after the /etc/resolv.conf is updated.

All this hack does is strip out the 192.168.1.1 crap that really doesn't work anyways.

```

$ cat /etc/dhcp3/dhclient-exit-hooks.d/check_actiontec_dns
BAD_IP=192.168.1.1
echo `date`: checking dns ordering for actiontec woes
grep ${BAD_IP} /etc/resolv.conf > /dev/null
if [ $? == 0 ]; then
        echo removing actiontec dns entry
        grep -v ${BAD_IP}  /etc/resolv.conf > /tmp/resolv.conf
        mv /tmp/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf
fi


```

One thing that may break for you is if you go to another wifi access point that is NOT actiontec and it only has a single 192.168.1.1 dns entry.  If it did, then you'd end up with an empty /etc/resolv.conf file!  :)  Just use this script as a base....

Hope this helps,
Dustin

---

### Post by archon256 on 2008-02-01
I realised that my router was resetting the DNS to the wrong 192.168.1.1 every 10 seconds and even if I wrote via Network Settings (KDE) or directly into resolv.conf to use an alternative good one (194.72.6.51) after 10 seconds it got overwritten again to the 192.168.1.1  I was getting desperate and furious. Windows machines kept the alternate DNS in IP configuration without problems. 
Then I found out (through a OpenSuse Live CD and YAST configuration) that to turn off the setting DNS via DHCP I had to change the resolv.conf instead of 

search -name-
nameserver 192.168.1.1

to 

domain site 
nameserver 192.168.1.1
nameserver 194.72.6.51

That helped, since then the DNS stays as it should and my internet is working 100%

---

