---
title: "169.254.0.0! How to remove from routing table?"
date: 2008-03-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by blackeyedpie on 2008-03-12
I've Googled my brains out and searched forum after forum, mailing list after mailing list but still nothing clear on how to solve this:

I have an Ubuntu Gutsy desktop behind a router, which goes to a cable modem. My connection works automatically with Network Manager/nm-applet, but I'm not sure it's setup correctly, as I see this 169.x address in my routing table, and it's bugging me. Link-local? I've read this appears when a system isn't configured properly, so how may I remove 169.x safely for a proper connection? No other boxes connecting to the router need access to this machine, and vice versa, this machine is used only for connecting out to the internet, and has worked, but I'm not sure it's configured correctly, despite it working.

In an attempt to fix this (which it did not since 169.x is still listed) I unticked roaming from nm-applet and manually configured it for DHCP. Now I actually see network information in /etc/network/interfaces where before there were only two lines and no IPs. When behind this router and checking IP query websites, it shows the public IP from the ISP, shouldn't it instead show 192.x or what not? When I do on-line scans it hits the router and not my box, and I'm able to login to the router from this box and verify dynamic DHCP assigned in the router web config, and there's never been a problem, that I know of, but this 169.x is bugging me and I want it gone so I know I have a properly configured box behind the router. I also disabled avahi daemon (but it's still installed) because I never use it for anything.

* For reference, here's some info let me know if something here is wrong too please:
(192.168.0.1 is my router, 192.168.0.101 is my Gutsy box)
-----------------------------------
cat **/etc/network/interfaces**
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

iface eth0 inet dhcp
address 192.168.0.101
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.0.1

auto eth0
-----------------------------------
cat **/etc/resolv.conf**
search a.b.c (where a.b.c = ISP information, removed for the purposes of posting here)
nameserver 192.168.0.1
-----------------------------------
**route -n**
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 eth0
-----------------------------------
**ifconfig** shows eth0 and lo
-----------------------------------
my **/etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf** file appears to have not been modified since I installed Gutsy when it was released last year
-----------------------------------
I always see these messages on boot too, is this related?:
dhcdbd: message_handler: message handler not found under /com/redhat/dhcp/eth0 for sub-path eth0.dbus.get.host_name
dhcdbd: message_handler: message handler not found under /com/redhat/dhcp/eth0 for sub-path eth0.dbus.get.host_name
dhcdbd: message_handler: message handler not found under /com/redhat/dhcp/eth0 for sub-path eth0.dbus.get.nis_domain
dhcdbd: message_handler: message handler not found under /com/redhat/dhcp/eth0 for sub-path eth0.dbus.get.nis_servers
-----------------------------------
Should "search a.b.c" above in resolv.conf be a hostname from my isp or should I remove that and specify the router, is that the problem? Package zeroconf is listed by dpkg as "un", and I don't have wireless cards or wireless router. I don't know, I'm a newbie, please help, thank you!!

---

### Post by handydan918 on 2008-03-12
You can delete  route from the routing table using ```
route del
```
I haven't had to do this for a while, so I can't remember the exact syntax, but I believe it's something along the lines of ```
route del <info.from.your.routing.table.that.you.want.to.delete>
```

---

### Post by mrsteveman1 on 2008-03-12
There is always going to be a link local route in the table, usually it just says "link-local" but anyone can see it by doing route -n, which should list 169.254.0.0 instead. It won't hurt anything anyway, because you have a default route in that table, any traffic going somewhere that's not explicitly listed in the table should go to your router at 192.168.0.1, which is why the internet still works.

Deleting the link local route from the table might cause problems somewhere if you can even get the system to delete it.

Also, since your router has the public IP, you are using NAT, which means anything you do online will only show that public IP. Like the IP check you used, those sites can only see your router, so that is the IP they report.

---

### Post by Fire_Chief on 2008-03-12
You really don't need to worry about this route. It's used for default networking when your system is set to DHCP but does not get an address from a DHCP server (NIC self-assigns a 169.254.x.x address to itself). This also happens on Windows. 
Like mrsteveman1 said, the route itself will have no effect on your connectivity or networking. 

Cheers!

---

### Post by blackeyedpie on 2008-03-12
Hi handydan918, mrsteveman1, and Fire_Chief, thanks for the information, I feel much more comfortable knowing this, thanks.

I decided to tinker a little more and SUCCESS!

Despite what you guys said, which is appreciated, if anyone wishes to get rid of 169.254.0.0 and those dhcdbd errors and other network errors if you've been seeing them (related launchpad entries for dhcdbd confirm others have), this will fix these issues AND your ntpd will start automatically rather than take several minutes to start after boot, here's what I did in addition to my post to this thread:

1. I disabled network manager applet from sessions and from starting up at boot
2. I edited /etc/networks file and comment out: link-local 169.254.0.0

I rebooted and now all of the "dhcdbd: message_handler:" error messages are gone, along with former network error messages normally found in daemon.log.

3. sudo route del -net 169.254.0.0 netmask 255.255.0.0 dev eth0

169.254.0.0 was removed from the routing table but it reappeared on reboot! So I decided to poke around a bit, and:

4. Remove/purged the following: libnss-mdns avahi-autoipd avahi-daemon
5. sudo route del -net 169.254.0.0 netmask 255.255.0.0 dev eth0 (probably not required now after #4 though)
6. Rebooted (yes, I could've restarted networking but I wanted to reboot to satisfy my curious nature)
7. route -n reveals 169.254.0.0 is now GONE!
8. Stand up and DANCE!

WOOT! If you've been searching the net for how to get rid of this on Ubuntu (I don't know that you should, as others above have pointed out, but I don't need it there, I have no use for avahi or link-local, and I hate seeing this in my routing table) this seems to be the way to do it!

Solved!

"Deleting the link local route from the table might cause problems somewhere if you can even get the system to delete it." - mrsteveman1

Where would the problems be though if my box doesn't connect to any other system on the LAN? I've seen in other posts on the web about it being related to zeroconf, and I don't need that or have that installed anyway, nor do I need any laptop or wireless related stuff on a desktop system without wireless. I couldn't find the file mentioned on Fedora related areas discussing this issue where they said to enter a value into a file which doesn't exist on Ubuntu Gutsy, so I just looked in installed packages and sure enough, purging the packages I list above worked like a charm!

---

### Post by Eiríkr on 2008-03-12
Zeroconf is actually the name of the spec, so no one has that installed, strictly speaking.  :)  On Linux, the zeroconf implementation is a daemon service called Avahi.  You noted above that you had Avahi packages installed, so these would be what was setting up the "link-local" bit.  Having removed these is porbably the most effective part of your efforts to get rid of the "link-local" route.  Note that if you ever re-install the Avahi packages, that route will likely reappear, as it is the default for all zeroconf implementations that I'm currently aware of.  

I personally have found Avahi useful for getting NFS shares from my Ubuntu server easily automounted on my Mac with a minimum of fuss, but it sounds like your setup is a good bit less complicated.  :D

Cheers,

Eiríkr

---

