---
title: "Wired Ethernet not starting with boot, have to start the service manually every time."
date: 2013-09-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by RyanJA1982 on 2013-09-05
Pretty much what the headline says... I have to manually start the services (sudo service network-manage start) in order to get Ubuntu to recognize the ethernet cable. Any help or ideas?

70-persistent-net.rules file:


# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.

# PCI device 0x8086:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1c.5/0000:03:00.0 (e1000e)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:25:90:c0:76:d7", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth1"

# PCI device 0x8086:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1c.4/0000:02:00.0 (e1000e)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:25:90:c0:76:d6", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"



interfaces file:

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.2.243
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.2.1
dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8


And just to be thorough, my NetworkManager.conf file:

[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile
dns=dnsmasq

no-auto-default=00:25:90:60:2F:24,00:25:90:60:2F:25,

[ifupdown]
managed=false




Any ideas?

---

### Post by mokum2 on 2013-09-05
Shouldn't 'managed=false' be 'managed=true' ? It is in my NetworkManager.conf

---

### Post by RyanJA1982 on 2013-09-05
Applied the change, and still a no-go..

Even when rebooting, Ubuntu hangs during the bootup, displaying "waiting for network configuration" and "waiting up to 60 more seconds for network configuration".

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2013-09-05
Hi Ryan
you can have either ...or...but not both.
as in..you can use Network Manager or
configure in /etc/network/interfaces.

this file is correct..
"And just to be thorough, my NetworkManager.conf file:"
```

[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile
dns=dnsmasq

no-auto-default=00:25:90:60:2F:24,00:25:90:60:2F:25,

[ifupdown]
managed=false
```

All you need in /etc/network/interfaces is...
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```
*use: sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
to correct.
THEN..to set Static ip..
Click your network icon..upper right..and edit[ATTACH=CONFIG]246044[/ATTACH]
the Wired connection to look like the attached
to establish your static setting.

set to Manual..
This configuration allows your networkmanager to manage your network.
Report back if you have any questions or need help.
thanks.

---

### Post by RyanJA1982 on 2013-09-05
Gracias for the heads up Hadaka! I'm about to head off to grab dinner, and will give this a shot when I get back in. I'll let ya know how it turns out! :D

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-09-05
Or, if you are old skool (read: old!) just remove Network Manager altogether. You appear to have a desktop machine that you don't drag down to the coffee shop so you probably don't need the extra baggage.

---

### Post by RyanJA1982 on 2013-09-06
Thanks for the help, Hadaka! And chili555, I will definitely look into that when I do the upgrade to 12.10 for my machines.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2013-09-06
ok...if you are satisfied with the results, please
mark this thread solved.
thanks.

---

