---
title: "Wireless script"
date: 2011-04-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-04-19
As promised the finished (pretty much finished) wireless script can be downloaded [here]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/wirelessscript/files/")
 
the wireless_script is a diagnostic tool for wireless issues. It will return all relevant information to help diagnose a wireless connectivity problem, return connectivity stats and attempt to fix common problems such as blocks. It comes in cli - wireless_script_1.2.sh or gui - wireless_script_zenity_1.2.sh'
 
Let me know any issues you have with it. My contact details are in the readme.txt
 
(also the wireless results.txt generated by running the script includes code tags for forums - so please copy and paste the whole document when pasting on forums to enable this function)
 
Hope it helps
 
Cheers
Hippytaff

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-04-20
Version 2.0 of the wireless script is now under development. We're making it more intuative, introducing intelligent diagnostics and merging the two scripts into one so that the one script will support zenity and non-zenity use.
 
Any feedback or suggestions are most welcome. Please use the script if you are experinceing wireless issues as the nformation retrieved alone will help people on the forum troubleshoot problems. Please trust that there is nothing malicious in the script - if there were the mods would remove it and me immedietely.
 
In hindsight, maybe I should have posted this in the scripting sub-forum...anyway
 
Cheers
Hippytaff

---

