---
title: "9.04 (64Bit) - r8169 slow transfer speeds"
date: 2009-08-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ghost_zero on 2009-08-15
Hi,

I have relatively slow transfer speeds with the r8169 (RTL8111/8168B). I am not sure if it is related to the adapter driver or something else but it is at least not related to e.g. only Samba as I tried the same with NFS and there I got also relatively slow transfer speeds.
To explain it further: With relatively slow transfer speeds I mean that I compared Windows Vista/7 transfer speed value with those displayed by Gnome from the same server (samba share).
Under Windows I get 70 MB/s - 80 MB/s when reading from the server (when writing I only about 40 MB/s - could be related to the HDDs there, those are RAID1 and therefore it might be a little slower to write, strangely at the beginning is about 60MB/s though). However, under Linux I get only about 35 MB/s - 45 MB/s when reading from the server and activating some of the "socket options" in Samba (NFS was actually slower). When writing it doesn't go over 30 MB/s. 
I think that is a huge difference compared to Windows, especially the reading speed and it is kinda strange as I actually would have thought that it might be the other way around as the server (actually a NAS system) is based on Linux/Samba too.

Btw.: On both systems I use the normal MTU size of 1500 and no Jumbo Frames and as probably already suspected the connection is 1GBit/s (otherwise those transfer rates wouldn't be possible at all - not even the 30MB/s I have with Ubuntu).

Could this be an issue with the driver provided by Ubuntu 9.04? If so, could a driver update - actually I have to check if there is one first - help?

---

### Post by ghost_zero on 2009-08-17
OK.
I have now done further testing and - also changed the boot option to 2.6.14, I forgot to change that one before and it was still using 2.6.11 or something like this - tried NFS and FTP:
FTP is nearly at the same speed that I get under Windows - at least something between 65-70 MB/s and with NFS I get about 50-60MB/s.
However, with Samba I still only get 40MB/s, so I would guess that the main problem is related to Samba.
Does anyone know what I can do to speed things up. I already tried the TCP_NODELAY and SO_RCVBUF and SO_SNDBUF option and those only slowed down things even further.

---

