---
title: "Static IP in Ubuntu 9.10 problems"
date: 2010-03-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-03-05
Hello, so after trying to set my ip under systems> network management and it not working after many trys, i decided to just edit the /etc/network/interfaces file. It now says this....

auto eth0 
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.0.2
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.0.1

I then did the /etc/init.d/networking restart command and my connection did not come up. I then restarted the pc, and my interfaces file is the same, and when i ifconfig it shows the changes. But its almost like my computer doesnt know to use eth0, im not sure.

---

### Post by r939ick on 2010-03-05
Please do:

ifconfig -a
route -n
cat /etc/resolv.conf

---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-03-05
ok, and whats that gonna tell me?

ifconfig -a
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1a:92:56:91:f6  
          inet addr:192.168.0.2  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::21a:92ff:fe56:91f6/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1495 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:130 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:107688 (107.6 KB)  TX bytes:16434 (16.4 KB)
          Interrupt:23 Base address:0xc000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:4 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:240 (240.0 B)  TX bytes:240 (240.0 B)

 route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 eth0

 cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager

---

### Post by 2hot6ft2 on 2010-03-05
> **Tsquad said:**
> ok, and whats that gonna tell me?
This part shows you the interface has the settings you put in **in BOLD**. It also shows there is at least some traffic going both in and out also in **BOLD**
ifconfig -a
```
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1a:92:56:91:f6  
          **inet addr:192.168.0.2  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0**
          inet6 addr: fe80::21a:92ff:fe56:91f6/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1495 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:130 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          **RX bytes:107688 (107.6 KB)  TX bytes:16434 (16.4 KB)**
          Interrupt:23 Base address:0xc000 
```
This shows the routing is correct as the kernel sees it in **BOLD**
route -n
```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
**192.168.0.0**     0.0.0.0         **255.255.255.0**   U     0      0        0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         **192.168.0.1**     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 eth0

```
How about trying to ping google to see if you're connected to the internet with
```
ping -c 4 google.com
```
What do you get?
If you get something like this then you're on the internet.
$ ping -c 4 google.com
```
PING google.com (72.14.209.104) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from bf-in-f104.1e100.net (72.14.209.104): icmp_seq=1 ttl=51 time=31.0 ms
64 bytes from bf-in-f104.1e100.net (72.14.209.104): icmp_seq=2 ttl=51 time=34.5 ms
64 bytes from bf-in-f104.1e100.net (72.14.209.104): icmp_seq=3 ttl=51 time=31.0 ms
64 bytes from bf-in-f104.1e100.net (72.14.209.104): icmp_seq=4 ttl=51 time=32.2 ms

--- google.com ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3006ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 31.018/32.191/34.511/1.439 ms
```
If you get anything other than something like that read on.

Is network manager still active on the top panel on the right side?
If you right click on it and select Edit Connections is there an entry under wired that says **ifupdown**?
If there is an ifupdown listed follow these instructions to remove it:
> **peepingtom said:**
> NetworkManager is the best way for end-users to configure their network I think these problems are happening with people who configured their networks using the command line using some cut-and-paste fiddling with pppoeconf or stuff in /etc. 

To have NetworkManager manage all interfaces without editing ifupdown/interfaces files, this should work.

Check /etc/network/interfaces.

Press alt+F2 and paste in:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```

Remove everything but 
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```

Then Check /etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf 
Press alt+F2 and paste in:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf
```

set 

```
 [ifupdown]
managed=false 
```

Restart computer or NetworkManager service.
From now on, only configure the network using the NetworkManager applet in the notification area (aka system tray).

For more info See: [http://wiki.debian.org/NetworkManager](http://wiki.debian.org/NetworkManager)

If this doesn't work, post here again.
Actually post in the thread that's from which is here:
[How to remove ifupdown(eth0)??]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1316705")

If you're going to set your connections in the interfaces file you need to disable network manager by going to
System > Preferences > Startup Applications
And unchecking network manager.
Close it and do it again until it remains unchecked (for some reason one time doesn't do it).

Then reboot.

---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-03-06
Ok, so yea pinging google returned unknown host. But anyway, about the last thing you put there about network manager. Network manager has been removed all together, iv done that in the past with no problems. So sense thats the case, my only option is to set the interfaces in the ini file, which id rather do anyway.

As for why the manager was removed, its because like said it has worked in the past without it. And also, after having issues setting my static ip on a fresh install i decided to can it and go with my old ways.

---

### Post by Tsquad on 2010-03-06
ok, i have solved the issue. I reinstalled the net manager and figured out that i have to put my gateway ip for gateway and for dns servers in order for it to towork.

thanks for the help tho.

---

