---
title: "7.10 to 8.10 PEAP and Network-Manager"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by era86 on 2008-11-04
I recently upgraded from 7.10 to 8.10.  Previously, I was able to connect to my University WPA Ent network using NM and the PEAP settings.  I specify my certificate I want used and enter my information.  Now, in 8.10, I do the same exact setup to connect, but it keeps failing.

Is there a way I can spit out what NM is doing so I can trace it, or does someone know what changes were made to networking in 8.10 from 7.10?  Do I have to modify some things to get PEAP to work?

Thanks in advanced.

---

### Post by era86 on 2008-11-05
bump

---

### Post by kiepmad on 2008-11-10
This is a serious problem. I've got the same problemm with using gnome. Anyone knows why the old settings are not working anymore?

My friend is able to connect by using wicd and the peap with gtc settings on archlinux.

Anyone?

---

### Post by era86 on 2008-11-10
I think it is because 8.10 uses a new ilwifi driver.  I reinstalled 7.10 until this gets resolved.  Is there any way to ugrade to 8.10, but revert back to the old driver used in 7.10?

Thanks so much.

---

### Post by era86 on 2008-11-14
> **era86 said:**
> I think it is because 8.10 uses a new ilwifi driver.  I reinstalled 7.10 until this gets resolved.  Is there any way to ugrade to 8.10, but revert back to the old driver used in 7.10?

Thanks so much.

Anyone?

---

### Post by mk4umha on 2008-11-14
I have the same problem, I'll have to reconnect several times and if i'm lucky it will last a few hours before it tries to connect to another AP with the same SSID. Then i have to go through that again.

---

### Post by shazbut on 2008-11-17
Seems someone forgot to put in the option for PEAP + GTC in NM 0.7:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-applet/+bug/284211]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager-applet/+bug/284211")
Pity, that, I'd really like to try it, but for now I have to use wicd.

---

