---
title: "DNS IP address configuration"
date: 2010-01-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by austinium on 2010-01-30
Hi,

I am using Ubuntu 9.04 (x86-64). 

My internet connection is not *working*, i've tried to fix it and the issue seems to be with DNS. I can ping google's IP, but i can ping it URL.

I have used the GUI network manager(from Gnome's equivalent of the Windows system tray), to add the DNS IP addresses to the IPv4 wired connection - that hasn't helped.

I have checked ```
/etc/resolv.conf
``` and the IP addresses show up there.
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

```

I have also checked ```
/etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf

``` for ```
prepend domain-name-servers 192.168.1.1,208.67.222.222,208.67.220.220;
```

IP address assignment is via DHCP, i need to "force" the DNS Server IP addresses on the ethernet connection.

How can this be done?

thanks :)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-01-30
> /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.confDoes the behavior improve if you remove the highlighted parts?```
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
        domain-name, [COLOR="Red"]domain-name-servers, domain-search[/COLOR], host-name,
        netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope, interface-mtu,
        rfc3442-classless-static-routes, ntp-servers;

```

---

### Post by austinium on 2010-02-03
hi,

thanks for the reply, i tried what you said. It didn't work.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-02-03
First, I notice that these are inconsistent:> # Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220And this:> prepend domain-name-servers 192.168.1.1,208.67.222.222,208.67.220.220;I suggest you amend */etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf* as follows:```
[COLOR="Red"]supersede[/COLOR] domain-name-servers 208.67.222.222,208.67.220.220;
```Please let us know.

---

### Post by austinium on 2010-02-26
hi,

thanks again for the response, i was unwell, could only manage to to try this today and it worked after i made the change you mentioned. 

thanks.

just in case someone faces the same issue in future, heres a how to on forcing DNS Address in Ubuntu:
1)Right click the NetworkManager Applet (its usually one of the icons to the left of the power button on Ubuntu 9.04) and select Edit Connections...
2)Select the appropriate connection and click Edit(it may ask you for your password)
3)On the next window that appears go to the IPv4 Settings Tab and type the primary and secondary DNS IP addresses separated by a comma. Then click apply.
4)On the terminal type sudo gedit /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf and edit the part where it says *supersede domain-name-servers ...* to *supersede domain-name-servers PRIMARY_DNS_IP SECONDARY_DNS_IP*
5)Restart networking by typing *sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart* in a terminal.
6)Get browsing :)
Note: There may be better ways to do this,this has worked for me. Hope this is of help.

Thanks again chili555 for helping out.

---

