---
title: "i did every thing but it disconnect after 0.1 minute."
date: 2008-01-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by hbaqery on 2008-01-21
hello 
i did everything that was in the forums  or ubuntu help but my connection to the internet does not work (by internal analog modem). it detect the modem and dial and make the voices that you think that it is working properly but it does not connect .  i copy the log of PPP-gnome that may somebody can help me to solve the problem. thank you ?

this is the log :

/home/hamed/.wvdial.conf<Warn>: Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
WvDial<*1>: WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
WvModem<*1>: Cannot set information for serial port.
WvDial<*1>: Initializing modem.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATZ
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
WvDial Modem<*1>: OK
WvDial<*1>: Modem initialized.
WvDial<*1>: Sending: ATM1L3DT9718733
WvDial<*1>: Waiting for carrier.
WvDial Modem<*1>: ATM1L3DT9718733
WvDial Modem<*1>: CONNECT 460800 
WvDial<*1>: Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
WvDial Modem<*1>: ~[7f]}#@!}!}2} }9}"}&} }*} } }#}%B# }%}&P[7f]<"}'}"}(}"k@~
WvDial<*1>: PPP negotiation detected.
WvDial<Notice>: Starting pppd at Sun Jan 20 22:37:22 2008
WvDial<Err>: Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
WvDial<Err>: --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
WvDial<Err>: Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
WvDial<Err>: --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
WvDial<Notice>: Pid of pppd: 5639
WvDial<*1>: Using interface ppp0
WvDial<*1>: Connect time 0.1 minutes.
WvDial<*1>: Disconnecting at Sun Jan 20 22:37:27 2008
WvDial<*1>: The PPP daemon has died: PPP negotiation failed (exit code = 10)
WvDial<*1>: man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
WvDial<Notice>: I guess that's it for now, exiting
WvDial<Notice>: The PPP daemon has died. (exit code = 10)

---

