---
title: "18.04 LTS Auto run script at start"
date: 2020-03-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2020-03-14
In Aug 2019 at [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2398135&p=13790484#post13790484](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2398135&p=13790484#post13790484) I raised a question and at the time the answer at #4 worked and I have just updated the vpn server switching software with a new version. 

I want the software to be automatically loaded on start up. At present that is almost happening except that upon startup I get a message that authentication is required  for USR/BIN/ENV as super user. 

1. In the startup program I entered the run at start  command:

gnome-terminal --command="/usr/local/xxx.ac/bin/run_debian.sh"i

2. I added a line to /etc/sudoers that looks like this:

robin ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: /usr/local/xxx.ac/bin/run_debian.sh  

3. I made sure that run_debian.sh is owned by root:root
	sudo chown -c  root:root   /usr/local/xxx.ac/bin/run_debian.sh[/QUOTE]

run_debian.sh contains the following:

```
BIN_PATH="/usr/local/xxx.ac/bin"
xhost +
xhost
pkexec env LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$BIN_PATH DISPLAY=$DISPLAY XAUTHORITY=$XAUTHORITY "$BIN_PATH/xxx.ac" "$@"
sleep 5
xhost -

```

I expected that item 2 above adjusting sudoers would avoid the need for further authentication.

Doing some further research I find that it is recommended "you should add admin:// prefix to the path of the file you want to edit." Does this mean that the requirement  to re-enter the authentication password would go away, if I change the first line of the run_debian.sh  to BIN_PATH="admin://usr/local/xxx.ac/bin" ? Is there a need to alter anything else?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-03-16
I'm not familiar enough with everything you are doing, but LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$BIN_PATH would remove all the current search for libraries that you need. 
Also doubt that resetting the DISPLAY will help.  It is already set. Same for XAUTHORITY.
And the empty xhost shouldn't be needed. Doesn't make sense.

I've never used pkexec.  Usually, environment variables are set prior to calling the program that uses those variables.
```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$BIN_PATH:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
pkexec  "$BIN_PATH/xxx.ac" "$@"
```
is how I&#8217;d do it, knowing nothing about pkexec.

I thought **xhost** arguments had changed recently.  The xhost + stopped working sometime in 2016. From the xhost manpage:

```
       The local family specifies  all  the  local  connections  at
       once.    However,    the    server    interpreted    address
       "si:localuser:username" can be  used  to  specify  a  single
       local  user.  (See  the  Xsecurity(7)  manual  page for more
       details.)

```

BTW, fixing the code/quote tags above would be helpful, perhaps?

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2020-03-22
I regret that most of your explanation was above my knowledge, but I did understand that I had not made my request clear enough:

What I am trying to do is to have the script run  without asking for further authentication, because it should be  automatically provided by the change in sudoers. I had  added a line to /etc/sudoers that looks like this:

> robin ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: /usr/local/xxx.ac/bin/run_debian.sh


(This change to sudoers was given to me in the Aug 19 query referred to in my first post.)

In order to provide more information for this query,  I  added a debug command to the script quoted above:

> # R added to debug
set -v
trap "echo hit return;read x" DEBUG

This stepped through the script without incident until 

> ppkexec env LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$BIN_PATH DISPLAY=$DISPLAY XAUTHORITY=$XAUTHORITY "$BIN_PATH/vpn.ac" "$@"


The error message is:

> xhost:  unable to open display "DISPLAY XAUTHORITY=$XAUTHORITY DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS=$DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS"

Error executing command as another user: Request dismissed



Immediately after that error 

>  authentication is required for USR/BIN/ENV as super user.


After that I have to enter my authentication password into a popup box on screen. Then the script continues without incident.

Am I being any clearer as to what I am trying to do?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-03-22
Running GUI programs as root is a bad idea for many reasons.  Learned that a few decades ago, so no, I cannot help. Sorry.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2020-03-25
Regularly (in the far, far past) you can add that "run" command with the full path into the file /etc/rc.local. Be aware that this file needs to end with "exit 0".

Using asynchron upstart these scripts could be starting too early, then add a time delay as well

---

