---
title: "ACX 111 on 8.10 hp compaq presario 2500"
date: 2008-12-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by white.noise on 2008-12-30
Hi guys first post, thanks to many for the good help I've already found but this one I just can't get my head around.

My problem is in getting the driver to work I think, in following the trouble shooting guide I have the correct firmware, it has a driver bound to the card but not loaded in lsmod.

When I try to load it it comes up with a fatal error that it doesn't exist.

My computer is a HP Compaq presario (old hack) 2548i

The wireless card is has a Texas Instruments ACX 111 54Mbps Wireless Interface (lspci output) chipset

It is actually a D-Link AirPlus DWL-G650+ and slides in the side of the laptop


iwconfig brings up 
(I will shorten some stuff with ... thats not necessary)

IEEE 8.0211b+/g+ Nickname "acx v0.3.36"
Mode: Managed Freq 2.4... Access Point: Not-Associated (Could this be the prob)
Bit Rate .....
Retry min limit: 7 RTS thr:off
Link Quality=33/100 Signal level = 6/100 Noise level = 0/100
all others =0

sudo lshw brings up

network
  description: Wireless interface
  product: ACX 111 ...
  vendor: Texas ...
  physical id: 1
  bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
  logical name: wlan0
  version: 00
  serial: 00:...
  width: 32 bits
  clock: 33MHz
  capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
  configuration: broadcast=yes driver=acx_pci latency=64 module=acx multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11b+/g+

lsmod brings up only

acx
no acx_pci

dmesg has a heap of stuff on the wlan but the jist of it is

wlan0: configure(type:0x1010) FAILED
issue_cmd() also failing multiple times and heaps of other mesg's

thanks in advance for any help

---

### Post by white.noise on 2009-01-03
Has anyone had this issue with D-LINK cards? I have the same problem with my desktop. I had it working with a really old driver using ndiswrapper but it does not support wpa encryption.

I have also tried the stuff on sourceforge for the acx chipsets but could not get that to wok either.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

