---
title: "8.10 downloaded and no wireless and no microphone"
date: 2008-12-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Syd35 on 2008-12-01
I have a recent Toshiba laptop with Atheros AR242x wireless and ATI SBx00 Azalia sound cards, both with problems. I am a new user starting with Version 8.04 which also had no wireless until I replaced Network Manager with WICD, and booted using kernel 2.6.19 (and other changes like madwifi)
I upgraded to beta version and then the full release of 8.10 by downloading.(In so doing I lost 2.6.19 I think through a bad choice on my part during installation). I upgraded WICD to 1.5.4

The system randomly boots into 2 alternative states, one being very slow, no network connections and limited in applications; the other is faster and most functions work, except wireless networking and the microphone input doesn't function, as in Skype. WICD gives a message saying "No wireless network found" Current kernel is 2.6.27-9 generic. I can ascertain which state will boot at power up as my wireless router indicator light will show a connection, or not. 
Sound out works OK.

How can I fix the WLAN and mike input problems please.

You asistance to novices like me is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by IQRules on 2008-12-03
On wireless, try this link,


Ubuntu 8.10 - Atheros AR242x problems - Webdigity webmaster forums
Nov 18, 2008 ... A few days ago I've installed Ubuntu 8.10 to my Toshiba Satellite A200-1M4 laptop. The first and only problem I got with this installation ...
[www.webdigity.com/index.php/topic,8202.0.Ubuntu+8.10+-+Atheros+](www.webdigity.com/index.php/topic,8202.0.Ubuntu+8.10+-+Atheros+) AR242x+problems.html

---

