---
title: "PC Will Not Obtain and IP from Server"
date: 2009-03-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by abwddy2k on 2009-03-22
Ok first let me say all my other PC's that have been hooked to my server since I set it up will connect fine. Even if I release their IP's from the DHCP3 using WebMin. They will still pull the same ones they had before and work fine. My problem is I have a PC that I seldom use but I have it hooked up now and it will not pull an IP from my server. The first time I hooked it up it pulled a 192.168.4.18. Now using DHCP it will not pull anything. If I program the 4.18 back in it says it connects but I get no connection. I can not even ping any other PC on my network. Using WebMin under the Active Lease section I see the PC and the 4.18 IP but it is in a different Font type. It is like it is not establishing a trust between the server and the PC. If I try to program another statis in it still shows up in WebMin under the leases as the same 4.18.

Here is what my DHCP file looks like and I am using Firestarter also.

 # DHCP configuration generated by Firestarter
ddns-update-style interim;
ignore client-updates;

subnet 192.168.4.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
	option routers 192.168.4.1;
	option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
	option domain-name-servers 24.177.176.38, 24.178.80.36        ,24.197.160.18;
 	option ip-forwarding off;
	range dynamic-bootp 192.168.4.10 192.168.4.30;
	default-lease-time 21600;
	max-lease-time 43200;

I have checked the DHCP settings in firestarter and the IP range there is the same as in DHCP3. I have tried clearing the IP's of any PC not on and seeing if it will pul one of them. It still will not pull one of those and if I assign it a static of one of those it still shows as 4.18 but will never establish a trust. The cable is good I can hook it to my laptop and it will work fine and pull the same IP it always has everytime.

Any ideas would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by fixitdude on 2009-03-22
If you don't use it that often I would set a static IP but up high, like 4.200

You also need to set a gateway, DNS and a netmask of course.

You should be able to do that from webmin or manually in a script or via terminal, something like this...

ifconfig eth0 192.168.4.200
route add default gw 192.168.4.1
echo "nameserver 192.168.4.1" > /etc/resolv.conf

It's also possible that you have some firewall configs on either machine that is screwing things up, and/ or something that blocks IP's or MACs that the router didn't authorize (but that's not a normal home setup).

---

