---
title: "9.04 broken wireless?"
date: 2009-08-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Impact9 on 2009-08-29
I'm trying to get the wireless to work on my older Shuttle XPC. I installed Wicd because the Network Manager wasn't allowing me to connect to my wireless when I used encryption. Thing is I can't get Wicd to work either. 

My router is a Linksys WRT330N that I've set for 802.11b mode and as a last resort I set it to be unsecured. I'm not sure who make the wireless card in the XPC. I just know it's 802.11b compatible internal USB. I just turned off the encryption and the XPC still can't connect via wireless. It's stuck trying to obtain an IP address. I have noticed that if use a manual IP address I can connect to my router. But I can't find the DNS IP for my cox cable so I still can't get internet.

For now I have to run the system wired which really stinks.  Search is giving me all sorts of tips but no success.

---

### Post by dawnlove on 2009-08-29
The Wicd forms are full of problems (allot the same as yours) with 9.04 with no real answer. I went back to networkmanger.
> **Impact9 said:**
> I'm trying to get the wireless to work on my older Shuttle XPC. I installed Wicd because the Network Manager wasn't allowing me to connect to my wireless when I used encryption. Thing is I can't get Wicd to work either. 

My router is a Linksys WRT330N that I've set for 802.11b mode and as a last resort I set it to be unsecured. I'm not sure who make the wireless card in the XPC. I just know it's 802.11b compatible internal USB. I just turned off the encryption and the XPC still can't connect via wireless. It's stuck trying to obtain an IP address. I have noticed that if use a manual IP address I can connect to my router. But I can't find the DNS IP for my cox cable so I still can't get internet.

For now I have to run the system wired which really stinks.  Search is giving me all sorts of tips but no success.

---

