---
title: "8.04 (Hardy), BCM4318, Network Manager causing weird connectivity issues"
date: 2008-06-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Cruiser on 2008-06-13
**_Background_**
Compaq v5305wm
BroadCom BCM4318 using the b43 driver
```
$ lspci | grep Broadcom
06:02.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)
$ lsmod | grep b43
b43                   115104  0 
rfkill                  8592  3 rfkill_input,b43
mac80211              165652  1 b43
led_class               6020  1 b43
input_polldev           5896  1 b43
ssb                    32260  1 b43
$ ifconfig wlan0
wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:14:a5:e3:63:07  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)


```
Hardy 8.04 installation (completely updated)
```
$ uname -a
Linux Nibbler 2.6.24-18-generic #1 SMP Wed May 28 20:27:26 UTC 2008 i686 GNU/Linux

```
nm-applet version is 0.6.6
Access point is using WPA-PSK

If any more info is needed just ask. :D

**_The Problem_**
On first boot the B43 driver script installed the driver as usual. At the time the machine was wired via ethernet and wireless was functioning great. The first connection accepted the WPA key and connected like it should.

The problems begin when I reboot the machine **without** ethernet plugged in. Doing so results in any type of network connection failing as soon I log in (bother ethernet and wireless). I'm unable to load websites, unable to ping other machines on my LAN, unable to access my routers config pages via IP address but I **can** ping the router and get a response. The network-manager applet connection info window show the machine gets an IP address, DNS servers, ect, as do system logs. Plugging in an ethernet cable results in the same symptoms after network manager swaps back to ethernet manually or automatically. Network access remains broken until the machine is rebooted with an ethernet cable plugged in (which results in both working again). After a boot with ethernet plugged in I'm able to use wireless without any problems with or without the cable plugged in.

To troubleshoot the problem I've reinstalled the B43 drivers, reinstalled network manager and tried various combinations of wired and wireless connectivity settings with and without reboots. As far as I can figure out it appears to be a network manager issue of some kind but I can't put my finger on it due to being fairly new to Ubuntu.

Any ideas would be much appreciated. :D

---

### Post by ozelot on 2008-06-16
have a look at the interfaces file (/etc/network/).
network-admin(=network-manager) edits this file without notice.
maybe my scripting idea is of some use for you:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5197358#post5197358]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5197358#post5197358")
if not just ignore that part :)
i never click this netw. manager icon again!

cheers,
oz

---

