---
title: "Wired Network not working properly"
date: 2010-09-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
I use Ubuntu 10.04. Last night, I installed the most recent updates for this distribution, and before I shut off  my laptop, my internet was working smoothly. However, today my Internet connection is behaving very strange. 

When I try to connect to the internet, my browser times out or cannot establish a connection. I'm able to connect to low-input sites like Google search, but I cannot connect to sites like Facebook, Wikipedia, or even the Ubuntu forums (I'm currently using a friend's laptop to post this). Pidgin and Skype work without a problem, as well as Transmission. I primarily use Firefox, but I also tried Chrome, Opera, and Epiphany; none of them worked. Oddly enough, my update manager also cannot connect to the Internet to retrieve updates.

I have restarted my router, but it still works properly, as it is running fine on my friend's laptop. I have tried 'no proxy' in Firefox, but it did not help. I also disabled IPv6 in etc/sysctl.conf by adding the code: 

#disable ipv6
net.ipv6.conf.all.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.default.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.lo.disable_ipv6 = 1

None of these have made any changes. I have also attempted the solutions posted in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1438072") but it did not solve it either.

The only thing I can think of is that something in recent updates has created a conflict. Anyone have any ideas on what could be causing this problem?
[COLOR=Red]
**Update**[/COLOR] (9/13/10)
_Summary of current condition_: The wired network in Windows 7 works fine, as well as  the wireless connections in Ubuntu. The wired network selectively lets  me browse sites, with sites like Facebook and Wikipedia not loading at  all. I have tried all the solutions posted and linked to on the thread,  but unfortunately nothing has worked so far. Using the Live CD also  produces the same problems with the wired network. Personally, this is  starting to look like an issue with hardware and/or the driver instead  of the network settings and configurations.

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
anyone plz?

---

### Post by dapperdanny77 on 2010-09-12
check your interfaces with ifconfig -a
this shows you all your network devices. yours should be named like eth...
check the error counter of this output - if you have a lots of errors there it points to a physical problem with your cable or network interface card

---

### Post by gilloz on 2010-09-12
Hello fatigue:  I am experiencing the identical problem that you are.  Mine started acting weird when analytical websites were interrupting my web browsing.  I installed Ghostly Add-On and it prevented these sites from taking over my browser.  This morning I have not been able to get past my Ubuntu Firefox homepage.  I tried pinging google by way of the Terminal and it appeared to work OK.  I was going to change my server's DNS numbers to OPEN DNS numbers, but I haven't figured out, yet, how to do that.  So here I sit using my Windows Vista(dual boot) to try and find a solution, short of removing and reinstalling Ubuntu 10.04 over again.  I'll get back to you if I find out something, anything.  Good Luck.

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
I typed in ifconfig -a and these are my results:

```
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1e:33:d1:a4:00   
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1 
          RX packets:102 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 
          TX packets:33 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000  
          RX bytes:7266 (7.2 KB)  TX bytes:2756 (2.7 KB) 
          Interrupt:27 Base address:0xe000 
```From what I can see, there are no errors. Is there anything else I can try?

---

### Post by dapperdanny77 on 2010-09-12
you should check whether your dns resolving works

type on commandline:
nslookup [www.facebook.com](www.facebook.com) (or whatever)

check the sites which don't work
maybe you're using a wrong DNS server in /etc/resolv.conf

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
nslookup 
I got those
.....................................................................
[http://www.facebook.com](http://www.facebook.com)  
Server:        193
Address:    193
** server can't find [http://www.facebook.com:](http://www.facebook.com:) NXDOMAIN
.....................................................................

resolv.conf i got those
.......................................................
# Generated by NetworkManager 
nameserver 193
nameserver 83
....................................................

Sorry, i dont know how DNS server works. and also I cannot update ubuntu by update-manager. so it seems ubuntu network issues.

---

### Post by dapperdanny77 on 2010-09-12
ahh - sorry
you have to omit the "http://" when using nslookup

nslookup [www.facebook.com](www.facebook.com)

if your DNS resolving is not working properly than a lot of network related activities will fail - this is the reason for checking this.
usually resolv.conf is set automatically - I assume your router act as a dhcp server which provides all relevant informations to your computer.

So, it's crucial having a working DNS setup.

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
[B][COLOR=#1b0e74][SIZE=3]nslookup[ www.facebook.com]("http://www.facebook.com/") 
Server:        193.150.
Address:    193.150

Non-authoritative answer: 
Name:    [www.facebook.com]("http://www.facebook.com") 
Address: 69.63.
This is what I got. Everything is ok?
[/SIZE][/COLOR][/B]

---

### Post by dapperdanny77 on 2010-09-12
that's ok - this queries a dns server (193.150.193.150) for the ip of [www.facebook.com](www.facebook.com) which is 69.63.189.16

hmmm - the next could be checking http connectivity - this is the way your browser is talking to the web servers.
I don't know if wget is installed by default.

try to do 

ping [www.facebook.com](www.facebook.com)

it's not 100% sure that this should work because of possible firewall settings somewhere - if it works then your network is ok most likely

wget [www.facebook.com](www.facebook.com)
 
this is requesting the starting web page from facebook. the output is in a readable way.

if this is working properly I have no idea why your browsers are not working. if this is making problems ... firewalls ????

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
I tried to ping facebook, but it never connected after 5 minutes of waiting. Here is what showed up when I used wget:

```
wget http://www.facebook.com 
--2010-09-12 22:48:38--  http://www.facebook.com/ 
Resolving http://www.facebook.com... 66.220.153.11 
Connecting to http://www.facebook.com|66.220.153.11|:80... failed: Connection timed out.
```

So this suggests a network failure?

---

### Post by dapperdanny77 on 2010-09-12
puh - are you able to reach other sites via wget successfully?

can you provide a short list of whats working and what not

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
thank you for your help.

Work
google.com
myspace.com
Yahoo.com
skype(application)
pidgin(application)


Not working.
facebook.com
wikipedia.org
Some of yahoo news.
"update-manager" so that I can not even update ubuntu


so basically, heavy websites seems not working.
I hope this helps.

Once again, thank you so much for helping me, Great appriciate

---

### Post by dapperdanny77 on 2010-09-12
no idea right now - do you have any content filter on the router (keeping children away from sites,....)

ok - last try - check for local firewall settings

```
root# iptables -L
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination
```

if the output on your system looks like this - then no specific firewall rules are in place

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
I don't use any sort of filter. Here's what showed up:

```
sudo iptables -L
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination
```

So I don't have any firewalls up, correct?

---

### Post by dapperdanny77 on 2010-09-12
right - no blocking firewall locally


have to give up at this point - sorry

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
Thank you for help tho

I'm hoping to find solution cuz i would like to avoid reinstall ubuntu...

If anyone face to same issues, please let me know

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
I did everything I could. Could anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-09-12
Please limit your "bumps" to no more than 1/day. 
Another thing to check would be MTU. Buried in [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1376506") thread is how to check/change.

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-12
Im having similar issues and could anyone helpe me?
[http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1573156](http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1573156)  this is my theads

I use Ubuntu 10.04. Last night, I installed the most recent updates for  this distribution, and before I shut off  my laptop, my internet was  working smoothly. However, today my Internet connection is behaving very  strange. 

When I try to connect to the internet, my browser times out or cannot  establish a connection. I'm able to connect to low-input sites like  Google search, but I cannot connect to sites like Facebook, Wikipedia,  or even the Ubuntu forums (I'm currently using a friend's laptop to post  this). Pidgin and Skype work without a problem, as well as  Transmission. I primarily use Firefox, but I also tried Chrome, Opera,  and Epiphany; none of them worked. Oddly enough, my update manager also  cannot connect to the Internet to retrieve updates.

I have restarted my router, but it still works properly, as it is  running fine on my friend's laptop. I have tried 'no proxy' in Firefox,  but it did not help. I also disabled IPv6 in etc/sysctl.conf by adding  the code: 

#disable ipv6
net.ipv6.conf.all.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.default.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.lo.disable_ipv6 = 1

None of these have made any changes. I have also attempted the solutions posted in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1438072") but it did not solve it either.

The only thing I can think of is that something in recent updates has  created a conflict. Anyone have any ideas on what could be causing this  problem?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-09-12
Merged post from [SOLVED] thread. 
From Code of Conduct:> Please do not cross post, or post the same thing in multiple locations.

---

### Post by rrinjapan on 2010-09-13
> **fatigue said:**
> 
I use Ubuntu 10.04. Last night, I installed the most recent updates for  this distribution, and before I shut off  my laptop, my internet was  working smoothly. However, today my Internet connection is behaving very  strange. 

When I try to connect to the internet, my browser times out or cannot  establish a connection. I'm able to connect to low-input sites like  Google search, but I cannot connect to sites like Facebook, Wikipedia,  or even the Ubuntu forums (I'm currently using a friend's laptop to post  this). Pidgin and Skype work without a problem, as well as  Transmission. I primarily use Firefox, but I also tried Chrome, Opera,  and Epiphany; none of them worked. Oddly enough, my update manager also  cannot connect to the Internet to retrieve updates.



I've got all the same problems. I am really frustrated since all my computers use Ubuntu and I've had like no trouble really for about 6 months or more ... suddenly I can only get one machine on line ... I tried the :~$ nslookup [www.facebook.com](www.facebook.com) and I got:

;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

Don't know what to do. I've tried all the tricks that I used in the past ...

R

---

### Post by dapperdanny77 on 2010-09-13
try to use another DNS server e.g. 8.8.8.8 (public dns server from google)

edit /etc/resolv.conf:

```

nameserver 8.8.8.8

```

put this in the first line

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-09-13
Network manager saves the configuration details in /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections.In my case```
gksudo nautilus /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections
```
shows a file [COLOR="Purple"]Auto eth0[/COLOR] ,a portion of which is
```
[ipv4] 
method=manual 
dns=8.8.8.8; 
addresses1=192.168.1.100;24;192.168.1.1; 
ignore-auto-routes=false 
ignore-auto-dns=false 
never-default=false 

[802-3-ethernet] 
speed=0 
duplex=full 
auto-negotiate=true 
mtu=0 

```
So you can try different DNS or MTU by editing this file.You may need to restart the machine or run
```
sudo service network-manager stop
sudo service network-manager start

```
Regarding DNS you can try [COLOR="Purple"]4.2.2.1[/COLOR] or [COLOR="Purple"]8.8.8.8[/COLOR] and MTU [COLOR="Purple"]1492[/COLOR] ,for example(follow the link given by lowan)

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-13
@dapperdanny77: I'm afraid this didn't work. 

@dineshs: Thanks for taking a look at my problem. I'd like to try wait you suggested, but I don't know to find the addresses that you have listed in "addresses1=192.168.1.100;24;192.168.1.1" so that I can edit my wired connection manually in 'Network Connections'. 

I just tried to run the Internet through a live CD to see if it is an isolated issue. Turns out that even from the live CD, I cannot access certain  websites. I'm now starting to suspect that this is actually a hardware issue, as I have seen another user using a Toshiba bought inside Japan have a similar issue. I greatly appreciate everyone's help, and I'll keep trying these solutions until I am for sure it's an issue with the hardware. 

As a final recap: The wired network in Windows 7 works fine, as well as the wireless connections in Ubuntu. The wired network selectively lets me browse sites, with sites like Facebook and Wikipedia not loading at all. I have tried all the solutions posted and linked to on the thread, but unfortunately nothing has worked so far. Using the Live CD also produces the same problems with the wired network. Personally, this is starting to look like an issue with hardware and/or the driver instead of the network settings and configurations. 

One last thing; does anyone know how to test hardware to see if it's functioning 100%?

Thanks again for everyone's help so far!

---

### Post by rrinjapan on 2010-09-13
I'm having the same problems on this point as well. Booting from an install disk I get the same situation, won't connect in any way. I was beginning to think it was a hardware issue as well.

Mine might be a bit different because I have to connect using PPPoE which has it's own special issues.I've had it working fine until this last upgrade. (and it's still fine on my Ubuntu 10.1 dell mini on the same old set up).

I was thinking a re-install might not even help ...

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-09-14
> I'd like to try wait you suggested, but I don't know to find the addresses that you have listed in "addresses1=192.168.1.100;24;192.168.1.1" so that I can edit my wired connection manually in 'Network Connections'.
You have to substitute your values for IP, mask ,gateway,DNS etc.
> inet addr:83.248.235.110  Bcast:83.248.239.255  Mask:255.255.240.0 

Did you configure IP manually via network manager?Was this assigned by DHCP?
Can you post the results of
```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
```and
```
sudo lshw -C network
```
and ```
ipconfig /all
```[COLOR="Red"]in windows[/COLOR]

---

### Post by fatigue on 2010-09-14
Here are the results: 

cat /etc/network/interfaces
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```sudo lshw -C network
```
*-network                
       description: Ethernet interface 
       product: RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller 
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. 
       physical id: 0 
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0 
       logical name: eth0 
       version: 02 
        size: 100MB/s 
       capacity: 100MB/s 
       width: 64 bits 
       clock: 33MHz 
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list rom ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation 
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=full ip=83.248.235.110 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=MII speed=100MB/s 
       resources: irq:27 ioport:4000(size=256) memory:94810000-94810fff(prefetchable) memory:94800000-9480ffff(prefetchable) memory:94820000-9483ffff(prefetchable) 
  *-network DISABLED 
       description: Wireless interface 
       product: AR928X Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) 
       vendor: Atheros Communications Inc. 
       physical id: 0 
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0 
       logical name: wlan0 
       version: 01 
          width: 64 bits 
       clock: 33MHz 
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless 
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath9k latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn 
  

[CODE]Windows IP Configuration

   Host Name . . . . . . . . . . . . : Buckling
   Primary Dns Suffix  . . . . . . . :
   Node Type . . . . . . . . . . . . : Hybrid
   IP Routing Enabled. . . . . . . . : No
   WINS Proxy Enabled. . . . . . . . : No


Ethernet adapter Local Area Connection:

   Connection-specific DNS Suffix  . :
   Description . . . . . . . . . . . : Realtek PCIe FE Family Controller
   DHCP Enabled. . . . . . . . . . . : Yes
   Autoconfiguration Enabled . . . . : Yes
   Lease Obtained. . . . . . . . . . : Tuesday, September 14, 2010 2:07:51 
   Lease Expires . . . . . . . . . . : Tuesday, September 14, 2010 3:07:54 PM
   NetBIOS over Tcpip. . . . . . . . : Enabled

```

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-09-16
Have you tried setting different MTU values?
[This ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=872346")site explains how to findout the value of MTU
for example```
ping -s 1400 -c1 facebook.com
```find the max value
I also doubt (not sure)your problem is,
For 
>  product: RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller 

the driver loaded is
> driver=r8169
[This]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1328011") may help

---

