---
title: "Winmodem dials out, connection dropped by provider"
date: 2007-01-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by zubirrex on 2007-01-07
Hello, all. Thankfully, the winmodem in my Dad's old computer is recognized under 6.06LTS. However, the call is being dropped by the service provider after connection. Here's the Gnomeppp log:

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.55
--> Cannot set information for serial port.--> Initializing modem.--> Sending: ATZATZOK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L1DT**********
--> Waiting for carrier.ATM1L1DT**********CONNECT 44000 NoEC
--> Carrier detected. Waiting for prompt.
--> Don't know what to do! Starting pppd and hoping for the best.
--> Starting pppd at Sat Jan 6 21:29:17 2007
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 10539--> Using interface ppp0
--> pppd: [10]
--> pppd: [10]
--> pppd: [10]
--> pppd: [10]
--> Disconnecting at Sat Jan 6 21:29:24 2007--> The PPP daemon has died: A modem hung up the phone (exit code = 16)
--> man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
--> Try again and look into /var/log/messages and the wvdial and pppd man pages for more information.

Anyone know how I can fix this?

---

### Post by zubirrex on 2007-01-07
bump.

---

### Post by Horza on 2007-01-28
No, but I'm having the exact same problem, with dapper 6.10lts, updated to a few days ago, with two different ISPs, and what I suspect to be the same problem with various other methods (pppconfig/pon/poff), which is that what I think is happening is that either the computer/modem isn't recognizing the request for username that the ISP ought to be sending, or that the computer/modem hasn't managed to get the ISP to send anything (username and password interaction seems to put things in the logs when it happens, according to other msg's I've seen).

So if anyone has any insight into what might be causing this and how it can be fixed, that would be excellent.

I've followed the Shuttleworth instructions discussed in thread

  [http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=323138&highlight=winmodem](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=323138&highlight=winmodem)

to no avail.

---

### Post by contadinoste on 2007-01-29
Try #sudo wvdial (or changing the permissions of /etc/ppp/pap and chap-secrets)

Try adding a line 

Stupid Mode = on 

in /etc/wvdial.conf

---

### Post by Horza on 2007-01-30
Thanks, but lready tried these (and did so again) - when wvdial can't write to the secrets files it gives an error msg to that effect.  Stupid Mode just seems to barge in without doing a password first, and gets disconnected fairly quickly.

---

### Post by odin1965 on 2007-01-30
I am using GnomePPP and having a similar problem with my new ISP. Here's the log from connection to my old ISP which worked;

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT*70,,8930100
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT*70,,8930100
CONNECT 26400/ARQ
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
MTT_Sympatico_60-1
Username:
--> Looks like a login prompt.
--> Sending: [email]user.name@ns.sympatico.ca[/email]
[email]user.name@ns.sympatico.ca[/email]
Password:
--> Looks like a password prompt.
--> Sending: (password)
~[7f]}#@!}!}!}
}?}!}$}%j}"}&[7f][7f][7f][7f]}%}&89w},}'}"}(}"}1}$}%j}3}#} [15]V~
--> PPP negotiation detected.
--> Starting pppd at Tue Jan 30 18:24:29 2007
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 319
--> Using interface ppp0
--> local  IP address 142.177.110.121
--> remote IP address 142.177.110.252
--> primary   DNS address 142.177.1.2
--> secondary DNS address 142.177.129.11

Now here's the log from my new ISP. It appears to be waiting for a password or user prompt. My ISP  (isp.com) says on their website that I need to use PAP/CHAP

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT*70,,8433010
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT*70,,8433010
CONNECT 21600/ARQ
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
--> Connected, but carrier signal lost!  Retrying...
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT*70,,8433010
--> Waiting for carrier.
NO CARRIER
ATM1L3DT*70,,8433010
--> No Carrier!  Trying again.
--> Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
--> Disconnecting at Tue Jan 30 18:21:30 2007

Anybody else connecting thru isp.com with GnomePPP ?

---

### Post by Tuxgrrrl on 2007-02-01
Dont know enough to say this is a bug but it ranks a 10 on my agro scale.

Here is the cure 9for us Edu/Kuu/Ubuntu..

edit:
sudo chmod a+rw /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
sudo chmod a+rw  /etc/ppp/chap-secrets

reboot

dial out

reset permissions with:
sudo chmod a-rw /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
sudo chmod a-rw /etc/ppp/chap-secrets

---

### Post by Horza on 2007-02-02
I tried this (again), and it didn't work; the symptom of bad permissions for the secrets file is complaints in the log about not being able to write to them; the problem that zubirexx and myself have appears a bit further on in the process, where it would appear that either the ISPs aren't sending a request for username/password, or vwdial isn't understanding it.

The whole thing is certainly a sandwich missing from the Ubuntu Picnic.

---

### Post by kcomandich on 2007-02-10
> sudo chmod a+rw /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
sudo chmod a+rw /etc/ppp/chap-secrets

I had the same problem with my Mom's ubuntu machine, and an external modem. The ISP said that they were not receiving the password, even though it was entered in Gnome PPP. I had her try the above and I think that worked for her. Didn't have to reboot (don't see why you'd need to anyway). Yes it leaves the dialup password in a readable file, but I'm not too worried about anybody getting that.

This may also be useful:
[http://wiki.freegeek.org/index.php/Dialup_configuration]("http://wiki.freegeek.org/index.php/Dialup_configuration")

See the part about password problems. The username/pwd were already entered in /etc/ppp/pap-secrets for her, but I had her remove the quotes around them (probably a superstition and had nothing to do with fixing it, but I wanted to try something. :)

Thanks,
Kirsten

---

### Post by mazinoz on 2008-03-05
I found this wvdial.conf in /etc works for Vodafone in Australia and the Huwaei E220 modem (white)

I believe the key is to put anything that may stuff up the connection eg: Abort on no dialtone are placed before the dial commands. So you only dial if these are ok. 

Forget about getting assistance from Vodafone. For example one interaction I had went as follows.
What operating sytem are you using?
That is not relevant to what I need to know.
What operating system are you using?
Debian Etch
Hm, what operating sytem are you using?
Debian Etch
What operating system are you using? Is it Windows 95, 98, XP.
Debian Etch.  Expletives.

Now working on DNS and resolv.conf to ensure faster resolution of DNS and faster connections.

:lolflag:

---

### Post by mazinoz on 2008-03-05
This is the wvdial.conf file:  Anger towards Vodafone temporarily short circuited frontal lobe.

[Dialer Defaults] 
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
ISDN = off
Modem Type = Analog Modem
Baud = 460800
Abort on Busy = on
Abort on No Dialtone = on
Carrier Check = on
Check Def Route = off
Auto Reconnect = off
Init = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Init3 = AT+CGDCONT=1, "IP","vfinternet.au"
Phone = *99#
Stupid Mode = on
Dial Attempts = 2
Dial Command = ATM1L3DT
Username = 0414xxxx 
# Ask Password = off
Password = xxxxxxxxxx
Idle Seconds = 2
Auto DNS = on
Minimize = on
Dock = on

---

