---
title: ".jpg on samba share show no preview"
date: 2016-04-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by archimedes1981 on 2016-04-02
I need to view jpg images on a network share. I am using ubuntu 14.04 on both server and client. Everything including mp4, png, pdf and jpeg files show previews but not jpg. They show up as unknown in file type and the icon is of a default document. Right clicking and proprties on these images tell "jpg document". This is only while on these shared folders and jpg previews work fine on local folders.
Is this a bug?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-04-03
How large are they?  I know that the Dolphin file explorer in KDE has adjustable limits on the maximum file size for which a thumbnail is generated.  These limits differ according to whether the file is local or on a network share.  I don't use vanilla Ubuntu with Nautilus, but maybe it has a similar maximum file size setting you can increase.

---

### Post by archimedes1981 on 2016-04-03
I just discovered that logging in using another profile/user the same jpg images have previews, WTH ?
I'm trying to find out if there is a MIME list for this particular user but haven't figured it out yet.
Any help resetting this user's MIMEs ?

---

### Post by archimedes1981 on 2016-04-03
I edited 
~/.local/share/applications/mimeapps.list 
and then sudo update-desktop-database
but in vain. Also now deleted 
~/.local/share/applications/mimeapps.list 
but nothing

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-04-03
Did you look in the options and other settings in your file browser as I suggested?

---

### Post by archimedes1981 on 2016-04-08
yes I did, this is strange, al other files are showing previews even .jpeg is fine. Onlu jpg is messed up. Nothing too large etc. Same settings as the other user that works.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-04-08
What about a .jpg file on the local filesystem?

---

### Post by archimedes1981 on 2016-04-09
jpg on local system shows previews ok.

---

