---
title: "8.04 wireless"
date: 2008-03-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by hellssharpshooter on 2008-03-25
I am new to Ubuntu.  I just installed Ubuntu 8.04 Beta on my Gateway Laptop, and I have no Idea how to get the wireless working.  I used the Wubi installer to install the system, and everything seems to work fine except the wireless.  Could anybody offer some suggestions on how to solve this problem

---

### Post by Phil Urich on 2008-03-26
While many might discourage you from using a beta as a working new install, especially when new to Ubuntu, I did exactly that back with 5.10 and things worked out quite fine for me :)  The first thing I would do would be to check out this page:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported)

At the start it points out the command ```
lspci -v | less
``` I'd say, hit alt+f2, put that command in the run dialog, checkmark "run in terminal" and scroll up in down in there until you find your network card, then tell us what it says, which will make it much easier to help ya. 

You can also use the aforementioned link to check out for yourself if your wireless card is easily supported, and you might want to simply check out [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessNetworking](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessNetworking) for instructions on how to set up Wireless in Ubuntu in general.

Hope this helps!  
(Personally I've found wireless to be a bit wonky in 8.04-beta, my USB wireless adapter won't work at all anymore :( but the built in Intel one still works; if your laptop uses the centrino platform I pretty much guarantee it'll be a cinch to get it working, Intel is the one main manufacturer that comes to mind which readily opens up their network drivers).

---

### Post by hellssharpshooter on 2008-03-27
> **Phil Urich said:**
> While many might discourage you from using a beta as a working new install, especially when new to Ubuntu, I did exactly that back with 5.10 and things worked out quite fine for me :)  The first thing I would do would be to check out this page:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported)

At the start it points out the command ```
lspci -v | less
``` I'd say, hit alt+f2, put that command in the run dialog, checkmark "run in terminal" and scroll up in down in there until you find your network card, then tell us what it says, which will make it much easier to help ya. 

You can also use the aforementioned link to check out for yourself if your wireless card is easily supported, and you might want to simply check out [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessNetworking](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessNetworking) for instructions on how to set up Wireless in Ubuntu in general.

Hope this helps!  
(Personally I've found wireless to be a bit wonky in 8.04-beta, my USB wireless adapter won't work at all anymore :( but the built in Intel one still works; if your laptop uses the centrino platform I pretty much guarantee it'll be a cinch to get it working, Intel is the one main manufacturer that comes to mind which readily opens up their network drivers).

i found the info on my network card.  The info I found is the following:

05:02.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.
11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Broadcom Corporation Gateway 7510GX
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 64, IRQ 22
        Memory at d0304000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=8K]

Hope this is the info required to solve my issue.

Thanks

---

