---
title: "Internet connection"
date: 2010-04-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by JFDsouza on 2010-04-16
I see the network applet in the panel which shows that I am connected but I cannot access the net. I found out that I had to do this in firefox
about:config --> IPv6 --> disable.IPv6 true
With this tweak I was able to connect to the net. But when I use the Update Manager or Synaptic I am not getting connected, even if I use the cli and do ```
apt-get update
``` I cannot connect. When I do ```
ping -c3 192.168.1.1
``` I get 0% loss.:confused:

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-04-16
What do you get for
```
ping 8.8.8.8
``` 
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
and
```
route -n
```

---

### Post by JFDsouza on 2010-04-16
For ping 8.8.8.8
I get pinging 8.8.8.8 and all the lines that you normally get. No loss there

For cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

For route -n
There is a lot of out put. Which line do you want me to post? Which column?
Destination Gateway Genmask etc

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-04-16
Pl try this
```
gksudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf
```
And edit the file so that it looks like
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4
nameserver 192.168.1.1
```

---

### Post by JFDsouza on 2010-04-16
What should that do? and should I reboot or will I get the effect immediately?

---

### Post by terazen on 2010-04-16
The resolv.conf file has your dns settings.  It's possible that your local isp is having a problem with dns.  If that's the case you can always setup opendns's settings on the router.  Opendns is 208.67.220.220 and 208.67.222.222.

I've never seen 8.8.8.8 before, but I just looked it up and it's google's dns.

Also, if Dineshs's changes work (they should be immediate) then you would want to change your dns settings on your router.  I always change to opendns on my computers and my family's...and I'd imagine google's service is probably just as good.

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-04-17
terazen is right.Also do you have problem only while running sudo apt-get update? Are you able to browse?

---

### Post by JFDsouza on 2010-05-27
Sorry I have not come to forum for a while. I have upgraded to Lucid Lynx and I am not having the problem I had earlier. Thanks for the help.

---

