---
title: "BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n not working"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Ambivalent on 2009-04-23
I'm not sure where to start to get this corrected. It was working in Intrepid. Two hours later I reboot after Jaunty finished installing and it's no longer working.

Here is my LSPCI output:
0c:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:4328] (rev 03)

Any ideas? Please message me if you have any suggestions. I would REALLY appreciate it.

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2009-04-23
Have you already gone into System->Adminstration->Hardware Drivers and enabled the Broadcom STA option?

---

### Post by nexusnode on 2009-04-23
I was having a similar experience...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134631]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134631")

---

### Post by sidewinder12s on 2009-04-23
I think we have a close card, at least it will use the same driver. all mine says is BCM43xg 802.11b/g.

Mine just doesnt want to work, it sees the Connection, but the few times it connects the internet just doesnt work. Firefox doesnt load, I had the Same problem in 8.10. but i did something with it with a friend and got it working but now i dont remember. at the time we didnt think anything we were doing was working. 

Ah, the driver working is b43-pci-bridge

My computer is a 
Dell inspiron 1100
celeron something, like 5 years old
1 gig ram
80 gig HD
controller for the Network and the ethernet port are on the same controller, so that when i pull one out, the whole controller shuts off and i have to re-start to get any of it working. Last time we did stuff that seemed to be important. 

I have no idea, we ran a bunch of cammands and stuff to find out about the system and on the Next re-boot it was working. 

Any help?

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2009-04-23
Can you all post the results of:
```
lspci -nn|grep 14e4
```
I just want to check and see if you have a Broadcom wired ethernet card.

---

### Post by sidewinder12s on 2009-04-23
Yup, Both mine are.

Ethernet controller [0220]: Broadcom Corp. BCM4401 100Base-T [14e4:4401] (rev 01)
Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corp. BCM43xG 802.11b/g [14e4:4325] (rev 2)

---

### Post by Ambivalent on 2009-04-23
> **nexusnode said:**
> I was having a similar experience...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134631](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134631)


Thank you very much. That did the trick! I mentioned in the  other thread that this is something I would have automatically tried in Windows. Never occured to me to try it in ubuntu.

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2009-04-23
> **sidewinder12s said:**
> Yup, Both mine are.

Ethernet controller [0220]: Broadcom Corp. BCM4401 100Base-T [14e4:4401] (rev 01)
Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corp. BCM43xG 802.11b/g [14e4:4325] (rev 2)

Can you try the following:
```
sudo modprobe -r b43 b44 ssb wl
sudo modprobe wl
sudo modprobe b44
sudo ifconfig eth0 up
sudo ifconfig eth1 up
sudo iwlist scan
```
It will remove the ssb module, add the wl module, reload the b44 (wired card), and then bring up the cards and scan for wireless sites.

---

### Post by sidewinder12s on 2009-04-24
I dont know if that did anything, there is no speed in the connection. and looks like it just quit. I cant even tell most of the time if its really connected or its just saying that. this is one of my only problems with Ubuntu. here is what came up after i ran it


geoff@geoff-laptop:~$ sudo modprobe -r b43 b44 ssb wl
[sudo] password for geoff: 
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, it will be ignored in a future release.
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, it will be ignored in a future release.
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, it will be ignored in a future release.
FATAL: Module ssb is in use.
geoff@geoff-laptop:~$ sudo modprobe -r b43 b44 ssb wl
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, it will be ignored in a future release.
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, it will be ignored in a future release.
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, it will be ignored in a future release.
FATAL: Module ssb is in use.
geoff@geoff-laptop:~$ sudo modprobe wl
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, it will be ignored in a future release.
geoff@geoff-laptop:~$ sudo modprobe b44
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist, it will be ignored in a future release.
geoff@geoff-laptop:~$ sudo ifconfig eth0 up
geoff@geoff-laptop:~$ sudo ifconfig eth1 up
eth1: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device
geoff@geoff-laptop:~$ sudo ifconfig wlan0 up
geoff@geoff-laptop:~$ sudo iwlist scan
lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.

wmaster0  Interface doesn't support scanning.

wlan0     Scan completed :
          Cell 01 - Address: 00:13:64:41:9F:29
                    ESSID:"KM-400WG"
                    Mode:Master
                    Channel:1
                    Frequency:2.412 GHz (Channel 1)
                    Quality=85/100  Signal level:-45 dBm  Noise level=0 dBm
                    Encryption key:on
                    IE: Unknown: 00084B4D2D3430305747
                    IE: Unknown: 010882848B960C121824
                    IE: Unknown: 030101
                    IE: Unknown: 2A0100
                    IE: Unknown: 32043048606C
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s
                              9 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Extra:tsf=0000001888c4919b
                    Extra: Last beacon: 1388ms ago

pan0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

geoff@geoff-laptop:~$

---

### Post by darius2002 on 2009-04-24
I'm having a similiar issue as well. However, I can get it to work for me, but it just won't save the configuration after I reboot, and I have to go into the terminal and fix it everytime.

I am using a fresh install of Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty
and I have a BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n wireless adapter built into my macbook which no longer runs OSX, just purely Ubuntu, lol

When I boot, NetworkManager cannot connect/scan/view any of the wireless networks in my building at all (there are 3 different ones, with full signal at all times if the wireless card is working, cause I live in dorms)
And when I do a $ lshw -C Network
it shows my wlan0 as using b43
This driver does not work for my BCM4328 802.11a/b/g/n
However, wl works amazingly

So, I do this in Terminal:
$ sudo /sbin/modprobe -r b43
$ sudo /sbin/modprobe wl

And within a minute or so, my NetworkManager will reboot, and all is well, and I can see all the wireless networks in my area.

But my problem is, when I reboot my machine, it goes back to using the b43. I have then
gone and 
$ sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

then added the following lines to my blacklist
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist b43-legacy

And still no luck, on reboot of my system, I alway have to repeat this whole process to get my wireless running on the wl again so I can reach out to the wireless access points.
 (minus the blacklisting, the file saves perfectly, however it just doesn't make a difference)


Any help would be greatly appriciated. Thanks :D

---

### Post by mkhan01 on 2009-04-25
I think I have this working, I went to System->Administration->Hardware Drivers and selected "Deactivate" and then immediately selected "Activate"
After reboot, wait a few secs upon logging in... viola.. NetworkManager is using wl... 

Checking lsmod also proves that wl is the running driver...

In /etc/modprobe.d/ i can see a blacklist-bcm43.conf, though i am not sure if this was there prior to running the above procedure..

Thanks,

MFK

---

### Post by lindylex on 2009-05-15
This card was a terrorist for me using Debian Lenny.  I got it work using Ayuthia suggestion.

sudo modprobe -r b43 b44 ssb wl
sudo modprobe wl
sudo modprobe b44
sudo ifconfig eth0 up
sudo ifconfig eth1 up
sudo iwlist scan

Do the following to make it connect automatically upon reboot.

```

cd /etc/init.d/

```

```

nano lindylexhelpedme

```

Place the following code into lindylexhelpedme
```

#!/bin/bash

#I need to make this script to start up the wireless how sad!





wireless_start (){

	modprobe -r b43 b44 ssb wl

	modprobe wl

	modprobe b44

	ifconfig eth0 up

	ifconfig eth1 up

}



case "$1" in

    start)

        wireless_start

        ;;

    *)

        echo "Usage: $0 {start}"

        exit 2

        ;;

esac


```
Run this command.
```

update-rc.d /etc/init.d/lindylexhelpedme start 10 1 2 3 4 .

```

---

