---
title: "18.04 LTS - intermittent wifi issue (looks like DNS) on home network"
date: 2019-02-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by steve234 on 2019-02-04
Hi all,

I am struggling with an intermittent DNS issue when working from a particular site. I get random DNS addressing failures (a couple of times a week) - which last approx 30 - 90 minutes meaning teh wifi is connected, but I have no internet access (during which time I frantically google fixes on another device / restart my machine / try to ping various things). The internet comes back just as suddenly as it goes away. Sometimes all users are affected, others times it's just my machine. 

I have tried all the "fixes" I've found online e.g. adding google's DNS address 8.8.8.8 to my /etc/systemd/resoved.conf file (which I understand may be an outdated way to approach the problem).

The site has a "home" style internet setup using a standard wireless router, but I have no access to the router settings. My DNS seems to be handled by the router:

```
 Link 3 (wlp11s0)      Current Scopes: DNS
       LLMNR setting: yes
MulticastDNS setting: no
      DNSSEC setting: no
    DNSSEC supported: no
         DNS Servers: 192.168.1.254
          DNS Domain: home

```

my /etc/systemd/resoved.conf - is stock (having reverted from various fixes involving google DNS servers - all of which made no difference)

```

#  This file is part of systemd.
#
#  systemd is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
#  under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
#  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or
#  (at your option) any later version.
#
# Entries in this file show the compile time defaults.
# You can change settings by editing this file.
# Defaults can be restored by simply deleting this file.
#
# See resolved.conf(5) for details


[Resolve]
#DNS=
#FallbackDNS=
#Domains=
#LLMNR=no
#MulticastDNS=no
#DNSSEC=no
#Cache=yes
#DNSStubListener=yes

```

Running
```

journalctl --follow

```

gives me lots of messages about DNS settings.

During these failures I can't ping the google server at 8.8.8.8. Restarting the machine / networkmanager does not have any effect.

Any ideas of how to improve my setup so it's more robust to this issue, or use a workaround, is welcome

---

### Post by steve234 on 2019-02-06
Solved (for now I think) - messing with [COLOR=#000000]/etc/systemd/resoved.conf [/COLOR] was a very outdated approach

 I just changed my settings in Network Manager to use 1.1.1.1 and 8.8.8.8 as my DNS servers - fingers crossed.

---

