---
title: "BCM4312 802.11b/g Ubuntu 9.10 Dell Inspiron 11 Wireless driver now missing"
date: 2010-03-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by chrisscrewball on 2010-03-01
Hey, I'm sorry to bother, I tried to find my solution for hours now but no luck.
I'm a medical student and the other day I finally found the time to set up ubuntu for my first time. Everything was working great and I had wireless up and running. However, I tried to set up tethering to my iphone and after that my wireless hasn't been working (I've noticed no other problems). 
I used this tutorial first [http://www.webupd8.org/2010/01/nautilus-script-to-quickly-copy-files.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/01/nautilus-script-to-quickly-copy-files.html) 
Then I used this tutorial 
[http://www.webupd8.org/2010/01/easy-way-to-sync-your-iphone-with.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/01/easy-way-to-sync-your-iphone-with.html)
However, after doing these steps the computer needed to reboot (I actually forget exactly where but I had to reboot in the middle of the second tutorial). After my computer restarted my wireless no longer showed up. By this I mean that wireless network no longer even showed up as an option when I left clicked then connections. However, I did not lose the wireless profile under network connections. So I went to system and noticed that the Broadcom STA driver was no longer active. So I tried to activate again and received this message.

Sorry, installation of this driver failed.

Please have a look at the log file for details: /var/log/jockey.log

I have manually removed the file via package manager, rebooted, then reinstalled. However, the STA driver still shows up as inactive and gives me the exact same error message when I try to activate.
At this point I removed via package manager again and tried to install the other dryiver. It's the non-proprietary  one, maybe bcm? Anyway, it loaded perfectly and was active but I'm assuming since it's the wrong driver it didn't change my situation at all. At this point I tried plugging in my mvix nubbin (uses ralink 2870 chipset I think) and the option for wireless networks reappeared (however no networks appeared). When I tried to figure out how to get the driver it was way above my head and it involved using makefiles and such. I did remove the usb nubbin before I compiled all the data for the file below.

Attached is a file with all the information that HOWTO said should go in posts for wireless support. At the bottom of the file is the full readout of /var/log/jockey.log. 




Product- Dell Inspiron 11
Chipset- Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g (rev 01)


I actually have one other quick question too. Which backup program do you guys recommend for someone like me who is new to linux and messes up his system regularly? It can even be a totally full backup as I have an external with plenty of space. I just want to get something that I can backup regularly and is really easy to reload with. 

I probably won't be able to reply tonight as I have to be at the hospital early tomorrow. 
Thanks sooooo much in advance!

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-03-02
Not sure if something else you did is interfering, but for some reason after it appears to successfully activate Broadcom STA it cannot find the wl module.

When I initially installed 64-bit Ubuntu 9.10 on a USB drive configured with Broadcom STA enabled for a BCM4311, it automatically worked when booted on a newer Dell 1545 with BCM4312.  But after I installed Ubuntu on another USB drive using the newer Dell with Broadcom STA working, for some reason wireless did not work when booted on the older Dell (maybe due to a kernel update?).  So I had to deactivate Broadcom STA, reboot, then rectivate Broadcom STA (while connected to a mobile data network).  Then wireless started working again.

Note that it helps to be temporarily connected to some network with internet access when activating drivers.  Otherwise you may need to use the install CD temporarily checked as a repository source for Synaptic.

---

### Post by intel on 2010-03-02
Hi Chris

Please use the B43 driver, it may not be marked as stable but it works for you particular setup.

This issue seems to have been already resolved, kindly follow the guide here
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1266620](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1266620)

---

