---
title: "11.10, tp-link wn-321g (RT2070) doesn't connect"
date: 2011-12-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bunker6 on 2011-12-17
Hello.

I'm on a fresh clean install of 11.10.

The stick is visible and seems to be working: in my network manager I see the networks, it tries to connect, even asks for passwords for secured networks but does not connect.

lsudb:
```
Bus 002 Device 008: ID 148f:2070 Ralink Technology, Corp. RT2070 Wireless Adapter
```

iwconfig:
```
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:off/any  
          Mode:Managed  Access Point: Not-Associated   Tx-Power=20 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:on
          
usb0      no wireless extensions.
```

Is there something I can do? NDIS?

---

### Post by goodbye-windows(tm) on 2012-01-04
I have the same problem, I think....although I haven't checked any parameters via the command line. 

My unit is a no name USB wireless plug in unit, with a badly written instruction manual that has no info on a linux installation. The manual lists several types of chipsets that might be inside the unit, and one of them is the RT2070. I have no idea how to determine which chipset I have though.

I can plug it in to a usb slot, it finds the wireless networks within range and prompts me for the routers password (which is extremely strong and long) and uses WPA encryption. When I type the password in, the unit tries to connect, but the password screen just reappears and it asks me for the password again.

I'm running unity on a new Dell 620, ver 11.10 64 bit.

I can only guess that the driver needs installation, despite the fact that it appears to be functional without the driver installed.

I'm searching the forum for answers now and not finding much. I'm a total newbie, so some of the posts I find are useless to me (ala technobabble)

Regards,

Art

---

