---
title: "[ v8.10 ] No Internet after updates . . ."
date: 2008-12-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by misteralexander on 2008-12-20
I updated last night, not paying much attention to it. It updated many things for "AVAHI", I applied the updates & shut down my laptop (Sony Vaio). Upon restarting it tonight, I have no internet connection. "Eth0" is up, and active, but I can't "get out" to the net. This is VERY strange as it has always "Just Worked" in the past. Eth0 lists under "ifconfig" and also lists under "Network Tools". When in Network tools, if I click on "Eth0" and choose to "configure", it says "Device Does Not Exist", when it CLEARLY does.

I'm very confused by this, with all the conflicting information.

PLEASE HELP!:(

-alex.

---

### Post by gpredrag on 2008-12-20
Network Manager functionality has changed in 8.10.

By default, in Ubuntu NM is in so called "Unmanaged" mode, NM will not touch any interface mentioned in /etc/network/interfaces. (read /usr/share/doc/network-manager/README.Debian)

I also had (pretty weird and forgotten actually)  settings for my eth0 in /etc/network/interfaces, that actually worked in 8.04, but not in 8.10.

Resolution would be to:
comment out any mentioning of eth0 in /etc/network/interfaces and let NM handle it.

OR

properly configure eth0 in interfaces file (probably not best solution for Laptop).

OR

set
```

[ifupdown]
managed=true

```
in /etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf

---

### Post by bclintbe on 2008-12-20
I've got the exact same issue on my desktop. About 30 minutes ago I grabbed some updates that were available (I also noticed some of the avahi ones) and when it was finished my internet connection was dead. I've just tried basic restarting of the computer (no good), and now I'm on my laptop. What's happened???

---

