---
title: "Network fails to work after computer monitor sleeps."
date: 2007-10-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Christopher Young on 2007-10-31
Quit a strange thing is occurring.

When my monitor goes to sleep (basically, if the computer is inactive for more than 20 minutes) my network fails to work correctly.

This is true on both DHCP and static (I run static normally, but I set it to DHCP just to see if that would fix the problem.)  It is quite a strange issue.  As far as I can tell, there is no physical connection from my monitor to the network device, lol.

But when I bring my computer back up, it still shows it as connected, but the net will not respond.  Ping fails, loading pages on the local network fails, etc.

I did not have this problem in 7.04.  "ifdown etho0" and "ifup eth0" won;t make it work.  Restarting the networking service in via "/etc/init.d/networking stop/start/restart" does not work.  But a reboot does.

I am not saying this a bug, but possibly I have something misconfigured?  It is an on-board device.

**"lspci | grep Ethernet":**
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 7c)

**"cat /etc/network/interfaces":**
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto eth1
#iface eth1 inet dhcp

auto eth2
#iface eth2 inet dhcp

auto ath0
#iface ath0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
#iface wlan0 inet dhcp


iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.10
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1

**"cat /etc/resolv.conf"**
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!





nameserver 24.116.2.34
nameserver 24.116.203.232



Please tell me if you need anymore information.  I would just like to be forced to reboot if my computer is idle for 20 minutes or more. :(

Thank you.

---

### Post by Christopher Young on 2007-11-01
Bump.  Still having this problem.

---

### Post by tl3000 on 2007-11-01
I've also encountered this problem with both Fiesty and Gutsy.  I don't believe I had this problem with Edgy though.  There seems to be a time-out of some type, and the wireless connection is loss.  These disconnections do not seem to be related to any ACPI or APM timeouts. I could be working on the laptop and the wireless connection is inactive for a while, the WiFi connection would still die.  I can easily re-establish connection via the Network Manager in Gutsy and via WICD in Fiesty though.

You can simply check to see if your situation is similar to what I've encountered by running the following command:

ping -i 300 192.168.1.1

This will ping your gateway every 5 minutes.  I found that this would keep my wireless connection alive when the wireless connection is unused for a while.  If your connection stays alive, a simple script on startup would solve the disconnections as it did in my case.

---

### Post by Christopher Young on 2007-11-03
Thanks for the suggestion.  That's a good idea, but family is annoying.  If their precious MapleStory lags I get unplugged (wired connection).  So when I get home from work I have to reboot, which is just really annoying.

I'll run that command on my left screen all the time until a more permanent solution presents itself.  

Thanks for the reply!

---

