---
title: "No ethernet connection after Ubuntu 14.04 installation"
date: 2014-10-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by aquechipa on 2014-10-21
Hi everyone,

I've just finished installing Ubuntu on my mining rig, however now I'm not being able to get ethernet connection even though I could get connected for the installation. The network is working fine on other computers and the ports are enabled. I've even created a new ethernet connection with the manual settings from the network and I'm actually able to connect to that one, but when I open Firefox it never displays any pages. I have no idea of what could be the problem. I don't know if I'm missing any drivers that I should've installed or whatever. I hope you can help me cause I'm pretty desperate and I'm new to Ubuntu. 

Here's some info that I got from the terminal that might help:

With the code: sudo lshw -C network 




aquechipa@aquechipa-desktop:~$ sudo lshw -C network 
[sudo] password for aquechipa: 
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8111/8168/8411 PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet Controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:04:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 06
       serial: bc:5f:f4:f9:4c:eb
       size: 10Mbit/s
       capacity: 1Gbit/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=half firmware=rtl8168e-3_0.0.4 03/27/12 latency=0 link=no multicast=yes port=MII speed=10Mbit/s
       resources: irq:73 ioport:c000(size=256) memory:d0004000-d0004fff memory:d0000000-d0003fff
aquechipa@aquechipa-desktop:~$ 






With the code: cat /etc/resolv.conf


aquechipa@aquechipa-desktop:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
search Home
aquechipa@aquechipa-desktop:~$ 






With: cat /etc/network/interfaces


aquechipa@aquechipa-desktop:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
# interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback






I also tried ipconfig but it wouldn't even recognize the command

---

### Post by davit2 on 2014-10-22
Hi,
ipconfig must be ifconfig


put here output of "ifconfig" command please

---

### Post by haplorrhine on 2014-10-22
I'm new to this, but you might try broadcasting an ARP-request for the modem's or router's IP address in order to cache its MAC address to establish communication.

*tcpdump* will show you ARP request/reply activity.   Something like...

```
tcpdump -i eth0

might need sudo/root
```

Maybe it would work form another comp??  My wifi netbook shows me ARPs requesting our ethernet-connected desktop.

If estabishing a link through ARPing is the problem... [http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/precise/en/man8/arping.8.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/precise/en/man8/arping.8.html)

---

