---
title: "9.10 Share printer"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by flamingsole on 2009-11-06
Hello,

Just upgraded to 9.10 a few days ago. In 9.04, I was able to run Firefly and netatalk and share my printer, home directory, and iTunes library. with a Mac running Snow Leopard. Upon upgrading to 9.10, the Mac still attempts to connect to the Ubuntu printer, but it just hangs and doesn't do anything. The Mac says "Connected to printer..." and that's as far as it gets.

The Mac is still able to access the home directory and the iTunes library very nicely.

Also, Ubuntu is set to "Publish shared printers connected to this system" and also "Allow printing from the Internet". Ubuntu itself can print to the printer, of course.

Are there any settings that are different, or other things that I could try?

Thanks,
Jonathan

---

### Post by drhiii on 2009-11-06
I also lost my printer share when upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10.

Trying to figure this out now.

Lots of things broke going from 9.04 to 9.10.  While it is aggravating and consuming a lot of time to fix several systems, I wouldn't trade Ubuntu for anything.  This is a small price to pay for having this great opportunity at this OS.




> **flamingsole said:**
> Hello,

Just upgraded to 9.10 a few days ago. In 9.04, I was able to run Firefly and netatalk and share my printer, home directory, and iTunes library. with a Mac running Snow Leopard. Upon upgrading to 9.10, the Mac still attempts to connect to the Ubuntu printer, but it just hangs and doesn't do anything. The Mac says "Connected to printer..." and that's as far as it gets.

The Mac is still able to access the home directory and the iTunes library very nicely.

Also, Ubuntu is set to "Publish shared printers connected to this system" and also "Allow printing from the Internet". Ubuntu itself can print to the printer, of course.

Are there any settings that are different, or other things that I could try?

Thanks,
Jonathan

---

### Post by JonathanAquino on 2009-11-07
After upgrading from Jaunty to Karmic, I found that I had to repeat the "Ubuntu Print Server" instructions in [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu) before I could print to it from WinXP.

---

### Post by Gizmonty on 2009-11-07
I can add my voice to the issue and say that I also have lost printer sharing. Very frustrating. In fact, I have basically had to completely reinstall my system after the upgrade. I'm glad I have Snow Leopard for ongoing stuff as I have just lost several days productivity on my Ubuntu machines (which function as file server, print server and other background tasks) after the upgrade to 9.10. Frustrating. I agree that Ubuntu is fun, but I'm glad I'm not running a business with it.

---

### Post by BossaKungen on 2009-11-08
I get the same problem, I could use the shared printer in 8.10 and 9.04, but in 9.10 I can see the printer from the other machines but not add it (a Vista machine).

---

### Post by rmadla on 2009-11-14
Same issue - I've spent all morning on it. (OK, it's 2PM. I've spent half a workday on it.) I'm totally at a loss: before the server was version 9.10, the Windows clients on my home network could at least see the shared printers (although even then, printing was iffy): now they can't even see them. The Ubuntu clients can see and print to the shared printers without issue. Only the Windows clients were affected.

I'm still mostly a noob on Ubuntu (not with computers: I learned to program with punchcards!), so I really don't know what to troubleshoot. Any input from those with more experience would be hugely appreciated! (I feel obliged to say this: Ubuntu is awesome. This is not a flame or a gripe, just a call for help!)

---

### Post by rmadla on 2009-11-14
> **JonathanAquino said:**
> After upgrading from Jaunty to Karmic, I found that I had to repeat the "Ubuntu Print Server" instructions in [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu) before I could print to it from WinXP.

Which sections of that page seem to be critical? I've been through it several times, and still my Jaunty-to-Karmic upgrade has left me without printers for my Windows clients!

Thanks in advance for any advice you may offer.

---

### Post by rmadla on 2009-11-14
What follows is a set of instructions that worked for me. Be aware that I am an Ubuntu noob (albeit with quite a bit of computer expertise) and so please forgive the lack of explanation regarding the reasons that the following steps work. (In fact, if you can explain them, that would be much appreciated!)


On the server:
Be sure that CUPS is installed, and that the following two conditions are true:
- the server settings are set to publish printer information, and
- the printer is shared.

(These conditions were undoubtedly true if you were printing with the previous version of CUPS and Ubuntu, but it is wise to check. In Ubuntu 9.10, both can be checked by running System > Administration > Printing and selecting the obvious menu items.)

Determine the address of your server (if you don't already know it) by typing "ifconfig" in a terminal window, and noting the number which follows, "inet addr:".

On the Windows client:
If you haven't alredy installed the printer in the past: find the driver for the printer you want to install (ideally, by downloading the latest version from the manufacturer) and saving it to a Windows-accessible disk. The rest of this post assumes you've used the printer in the past on the windows system, and are simply having trouble connecting since the Ubuntu or CUPS upgrade.

In Windows, open Explorer, and type "\\" followed by the IP address of the print server as determined above. Enter the username and password you use to administer the server.

Wait up to five minutes for the list to refresh. (Given the length of time involved, time itself seems unlikely to be the key factor. After awhile, nonetheless, the list will appear, but for reasons unknown to me. Hitting the "refresh" button in Windows does not accelerate the process. I suspect that CUPS is preset to publish the printer list on a preset schedule, but I don't have the time just now to test this hypothesis.)

Right-click on the printer once it appears, and select "Connect ..."

You will be told that the server may install a driver, and will be given dire warnings by Windows suggesting that installing a printer driver will almost certainly reformat your hard drive and convert your computer into a spam-serving purveyor of porn. Ignore this tripe and demand to continue. 

When you are informed that the server does not provide the driver, once again, bravely surge forward and inform the Windows system that you are willing to search for it (despite risks to life and limb) by clicking "OK."

Select the printer manufacturer from the resulting list.

In the right-hand panel, your printer may be at the bottom of the list: the default printers are in alphabetical order, but any printers which were installed since the list was first compiled are at the *bottom* of the list, after the final alphabetical entry. Select your printer and wait patiently. After awhile, it should be connected.

Oddly, it will report that its status is "access denied." Nonetheless, it will print. It will not, however, return information regarding its true status (such as ink or toner level).

Afterword: it turns out that there are hundreds of folks who have encountered this particular problem. The solution:

On the server:
Edit the file, "/etc/samba/smb.conf" as root, and to insert the following line in the "[printers]" section: "use client driver = Yes"

Thanks to all who have helped me in the past: here's hoping this helps someone in the future!

---

### Post by jws957 on 2009-11-14
Thank you - it solved my problem!

---

### Post by rmadla on 2009-11-15
A follow-up: after rebooting both the server and the Windows clients this morning, my so-called solved problem reverted to "un-solved." Quite frustrating: the printers so carefully tested last night no longer worked.

I reviewed yesterday's work, and decided that one of the problems might simply be that both Samba and CUPS were being used. I need Samba to share files, but CUPS is able to share printers with Windows systems directly. I decided to "hit the problem with a hammer" (partly out of frustration) and so I uninstalled Samba, then went to the windows systems and deleted all printers. Following that, on the windows systems, I connected the printers using using the "Connect to a printer on the internet" option and the ip address for my server ([http://Server-Name:631/printers/Printer_Name](http://Server-Name:631/printers/Printer_Name)). This was based on information in the page recommended by JonathonAquino; the critical section was under Unbuntu 7.04. It works for Karmic too. ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu#WindowsXP](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu#WindowsXP) Client Machine)

All printers are once again working, and without Samba, I had no issues with "access denied."

I then re-installed Samba, along with a GUI called system-config-samba, and re-shared the folders I wanted to share.

So far so good, and I've test-rebooted everything. (I should have done that last night before posting, but ... well, fatigue.)

Sorry if anything in my earlier "solved, for me at least" caused problems for anyone.

---

### Post by bradhaack on 2010-01-03
I'm having similar troubles.  I have a printer connected to my ubuntu 9.10 box & I used to be able to print from my Mac laptop, but can't anymore.   I got it working by adding the printer (on the mac) with the ip address of my linux box.   But it's a dynamic ip assigned by my router so that is not a fix.     Printing from the Mac worked before, & I think it was a painless setup.   What changed?   Do I need to setup a static IP, or configure DHCP somehow?

---

### Post by matthewli on 2010-01-13
i get it!!!
i know the reason just change to the root at cli and start the cups service.
you printer will show up.
this should be a bug 
btw : my scim did not work neither.
any suggestion?

---

### Post by Steve R. on 2010-01-15
I found then lost my "cheat" sheet to print from WindowsXP computer to a Ubuntu computer that has a printer attached to it. 

From another website: ([Superuser]("http://superuser.com/questions/94552/how-do-i-share-printer-from-ubuntu-9-10-to-windows-to-mac-os-x-and-to-other-u"))
> On the Windows machine needing to print - the Windows clinet (tested with XP)

The Windows client has the ability to print to a remote printer via ipp.

   1. Add a printer
   2. Set to "A network printer"
   3. Select the option Connect to a printer on the Internet or on a home or office network and simply enter the URI to the printer, e.g., ipp://10.10.10.52/printers/Office.
   4. Select your driver. It may take a bit of hunting, but it seems to be the same scenario as with accessing a printer with Microsoft's SMB protocol


For me, the URI to the printer was: [http://seve:631/printers/Canon-iP5000](http://seve:631/printers/Canon-iP5000)

Hopefully others, including me, will be able to use this information.

---

### Post by darmok47 on 2010-01-17
I read the posts, and i do not understand how someone solved the problem. here my problem.

print from snow leopard to ubuntu 9.10 with epson plugged.

from windows work with the above procedure.

qith mac i have tried to manually setup connection via ipp and lpd protocol, but doesn't work, mac says that printer is idle and i start to print, and after the program on mac says that printing is in pause..... and the REAL printer doing NOTHING!

solutions?

---

### Post by afro22 on 2010-01-18
I have similar problem, after upgrading to 9.10 I can't find shared printer.
I have home network with 2pc, both have ubuntu 9.10. 
One PC have connected printer via USB, installed CUPS, allowed printer sharing etc. From second PC I start "find network printer", but answer is "No printer was found at this address"
In syslog is error message:

python: io/hpmud/jd.c 88: unable to read device-id
python: io/hpmud/jd.c 865: invalid ip xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
python: hp-makeuri[13483]: error: Device not found

any idea where is the problem?

host: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx exist! ping xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx works!

Thanks

---

### Post by darmok47 on 2010-01-18
PROBLEM SOLVED!!!

simply use cups web interface on mac for setup network printer

open safari or a web browser

go to localhost:631

go to administration section and click on find new printer!

if mac do not find the printer then click on "add printer" and manually add the printer following the procedure.

for an linux printer i suggest to use ipp (internet printing protocol)

i have tested in snow leopard for a printer on ubuntu 9.10 and it work!

---

### Post by Wmrit on 2010-01-18
Thanks everyone particularly rmadla  (see his last post) I have been a long time in the wilderness with this problem

---

### Post by NacIK on 2010-01-19
I have a simular problem with 9.10.  Both my laptop and desktop are running 9.10.  When my printer is hooked up to my laptop I can see it on my desktop, but when hooked up the other way around it does not work.

---

### Post by Gatch on 2010-01-23
I too had a problem printing from a Windows unit to my HP printer attached to my Ubuntu machine when I upgraded.

The network and shared printer was set up and everything was visible from Windows. But would not print.

It ONLY worked after I copied the IP, port, printer info into the "LOCATION" dialog box for the printer properties. It is the same info when setting up the IP printer. > (Mine is :[http://192.168.1.100:631/printers/HP_Laserjet_1022](http://192.168.1.100:631/printers/HP_Laserjet_1022)).

Maybe this will help someone with a similar problem.

---

### Post by dnpate on 2010-01-24
reply #19 worked for me.
TX

---

### Post by Nordite on 2010-01-24
I just went through the same thing.  I had to change my smb.conf file.  You have to make sure all the PCs on your network are using the same workgroup name.  so if you are connecting to Windows PCs then your workgroup name is probably going to be "workgroup".  Go into your smb.conf and under the globals area remove the # from the begining where it says 
# workgroup = workgroup
Then make sure all the PCs on your network including your Ubuntu PC have the same workgroup name by changing them under globals to 
workgroup = workgroup (or whatever your workgroup name is)

Then add your PCs like below: 
Netbios = Ubuntu or (Whatever Your PCs name) 
do this for each PC on your network.
Then save your smb.conf, reboot and wait patiently.  I also rebooted all my PCs and my router.
It took about 12 hours before mine actually connected to everything my shares and printers.:)  Good luck!
Nordite

---

### Post by damilaredavids on 2010-01-26
Here’s how to do a basic shared printer setup using Samba in Ubuntu  9.10 Karmic Koala. This is the easiest way to do it, since with guest  access and no authentication, anyone who can access the computer over a  network connection will be able to print to the shared printer. However,  this involves minimal security, so I would not recommend using this  configuration on a machine with any actual file shares. Overall, I think  this setup would be best for home users, or small offices. Enterprise  users, or home users with more rigorous security needs, should use a  more secure configuration. All that said, here’s how to set it up.
 First, you will need a printer of some sort connected to your Ubuntu  machine. Either a USB printer or a networked printer (one with its own  IP address) will work, so long as it’s properly set up on your Ubuntu  computer.
 Next, open up a Terminal window, and install Samba using the  following command:
[B]
sudo apt-get install samba[/B]
 We’ll need to edit Samba’s configuration file, smb.conf, with the  following command (make certain to create a backup copy of the smb.conf  file first, in case anything goes wrong):
[B]
sudo gedit /etc/samba/smb.conf [/B]
 (Note that you can replace gedit with your editor of choice, but if  you’re in the GUI, you might as well use gedit.)
 Once inside the smb.conf file, you’ll need to change a number of  lines. Some of the lines will be commented out with a semicolon (;) or a  crosshatch (#) in front of them. Note that any lines we change here  will need to have the ; or the # removed to activate them.
 Because we’re going to enable guest access in Samba (which is  inherently less secure than user-based authentication), we’ll configure  Samba by setting it so that only the local area network can access it.  Add these lines to the **[global]** section of your  smb.conf file:
[B]
interfaces = lo eth0
bind interfaces only = true[/B]
 Edit this line in the **[global]** section to enable  guest access in Samba (if the line isn’t there, add it):
[B]
security = share
[/B]
 
 Finally, change the **[printers]** share definition so  that it looks like this:
 [B][printers]
comment = All Printers
browseable = no
path = /var/spool/samba
printable = yes
guest ok = yes
read only = yes
create mask = 0700[/B]
 Save your changes to the smb.conf file, and restart Samba with the  following command:
[B]
sudo /etc/init.d/samba restart[/B]
 You can test your Samba definitions with the use of the **testparm  **command. If your definitions come up OK, you should be ready  to connect to the printer
 To use your shared printer, access your Ubuntu box from another  machine. On a Windows PC, go to Start, Run, and type \\hostname (or the  IP address, \\192.168.0.1), and click OK. If you typed everything  correctly, you should see a window with your printer icon. Double-click  the printer icon to install it (make sure you have the correct driver  for your model of printer on hand; check your manufacturer’s website)  and you should be set to print. You can also go to network, add a printer, select a network printer, browse and you should now see your printers installed in Ubuntu Karmic.

 Note that Windows may claim that access is denied to the printer, but  if you typed everything correctly, you should be able to print anyway.

---

### Post by crustyBarnacle on 2010-03-05
@rmadla - Thanks!

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu#WindowsXP%20Client%20Machine]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu#WindowsXP%20Client%20Machine") works as you stated when sharing from Ubuntu 9.10 (Karmic) to a Windows machine.

---

### Post by Phantomgraph on 2010-03-05
Thanks damilaredavids!

Your solution worked perfectly on my winblows 7(starter) Net-book, and now both my girlfriends computers can 'see' the printer shared on my Ubuntu machine.

Now I had my net-book working both before and after the upgrade to 9.10 (with much mashing of teeth and face planting), however I can not figure out how to get the other winblows machines on my LAN to connect to the 'Ubuntu' printer.

The problem is now that winblows 7 (home premium-64 bit) nore Vista (home premium-64 bit) can't connect to the printer share even thou they can see it just fine.

I had never gotten the printer to even be seen on my girlfriends machines before so I'm encouraged. Both computers report "Windows cannot connect to the printer. Operation could not be completed (error 0x0000000d)" 

Update! Fix for adding Vista 64 bit and Windows 7 64 bit!

Last night after taking a break from the printer issue I got an idea from other posts and the Ubuntu guide.

I was able to connect both computers to the Ubuntu share by starting the _printer wizard_, stopping the auto search and manually typing in the address in the following format...

```
http://computername:631/printers/printername
```

I used _have disk_ for the drivers, and ignoring dire warnings from windows installed the printer driver from the manufacture.

Once these steps were completed, both machines came up and print just fine. 


Thanks all,

---

### Post by bkadoctaj on 2010-03-16
> **rmadla said:**
> A follow-up: after rebooting both the server and the Windows clients this morning, my so-called solved problem reverted to "un-solved." Quite frustrating: the printers so carefully tested last night no longer worked.

I reviewed yesterday's work, and decided that one of the problems might simply be that both Samba and CUPS were being used. I need Samba to share files, but CUPS is able to share printers with Windows systems directly. I decided to "hit the problem with a hammer" (partly out of frustration) and so I uninstalled Samba, then went to the windows systems and deleted all printers. Following that, on the windows systems, I connected the printers using using the "Connect to a printer on the internet" option and the ip address for my server ([http://Server-Name:631/printers/Printer_Name](http://Server-Name:631/printers/Printer_Name)). This was based on information in the page recommended by JonathonAquino; the critical section was under Unbuntu 7.04. It works for Karmic too. ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu#WindowsXP](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NetworkPrintingWithUbuntu#WindowsXP) Client Machine)

All printers are once again working, and without Samba, I had no issues with "access denied."

I then re-installed Samba, along with a GUI called system-config-samba, and re-shared the folders I wanted to share.

So far so good, and I've test-rebooted everything. (I should have done that last night before posting, but ... well, fatigue.)

Sorry if anything in my earlier "solved, for me at least" caused problems for anyone.

I can attest to this method working properly with Ubuntu Karmic PPC as the print server and Windows 7 Ultimate 64-bit as the client.  It appears that samba is entirely unnecessary and that the real issue here is actually CUPS and how it interacts with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Phantomgraph on 2010-03-19
Something new I noticed this morning -> After rebooting from a kernel update the darn windows computers couldn't connect either to the printer or a Samba Share.

After I rebooted Samba manualy it worked fine.

```
sudo /ect/init.d/samba restart
```

---

### Post by Silvertones on 2010-03-23
> **Gatch said:**
> I too had a problem printing from a Windows unit to my HP printer attached to my Ubuntu machine when I upgraded.

The network and shared printer was set up and everything was visible from Windows. But would not print.

It ONLY worked after I copied the IP, port, printer info into the "LOCATION" dialog box for the printer properties. It is the same info when setting up the IP printer. 

Maybe this will help someone with a similar problem.

Same issue here. I can do the "add network printer" thing each day and then it'll print. After reboot no longer prints but I just go through the first portion and because the drivers are already installed it doesn't do that part. Once it's found the printer I double click on it and it asks " do.... default" and finish. Takes about a minute. Now my question: How to I find the above info. I know the IP but were do I get the port, & the rest of the info?

---

### Post by skyeagle on 2010-05-16
SOLVED!!!

You should use IPP with this params for example:

```

192.168.0.100:631/printers/Samsung-ML-2010

```

Don't forget DASHES!!!

---

### Post by Silvertones on 2010-05-16
was a firewall issue. It's fine now. Also need to wait for about 10 minutes once i fire up the machines to let everyone find each other. I read somewhere about this as well.

---

