---
title: "11.04 can't print to printer on WinXP share"
date: 2011-05-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by reidi on 2011-05-28
xxxxxx:/etc/samba$ uname -a
Linux xxxxxx 2.6.38-8-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Mon Apr 11 03:31:50 UTC 2011 i686 i686 i386 GNU/Linux

I have a printer shared off of Windows XP.  I have always been able to print to this from Ubuntu by adding a network printer through the "Windows Printer via Samba" gui.

Now, in Natty, I can set up the printer no problem but all jobs fail. In the printer properties gui I can see this text briefly: "Processing - unable to connect to cifs host".

The errors in /var/log/cups/error_log are:

E [28/May/2011:14:32:31 -0700] [Job 15] Tree connect failed (NT_STATUS_BAD_NETWORK_NAME)
E [28/May/2011:14:32:31 -0700] [Job 15] Tree connect failed (NT_STATUS_BAD_NETWORK_NAME)
E [28/May/2011:14:32:31 -0700] [Job 15] Tree connect failed (NT_STATUS_BAD_NETWORK_NAME)
E [28/May/2011:14:32:31 -0700] [Job 15] Unable to connect to CIFS host, will retry in 60 seconds...

I've googled this to exhaustion with no help found.

I don't mess with my smb.conf except to change the Windows workgroup to match the rest of my local network.

I can browse all the other cifs shares on the network with no problem whatsoever, including the ones on the machine where the printer is shared.

Any ideas Samba/CIFS gurus?

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-05-28
Do you have another install of Linux that has a working printer connection? If so
open up the properties enlarge the box and get the whole device URI smb:// WORKGROUPxx
and write it down. 
 Now type:
localhost:631 
in URL box and it will go to CUPS and install printer from there using the URI you wrote down,
is just like adding pretty easy to follow. 
 I was getting the wrong URI in my 11.04's all of them but not 10.10 and 10.04 using Windows Workgroup and samba network printer.

---

### Post by reidi on 2011-05-28
> **garvinrick4 said:**
> Do you have another install of Linux that has a working printer connection? If so
open up the properties enlarge the box and get the whole device URI smb:// WORKGROUPxx
and write it down. 
 Now type:
localhost:631 
in URL box and it will go to CUPS and install printer from there using the URI you wrote down,
is just like adding pretty easy to follow. 
 I was getting the wrong URI in my 11.04's all of them but not 10.10 and 10.04 using Windows Workgroup and samba network printer.

Bingo.  Why didn't I think of that? Have two good eyes but just don't see...  Here is the deal:

The printer URL is automatically configured by the gui as "Canon i860".  Notice the space?  In Natty this is generated (incorrectly) like so: "smb://MSHOME/CATALINA/Canon20i860".

In Meerkat like so: "smb://MSHOME/CATALINA/Canon%20i860"

So, a simple edit, adding one "%" solved problem.
I was able to edit the "Device URL" directly in the "Printer Properties" for the non-working printer entry.
Thanks!

If I could clarify one thing - I think garvinrick4 means:
1. get the correct URL of the cifs printer share.
2. open a web browser and enter "localhost:631", which starts the CUPS printer administration interface.
3. use the Admin tab there to add the printer, using the URL from step 1.

---

### Post by Njorl on 2011-06-03
I've spent an hour plus battling "unable to connect to cifs host" in Ubuntu 11.04 Natty Narwhal, trying to print with a Windows Vista printer.

Five minutes after finding this thread, all was well.  (So, grateful thanks to the posters.)

I'll hazard a fairly uneducated guess that the problem of "20" in place of "%20", in the Device URL, will occur for all Samba printers.  So, this probably merits a bug fix, rather than just waiting for everyone to give up on Windows XP.

---

### Post by jaws222 on 2011-06-16
BEAUTIFUL!  This has been a pain in my A$$ for a few weeks now.  it worked like a charm!  Thanks:p

---

### Post by rvc on 2011-08-04
Just hit this problem myself.  Same issue with the URI being generated with a 20 to represent space.  Adding the % fixed it.  Thanks.

---

### Post by combinatorist on 2011-08-18
Hello Everyone,

I am trying to access a Samba Printer Share which has spaces and an ampersand in the printer name.

I've been unsuccessful in getting Ubuntu 11.04 to accept the printer name.

I tried to add %20 (for spaces) and %26 (for &) as described above, and I still get the error message: 

Processing - Unable to connect to CIFS host, will retry in 60 seconds...

I would greatly appreciate any ideas. Thank you in advance for anything.

---

