---
title: "8.04 No Wireless &amp; No Sound"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by palough on 2008-05-13
Hi all the experts out there,

Upgraded from 7 to Hardy Heron 8.04 and lost the most important functions required.  The thing is, everything worked perfectly under the previous release.  This is what I would expect from Microsoft with Vista, not with a linux distro from Ubuntu.  Blotted the copy book here fellas!

1.  No Wireless.  I can occasionally see the list of wireless routers in the neighbourhood but can never connect.

2.  What happened to default Wireless, everything in the Menu is only for Password protected wireless routers.  How the hell does someone connect to an un-password protected wireless router?

3.  No sound, tried everything I know but still no sound, need help.

4.  What happened to the Boot Manager?, how do I now select Windows as my default OS.  Before it was easy, now I can't find out where to do it, any assistance appreciated.

Cheers

---

### Post by ajopaul on 2008-05-13
Yes have noticed NetworkManager behaving weird sometimes. If you know the essid, then kill NetworkManager using sudo pkill NetworkManager then sudo iwconfig eth1 essid xxxx next acquire a ip thru sudo dhclient eth1

---

### Post by palough on 2008-05-13
Thanks for the advice it is much appreciated.  Unfortunately I am a mere mortal and not a computer geek, one who has enjoyed Linux and all it has to offer while the distro "worked", but does anyone know how to log into a wireless that is not password locked?, there are only options in Ubuntu for wireless that is encrypted, having to insert a password before the OK box lights up. 

Another issue is, without knowing the essid being broadcast its impossible to log in.  Its very dissappointing and extremely bad PR for the Ubuntu Quality Control and Beta Testing regime.  Takes me back 10 years when nothing worked with Linux and it was only for geeks, which essentially is what Hardy Heron is, not for ordinary people.

A real bad advertisement for Linux on the Desktop.

I have reinstalled my previous Ubuntu, at least that works !, and hope the Ubuntu Team learn from this disaster and the next release is "plug 'n play".  

Again, thanks for your comment.

Cheers

---

### Post by ajopaul on 2008-05-14
just check if this howto is usefull [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684495](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684495)

---

