---
title: "Bluetooth PAN - Using a shared Internet connection"
date: 2009-02-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Kar.ma on 2009-02-12
Hi, I'm a pretty experienced Windows user, but new to Ubuntu. I'm trying to setup a Network connection using a Bluetooth PAN, betwheen a server running Windows XP and a client using Ubuntu 8.10. I already use a Bluetooth Network under Windows XP in the same computer (I have a dual boot) with this settings:

```
IP:      192.168.8.2
mask:    255.255.255.0
gateway: 192.168.8.1
DNS:     192.168.8.1
```

Just in case you're asking, 192.168.8.1 as DNS works under Windows without any problem.

Under Ubuntu I set the same, but Internet Connection doesn't work. I can successfully ping 192.168.8.1, and Shared Folders work (smb://192.168.8.1/shareddocs/). I can surf using Firefox if I set 192.168.8.1 as a proxy (because I have CCProxy installed under Windows server), but no Ubuntu program can see an Internet connection. 

I searched for a solution to my problems in this forum and the web for a couple days, but no luck at the moment.

It seems like my server is not sharing internet connection, but I know it does since it works under Windows XP. 

DNS works properly (see below), so maybe a gateway wrong setting? What can I do to test?

Thanks for reading, any help appreciated.

---
Other useful info

I receive CORRECT answers if I try:
host google.com
dig google.com
nslookup google.com
ping 192.168.8.1

but if I send "ping google.com" I receive:
connect: Network is unreachable

/etc/network/interfaces
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
iface bnep0 inet static
address 192.168.8.2
network 192.168.8.1
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.8.1
dns-nameservers 192.168.8.1
```

/etc/resolv.conf
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.8.1
```

ifconfig bnep0
```
bnep0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:02:c7:96:51:c7  
          inet addr:192.168.8.2  Bcast:192.168.8.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::202:c7ff:fe96:51c7/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:3870 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:3896 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisioni:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          Byte RX:2853511 (2.8 MB)  Byte TX:580163 (580.1 KB)
```

---

### Post by Kar.ma on 2009-02-12
Hurray!
I did it. My problem has gone simply adding "auto bnep0" in the end of my /etc/network/interfaces file. I didn't try before because I have had problems with it in the past.

P.S. I was trying to add [SOLVED] tag to title, but I didn't figure out how to change title. Maybe a moderator can do it.

---

