---
title: "Can't ping FQDN but can resolve FQDN to IP and ping IP."
date: 2010-07-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by lenkkix on 2010-07-24
I have a server running gentoo on my LAN. It offers a DHCP, local DNS names w/ ddns and acts as a DNS cache/proxy. Locally from the virtual machines on the gentoo box the name resolution and pinging all works fine. 

But on my ubuntu laptop I'm seeing something really odd. 

The server's hostname is 'server' and it is a part of the domain 'mydomain'. 
If I do:
```
$ ping server
```I get replies and all is good. 

If I do 
```
$ ping server.mydomain
```The ping doesn't go through.... 
However, this is the strange part... if I do:
```
$ nslookup server.mydomain
```The lookup succeeds and returns the correct ip... The same IP that 'ping server' shows...

Also the DHCP server advertises NIS domain/servers as well as DNS domain name in the DHCP options but none of these get set on the ubuntu box. (They do work on the gentoo boxes virtual machines).

Any one have any ideas what is causing this ?

edit: Routing table looks good and since 'ping server' goes through I assume it's working.

Here is my resolv.conf
```

$ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain mydomain
search mydomain mydomain.
nameserver 10.0.0.200
```Hosts file is unmodified. 

Here is dhcp3/dhclient.conf
```

option rfc3442-classless-static-routes code 121 = array of unsigned integer 8;

send host-name "<hostname>";
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
        domain-name, domain-name-servers, domain-search, host-name,
        netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope, interface-mtu,
        rfc3442-classless-static-routes, ntp-servers, nis-domain, nis-servers;

```

Some other info 
```

~ $ nisdomainname 
Local domain name not set

~ $ domainname 
(none)

~ $ dnsdomainname 
(no output from program)
~ $ hostname -f
racchan

```

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-07-25
Try changing */etc/hosts* to begin:```
127.0.0.1 localhost
127.0.1.1 server.mydomain server

```

---

### Post by lenkkix on 2010-08-22
Well, that had the expected result. I get ping replies from 127.0.1.1, the local host. Not from the server. 

The problem remains.
ping server - works
ping server.domain - does not work
nslookup server.domain - returns correct result.
dig server.domain - returns correct result. 

Is it a problem that my domain is on the form "foobar.local" (I end it in .local) ?

---

### Post by ignitor on 2011-12-08
> **lenkkix said:**
> Well, that had the expected result. I get ping replies from 127.0.1.1, the local host. Not from the server. 

The problem remains.
ping server - works
ping server.domain - does not work
nslookup server.domain - returns correct result.
dig server.domain - returns correct result. 

Is it a problem that my domain is on the form "foobar.local" (I end it in .local) ?

I'm having this same problem. Did you ever figure it out? I'm hoping to use Likewise but if the server can't resolve the domain I'm sure i'll run into issues. I CAN also resolve the domain domain.local using nslookup/dig and it returns all the right servers yet when i issue a ping it says unknown host. I can properly ping any host in the domain unless i use the FQDM.

---

### Post by marting79 on 2012-04-11
I had the same problem. I've edited the file /etc/nsswitch.conf leaving the line  "hosts" to leave it like this.
hosts:    files dns

after that it worked perfectly.

Hope this helps.

M.

---

### Post by roelforg on 2012-04-11
It had something to do with a daemon interfering with .local

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2012-04-11
in your /etc/resolv.conf

you should see 

nameserver XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX
domain <DOMAIN.NAME>
search <DOMAIN>

I.E.

nameserver 192.168.1.1
domain ubuntu
search ubuntu

---

### Post by roelforg on 2012-04-11
Found it!
avahi is your problem.
[http://andrewgdotcom.wordpress.com/2007/09/28/avahi-and-dot-local-addresses-on-ubuntu-gutsy/](http://andrewgdotcom.wordpress.com/2007/09/28/avahi-and-dot-local-addresses-on-ubuntu-gutsy/)
The link will tell you how to fix it.

---

