---
title: "9.10 and BCM4328"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tomcat025 on 2009-11-04
I cannot seem to get my wireless or even wired nics on my laptop to work with Karmic. I tried with the live cd and everything worked fine. I was able to connect to the internet and everything. I decide to install seeing that everything was ok and the networking went to pot.

Any help would be appreciated. Additional information available on request.

Edit: I've tried installing the STA driver but it does not seem to want to. It goes through the motions as if it is installing and then nothing. Funny thing is that it installed fine when I booted using the live cd.

---

### Post by arielon on 2009-11-04
same here. looking for a solution. there's tons of topics about this on the forum, though. But they are too scattered... Looking...

first found.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308533](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308533)

BCM 4322 802.11a/b/g/n is my system. It seems not supported by this kernel @ [http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43)

Finally: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8243191#post8243191](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8243191#post8243191) [Solved]

---

### Post by tomcat025 on 2009-11-04
> **arielon said:**
> same here. looking for a solution. there's tons of topics about this on the forum, though. But they are too scattered... Looking...

first found.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308533](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308533)

BCM 4322 802.11a/b/g/n is my system. It seems not supported by this kernel @ [http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43)

Yes, I've read both posts and more but thank you for posting them. Right now the problem is not so much as getting the wireless and wired adapters working as it is getting them to connect to the network.

It prompts me on reboot to insert my passkey for my WPA2 network and I input said key. The thing is that it goes through the motions of trying to connect and then again asks for the key. IT repeats this till I get frustrated and tell it to cancel. I've tried to DMZ the laptop but that did not change a thing. 

At one point I thought I had made progress when I started an ad-hock connection. It said that it had connected but it had in fact not. Not even my router was pingable.

I've done a "sudo iwlist scan" with the following results.
```
wlan0     Scan completed :          
Cell 01 - Address: 00:1C:DF:72:B2:8C 
                   ESSID:"linwin" 
                   Protocol:IEEE 802.11g   
                   Mode:Managed     
                   Frequency:2.462 GHz (Channel 11)
                   Quality:100/100  Signal level:-20 dBm  Noise level:-96 dBm 
                   Encryption key:on 
                   Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s 
                             24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s
                             12 Mb/s; 48 Mb/s 
                   Extra:bcn_int=100 
                   Extra:atim=0 
                   IE: IEEE 802.11i/WPA2 Version 1 
                       Group Cipher : CCMP 
                       Pairwise Ciphers (1) : CCMP 
                       Authentication Suites (1) : PSK

```

---

### Post by tomcat025 on 2009-11-04
Ok, wired nic is now connected still no luck with the wifi.

Note: Make sure that you've not disabled your wired nic in bios. :lolflag:

---

### Post by tomcat025 on 2009-11-04
Updated and somewhat fixed

I had to step down my Wifi encryption to WEP 128bit. It seems that 9.10 has an issue with WPA and WPA2.

---

### Post by Omega Knight on 2009-11-09
I have been having the same problems with my Macbook 3.1 with BCM4328 wifi card...it works fine on the live CD but when I install it, it no longer works...so I am guessing I need to change my WPA encryption on my router to WEP? Am I correct? Does this mean I can connect to open & WEP networks, just not WPA networks?

---

