---
title: "12.04 - making my network address permanent"
date: 2012-04-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by User#32423 on 2012-04-30
I am running dhcp3-server with hostapd to create a wifi hotspot on my netbook. To set it up I followed the following howto:

[http://exain.wordpress.com/2011/03/31/making-a-wifi-hotspot-access-point-using-linux-wifi-lan-cardusb-adapter/](http://exain.wordpress.com/2011/03/31/making-a-wifi-hotspot-access-point-using-linux-wifi-lan-cardusb-adapter/)


and it runs successfully when I do the following terminal commands after bootup

1.  sudo ifconfig wlan0 10.10.0.1

2. Then I have to restart isc-dhcp-server and hospapd > both of which are started succesfully on bootup

My problem is the ip address of wlan0 - it is lost on a reboot and has to be manually entered.

My etc/network/interfaces file is as follows:

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

iface wlan0 inet static
 address 10.10.0.1
 netmask 255.255.255.0

yet an ifconfig after bootup dosn't show the wlan0 with this address

---

### Post by praseodym on 2012-04-30
Change "false" to "true" in the file /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf, otherwise these entries are ignored by the NM

---

### Post by User#32423 on 2012-04-30
Problem persists

I edited the following line in my /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf to:

managed=true

this doesn't though make a difference, after a reboot;

ifconfig gives:

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr f0:7b:cb:3f:0d:da  
          inet6 addr: fe80::f27b:cbff:fe3f:dda/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:17 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:33 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:4342 (4.3 KB)  TX bytes:8561 (8.5 KB)

And the network doesn't work.

Yet after:

sudo ifconfig wlan0 10.10.0.1

ifconfig gives:

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr f0:7b:cb:3f:0d:da  
          inet addr:10.10.0.1  Bcast:10.255.255.255  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::f27b:cbff:fe3f:dda/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:168 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:181 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:33748 (33.7 KB)  TX bytes:42079 (42.0 KB)

And after doing the manual;

sudo /etc/init.d/isc-dhcp-server restart

sudo hostapd -dd /etc/hostapd/hostapd.conf

Other computers and android phones can connect to the network.

After
sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -s 10.10.0.0/16 -o ppp0 -j MASQUERADE

They can all browse. And download email. etc

How do I give the wlan0 the address at bootup?

---

### Post by praseodym on 2012-04-30
Add the line without sudo before "exit 0" into /etc/rc.local

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-04-30
you may want to append your wlan0 line with auto

auto brings the interface up at boot time, which is what you want to do right ?

example

```
auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet static
```

your initial post doesnt seem to have that.

---

### Post by User#32423 on 2012-04-30
Thankyou, both.

I went with the "auto" solution and it works beautifully.

:lolflag:

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-04-30
> **User#32423 said:**
> Thankyou, both.

I went with the "auto" solution and it works beautifully.

:lolflag:

no problem.

You are welcome.


Peace

---

### Post by elcalamar on 2012-06-29
I hope some of you can help me out. I have followed the instructions set out in a very helpful blog: 

[http://thenewbieblog.wordpress.com/2012/05/01/wifi-hotspot-setup-on-ubuntu/](http://thenewbieblog.wordpress.com/2012/05/01/wifi-hotspot-setup-on-ubuntu/)

I happen to have the same wireless card, and the Android (and Blackberry Playbook) devices I try to connect can handshake but hang when acquiring the IP address.

What it looks like NOT working well is the dhcp server. If I try to stop it with either:
sudo service isc-dhcp-server restart
or sudo /etc/init.d/isc-dhcp-server restart

I get to the same error: 
stop: Unknown instance: 
isc-dhcp-server start/running, process 3602

I found the following commands, which for whatever reason do help to re-set everything:
sudo chown root:root /etc/dhcp/*
sudo chmod 655 /etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf
sudo service isc-dhcp-server restart

Then I need to still manually do
sudo ifconfig wlan0 10.10.0.1
sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -s 10.10.0.0/16 -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE

I am at a loss. If anyone could help me, I would truly appreciate it. I own a Blackberry Playbook and the only way to connect to a VPN service using PPTN protocol is by using my laptop as a wireless router. It works, but it would be nice to have it running without having to open a terminal and try 5 different things.

I run Ubuntu 12.04, not a clean install (I have been moving up since 10.04) ASUS 64-bit laptop.

Thank you in advance for any help you can provide.

---

