---
title: "Can't connect to wifi networks Ubuntu 16.04LTS"
date: 2018-07-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by shrrosier on 2018-07-27
Sorry if this is a hopelessly vague question - I am rubbish with Linux. I have spent quite a long time trying to connect to a number of WiFI networks using a wireless LAN card but I think trying various solutions I found on forums without really understanding them may have made my problems worse, so I decided to come here! I initially spent some time trying to install drivers for a TP-link archer t2u USB network adapeter but couldn't get it to work and gave up, I wonder if this has caused problems for the LAN card. I then found a wireless card lying around and plugged it into my PCI slot. With this I can now see wifi networks available to connect to but I can't connect to any of them. If i try connecting to an unsecured network it thinks about it for a while and then gives a message saying ' disconnected - you are now offline'. If I try a secured network it thinks about it for a while and then asks me again for my password even though this is definitely correct. All wifi networks I have tried connecting to work fine on other devices. I followed the instructions on the sticky for wireless-info and got the following output [https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/Pm8Yn58zzW/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/p/Pm8Yn58zzW/).
Any help would be hugely appreciated!

---

### Post by praseodym on 2018-07-28
Your /etc/resolv.conf is empty, contains no nameservers. Lets see
```

sudo rm /etc/resolv.conf
sudo ln -s /var/run/resolvconf/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf
```
Try to reconnect or reboot

---

### Post by shrrosier on 2018-07-30
Hi and thanks very much for your answer! I ran these two commands and tried to reboot and reconnect but I still get the same issues. The resolv.conf file in /var is also empty apart from a line that says do not edit this file - is it supposed to be empty?

---

### Post by praseodym on 2018-07-31
In the network-manager profile chose "Automatic (DHCP) addresses only" instead of automatic. Add these nameservers separated by comma
```

8.8.8.8
8.8.4.4
```
Save the profile and reconnect

---

