---
title: "[SOLVED] iptables-restore on boot causing system to hang."
date: 2008-08-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by thecake on 2008-08-24
I had no trouble with this on ubuntu server, yet the desktop variant seems to be causing problems.

I've tried placing "/sbin/iptables-restore /etc/ipt-rules" in rc.local and in /etc/networking/interfaces (via pre-up statement), whenever I reboot my system it hangs after the login screen, before the desktop background shows up.  There's a mysterious grey box in the upper left corner that shows a text cursor when you put the mouse over it.

If I run iptables-restore manually after reboot, everything sets up fine.


Here's the iptables config, comments added by me aren't in the actual file.

eth0 = internet
eth1 = LAN

# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Sun Aug 24 00:03:04 2008
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [244:81597]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [71:4812]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [78:5268]
-A PREROUTING -d 192.168.0.254 -i eth1 -j DNAT --to-destination 207.5.171.1 
-A PREROUTING -d 192.168.0.253 -i eth1 -j DNAT --to-destination 207.5.144.254 
-A POSTROUTING -s 207.5.171.1 -o eth1 -j SNAT --to-source 192.168.0.254 
-A POSTROUTING -s 207.5.144.254 -o eth1 -j SNAT --to-source 192.168.0.253 

####nat my isp's DNS servers to a local ip

-A POSTROUTING  -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE

####hide local network from the outside

COMMIT
# Completed on Sun Aug 24 00:03:04 2008
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.8 on Sun Aug 24 00:03:04 2008
*filter
:INPUT DROP [67:21824]
:FORWARD DROP [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [1813:210983]
-A INPUT -i eth0 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -i eth1 -j ACCEPT 

####Accept established connections from Outside, any from within.


-A FORWARD -i eth1 -o eth0 -j ACCEPT 
-A FORWARD -i eth0 -o eth1 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT 

#### same for hosts on LAN
COMMIT
# Completed on Sun Aug 24 00:03:04 2008

---

### Post by thecake on 2008-08-24
I've found a temporary workaround.

I put this in /etc/rc.local
( sleep 20; iptables-restore /etc/ipt-rules; /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server restart ) &

basically it says to fork a process, wait 20 seconds, then set the rules and restart dhcpd (it doesn't like leasing out dns servers that it doesn't think exist).

The downfall is if you don't login within 20 seconds you're screwed. :lol:](*,)

I'd like a real solution though.  Bug report time?

---

### Post by thecake on 2008-09-02
Ok, figured it out.

I didn't let the loopback interface through iptables. ](*,)

iptables -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT

solves the problem, as well as another I was having with a printer.

Still I wish there was a warning telling me what was going on, maybe there's a way to do this.  

I'm still pretty newb incase you guys can't tell. :p

---

