---
title: "/etc/resolv.conf being overwritten at boot time"
date: 2009-09-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by reub2000 on 2009-09-29
I inserted my ISPs DNS servers into /etc/resolve.conf, and the last time I rebooted it got replaced with:
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
```

What gives?

---

### Post by A_Fiachra on 2009-09-29
IMO -- and this is not a technical answer, NetworkManager sucks


I use wicd and am happy.

---

### Post by reub2000 on 2009-09-29
What is network manager, and why is it overwriting networking settings?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-09-29
Network-Manager writes what is in /etc/resolv.conf. You can set you dns in Network-Manager. You didn't say what version youare running, but I'll assume you are running either Interpid or Jaunty.

Right click Network-Manager in the upper panel and select edit connections.

Highlight your wireless connection, normally wlan0, then click edit.

Next click the IPv4 Settings tab, then select **Automatic (DHCP) addresses only** from the Method drop down box.

Enter your dns addresses in **DNS Servers** text box seperated by a comma.

Click Apply, it should ask for your user password, enter it and click **Authenticate**.

You should now be good to go.

---

### Post by movieman on 2009-09-30
I never got NetworkManager to work with fixed DNS server IP addresses. But you can edit resolv.conf and then set the immutable bit:

sudo chattr +i /etc/resolv.conf

Then it can't be overwritten even with write permission.

Edit: this may only work with ext2 and ext3, I don't know what file system you're using.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-09-30
I like the Network Manager version better than what I'm gonna suggest... which is to edit the "prepend" line in */etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf*. Plus, this only works if you're getting address via DHCP.

---

