---
title: "8.04 Disabling Network Configuration"
date: 2008-05-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by liquidcross on 2008-05-26
I just updated to 8.04 (from 7.10), and now, the system's completely ignoring my wireless network configuration.

I'm using a Thinkpad R60, equipped with an Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Mini-PCI Express adapter. Under 7.10, I entered my home wifi network info into the Network Settings box, and saved it as a location named "Home."

Under 8.04, it ignores it upon login. Every time. I have to manually go back in and change my settings back; the only thing it remembers is the SSID of my wifi network. I'm using WPA2 encryption, but 8.04's always defaulting to WPA, and it won't connect unless I unlock Network Settings, change to WPA2, and re-enter my password.

Any thoughts on how to fix this? I've tried re-saving my config information time and time again, but to no avail.

---

### Post by ibutho on 2008-05-26
You could disable NetworkManager using the instructions at the bottom of this [page]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/NetworkManager") and revert to the old method of configuring the network connection.

---

### Post by mapes12 on 2008-05-26
Here are some resources that should help you out. If you can't find the answer here then it's unlikely you will find the answer anywhere:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs)

Also, take a look at this excellent HOWTO:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684495](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684495)

If the above doesn't work then consider abandoning your current wifi card and get one that Linux fully supports. I got mine (Comtrend RT2500 - just plug in and it works!) from these guys:

[http://www.linuxemporium.co.uk/products/wireless/](http://www.linuxemporium.co.uk/products/wireless/)

ndiswrapper is an option for cards not fully supported but in my experience the configurataion breaks down over time. I ended up having to go back to windoze for a while until I got the new card. Natively supported cards work much better.

:guitar:

---

### Post by liquidcross on 2008-05-27
> **mapes12 said:**
> Here are some resources that should help you out. If you can't find the answer here then it's unlikely you will find the answer anywhere:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs)

Also, take a look at this excellent HOWTO:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684495](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=684495)

If the above doesn't work then consider abandoning your current wifi card and get one that Linux fully supports. I got mine (Comtrend RT2500 - just plug in and it works!) from these guys:

[http://www.linuxemporium.co.uk/products/wireless/](http://www.linuxemporium.co.uk/products/wireless/)

ndiswrapper is an option for cards not fully supported but in my experience the configurataion breaks down over time. I ended up having to go back to windoze for a while until I got the new card. Natively supported cards work much better.

:guitar:
I checked all of those...no dice. Some of that stuff was out of date, unfortunately; or, in the case of the Wifi HOWTO, inapplicable (they didn't have a listing for WPA2 TKIP+AES). :(

I've tried running iwconfig, too; with every command or test I try, the wireless card is running properly, but refuses to connect unless I manually re-enter all of my config information every time. Is there a corrupted log or preference file I should be hunting for?

Also, my wifi adapter is [fully supported]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCardsIntel"). As I said, it worked fine under 7.10.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-05-27
What is the outcome of:```
sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
```If your interface is eth1, substitute it in the command. I will not say I have *never* met a 3945ABG I could not coax to life, but almost never. Please reject the notion of ndiswrapper and another card until Dr. Chili gets his malpractice insurance in order and we operate.

---

### Post by liquidcross on 2008-05-27
> **chili555 said:**
> What is the outcome of:```
sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
```If your interface is eth1, substitute it in the command. I will not say I have *never* met a 3945ABG I could not coax to life, but almost never. Please reject the notion of ndiswrapper and another card until Dr. Chili gets his malpractice insurance in order and we operate.

```
eth1      Scan completed :
          Cell 01 - Address: xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx **(I changed this to X's for security reasons)**
                    ESSID:"**this-is-my-network**"
                    Mode:Master
                    Channel:11
                    Frequency:2.462 GHz (Channel 11)
                    Quality=80/100  Signal level=-54 dBm  Noise level=-127 dBm
                    Encryption key:on
                    IE: WPA Version 1
                        Group Cipher : TKIP
                        Pairwise Ciphers (2) : CCMP TKIP
                        Authentication Suites (1) : PSK
                    IE: IEEE 802.11i/WPA2 Version 1
                        Group Cipher : TKIP
                        Pairwise Ciphers (2) : CCMP TKIP
                        Authentication Suites (1) : PSK
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s
                              24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s
                              12 Mb/s; 48 Mb/s
                    Extra:tsf=0000003a54dbd7e8
          Cell 02 - Address: 00:1B:11:4F:CC:57
                    ESSID:"Dales Network"
                    Mode:Master
                    Channel:6
                    Frequency:2.437 GHz (Channel 6)
                    Quality=37/100  Signal level=-87 dBm  Noise level=-127 dBm
                    Encryption key:off
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s
                              12 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Extra:tsf=0000002625e4c181
          Cell 03 - Address: 00:11:50:D8:4F:82
                    ESSID:"Kate"
                    Mode:Master
                    Channel:11
                    Frequency:2.462 GHz (Channel 11)
                    Quality=63/100  Signal level=-69 dBm  Noise level=-127 dBm
                    Encryption key:on
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s
                              9 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Extra:tsf=000008fe3605270d
          Cell 04 - Address: 00:17:3F:68:CB:BC
                    ESSID:"belkin54g"
                    Mode:Master
                    Channel:11
                    Frequency:2.462 GHz (Channel 11)
                    Quality=30/100  Signal level=-91 dBm  Noise level=-127 dBm
                    Encryption key:on
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s
                              9 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Extra:tsf=000001c1ef3a41de
```
Notice that it's reporting as WPA version 1, while my network is actually using WPA2. If I go in and manually change it, it works, but I never had to do this before the 8.04 upgrade.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-05-28
Upon reading this further information, I don't believe you have a wireless card or Network Manager issue at all.

You've set your router up to use WPA2, but it broadcasts itself as WPA version 1. You select WPA2 in Network Manager and it won't connect. You set your router to WPA version 1, select the same in Network Manager and you connect properly.

I think it's a router issue. I suggest you search Google for your brand and model of router, along with WPA2 and see if anyone else has this problem. You might also visit the router manufacturers website to see if there is a firmware update.

I find this curious:> Pairwise Ciphers (2) : CCMP TKIP
CCMP is part of WPA2 and TKIP is a part of WPA version 1. Is this router an apple or an orange or, somehow, both?

Of course, you could decide WPA version 1 is fine for you. The encryption you can use is better than the encryption you can't use.

I will be searching along with you. What is the brand, model and version of your router?

---

### Post by liquidcross on 2008-05-28
> **chili555 said:**
> You've set your router up to use WPA2, but it broadcasts itself as WPA version 1. You select WPA2 in Network Manager and it won't connect. You set your router to WPA version 1, select the same in Network Manager and you connect properly.
Other way around, actually. My router's set to WPA2, and must be broadcasting that way too, because my home Mac detects it and connects that way without a hitch. It's Ubuntu 8.04 that keeps defaulting to WPA1, and refusing to connect; if I manually go into Network Manager, change to WPA2, and re-enter my password, then I can connect. The problem is that I have to do this every time I login, rather than it connecting automatically (which it used to do under 7.10).

As for my router, I'm using a good ol' Linksys WRT54G. :D

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-05-28
Further information with references to WEP, WPA and WPA2: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.22/+bug/176602](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-ubuntu-modules-2.6.22/+bug/176602) especially this:> 

Hi Everyone,

An updated version of the iwlwifi drivers (version 1.2.25) was recently added to the linux-backports-modules-2.6.24 package. It would be good if you could retest with lbm once it is published and available: [https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-backports-modules-2.6.24/](https://edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-backports-modules-2.6.24/) . Thanks.
And this:> 

Hello again (I am the author of the last post),

Installing "linux-backports-modules-2.6.24-16-generic" solved the problem.

The new version of the driver iwl3945 solved it.

 ~ % sudo modinfo iwl3945 | grep srcversion
srcversion: FDE2E62843DE3ED112A50C3
Please try this. If your kernel version is not the same, please substitute.

---

### Post by liquidcross on 2008-05-28
I installed "linux-backports-modules-2.6.24-17-generic", and I do have the latest iwl3945 driver. Still no luck.

---

### Post by liquidcross on 2008-05-30
Is there anything else I can do?

---

### Post by liquidcross on 2008-06-01
For further reference, if I boot into kernel 2.6.22-14-generic, it logs in my network properly at login without a problem. When I boot into 2.6.24-17-generic, it doesn't work.

Any thoughts? What would've changed in the new kernel that would affect my networking in this way?

---

### Post by tcamdg on 2008-08-24
I'm experiencing the same issue with 2.6.24-19-generic. My router is a Buffalo WHR-G125 using DD-WRT v24-sp1 firmware. If, after restarting, I (1) **manually change WPA to WPA2** and (2) **re-type the password**, then it works...until next time I restart.

---

