---
title: "RTL818L on 10.04, connection stalls out"
date: 2010-08-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by SpkrBox850 on 2010-08-30
I've been using Ubuntu for a few years and this is the first problem I haven't been able to figure out though the forums or troubleshooting. There is more than a few threads about this topic but I can't get anything to work. 
I am trying to use an 'ALFA Network AWUS036H' (RTL8187L) on Ubuntu with an HP Mini 110 dual booted with Win7 up front and 10.04 second.

I plug in the wifi card and Ubuntu automatically recognizes it, a bunch of networks are available, and I am able to connect to them. I can go online and load a page for about 5 seconds but then nothing. There's no 'webpage is not available' or 'check your connection' messages, the loading bar just stops in its tracks.
I'm still connected to the AP and all the other ones are still available, if I disconnect and reconnect, it works for another 5 seconds, again and again...

The RTL8187L adapter works fine in Win7, BackTrack4, and OsX.
Internet works great on 10.04 from ethernet, an external RT73 wifi card, and the internal broadcom wireless (with bcm43 proprietary driver).

I can only assume its the driver but at this point I really have no idea whats going on. I've tried just about every possible solution I could find online. Any help would be much appreciated, Thanks.

---

### Post by Gizim on 2010-08-31
> **SpkrBox850 said:**
> I've been using Ubuntu for a few years and this is the first problem I haven't been able to figure out though the forums or troubleshooting. There is more than a few threads about this topic but I can't get anything to work. 
I am trying to use an 'ALFA Network AWUS036H' (RTL8187L) on Ubuntu with an HP Mini 110 dual booted with Win7 up front and 10.04 second.

I plug in the wifi card and Ubuntu automatically recognizes it, a bunch of networks are available, and I am able to connect to them. I can go online and load a page for about 5 seconds but then nothing. There's no 'webpage is not available' or 'check your connection' messages, the loading bar just stops in its tracks.
I'm still connected to the AP and all the other ones are still available, if I disconnect and reconnect, it works for another 5 seconds, again and again...

The RTL8187L adapter works fine in Win7, BackTrack4, and OsX.
Internet works great on 10.04 from ethernet, an external RT73 wifi card, and the internal broadcom wireless (with bcm43 proprietary driver).

I can only assume its the driver but at this point I really have no idea whats going on. I've tried just about every possible solution I could find online. Any help would be much appreciated, Thanks.

Having the same problem i have a Roswell USB Adapter on my desktop with the RTL8187 i get connected works for 5 or 10 then just dies I compiled from source the RTL8187L and it works much better however it will randomly completely disconnect... I'm using WAP if it matters.

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2010-09-01
Gizim I advised you on how to get help and SpkrBx I will put this out to for the first time.  I'm glad you are using these methods of seeking help but I think you're looking for help in the wrong area.  This seems to be a driver issue so you could try contacting the developers of the [rtl8187 driver](http://rtl-wifi.sourceforge.net/wiki/Main_Page) because they're the ones that developed it.  You're welcome to seek help here but we're not driver developers and this clearly seems to be a driver issue - even if it works well on other variants.  One thing I did not mention is that you may want to file a bug report and THEN it will be forwarded to the rtl developers as well.

I really don't mind you posting on the forums, not that it's my business to mind, but I hate to see you not get the help you need.

---

### Post by SpkrBox850 on 2010-09-01
SUCCESS! 
I finally got my RTL8187L based network adapter working. From what I understand the drivers are installed into 10.04 but also blacklisted. It doesn't make a whole lot of sense but who cares, this is how I got it working:
***The RTL8187 came in 'L and B' variations, this is how I got my 'L' working.

1. Download the RealTek drivers for Windows XP
    -go to [http://www.realtek.com/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=24&PFid=1&Level=6&Conn=5](http://www.realtek.com/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=24&PFid=1&Level=6&Conn=5) 
    -Click 'software', select your chipset, and download 'UI Package and driver (support XP)'

2. Go to the Ubuntu Software Center and install 'Windows Wireless Drivers'

3. ?Disable? preinstalled RTL8187 wireless drivers
    Connect your RTL8187 and paste this in terminal:
    > sudo rmmod rtl8187            -It should appear as if your adapter isn't even connected. Don't unplug it.

4. Install the XP Drivers
    -Unzip the RealTek package and navigate to:
         '8187_1313.0613_UI_1.00.0023> 87-USB> RTL8187> WINXP2K'
    -Take a look at 'Netrtuw.inf', then minimize the window.
    -Go to 'System Menu> Administration> Windows Wireless Drivers'
    -Click '+ Install New Driver'
    -Open the minimized window. Click and drag 'Netrtuw.inf' onto where it says (none).
    -Click 'Install' and it should work.

---

### Post by MaindotC on 2010-09-01
Yeah this is using ndiswrapper which is a utility that uses windows drivers on a Linux machine.  I was really hoping you'd get yours working natively but I'm glad ndiswrapper worked for you.  Ndiswrapper is also listed in the Ubuntu Wireless Troubleshooting Guide.

---

### Post by SpkrBox850 on 2010-09-01
'Ndiswrapper' will only work if you key that code first. 

Ubuntu recognizes the RTL8187 natively. I plug it in and right it says right there 'RealTek 8187 chipset device'
For some reason the preinstalled drivers cause the network to stop transmitting data after about 5 seconds. From the research I've done the only possible explanation I have is from this dude 'Jano' who seems to be very knowledge in the Ubuntu arts. He said the preinstalled drivers are blacklisted by default.
 
I personally don't think it makes any sense what so ever to preinstall a driver just to blacklist it but apparently he was right.

Anyways, im not giving up a native solution but a least now I can look for one without Windows 7.

---

### Post by SpkrBox850 on 2010-09-07
(native) SUCCESS!
It supports regular Internet and packet injection with the aircrack-ng suite.

This is where I found it: 
[Installing the Compact Wireless on UBUNTU for ALFA-AQUS036H/driver RTL8187]("http://wireless-comm.blogspot.com/2010/01/installing-compact-wireless-on-ubuntu.html")

>>If you used my other method then first remove the XP drivers from Ndiswrapper. Also, there may be an error with the first 2 lines of code but just keep on trucking and it should go through.<<

-You must be connected via ethernet for this to work.

And a copy for the archives:
> Code:
sudo rmmod rtl8187
sudo rmmod mac80211

echo "blacklist rtl8187" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo "blacklist mac80211" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo "blacklist r8187" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo "blacklist rt2870sta" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo "blacklist rt3070sta" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo "blacklist rt2800usb" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

sudo mkdir /usr/src/drivers
cd /usr/src/drivers
sudo wget http://download.aircrack-ng.org/drivers/compat-wireless-aircrack-alfa036h-050nh.tar.bz2
sudo tar jxvf compat-wireless-aircrack-alfa036h-050nh.tar.bz2
cd compat-wireless-aircrack-alfa036h-050nh
sudo make
sudo make install
sudo make unload 

*- At this point, to use the driver RTL8187 with ALFA-*AWUS036H, load the appropriate module with this command:
Code:
sudo modprobe rtl8187

*- While, for use of the new ALFA-*AWUS050NH, load driver RT2800usb:
Code:
sudo modprobe rt2800usb

---

### Post by otriades on 2010-10-25
Take a look at this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1605285](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1605285)

---

