---
title: "Unstable wifi with ipw2200"
date: 2015-05-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by MMax1989 on 2015-05-16
Hi!

I'm using Lubuntu 14.04 32-bit (latest LTS release, fully updated via *apt-get*) on an older notebook. Lubuntu replaced WinXP on that system and works pretty well ... except for the wifi. The notebook came with a 2200BG and since I switched to Lubuntu there would be seemingly random disconnects. At the beginning these were very rare and restarting the network (disable+enable *Networking* in the lxde applet, cycling *Wireless Network* does not help) fixed it. Lately, however, things got worse and now the network will break after some minutes at most.

Whenever the connection is lost, *dmesg *will show errors like

```
ipw2200: Failed to send <some_command_here>: Command timed out.
```
and more often then not also
```
ipw2200: Firmware error detected.  Restarting.
```



I already searched the internet and this forum and found others with similar problem. The solutions described did not work for me unfortunately. Here is what I tried:


[LIST]
[*] Chaninging the firmware back to version 3. 
[*] Adding parameters (*hwcrypto=0 associate=0 qos_enable=0 qos_burst_enable=0*) to the kernel module. 
[*] Disabling power saving for the wifi. 
[/LIST]


To exclude network manager as the source of the problem I also tried to manually establish the connection via *wpa_supplicant* without any real improvement. After some time the connection is lost, even without any real data transfer with *wpa_supplicant* complaining:

```
Association request to driver failed
```


I'll attach two files generated by *wireless-info* - one with network manager active and one from when I used *wpa_supplicant* directly.


Any help greatly appreciated :-)

Regards, Max


PS: The same hardware was working perfectly fine with WinXP for several years and I use other notebooks (Windows and GNU/Linux) in the same wifi network.

---

