---
title: "14.04 LTS 64 hangs when installing through WNA3100"
date: 2015-01-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-01-14
Hello,
I own a Dell E4300 laptop which I upgraded from 12.04 LTS 64 to 14.04 LTS 64. 12.04 was my first attempt in running Ubuntu, so despites I've been using computers for the 35+ past years, consider I'm almost a perfect Linux newbie.
I use a Netgear WNA3100 usb stick together with a DGN3500 router to bring ethernet to my room.
It used to work perfectly with 12.04, but unfortunately causes much trouble since 14.04 when I try to donwload and install updates that exceed a certain size - say 10 MB.
Then, the system pops up a box saying that "There seems to be a programming error in aptdaemon, the software that  allows you to install/remove software and to perform other package  management related tasks", the computer freezes and I have to power it off.
This doesn't occur if I connect the computer via ethernet.
I've read many threads (not all, sorry) dealing with WNA3100 (or similar) issues on this forum ([http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=6771606](http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=6771606)) but none of them could help me - just hope I didn't skip the one that might have done -.
Here are the drivers I use - the same as with 12.04 -, from a windows package :
> -rw-r--r-- 1 jean-luc jean-luc   7440 janv. 19  2012 bcmh43xx64.cat
-rw-r--r-- 1 jean-luc jean-luc   7450 janv. 19  2012 bcmh43xx.cat
-rw-r--r-- 1 jean-luc jean-luc  41078 juin   7  2011 bcmn43xx32.inf
-rw-r--r-- 1 jean-luc jean-luc 632576 sept.  4  2010 bcmn43xx32.sys
-rw-r--r-- 1 jean-luc jean-luc  41078 juin   7  2011 bcmn43xx64.inf
-rw-r--r-- 1 jean-luc jean-luc 747008 sept.  4  2010 bcmn43xx64.sys
-rw-r--r-- 1 jean-luc jean-luc 765952 janv. 19  2012 bcmwlhigh564.sys
-rw-r--r-- 1 jean-luc jean-luc 205338 janv. 19  2012 bcmwlhigh5.inf
-rw-r--r-- 1 jean-luc jean-luc 642432 janv. 19  2012 bcmwlhigh5.sys
The installation method is, as far as I remember, somewhat different from the one I used to use under 12.04, here is what I did for 14.04 :
> sudo apt-get install ndisgtk ndiswrapper-dkms dkms linux-headers-generic build-essential
sudo ndiswrapper -i ~/Téléchargements/WNA3100/bcmn43xx64.inf
sudo modprobe -v ndiswrapper
sudo ndiswrapper -ma
dmesg | grep ndis
lsmod
iwconfig
ndiswrapper -l
Either installing bcmn43xx64.inf or bcmwlhigh5.inf causes the problem to occur so, as I seem to remember that 64 bits driver could lead to problems under 12.04, and I had to install the 32 bits one, I tried to install it but couldn't get it to work.
I am ATM out of inspiration, so any help would be much appreciated.
Thanks in advance,
J.-L.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-01-14
Let's see what you have so far. Please post:```
lsusb
ndiswrapper -l
dmesg | grep ndis
arch
```Thanks.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-01-15
Hello,
Here are the requested results :
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ lsusb
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 413c:8147 Dell Computer Corp. F3507g Mobile Broadband Module
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 008 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 413c:2513 Dell Computer Corp. internal USB Hub of E-Port Replicator
Bus 001 Device 006: ID 0846:9020 NetGear, Inc. WNA3100(v1) Wireless-N 300 [Broadcom BCM43231]
Bus 001 Device 008: ID 046d:c016 Logitech, Inc. Optical Wheel Mouse
Bus 001 Device 007: ID 413c:2002 Dell Computer Corp. SK-8125 Keyboard
Bus 001 Device 005: ID 413c:1002 Dell Computer Corp. Keyboard Hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 413c:2513 Dell Computer Corp. internal USB Hub of E-Port Replicator
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 005 Device 002: ID 0a5c:5800 Broadcom Corp. BCM5880 Secure Applications Processor
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ ndiswrapper -l
bcmwlhigh5 : driver installed
    device (0846:9020) present
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ dmesg | grep ndis
[   14.698285] ndiswrapper: module verification failed: signature and/or  required key missing - tainting kernel
[   14.699229] ndiswrapper version 1.59 loaded (smp=yes, preempt=no)
[   15.435946] ndiswrapper: driver bcmwlhigh5 (Netgear,11/05/2009, 5.60.180.11) loaded
[   16.031379] usbcore: registered new interface driver ndiswrapper
[   16.048101] ndiswrapper: interface renamed to 'wlan1'
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ arch
x86_64
I've finally could find the place the logs are in, but reading them only gave me headache.
Regards,
J.-L.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-01-15
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ ndiswrapper -l
[COLOR="#FF0000"]bcmwlhigh5 [/COLOR]: driver installed
device (0846:9020) presentI doubt that bcmwlhigh5 is correct for your device. Let's erase it and try something else:```
sudo ndiswrapper -e bcmwlhigh5
```This thread gives a link to the drivers I suggest: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2221251](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2221251)

Yours is a 64-bit system so please install bcmn43xx64.inf. Post back if you need more specific instructions or you get stuck.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-01-16
Hello,
Yes, I currently use bcmwlhigh5 but i first used bcmn43xx64, which behaves the same.
I'm going to follow your instructions and come back.
Regards,
J.-L.

OK, I removed the driver the way you told me and replaced it with the one into the archive from the thread after I rebooted the laptop.
Unfortunately, it didn't change anything : the computer froze at 40% of thunderbird download - something like 19 MB -.
The thread you pointed me to is the one I grabbed the installation commands from.
And the drivers within the archive are exactly the same as the ones in my package, plus bcmwlhigh5 which, IIRC, is the one that automatically manages 32 or 64 bits (not sure however, it is long time now).
I'm really sorry that didn't solve my problem. I don't know what to do now.
Regards,
J.-Luc

So... not anything more to suggest ?
Would I happen to have to reinstall it all as a unique solution ?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-01-21
I'm very sorry for the delay in my reply.

I doubt that reinstalling is a solution. After you reinstall and then install bcmn43xx64.inf and it stalls under load again, what have you cured? What have you changed?

I doubt that the XP driver was written to cope with all the tricks and tweaks that wireless routers can accomplish with ease. First, check the settings in the router. WPA2-AES is preferred; not any WPA and WPA2 mixed mode and certainly not TKIP. Second, if your router is capable of N speeds, I have better luck with a channel width of 20 MHz in the 2.4 GHz band instead of automatic 20/40 MHz. I also have better luck with a fixed channel, either 1, 6 or 11, rather than automatic channel selection. Also, be certain the router is not set to use N speeds only; auto B, G and N is preferred. After making these changes, reboot the router. 

I'd also be interested to see if the performance is improved with N speeds turned off in the router.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-01-25
I did some more searches since your previous post, but couldn't find anything obvious.
There is one important thing I forgot to tell : the stick worked fine before on 12.04 LTS, yes, but this was on another laptop, a Dell D531 Latitude.
When I installed 12.04 on the E4300 I'm currently using, I first used the embedded wifi board, until I noticed it had very awful performance, with only 1 Mb/s (no, it isn't a typo!).
Because I wasn't able to get throughput improved, I decided to reuse the WNA-3100 stick together with the software I had been using on the D531, after I found the thread and checked that the drivers were the same as the ones I have.
My Router is a DGN-3500 which I plan to replace with something capable of 900 (or more, if available at the time I decide to do it), but I don't know what.
I hesitate to buy another device from Netgear, as they happen to be not that fair with their customers : they sell devices that they promise as "evolutive", but there have been very minor improvements in 4 years.
After reading your post, I went to the router and looked at the settings it allows :
> WPA2-AES is preferred; not any WPA and WPA2 mixed mode and certainly not TKIP.
This router is capable of
[LIST]
[*]None 
[*]WEP 
[*]WPA-PSK 
[*]WPA2-PSK 
[*]WPA-PSK + WPA2-PSK 
[*]WPA-802.1x 
[/LIST]
It is currently set to WEP, with a 32 characters key. Either WPA-PSK, WPA2-PSK or WPA-PSK + WPA2-PSK modes made it impossible to connect from the Dell (though it works perfectly with my Galaxy Note 3). So I reverted to WEP.
> Second, if your router is capable of N speeds, I have better luck with a  channel width of 20 MHz in the 2.4 GHz band instead of automatic 20/40  MHz
I couldn't find anything related to this in the router administration.
> I also have better luck with a fixed channel, either 1, 6 or 11, rather than automatic channel selection
For France, my country, the correct settings only allow 5, 6 and 7 that are reported as "bad performance" by the wifi analyser I recently installed on my android phablet. I decided to switch to region "other" in order to select channel 11 (10/10 together with channels 12, 13 and 14, 8/10 for channel 1 and 2/10 for all others, according to the analyser).
> Also, be certain the router is not set to use N speeds only; auto B, G and N is preferred 
There again, only few settings available :
[LIST]
[*]b 
[*]g 
[*]b + g 
[*]up to 130 
[*]up to 270 
[/LIST]
Currently settings are "up to 270", which I assume is similar to "auto b, g and n".
So, to sum-up, current settings are :
[LIST]
[*]WEP with 32 characters key 
[*]no SSID broadcast 
[*]region Other instead of France 
[*]channel 11 instead of AUTO (5, 6, 7) 
[*]undetermined channel bandwidth 
[*]auto b, g, n 
[/LIST]
Before that (with Region set to France), the thoughput was varying between 11 and 270 Mb/s, now it is 135 Mb/s.
Maybe will this lead to some improvement.

Regards,

J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-01-25
I hope it will be improved. 

WEP is about as secure as a shoebox on the the front porch. I can't recommend it.

I would certainly try B and G only with WPA2-AES to see if it connects and doesn't choke under load.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-01-26
Yes, I know. but for some unknown reason, it is the only one that works there on Ubuntu 14.04.
I had no luck either after yesterdays tweaks so, after it hung one more time, I replaced the drive so as to install XP and got the key to work perfectly at 240+ Mb/s.
I'm going to check that the kernel version that I run is the correct one (see thereafter) and one more thing that I'm thinking about for a couple of hours, then I go back and report.
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ uname -r
3.13.0-43-generic
Regards,
J.-Luc

Hey ? Where is my previous reply from 3/4 hour ago ?
(Edit : it just re-appeared ! :-/ )
No matter. I checked something that I ought have done long before : I downloaded a huge file (598 MB) from the net (a divx, but it was just for testing the connexion, and I deleted it straight after), and it did correctly achieve.
So I tend to think more and more that aptdaemon is the culprit. Or, at least, some other update-related software.
BTW, just for being sure, here is the reported kernel version :
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ uname -r
3.13.0-43-generic
Maybe it's time I go and report in another section ?
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-01-26
> Maybe it's time I go and report in another section ?I don't understand what you mean.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-01-27
Well, I'm wondering whether it really has anything to do with wireless, since downloading a near 600 MB file succeeded, while only 30 MB made it freeze when installing.
I closely observed the download / installation process, it is each time the same thing :
[LIST=1]
[*]packets are downloaded until a certain amount has been reached, say 30 MB, 
[*]the download process stops while the bar into the main window continues going left to right and vice-versa, 
[*]the remaining packages are each one other marked "unavailable", 
[*]the error box displays "There seems to be a programming error in aptdaemon, etc.", 
[*]it becomes impossible to do anything, even opening a terminal doesn't succeed, 
[*]I have to switch the computer off. 
[/LIST]
However, I must admit this is a really weird behaviour, that does neither occur if updates are done through ethernet, nor if I download data, but only when updates are done through wifi.
Very strange, indeed.

Regards,

J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-01-27
Are there any clues in the log?```
cat /var/log/syslog | grep -e apt -e ndis | tail -n50
```As the result is 50 lines long, post it here and give us the link in your reply. [http://paste.ubuntu.com](http://paste.ubuntu.com)

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-01-28
Nice facility.
Here is the link : [http://paste.ubuntu.com/9923231/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/9923231/)
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-01-28
> **FalCT60 said:**
> Nice facility.
Here is the link : [http://paste.ubuntu.com/9923231/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/9923231/)
Regards,
J.-LucI don't see one thing wrong; in other words, possibly fixable. I do notice two interesting things. First, although the command asked for the last 50 lines containing ndis or apt, there are only 18. That suggests that the syslog was recently saved to archive and the most recent file hasn't built up quite yet. You might also paste, as above, the most recent archive:```
cat /var/log/syslog[COLOR="#FF0000"].1[/COLOR] | grep -e apt -e ndis | tail -n50
```Second, this:> ndiswrapper: interface renamed to 'wlan1'That suggests either an internal wireless device that takes up wlan0 or another, previous USB wireless. Have you any clues? 

If there is an internal wireless, we need to blacklist its driver.

May we see:```
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
```Thanks.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2015-01-28
Chili, do you have one of these?  If you don't, PM me with you mailing address and I will send you mine

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-01
Hello,
Sorry for the delay. I was away.
Here is the new link [http://paste.ubuntu.com/9995228/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/9995228/) though I can't see anything really different from previous one.
There was indeed an internal wifi board, but I removed it as it didn't work correctly (1Mb throughput).
It was a Wifi Link 5100 AGN that I tried to blacklist with no success, so I removed it.
Here's the result of the command :
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.

# PCI device 0x8086:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:19.0 (e1000e)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:26:b9:ac:1d:a4", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"

# PCI device 0x8086:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1c.1/0000:0c:00.0 (iwlwifi)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:24:d6:85:fc:46", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan0"

# USB device 0x:0x (ndiswrapper)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:26:f2:4c:4b:1c", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan1"
I'm going to try and find it back (my girlfriend often puts her hands where she oughtn't, and many of things of mine get burried and disappear until I can find them again long after).
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-01
> so I removed it.If it is removed, then conflicting drivers are not loading.

Frankly, I'd rather troubleshoot the Intel than anything ndiswrapper. > I can't see anything really different from previous one.Neither do I. That's the problem, we see no complaints from the driver that lead us toward something to amend or adjust or fix.

I strongly recommend you reinstall the Intel, remove the Netgear and let's troubleshoot.

I really hold little hope for anything that uses ndiswrapper.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-02
> **chili555 said:**
> If it is removed, then conflicting drivers are not loading.
That is what I thought. Glad to read I wasn't wrong.

> **chili555 said:**
> Frankly, I'd rather troubleshoot the Intel than anything ndiswrapper. Neither do I. That's the problem, we see no complaints from the driver that lead us toward something to amend or adjust or fix.

I strongly recommend you reinstall the Intel, remove the Netgear and let's troubleshoot.

I really hold little hope for anything that uses ndiswrapper.
OK, I got ahold of the board and will reinstall it when back home further.
What shall I do then ? I think I will have to unsinstall ndiswrapper and some other stuff, but which one(s) ?
And, just for information : I installed the usb stick because the place the computer is is not suitable for reception. The stick extension allows far better exposition.
Is there a list of devices that don't need ndiswrapper to work correctly (I did not find such one, but maybe search terms were not accurate) ?
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-02
I doubt that you actually need to uninstall ndiswrapper. You probably have a file /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper.conf that loads ndiswrapper automatically. I'd open it and comment out the contents.```
gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper.conf
```Stick a pound sign in front of everything:```
#alias usb:v050Dp6050d*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip* ndiswrapper
#alias usb:v050Dp615Ad*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip* ndiswrapper
#alias usb:v050Dp825Cd*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip* ndiswrapper
#alias usb:v0846p9011d*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip* ndiswrapper
#alias usb:v0846p9020d*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip* ndiswrapper
```Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor.

Now let's add a driver parameter for the Intel:```
sudo -i
echo "options iwlwifi 11n_disable=8"  >>  /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
reboot
```Next, I recommend that your regulatory domain be set explicitly. Check yours:```
sudo iw reg get
```If you get 00, that is a one-size-maybe-fits-all setting. Find yours here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) Then set it temporarily:```
sudo iw reg set IS
```Of course, substitute your country code if not Iceland. Set it permanently:```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/crda
```Use nano or kate or leafpad if you don't have the text editor gedit.

Change the last line to read:```
REGDOMAIN=IS
```Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor.

Next, I'd set IPv6 to Ignore in Network Manager: [http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png](http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png)  This example is for ethernet, but you want wireless.

Does the Intel work better now? If not, we may have another suggestion or two.> Is there a list of devices that don't need ndiswrapper to work correctly Not that I've ever seen.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-02
> **chili555 said:**
> I doubt that you actually need to uninstall ndiswrapper. You probably have a file /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper.conf that loads ndiswrapper automatically. I'd open it and comment out the contents.```
gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/ndiswrapper.conf
```Stick a pound sign in front of everything:```
#alias usb:v050Dp6050d*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip* ndiswrapper
#alias usb:v050Dp615Ad*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip* ndiswrapper
#alias usb:v050Dp825Cd*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip* ndiswrapper
#alias usb:v0846p9011d*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip* ndiswrapper
#alias usb:v0846p9020d*dc*dsc*dp*ic*isc*ip* ndiswrapper
```Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor.
Done.
> **chili555 said:**
> Now let's add a driver parameter for the Intel:```
sudo -i
echo "options iwlwifi 11n_disable=8"  >>  /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
reboot
```
Done.
> **chili555 said:**
> Next, I recommend that your regulatory domain be set explicitly. Check yours:```
sudo iw reg get
```If you get 00, that is a one-size-maybe-fits-all setting. Find yours here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) Then set it temporarily:```
sudo iw reg set IS
```Of course, substitute your country code if not Iceland. Set it permanently:```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/crda
```
Done. Replaced 00 with FR.
> **chili555 said:**
> Use nano or kate or leafpad if you don't have the text editor gedit.
Gedit works fine.
> **chili555 said:**
> Change the last line to read:```
REGDOMAIN=IS
```Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor.
Done.
> **chili555 said:**
> Next, I'd set IPv6 to Ignore in Network Manager: [http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png](http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png)  This example is for ethernet, but you want wireless.
I would not have thought to deactivate IPv6.
> **chili555 said:**
> Does the Intel work better now? If not, we may have another suggestion or two.Not that I've ever seen.
Still 1 Mb/s throughput at 3 meters from the router, where it should be at least 240 Mb/s.
Here are some informations I could grab thanks to Google :
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ iwconfig wlan0
wlan0     IEEE 802.11abgn  ESSID:"Reseau CEJIEL"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: 00:26:F2:52:54:6A   
          Bit Rate=1 Mb/s   Tx-Power=15 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=70/70  Signal level=-34 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:10  Invalid misc:10728   Missed beacon:0
And > sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
# /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
# iwlwifi will dyamically load either iwldvm or iwlmvm depending on the
# microcode file installed on the system.  When removing iwlwifi, first
# remove the iwl?vm module and then iwlwifi.
remove iwlwifi \
(/sbin/lsmod | grep -o -e ^iwlmvm -e ^iwldvm -e ^iwlwifi | xargs /sbin/rmmod) \
&& /sbin/modprobe -r mac80211
options iwlwifi 11n_disable=8
Maybe can this help...
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-02
Wonder what the driver is doing all this time:```
dmesg | grep -e iwl -e wlan
```

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-03
I don't know. But I thought "maybe it says 1 Mb/s but actually acts better". I allowed access to my desktop's drives some times ago, and if opening them when connected through ethernet took a couple of seconds, it even didn't achieve through wifi from the internal board.
I'll type the command when back home and report.
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-03
> "maybe it says 1 Mb/s but actually acts better"Very possible.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-03
> **chili555 said:**
> Very possible.

Unfortunately not, as I wrote before. 1 Mb real.:(
Here is the result of the command :
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ dmesg | grep -e iwl -e wlan
[   14.181860] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: can't disable ASPM; OS doesn't have ASPM control
[   14.181910] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: irq 46 for MSI/MSI-X
[   14.336811] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: loaded firmware version 8.83.5.1 build 33692 op_mode iwldvm
[   14.654836] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEBUG disabled
[   14.654838] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEBUGFS enabled
[   14.654839] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEVICE_TRACING enabled
[   14.654841] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: Detected Intel(R) WiFi Link 5100 AGN, REV=0x54
[   14.654900] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   14.805462] ieee80211 phy0: Selected rate control algorithm 'iwl-agn-rs'
[   18.353804] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   18.357005] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: Radio type=0x1-0x2-0x0
[   18.455459] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   18.458554] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: Radio type=0x1-0x2-0x0
[   18.484815] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): wlan0: link is not ready
[   18.485253] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): wlan0: link is not ready
[   27.025366] wlan0: authenticate with 00:26:f2:52:54:6a
[   27.029325] wlan0: send auth to 00:26:f2:52:54:6a (try 1/3)
[   27.136045] wlan0: send auth to 00:26:f2:52:54:6a (try 2/3)
[   27.141925] wlan0: authenticated
[   27.142136] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0 wlan0: disabling HT/VHT due to WEP/TKIP use
[   27.144039] wlan0: associate with 00:26:f2:52:54:6a (try 1/3)
[   27.149799] wlan0: RX AssocResp from 00:26:f2:52:54:6a (capab=0x431 status=0 aid=1)
[   27.152749] wlan0: associated
[   27.152772] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): wlan0: link becomes ready
I'm just wondering what it's trying to do with IPv6 since I set it to "Ignore" - and it actually still is disabled -.
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-08
Hello,
I just found your post about the WNA3100.
The symptoms you describe are exactly those I could notice, except the fact that I don't have to wait for an hour for the device to stop working.
I'm going to try and find the thread that lists some useable wifi sticks.
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2015-02-08
Or you could look at the website [https://www.thinkpenguin.com/catalog/wireless-networking-gnulinux](https://www.thinkpenguin.com/catalog/wireless-networking-gnulinux) a bit high on prices

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-10
In fact, I'm waiting for the fiber to be installed, and I plan to buy a new router capable of 1300 or more.
But, for now, I have to fix the malfunctiun with the internal Wifi link 5100.
I found many topics related to it, but none seems to match my own problem.
Thanks again for trying to help,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-10
In post #8, I said:

> I would certainly try B and G only with WPA2-AES to see if it connects and doesn't choke under load. 

However, your log says:

> iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0 wlan0: disabling HT/VHT due to WEP/TKIP use

You also said:

> It is currently set to WEP, with a 32 characters key. Either WPA-PSK, WPA2-PSK or WPA-PSK + WPA2-PSK modes made it impossible to connect from the Dell (though it works perfectly with my Galaxy Note 3). So I reverted to WEP.

I'm not at all sure what the Dell is; is it the computer you are trying to connect that contains the Intel? Will you please change the router to WPA2-AES and give it a try?

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-11
Hello,
Yes, the Dell is the computer with the Intel 5100 that I try to connect to the internet with and that gives me 1 Mb througput.
I tested WPA-PSK modes with the WNA3100 (before I reinstalled the Intel 5100), but none of those did allow better behaviour (even worse, since I couldn't connect at all), so I reverted to WEP and installed the Intel 5100.
Since then, I gave WPA2-PSK another try. For some unknown reason, I can get througputs from 1 up to 18 Mb, where every other device can reach higher rates - including my Wii-U ! -.
I typed the command once again, here is what I got :
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ dmesg | grep -e iwl -e wlan
[   11.969874] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: can't disable ASPM; OS doesn't have ASPM control
[   11.969932] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: irq 45 for MSI/MSI-X
[   12.612567] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: loaded firmware version 8.83.5.1 build 33692 op_mode iwldvm
[   12.865402] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEBUG disabled
[   12.865406] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEBUGFS enabled
[   12.865408] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEVICE_TRACING enabled
[   12.865410] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: Detected Intel(R) WiFi Link 5100 AGN, REV=0x54
[   12.865465] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   12.981860] ieee80211 phy0: Selected rate control algorithm 'iwl-agn-rs'
[   24.217921] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   24.221101] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: Radio type=0x1-0x2-0x0
[   24.319353] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   24.322406] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: Radio type=0x1-0x2-0x0
[   24.350784] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): wlan0: link is not ready
[   24.351070] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): wlan0: link is not ready
[   79.717159] wlan0: authenticate with 00:26:f2:52:54:6a
[   79.720131] wlan0: send auth to 00:26:f2:52:54:6a (try 1/3)
[   79.824029] wlan0: send auth to 00:26:f2:52:54:6a (try 2/3)
[   79.825822] wlan0: authenticated
[   79.828038] wlan0: associate with 00:26:f2:52:54:6a (try 1/3)
[   79.831738] wlan0: RX AssocResp from 00:26:f2:52:54:6a (capab=0x431 status=0 aid=2)
[   79.839008] wlan0: associated
[   79.839037] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): wlan0: link becomes ready
I have read many threads related to the Intel 5100 where it happens people using it have the same kind of probllems than I.
I didn't try the GRUB modification that you (IIRC) suggested to someone else in another thread, I intend to do that further, maybe will it help (this is the first line of the report that makes me think it could have something to deal with it, but maybe am I wrong...).
I even thought of reverting to ndiswrapper and use the win drivers to see if it could change something.
As you can see, I went on searching and trying to understand things  on my own - a bit hard, when Win$hit has been polluting minds and  behaviours for ages -.
Also, from the beginning, I typed the commands you kindly asked me to without knowing what their purpose was. I'm someone that like to understant what I do when I do something. I know your time is not to be wasted, but I would appreciate, should you afford this, if you could briefly describe what you ask me to do (though you can be sure I intend to find explanations on my own).
One last thing : at the time I'm typing these lines, I get the following
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ iwconfig wlan0
wlan0     IEEE 802.11abg  ESSID:"Reseau CEJIEL"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: 00:26:F2:52:54:6A   
          Bit Rate=18 Mb/s   Tx-Power=15 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=45/70  Signal level=-65 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:18  Invalid misc:9897   Missed beacon:0
18 Mb/s constant ! Oops ! it just dropped to 11... and 1 again... and 18... what the hell ? It's playing yo-yo ?
Best regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-11
> 18 Mb/s constant ! Oops ! it just dropped to 11... and 1 again... and 18... what the hell ? It's playing yo-yo ?Intels, including mine, are notorious for negotiating and renegotiating more or less endlessly. I have seen mine go from 135 Mb/s to 1 Mb/s and back again many times. When I gave up running 'iwconfig' and started doing work, it works pretty normally. I routinely get speeds at or slightly below the maximum I pay for from my ISP. FTP transfers to my NAS go about as quickly as I expect. I believe that the driver and hardware combination loaf a bit until put under load.> I didn't try the GRUB modification that you (IIRC) suggested to someone else in another thread, I don't recall that. It may be a good technique but I'd feel better if you discussed it with me and the other wireless people here.

Most of what I asked for were simply diagnostics. For instance, dmesg is a command to replay a simplified message log. It often shows errors or warnings that tell us what the issue is and how it may be corrected.

Most of the commands have an easily available manual page, such as:```
man dmesg
```> DMESG(1)                         User Commands                        DMESG(1)

NAME
       dmesg - print or control the kernel ring buffer

SYNOPSIS
       dmesg [options]

       dmesg --clear
       dmesg --read-clear [options]
       dmesg --console-level level
       dmesg --console-on
       dmesg --console-off

DESCRIPTION
       dmesg is used to examine or control the kernel ring buffer.

       The default action is to read all messages from the kernel ring buffer.
You may be most interested in:```
man ndiswrapper-1.9
```> I even thought of reverting to ndiswrapper and use the win drivers to see if it could change something.A frustrating dead end, in my somewhat educated opinion.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-12
Hello,
OK for the endless high and low reports. But I'll try a share access to check if it still hangs as previously or if it succeeds now.
Concerning the GRUB thing, it was a post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2241761&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2241761&page=2) where you were the original replier, but then it was Jeremy that suggested this. So I only was half right.
The man command... yes, not usual for me, since I mainly use winboxes. I quite often google and, depending on the moment and the location (work or home), get very different results.
Ndiswrapper option is, according to my opinion too, an ultimate desperate workaround. But if it can help...
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-12
You did read the follow-up, right?> Thank you jeremy31. I tried to edit the file /etc/default/grub but it didn't fix the problem.That doesn't mean it won't work for you. Just be aware that there may be unexpected side effects and be prepared, ideally with a print-out showing, in detail, each step you took in case you need to reverse it.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-12
Yes, that's sensible.
I checked the real throughput this noon with a 540 MB file transfer through shared disk : it ran at about 100 kb/s, so something like 16 kB/s and took 1h27 to achieve, where it ought at least have been 110 times faster (b mode).
I'm going to proceed step to step with my router settings to try and find which are the best.
However, I'd like to get the rate which I bought my router for, ie at least 250 Mb/s for a n-capable router...

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-12
Hello again,
First, I am more and more wondering whether I could face issues with my router : as I wrote earlier, I had to select "Other" as a country name for being able to select a channel other than 5, 6 & 7.
So my router is currently set to channel 11, which was strong at the time I did this, but which now is reported as weak.
The strongest channel ATM is 14, but sadly my router doesn't allow me to select channels other 11.
As I set security to WPA2-PSK (to match your recommandation of no TKIP), it seems I can't select anything else than "Other" as the country, nor "Up to 270" as the speed.
If I try one of these, the router becomes unavailable not only from wifi side, but also from ethernet. I had to unplug it two times as I tried this, a couple of hours ago.
Second, I am reviewing all the commands you suggeted from the beginning, and typing this one
> cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
I got this
> # This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.

# PCI device 0x8086:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:19.0 (e1000e)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:26:b9:ac:1d:a4", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"

# PCI device 0x8086:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1c.1/0000:0c:00.0 (iwlwifi)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:24:d6:85:fc:46", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan0"

[COLOR=#ff0000]# USB device 0x:0x (ndiswrapper)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:26:f2:4c:4b:1c", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan1"[/COLOR]
where the last line clearly refers to the usb stick which is no longer attached.
What do you think about this ?
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-12
I don't think the 70-persistent-net.rules is significant; however, if you are super OCD like I sometimes am, you may safely eliminate the entry you highlighted in red with a text editor and immediately reboot.

I do think your router issues are significant. If those symptoms were happening to me, I'd suspect the router was near death. Before you hold a funral, I'd probably try the reset function and see if the symptoms remain: [http://img.labnol.org/di/router-reset-button.jpg](http://img.labnol.org/di/router-reset-button.jpg) After you reset, run through the setup again. If it's still weak and uncooperative, I'd replace it.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-25
Hello, me again with more questions...
While I am planning to buy another router, I checked something that I had in mind for some  times now : I booted from a 12.04 LTS USB stick and configured the network.
First thing, it appears to get 65 Mb/s (with drops down to 29 from time to time) for 10 mn instead of 1 Mb/s. OK, that isn't significant.
Second, the network properties displays **iwlwifi** as a driver, where 14.04 displays blank - nothing -.
Would it happen to be something to search for from there ?
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-25
> Second, the network properties displays iwlwifi as a driver, where 14.04 displays blank - nothing -.
Would it happen to be something to search for from there ?Is it possible that you have an internal wireless device, an Intel, perhaps, that didn't work as expected, which motivated you to get the USB wireless that is the biggest headache in all of Linux? Maybe??

Please show us:```
lspci -nn | grep 0280
rfkill list all
dmesg | grep iwl
```

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-27
Hello,
Here it is :
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ lspci -nn | grep 0280
0c:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation WiFi Link 5100 [8086:4232]
jean-luc@E4300:~$ rfkill list all
0: phy0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
1: dell-wifi: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
2: dell-wwan: Wireless WAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
jean-luc@E4300:~$ dmesg | grep iwl
[   14.199143] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: can't disable ASPM; OS doesn't have ASPM control
[   14.199192] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: irq 46 for MSI/MSI-X
[   14.463441] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: loaded firmware version 8.83.5.1 build 33692 op_mode iwldvm
[   14.664623] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEBUG disabled
[   14.664627] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEBUGFS enabled
[   14.664629] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEVICE_TRACING enabled
[   14.664632] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: Detected Intel(R) WiFi Link 5100 AGN, REV=0x54
[   14.664688] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   14.772495] ieee80211 phy0: Selected rate control algorithm 'iwl-agn-rs'
[   19.386082] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   19.389444] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: Radio type=0x1-0x2-0x0
[   19.487432] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   19.490761] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: Radio type=0x1-0x2-0x0
jean-luc@E4300:~$ 
Er... both those lines get me confused :
> [   14.664627] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEBUGFS enabled
[   14.664629] iwlwifi 0000:0c:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEVICE_TRACING enabled
Would they happen to be able to slow-down the process ?
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-27
> Would they happen to be able to slow-down the process ?Not really; that just indicates that certain debugging processes are enabled. That's informational only. What, exactly is the problem with the usually reliable Intel device? Does it try to connect? Does it scan and see networks?```
sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
```I think we'll have much better luck getting the Intel going.

I have and use successfully two laptops with Intel devices. I have honed a few techniques in several years and thousands of forum posts.

First, check the settings in the router. WPA2-AES is preferred; not any WPA and WPA2 mixed mode and certainly not TKIP. Second, if your router is capable of N speeds, I have better luck with a channel width of 20 MHz in the 2.4 GHz band instead of automatic 20/40 MHz. I also have better luck with a fixed channel, either 1, 6 or 11, rather than automatic channel selection. Also, be certain the router is not set to use N speeds only; auto B, G and N is preferred. After making these changes, reboot the router. 

Next, I recommend that your regulatory domain be set explicitly. Check yours:```
sudo iw reg get
```If you get 00, that is a one-size-maybe-fits-all setting. Find yours here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) Then set it temporarily:```
sudo iw reg set IS
```Of course, substitute your country code if not Iceland. Set it permanently:```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/crda
```Use nano or kate or leafpad if you don't have the text editor gedit.

Change the last line to read:```
REGDOMAIN=IS
```Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor.

Next, I'd set IPv6 to Ignore in Network Manager: [http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png](http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png)  This example is for ethernet, but you want wireless.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-02-27
Hello,
Yes, it does, [here it is]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/10452246/").
Mine is cell 02, but I am surprized it is 54 Mb max...
Here are the results of the other commands, but I'm quite sure I did it already before as you told me to...
> jean-luc@E4300:~$ sudo iw reg get
country FR:
    (2402 - 2482 @ 40), (N/A, 20)
    (5170 - 5250 @ 40), (N/A, 20)
    (5250 - 5330 @ 40), (N/A, 20), DFS
    (5490 - 5710 @ 40), (N/A, 27), DFS
    (57240 - 65880 @ 2160), (N/A, 40), NO-OUTDOOR
Yes, the whole thing has ben done already, including disabling IPv6.
Is there something relevant with the outputs ?
Regards,
J.-Luc

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-03-02
> Is there something relevant with the outputs ?Not really. It seems to connect perfectly. Does it perform perfectly?

> Mine is cell 02, but I am surprized it is 54 Mb max...That's a limitation of scanning. Everything reports as 54 Mb/s even though you connect, depending on the card/driver combination, at higher or lower speeds. Here is an example from my machine:```
iwconfig
eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11abgn  ESSID:"GBR1"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: xx:D7:19:41:54:xx   
          [COLOR="#FF0000"]Bit Rate=86.7 Mb/s[/COLOR]   Tx-Power=15 dBm   
          Retry short limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=67/70  Signal level=-43 dBm  

```But scan says:```
wlan0     Scan completed :
          Cell 01 - Address: xx:D7:19:41:54:xx
                    Channel:11
                    Frequency:2.462 GHz (Channel 11)
                    Quality=63/70  Signal level=-47 dBm  
                    Encryption key:on
                    ESSID:"GBR1"
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s
                              24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s; [COLOR="#FF0000"]54 Mb/s[/COLOR]
                    Bit Rates:6 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 48 Mb/s
                    Mode:Master

```The important part is whether it performs as expected. Does it pass data? Email? Surf the web? Downloads? Does it stay connected and not drop? Does it handle loads correctly?

If so, do what I do: ignore the numbers and enjoy the solid, fast when it needs to be connection.

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-03-18
Hello,
Sorry for the long delay - I had to be sure about the real problem -.
I thought like you : don't bother about what it reports, so long as results are good.
Instead of reinstalling, I built a config with Unetbootin. I used a 8 GB stick with a 14.04 LTS and persistent data.
And, guess what ? Same problems : short downloads seem to achieve correctly, but heavy ones like updating the newly installed system abort and compalin about internet connection.
So, it either is a matter of the laptop I'm using, or 14.04 itself. Because, with a 12.04 LTS from within a usb stick, it seems to work far better !
So, I think I'm going to give up and manage so I don't have to connect to the wifi and, when I need to, I'll bring the laptop near the router and let it update / download / etc.
Thanks again for your many advices and the time you spent helping me.
Best regards,

J.-Luc

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-04-23
I marked this thread as *solved* though it isn't : it is just abandonned, since I couldn't solve my problem and gave up with it.
BTW, it seems 14.04 LTS is unable to handle wifi, considering the high quantity of similar messages reporting trouble on this subject.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-04-23
> **FalCT60 said:**
> BTW, it seems 14.04 LTS is unable to handle wifi, considering the high quantity of similar messages reporting trouble on this subject.Oddly enough, those for whom wireless is working perfectly almost never post here to report it. I have Ubuntu on two laptops connecting with wireless. Both run perfectly.

If your comment is actually that Ubuntu is unable to handle ndiswrapper, then I'd probably agree. I also think that's actually true of Linux generally. 

After being burned once or twice, most of us check compatibility first and purchase second.

Please see: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2264020&highlight=wna3100](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2264020&highlight=wna3100)

---

### Post by FalCT60 on 2015-05-05
Hello,
Well, there was a kernel update today, then wifi speed displayed 121 to 135 Mb/s with integrated Intel 5100 without changing anything in my settings.
I knew it would be only a matter of time before the developpers would do something.
Many thanks to them.
And, yes, chili555, you're perfectly right : « *those for whom wireless is working perfectly almost never post here to report it* ».
Which means there could be 999.99% users facing no problem at all and only 0.01% with «bad luck».
This is why (I hope) my words were to be neutral, just trying to report what I was feeling.
Regards,
J.-L.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-05-05
> wifi speed displayed 121 to 135 Mb/s with integrated Intel 5100 without changing anything in my settings.Awesome! Welcome to the 99.99%!

---

