---
title: "Cannot use hostnames"
date: 2010-03-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by RealG187 on 2010-03-02
I brought my laptop to school today and cannot use hostnames of computers on the local network. I can use the internet, but pinging hostnames or connecting to shares doesn't work.

Weird though, they work when I am at home.

At home I use Wireless and at school I am using Ethernet, does that matter?

I know I had a similar problem in Fedora because it doens't have nmb, but I am sure Ubuntu comes with it when you install samba, and even if it didn't it still works at home...

When I try to use the mount command with the IP I get:
mount error(112): Host is down

I can ping the IP and connect to the webserver on it (VM Ware Server https on port 8333)

---

### Post by Sin@Sin-Sacrifice on 2010-03-03
Does the school have restrictions? Maybe they're filtering mac addresses or port usage.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-03-03
First thought is to check contents of */etc/resolv.conf*... but internet seems to be working. It's possible that there's a "local" nameserver that should be checked - or a "local" domain name that should be added.

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2010-03-03
> # Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 172.30.52.5
nameserver 216.123.224.131
nameserver 207.102.93.157
# NOTE: the libc resolver may not support more than 3 nameservers.
# The nameservers listed below may not be recognized.
nameserver 4.2.2.2

172.30.52.5 is the school's DNS server (among ohter things, DC, fileserver, etc)

---

