---
title: "12.04 Server Box Wired into DD-WRT Repeater Bridge - Connection Issues"
date: 2013-10-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Casey_Friday on 2013-10-26
I built a 12.04.3 LTS headless server with an Ivy Bridge Celeron, 4 WD Red drives, 8GB of RAM, in a mini-ITX platform.  It's wired directly into a Netgear WNR-834Bv2 router running DDWRT, in wireless bridge mode.  I've assigned my server a static IP address on the same subnet as the wireless bridge, and the Airport Extreme it's bridging.

Ever since I first set this up, when I run apt-get update, it froze at the ubuntu servers.  So I changed it to what was recommended as the fastest mirror - **mirror.anl.gov**.  Still, when I run apt-get update, it freezes on trying to resolve mirror.anl.gov, and it takes about 3 minutes before it moves beyond this:

[IMG]https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-weTkBcBpqQI/UmvTR8lzjnI/AAAAAAAAF7c/Wap2HVuShaE/s800/Screen%2520Shot%25202013-10-26%2520at%25209.34.39%2520AM.png[/IMG]

It finally finishes, but then reports that it took 2 minutes, and only went at 29.1 kB/s.  I am on a 50mb/s connection, so it should be MUCH faster.

[IMG]https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-3issWVOTzc4/UmvTkzS-ihI/AAAAAAAAF7w/lFdumfrs78g/s800/Screen%2520Shot%25202013-10-26%2520at%25209.36.51%2520AM.png[/IMG]

When I ping google, it seems to work just fine:

[IMG]https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-h1jKLHlxkVQ/UmvUDddP5oI/AAAAAAAAF8E/UVfzUE-RdSE/s800/Screen%2520Shot%25202013-10-26%2520at%25209.38.49%2520AM.png[/IMG]

The strange thing is that I cannot see my 12.04 box's IP address in the DD-WRT router's admin section as an attached device.  Why would having it set up this way cause connection to be so slow?

I'm also running sickbeard, and any time I try to perform a search, it freezes and takes about 5 minutes to return results.

However, you can see that when I simply download a file (Parallels, in this case), it nearly saturates the 50mb/s connection...

[IMG]https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-5z8Lv_YFKZM/UmvVvdRKnRI/AAAAAAAAF8o/alKZraRsfUk/s800/Screen%2520Shot%25202013-10-26%2520at%25209.44.02%2520AM.png[/IMG]

Any ideas what could be going on here?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-10-27
A complete guess, but ... too many open connections? Have you modified the default number?
Disable all the torrent stuff and test. Better?

---

### Post by Casey_Friday on 2013-10-29
It was this slow when I first set up the box.  Sadly, reinstalling Ubu Server is not an option for me, because it took for-freaking-ever to get everything set up the way it is, and I just don't have the time to go through that again...

Where do I modify the number of open connections?  And even if I do that, why would a download saturate the full bandwidth when a simple apt-get update fails to move swiftly every single time?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-10-29
Seeing the images this time. Looks like there is a mix of IPv4 and IPv6 stuff happening. Another shot in the dark - does the IPv6 stuff all work perfectly or are there still a few bugs?  Also - the issue is with the router connection limits, not on ubuntu. Small routers HAVE connection limits and older versions of dd-wrt had the pre-allocated settings fairly small.

I don't have any answer - these are all just shots in the dark without much, much more information about your setup - networking , devices, drivers, wifi interference in the area ... and performance for everything.  The general rule is to simplify and eliminate trouble areas until only the 1 or 2 things causing issues are left.  The first thing I'd eliminate is the wifi bridge and any wifi use by directly connecting the server into a wired ethernet port on the main router - run the test again - still slow?  If so, then the bridge is the issue. 

Simplify, test. Simplify, test.

BTW, I hope you have a good backup for that server.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-10-29
Is there a way to wire the headless box directly to the Airport Express with an extra-long cable?  I think the wireless bridge is affecting the performance in a subtle way.  Try using a direct cable and do some performance testing.  Also use *iperf* to measure point-to-point throughput and output some of your numbers.  Use *nethogs* to see overall network traffic.

---

### Post by Casey_Friday on 2013-10-29
No, the server is all the way on the other side of a 3,000 ft^2 house, so it's incredibly far away.  Direct wiring isn't an option, but I do know that when I first set the box up, I had it plugged in via HDMI to the TV and it was wired into the main Airport Extreme router, and I'm pretty sure all updates went at normal speeds.

Since it seems the wireless bridge is causing issues with apt-get here, I wonder what steps I can take to iron out those kinks for now.  I will only be living in this house for another couple months, and when I move to the new place, this box will be wired into the main router, which will be wired directly into the modem.

Two questions, TheFu.  1) Why do you suggest a backup for the server?  2) What sort of backup would you suggest?  This server has four 2TB drives in RAID5, so I'd basically have to build another server to back this one up.

---

### Post by Casey_Friday on 2013-10-29
For clarification, here are my server's details:

**Case**: Fractal Node 304
**Motherboard**: ECS H61H2-I3
**Processor**: Intel Celeron G1610 (2.6GHz Ivy Bridge)
**RAM**: 8GB DDR3 ADATA (2 x 4GB)
**HDD**: 4 x WD Red 2TB Drives (RAID5)
**PSU**: HEC 350TA-2RK
**Router**: Netgear WNR-834Bv2 w/**DD-WRT v24-sp2 (07/22/09) vpn**

Main uses of this are 1) Time Machine backup for my MBP 17", and my wife's MBP 15", 2) Media drive to serve music, photos, video via Plex.

My wife and I both already use USB portable hard drives for Time Machine, along with a Seagate 3TB drive connected to the router via ethernet for backup, so this is the third backup medium we use.  I guess I could eliminate the Seagate 3TB drive from our backup setup and use it as a backup for the Server, but it would only backup 3TB out of 6TB on the server...

---

### Post by Casey_Friday on 2013-10-29
When apt-get gets stuck (and eventually unstuck), it looks like I have plenty of connections left...

[IMG]https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-Hb5UMM_mrUQ/Um_UjeMhjGI/AAAAAAAAF94/cmhClbLRbQ4/s800/Screen%2520Shot%25202013-10-29%2520at%252010.28.16%2520AM.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Casey_Friday on 2013-10-29
Ah, your IPv6 guess was right, TheFu! I used this how-to to disable IPv6 traffic, and now apt-get update takes about 4 seconds to complete, rather than the 2-3 minutes it was taking before.  Perhaps the Netgear router my server is wired into either doesn't support IPv6 or it doesn't support it well (since it works, in the end).

I'll look for a router with IPv6 support and swap it out, until I can work with just one router in the future.

Thanks again, all!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-10-29
> **Casey_Friday said:**
> Two questions, TheFu.  1) Why do you suggest a backup for the server?  2) What sort of backup would you suggest?  This server has four 2TB drives in RAID5, so I'd basically have to build another server to back this one up.

Happy to see that you got it working.  It is also a best practice to block all IPv6 traffic at the network devices if you aren't explicitly using it.  Some routers will not see IPv6 and a tunnel will pass unwanted traffic right through. Best to disable it everywhere until you are ready. I'm surprised that more viruses haven't used IPv6 as an attack vector, especially on home systems. It would be like a direct, non-NAT router was connected without any firewall.

**RAID is **NOT** a backup.**  There are many issues that RAID cannot solve that backups do solve. I see this mistake all the time, it is common.  If I corrupt file happens or a virus gets into the RAID storage, then you have redundant copies of the corruption and/or virus.  RAID is meant to limit downtime should a single HDD fail - it might be a little faster, in certain situations too, but that is normally not an issue for non-business applications. 

OTOH, if your data can be unavailable for a day or so, then a backup will ensure no data loss and a good backup solution will let you recover data from before the virus or corruption hit thanks to incremental backups.  Too much to say about this for here - check out my blog for more details - my signature has links.

You don't need to build another server.  I have about 8TB of storage. The OS, settings and /home on each server/workstation all get backed up using automatic methods - my blog has more on that.  Some servers - like the email gateway don't have much data at all, so 60 days of backups is less than 200MB. It just holds list of packages and the settings. Restoring doesn't take much at all.  Other servers, like email, gets the full treatment - still settings, package lists and data. It is just that the data is much larger.  Then there is the media storage - which is the vast majority here.  The server it sits on gets backed up with settings, package lists, /home, etc ... .then the media drives are mirrored weekly/monthly to external HDDs using pure rsync.  Only 1 extra copy happens, since the media is for convenience (I have the original DVDs and audio CDs), but it would be a huge hassle to re-rip them all if the HDD failed.  2x3TB HDDs lets me sleep at night.  Just plug one into a USB3 dock and let the backup happen overnight.  If either drive with the data fails - the original or the backup, then the data is still not lost.

I do have 4x2TB HDDs in a RAID1 setup too, but that is for home business stuff and all the virtual machines. I have VM sprawl and $100 for another HDD is usually cheaper than my time to figure out what should/can be removed forever.  Just sayin'. ;)

Update:
Ah .. I see this is a backup for other systems too.  I would NOT backup the data backups again.  Just the system settings, list of packages, and any local data that is NOT already backed up.  I used to have RAID5 for a backup area too, then decided that RAID should be on my primary systems if it mattered that much and that using a bonehead, simple data storage for backups was in my best interest.  Working at 3am on a failed storage array is asking for trouble in my book.  OTOH, I can slap a loose SATA HDD (used for backup data) into almost any other machine here and make the data available easily.  I'm a real believer in the K.I.S.S. idea.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-10-30
I have 10 to 12 wireless networks that show up in connection manager.  Since bands interfere with each other, most wireless routers choose channel 1, 6, or 11.  Channels in between bleed into the 3 main channels often selected by wireless router algorithms.  I would guess wireless interference--pure and simple.  You can use *wifi-radar* to see the networks, channels, and signal strength.  

Bridging works great and solves a difficult problem--except when it doesn't work.

---

### Post by Casey_Friday on 2013-10-30
Thanks for the detailed reply!  For the most part, I think I understand what you're saying.  My wife and I already both back up to separate portable USB drives, so this backup to the NAS would solely be redundant.  I've had a couple USB hard drives fail in the past couple months, so I figured a beefier machine would do me better.  I know everyone says "RAID is not backup", but since this is the second backup for me, I feel that it's not a problem.  Time Machine will back up to the NAS every hour, and I don't have to plug in my USB drive - so it makes it much more convenient.

My NAS is much like you're saying yours is - it simply serves media and holds the backups.  It's not a primary machine by any means - it's even headless.

I'm about to reformat my RAID array using ZFS and make it a RAIDZ 1 array.  I've read that ZFS is much easier to use than mdadm, and although I'm comfortable in the command line, I'd prefer everything to be as easy as possible.  Before I do that, though, I'm installing a USB3 PCIe card, so that I can move everything off the drives now, and then back on once I reformat to ZFS.

Do you think there's a way I could get three 2TB portable USB drives and plug them all in at once, and have RSYNC just intelligently fill them with the 6TB of data on the RAID array?  Or will that be a lot more work?

Also, I'm booting off of a USB drive, so that I can use the full size of the RAID array - to back up my USB drive, should I just pop it into my MacBook Pro along with another USB drive, and dd everything to the other drive, for an instantly replaceable boot drive when/if the main boot USB fails?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-10-30
ZFS looks great on paper, but doesn't work all that great in the real world on low-end equipment. The recommendation is 2G of RAM for every 1TB of storage. Also, if you are using the user-mode version, performance will suck - EVEN MORE.  Licensing issues prevent easy deployment with the kernel-mode code, which sucks.  If you are uncomfortable with mdadm, I doubt ZFS will be any better.

USB3 is fast for 1 or 2 concurrent uses ... any more than that and I've seen HUGE queuing issues that appear to lock up the entire system for 20+ seconds at a time.  I'd never put an OS on USB for long term use.  USB3 is great for backups.  I have 2 of those connected now. For backups, they work just as fast as my eSATA and internal HDDs.  Just don't ask them to do many things at once.  I'm not the only person to see this queuing issue.   I've never gotten USB3 speeds to work through my USB3 hub - they only work when directly connected to the USB3 ports on the add-in card inside the server. This issue may be due to 10.04 on that server and 12.04 might correct it. I don't have any other USB3 machines on which to test. Sniff, sniff.

rsync is only as smart as you are.  If you have 3 drives, then I'd use 3 different rsync runs - 1 for each.

---

### Post by Casey_Friday on 2013-10-30
I wouldn't exactly say my equipment is "low end".  It isn't super speedy, but it's a 2.6GHz dual-core Ivy Bridge Celeron with 8GB of RAM, so it's up to most tasks easily.  I don't know what the "user-mode" is for ZFS, but I'm running Ubuntu using CLI only, so it wouldn't be anything graphically intense.  I read that the recommendation is 1GB of RAM for every 1TB of storage.

I'm not quite sure what you're getting at with USB3... are you saying that it's better to use USB2, because it will have less stability issues than USB3?

Edit: You know what, you're probably right about mdadm.  I'll just read the docs and get really familiar with it.  I've been reading about the performance hit ZFS takes on a system, and I want to run as low overhead as possible, so I'm sticking with mdadm.

---

