---
title: "[SOLVED] No network on Advantech PCM-9375F (RTL8139)"
date: 2008-01-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by SBA111 on 2008-01-18
Im trying to install Ubuntu 7.10 on an Advantec PCM-9375F, this is a single board PC104 style.
There are two RTL8139DL chips on this board. I have tried solutions from many treads. In my case the HW device is not recognized, in the treads I have seen so far, the HW is rcognized but not working in some respect. I am quite unexperienced and need some pointers to get any further with this problem.

I have attached output from dmesg, ifconfig -a, lshw -C network, lsmod and lspci.
Please take a look and point me in the right direction!

[ATTACH]56848[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]56849[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]56850[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]56851[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]56852[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by clsgis on 2008-01-18
Your dmesg shows an 8139 getting recognized and becoming eth0.
Your ifconfig shows an eth2.

I believe you are being bitten by the non-repeatability of device/interface names generated by udev.  You need to find a way to get udev to call the first Ethernet interface eth0 every time.   Here is a way that worked for me.  Create a file named /etc/udev/rules.d/010_netinterfaces.rules containing this line.  But substitute the Medium Access Controller (MAC, aka "hardware") ethernet address of your first interface.


SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTRS{address}=="00:11:5b:2f:a0:75", NAME:="eth0"


Add another line for each additional Ethernet interface, eth1, eth2, etc.

I believe this is an installer bug.  The installer should not set up udev in such a way that the ethN number increments each time it sees a new MAC address.

---

### Post by SBA111 on 2008-01-19
Wonderful, 
thank you clsgis for your kind help.
Your solution worked right away for me too!

Now I have a really tiny yet quite capable LAMP server up and running!
It is totally silent too!

---

