---
title: "14.04 fresh install: network unreachable"
date: 2014-04-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by xigen on 2014-04-21
I got an SSD (woo!) and Installed 14.04 (Woo Too!) - then networking did not work on install nor did networking work when I first started the system.

$ping 192.168.2.1     
network unreachable

I restarted networking 
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

I also tried to manually connect to my router
(IP) 192.168.2.101  (netmask) 255.255.255.0 (gateway) 192.168.2.1

then i tried to edit /etc/network/interfaces  
and add

auto eth0
iface lo inet loopback

This did not work.

Suggestions?

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-04-22
Are we talking about the Ethernet interface or Wireless?

If it is Ethernet, please post back the outputs of -
```
uname -mr
sudo lshw -C network
```

If it is Wireless, please follow the "Wireless Script" link in my signature, download and run the script as per instructions there, and post back the report it generates.

While posting the outputs, please use '**Code**' tags. It preserves the output's formatting and makes the post cleaner, compact and more readable. To see a quick 'HowTo' with screenshots, please follow the "Use Code Tags" link in my signature.

---

### Post by xigen on 2014-04-23
Thanks for the help.

14.04 had far too many errors on install for me to use it:
1) Network issues (Realtek driver)
2) Grub issues
3)  X not loading properly.

I bailed out and went back to 13.10

Cheers.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-04-24
No big deal. I myself prefer to install a release a month or two AFTER it is officially released. Usually a couple of months are enough for the release to become stable with initial bugs ironed out. :)

---

