---
title: "12.0.4 proxy installation woes"
date: 2013-11-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by harrikwok on 2013-11-02
I've installed Ubuntu and used the Installation prompts.  My network is behind a proxy so I entered the proxy when it prompted for a proxy address.  It also prompted me for a Username other than root so I entered username.  This created a user 'harri'.

While logged onto 'harri' I do not have any issues with internet.  I can wget just fine as well as apt-get.  Once I 'sudo su' or run any commands with 'sudo' the proxy settings fail to pull.  I decide to echo $http_proxy under both accounts.  With the harri account I see the proxy I entered during installation.  With root there is no value.

Under root I've  edited /etc/profile and added the export http_proxy='blahblaj', https_proxy='blahblaj', ftp_proxy='blahblaj' and I'm able to access the interwebs from applications that are currently installed.

The reason I need to know is that I have a script that automates installs of a bunch of things and it's working on the user harri but not root, the process gets stuck when I try to download a gem using Ruby.  Clearly I can do a Ruby Proxy config, but that would require the script to be modified and I'd rather not add something environment specific to it.

I've scoured the forums and they all lead to doing an export or looking in /etc/apt/apt.conf (which is the only location where I found anything that resembled the proxy I entered when I did a grep -r)

Now the question is ... where is the gui proxy input during installation stored?  Apologies for being noob.

Thanks
-H

---

