---
title: "Local lan DNS suffix resolution problem"
date: 2010-07-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by psypher on 2010-07-21
Hi All,

I have been plagued by an annoying DNS issue for a long time and was wondering if anyone has any solutions.

Our corporate LAN has a DHCP server which assigns my PC's IPs as well as a domain suffix details. My resolv.conf ends up like this:

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain aa.domain.local
search aa.domain.local
nameserver 10.0.0.1
nameserver 10.0.0.2


Problem is as such. When connecting to lan servers I can successfully connect using just the hostname, eg: exchange

ping exchange
PING exchange.aa.domain.local (10.0.0.3) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from exchange.aa.domain.local (10.0.0.3): icmp_seq=1 ttl=124 time=27.3 ms

Now thats fine and works as expected. But try ping the FQDN exchange.aa.domain.local:

ping exchange.aa.domain.local
ping: unknown host exchange.aa.domain.local

Why does that happen? Surely it should still resolve? Where it becomes a problem is when I connect to web apps, and these webapps have links using the FDQN. So you can connect to webapp1 and it works, but if it links to webapp2.aa.domian.local it breaks and fails. I do not have control over those links, but I do have control over my PC. And adding manual DNS entries in my hosts file is not really an option. Something is misconfigured or broken.

Any suggestions?

Thanks

---

### Post by arubislander on 2010-07-23
I'm afraid I have no solution to your problem. But I was going to post about mine since it is equal but opposite, so I hope it's not considered hijacking this thread if I post the issue I have here.

My resolv.conf:
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain local
search local
nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx  # obfuscated for reasons of privacy

```

Now if I ping to say foo.local from bar.local I get:
```
~$ ping foo
ping: unknown host foo

~$ ping foo.local
PING foo.local (xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from foo.local (xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx) icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=3.59 ms

```

So I'm very interested in any suggestions folks might have.

---

### Post by psypher on 2010-10-12
Bump, this is still a very annoying issue for corporate users and should affect a few people

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2010-10-12
> **psypher said:**
> Bump, this is still a very annoying issue for corporate users and should affect a few people

I'm going to guess it's a mis-configured DNS server.  It probably doesn't know how to resolve the FQDN's.  I wouldn't be surprised if it appends the domain suffix so a.example.com becomes a.example.com.example.com.  Often it can be as trivial as missing the concluding dot in an A record.

Where's the DNS server?  Is it on Linux or perhaps Windows? Perhaps an AD server?

---

### Post by psypher on 2010-10-13
Yes it is an AD server. It's beyond my control I though else I would be on there fixing it :)

Was hoping it's not a linux thing as both myself and a friend at two separate branches (seperate AD servers as well) is experiencing this.

But if the DNS on the AD servers are mis-configured then how come windows clients work fine? Here are some tests with dig and nslookup from windows client:


; <<>> DiG 9.3.2 <<>> webapp

;; global options:  printcmd

;; Got answer:

;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: SERVFAIL, id: 898

;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0



;; QUESTION SECTION:

;webapp.			IN	A



;; Query time: 10 msec

;; SERVER: 192.168.1.31#53(192.168.1.31)

;; WHEN: Wed Oct 13 08:24:37 2010

;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 26





; <<>> DiG 9.3.2 <<>> webapp.aa.domain.local

;; global options:  printcmd

;; Got answer:

;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 926

;; flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 2, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0



;; QUESTION SECTION:

;webapp.aa.domain.local.	IN	A



;; ANSWER SECTION:

webapp.aa.domain.local. 3600	IN	CNAME	appsrv.aa.domain.local.

appsrv.aa.domain.local. 3600 IN	A	192.168.2.115



;; Query time: 0 msec

;; SERVER: 192.168.1.31#53(192.168.1.31)

;; WHEN: Wed Oct 13 08:25:26 2010

;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 83



nslookup webapp


Server:  globalcatalog.aa.domain.local

Address:  192.168.1.31



Name:    appsrv.aa.domain.local

Address:  192.168.2.115

Aliases:  webapp.aa.domain.local

nslookup webapp.aa.domain.local



Server:  globalcatalog.aa.domain.local

Address:  192.168.1.31



Name:    appsrv.aa.domain.local

Address:  192.168.2.115

Aliases:  webapp.aa.domain.local



When I do the same dig tests on linux I get the exact same result. So what is not setup right?

---

