---
title: "10.04 wired connection stopped working"
date: 2010-05-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-08
Hi,

Installed 10.04 (fresh) on my media centre, everything worked fine and has done so for a week now.  Turned it on today and there's no connection to the router.  The router is fine as I'm connected on my laptop through it now.  Pretty sure the cabling is fine (have checked it and have no reason to suspect anything has damaged it in the last 24 hours).  I suspect an update has changed something but I don't know where to start looking for and fixing the problem.  Anyone got any ideas?

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-08
sudo lshw -C network detects the network card and everything there looks normal.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-08
If you use DHCP, post results of **sudo dhclient eth0**

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-10
```
Listening on   LPF/etho0/6c:f0:49:1e:26:92
Sending on           LPF/etho0/6c:f0:49:1e:26:92
Sending on           Socket/fallback
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 4
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 8
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 11
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 8
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 14
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 14
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 2
No DHCPOFFERS received.
No working leases in persistent database - sleeping.
```

Thanks!

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-10
> **Worp8d said:**
> Listening on   LPF/[COLOR="Red"]etho0[/COLOR]/6c:f0:49:1e:26:92
Sending on           LPF/[COLOR="Red"]etho0[/COLOR]/6c:f0:49:1e:26:92
...Well, now we know why the connection isn't working... now why DHCP isn't working. I'm a bit curious if the highlighted text is a typo, or if the system is doing something weird.

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-10
Yeah I'm sorry, the 'etho0' should actually be 'eth0'; with not network connection I'm having to copy commands/responses off the screen.

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-12
I booted from the CD but the network didn't connect even though it connected and found my location automatically when I installed Lucid the first time.  I've changed the connection to the router, switched cables and jiggled everything.  Nothing.  

Is there a way I can test the network card?

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-12
The router doesn't see the wired connection.  Both

[FONT="Courier New"]lspci | grep Network
lspci | grep eth0[/FONT]

produce nothing (found that on a forum post) but

[FONT="Courier New"]lspci[/FONT]

finds

[FONT="Courier New"]Ethernet controller: Realtek Semi[/FONT]... etc.

I'm completely at a loss here.

---

### Post by Sixtease on 2010-05-12
I'm experiencing the same problem. After the upgrade, the wired connection is no longer working. Running ifconfig only lists lo, no mention of eth0.
Mobile broadband via USB modem works OK though.

**Update:** Funny thing is... when I run sudo dhclient, the network starts working and I suddenly see eth0 in ifconfig.

---

### Post by solentnewmedia on 2010-05-12
One of My Computers has this same problem was working fine until today, using 32bit version of 10.04 just rebooted to dualboot windows 7 and that works fine on same router/network card something is wrong with 10.04 on wired connections, 

Please can someone look into this as it is very annoying I mean having to use windows lol

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-13
> **solentnewmedia said:**
> One of My Computers has this same problem was working fine until today, using 32bit version of 10.04 just rebooted to dualboot windows 7 and that works fine on same router/network card something is wrong with 10.04 on wired connections, 

If you boot from the Ubuntu install CD does the network connection start working?

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-14
V. numerous wired and wired networking problem posts all over the forums/net,  Clearly something wrong here.

Anyway, booted from Kubuntu 9.04 LiveCD and everything worked perfectly.

Frustrating.

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-14
Perhaps I'm shooting myself in the foot having this conversation with myself but since I've no other option I'll blog away.

Checked:
/etc/hosts
/etc/resolv.conf
/etc/network/interfaces

All files are fine.  (Fine as in they're exactly the same as on this machine which is running fine.)


The only problem that I can see is that the lines

```
inet addr:192.168.2.100  Bcast:192.168.2.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
inet6 addr: <snipped> Scope:Link
```

(or similar) are mising from the 'eth0' section of the ifconfig report.

Onward ho.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-14
The [problem]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1156441") I had on my Jaunty laptop doesn't seem to affect my Lucid desktop, but you're welcome to try some of the options.

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-14
Thanks for the reply!  Unfortunately I don't see how that thread relates... suspect you copied the wrong link?  Of course I didn't understand half the terms in the first post so I could easily be missing something.

I have been doing as much reading as I can get in on this topic but my experience is limited so going is slow.  I've tried every vaguely-relevant fix I can find to no avail.

Which lead me to do a clean install.

Which leads me to here: way short of packages and still no connection. ](*,) The funny thing is that the system worked, exactly as is, for a while.  Then the problem appeared which led me to believe it was a buggy update.  But a *clean install* doesn't fix the problem.  I saw a post somewhere a while ago (before I reinstalled) that said something about part of the Linux networking system changing settings on the card itself, but I can't find it now.  I'll keep looking.

So a summary of what I know:

The good:

ifconfig and lshw detect the ethernet card and everything seems to be working at the hardware level.
Kubuntu 9.04 LiveCD accesses the ethernet/internet connection fine.
/etc/resolv.conf exists and is correct.
/etc/hosts exists and is correct.

The bad:

NO DHCPOFFERS is the ultimate response to 'dhclient eth0'.
Tried static IP.  Nothing.
Noticed that /etc/network/interfaces was missing the 'auto eth0', 'iface eth0 inet dhcp' lines, so I added them.  After rebooting the network manager no longer showed any wired connections at all and the situation was generally worse.  Have tried many permutations of this change with no improvement.
Removed network-manager package.  No change.
Reinstalled Ubuntu (formatted partition).  No change.

Where to from here then?  To the fridge for one more beer and then to bed methinks.  Perhaps it'll all be better tomorrow.

P.S. Should I be submitting a bug report for this?  I have never reported a bug before so I'm a little uncertain as to the process.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-14
:oops: Oops... what was indeed the wrong link. Fixed now - but still no guarantees ;)

---

### Post by kwalters on 2010-05-14
I got round this problem by using manually selected IP addresses instead of DHCP ones.  I guessed from my Windows setup what was reasonable and defined my gateway as a DNS server.  Suddenly it all worked; and later, when I changed back to DHCP, it still works.  Don't ask me why

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-18
I have tried a static IP with no success.  The really confusing thing is any time I use anything but (K)ubuntu 10.04 the connection works fine.  I've submitted a bug report, hopefully something comes of that.

---

### Post by Worp8d on 2010-05-20
Got it!  The answer, as stated in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1436667&page=2") was to turn the computer off, unplug all power sources and the network cable, leave the system for ~3min and then restart.  Don't know what this achieves but the network is now connected!

I'm glad the network is back

---

### Post by sibongak18 on 2010-11-01
how did you finally resolve this error. i am getting the same error. no connection to internet, network manager icon is hidden. 

pls help

---

### Post by JD8182 on 2011-01-05
For about the last hour or so I have had the same issue with my wired connection (no connection), what I did was opened network connections (under wired tab) I deleted eth0 and rebooted. Once Ubuntu was back up I reopened the network this time from the task bar and made the new eth0 active, it worked! Good luck




Edit: It was Auto Ethernet that I made active btw ;)

---

### Post by Sollmeeya on 2011-01-29
I have the same problem, 10.10

everything was fine yesterday, today i can't even access the wired connection in the top window to see what is wrong. 

It seems that, having done all the previous steps, with the same results as word8p I have had no joy, but have the same problem.

i would really appreciate some help! 

The router works,
The hardware is being picked up by ubuntu but there is no wired connection.

---

