---
title: "10.04 wireless drops intermittently"
date: 2010-06-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jrowland on 2010-06-22
I have an Asus EeePC that I recently upgraded from Ubuntu 9.10 to 10.04.  The wireless networking has worked great up until about 2 weeks ago.  Now it occasionally drops the connection (can't ping the gateway), even though the "blue bars" still say connected.  My current solution is to click the bars, do a "disconnect", and then reconnect.

I've ruled out the router being a problem (all 17 other wireless devices in my house remain connected), and I've ruled out a laptop hardware problem (when I dual boot into Win7, I never lose my connection).

I'm new to Linux (installed 9.10 back in February), but not new to computers/networking.  I run a major campus LAN [Windows based] and have worked all aspects from the early mainframe days to client support to server admin to helpdesk - after 17 years, I'm now in management, so I've lost my edge a little... plus, being brand new to linux, I'm feeling a little lost in the troubleshooting aspect of this.

However... I do believe that I've narrowed my problem down to "almost exactly" when this occurs.  The wireless connection drops out as soon as I start to do "network intensive" stuff like watch a YouTube video, play a Facebook flash game, or (and here's the kicker), try to run the Update Manager.  Unfortunately, this means that I have not been able to update for a few weeks now.  I'm up to about 150MB worth of updates that are waiting.

I've searched the forums and have found a couple of similar threads, but so far no solution.  The Helpdesk Manager in me says that I should open my own "ticket", instead of jumping into the other threads with a "me too".  Those other threads are here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1510951](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1510951)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1477539](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1477539)

Here are my hardware specs:
Asus EeePC 1000HE, dual booting Win7 Home Premium and Ubuntu 10.04 netbook remix
Intel Atom CPU N270 1.6GHz (32bit)
1GB RAM
Atheros AR928X Wireless Network Adapter

---

### Post by Sean Hayes on 2010-06-26
Check out my thread here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1477539](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1477539). It's not completely fixed, but I'm getting much better performance with the "dhcpcd" package installed. Let me know if you get any improvement. If it doesn't work on its own, you could also try uninstalling Network Manager and installing Wicd.

---

