---
title: "[9.10] WUSB600N ver2 Working in Karmic"
date: 2010-03-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ghuber on 2010-03-01
I have a WUSB600N v2 and it is working great for me. Here is all you have to do.

Go here and download the RT3572USB driver
[http://www.ralinktech.com/support.php?s=2](http://www.ralinktech.com/support.php?s=2)

The file you download is called 2009_1222_RT3572_LinuxSTA_V2[1].3.0.0.tar.bz2

expand it with the command

"tar xjf 2009_1222_RT3572_LinuxSTA_V2[1].3.0.0.tar.bz2"

open the file os/linux/config.mk and edit the following lines:
Change HAS_WPA_SUPPLICANT=n
to HAS_WPA_SUPPLICANT=y

and

Change HAS_NATIVE_WPA_SUPPLICANT_SUPPORT=n
to HAS_NATIVE_WPA_SUPPLICANT_SUPPORT=y

Next edit the file common/rtusb_dev_id.c and add the USB ID of the card to it.

{USB_DEVICE(0x1737,0x0079)}, /* WUSB600Nv2 */

sudo make

sudo make install

reboot and your done.

If you have added the USB device to any other drivers following other threads you will want to either remove that line and recompile those drivers OR black list those drivers. After doing the above this NIC is working great for me in Ubuntu 9.10 and getting N speeds.

---

### Post by poiboy05 on 2010-03-02
Thank you, this was exactly what I needed and it works great!

Question though. Once I completed the install and had it up and running, I ran an update (large one after fresh install) rebooted, and have lost the wireless card again. I know there are multiple ways to have it load at boot but what method would you suggest for this? I just went into the driver directory and ran sudo make install again, rebooted and it works now after every reboot. 

I started out with a 300n that would not allow me to connect to WPA in 9.10 64 bit, but perfectly fine in 9.04. I ended up going to this card and am really thankful to you for posting this.

cheers

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-02
Your update probably included an updated linux-image, from 2.6.31-16 to -19, perhaps. You built rt3572sta against the old linux-image. Simply rebuild it for your newer image:```
cd 2009_1222_RT3572_LinuxSTA_V2[1].3.0.0
sudo make clean
sudo make
sudo make install
sudo modprobe rt3572sta  <--or whatever the module is called
```You should be back in business.

Remember to rebuild whenever the update includes a new linux-image. Eventually, the 12-2009 version will get too old, so be prepared to download a newer version at some point.

---

### Post by marlborodasreds on 2010-05-01
after about a week of trying out diffrent linux distros i am about to pull my hair out join the amish. i have a wusb600nv2 werks great in vista however when i try to install it in linux on a vmware player it will not allow me to install it or if it does it works for 2 maybe 3 mins and crashes. every guide i have seen says when i type lsusb it should show up as wusb600n v2 however everytime i type it all i get is Linksys i have tried just about everything does anyone have a way to fix this so i can get this card to work or am i asking for the moon and stars. i am not afraid to spend hours trying to get this to work but there has to be a way get it done also even after blacklisting rt2500usb it still uses that as my driver  as you can see this is what i get everytime and i am less than 50 feet from a brand new dlink n band roughter. does anyone know what this prolem could be? 
 
 
 
ra0       Ralink STA  ESSID:"11 n-AP"  Nickname:"RT3572STA"
          Mode:Auto  Frequency=2.412 GHz  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Bit Rate:1 Mb/s   
          RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Link Quality=10/100  Signal level:0 dBm  Noise level:-96 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

 
sorry about the rant but i have been at this for a while and have checked every forum i can find. any help will be gladly accepted

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-05-01
> when i type lsusb it should show up as wusb600n v2 however everytime i type it all i get is LinksysMay we see exactly what it says? Also may we see:```
lsmod | grep -e rt2 -e rt3
dmesg | grep -e rt2 -e rt3 
```Thanks.> even after blacklisting rt2500usb it still uses that as my driver as you can see I do not see. What tells you the driver being used is rt2500usb?

---

### Post by marlborodasreds on 2010-05-01
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 1737:0079 Linksys 
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

airmon-ng was told it is a good way to see what chipset my usb is using
Interface Chipset  Driver
ra0  Ralink 2560 PCI rt2500
 
 
[EMAIL="marlboro@ubuntu:~$"]marlboro@ubuntu:~$[/EMAIL] lsmod | grep -e rt2 -e rt3
rt3572sta             579676  1 
[EMAIL="marlboro@ubuntu:~$"]marlboro@ubuntu:~$[/EMAIL] dmesg | grep -e rt2 -e rt3
[ 3466.713513] usbcore: registered new interface driver rt2870
[ 3485.224873] <==== rt28xx_init, Status=0

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-05-01
> airmon-ng was told it is a good way to see what chipset my usb is usingThat's probably correct. It does not, however, tell you the *driver* your device is using. When you did lsmod (list all the driver modules that are loaded), rt2500usb was not among them.

Does it help if you do:```
sudo iwconfig ra0 rate 54M
```Does it help if you do:```
sudo gedit /etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf
```Scroll down to where is says:> [ifupdown]
managed=trueIf it doesn't say true, change it and proofread, save and close gedit. Now do:```
sudo /etc/init.d/NetworkManager restart
```Any improvement?

---

### Post by marlborodasreds on 2010-05-01
lo no wireless extensions.
eth0 no wireless extensions.
ra0 Ralink STA ESSID:"11n-AP" Nickname:"RT3572STA"
Mode:Auto Frequency=2.412 GHz Access Point: Not-Associated 
Bit Rate:1 Mb/s 
RTS thr:off Fragment thr:off
Link Quality=10/100 Signal level:0 dBm Noise level:-95 dBm
Rx invalid nwid:0 Rx invalid crypt:0 Rx invalid frag:0
Tx excessive retries:0 Invalid misc:0 Missed beacon:0
 
 
after the steps ypu gave me gonna reboot it and try again
 
 
still only getting 1mb

---

### Post by ghuber on 2010-05-09
If the steps in post 1 do not work it either due to other threads you have followed or you are not editing the files properly before compiling the driver.

---

