---
title: "13.10 x64, Muffin, Cinnamon, lightdm - Can't get rid of &quot;hotspot&quot;"
date: 2014-02-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by EvilSupahFly on 2014-02-21
I  created a wireless hotspot  in Ubuntu yesterday, and it's causing all sorts of problems now.

One, it doesn't work for some reason. But that's an issue for another day. I'll figure that out some other time.

Two, I *DONT* want to use it, I want to get rid of it but I'm not able  to. Furthermore, when I boot up, I can't connect to any  wireless network because Ubuntu for some reason can't get out of the  previously created wireless hotspot. "Stop Hotspot" does nothing permanent. I can turn off the hotspot, but as soon as I reboot, it's back. I tried "Forget Network" and it did indeed forget my WLAN, but after I rebooted and put it back in, that stupid failed hotspot is back.

I saw a similar issue and the user was advised to uncheck "connect automatically" but I don't have that option except for my wireless LAN, which isn't helping. Is there a way I can be rid of the attempted hotspot setup once and for all? I tried looking through my assorted and many network-related config files in /etc/, and as a last resort, even tried to remove DNSMASQ (dnsmasq-base) until APT advised me it would also do away with my network manager should I decide to proceed. So I nixed that idea and decided to come to you guys instead.

---

### Post by EvilSupahFly on 2014-02-21
I should note that I do have a *ton* of [information available]("http://sdgiffin.freehost.ag/temp/wireless-info.txt") for troubleshooting that I got from running the wireless script mentioned in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=12350385#post12350385").

---

### Post by EvilSupahFly on 2014-02-25
I think I found the problem. Located in[FONT=courier new]  /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections [/FONT]was a second copy of my WIFI setup (named after my SSID), but  containing the line [FONT=courier new]method=shared[/FONT]:

```
[connection]
id=xxxx
uuid=xxxx
type=802-11-wireless
timestamp=1393086218

[802-11-wireless]
ssid=xxxx
mode=infrastructure
mac-address=00:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx
seen-bssids=xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx;
security=802-11-wireless-security

[802-11-wireless-security]
key-mgmt=wpa-psk
psk=xxxxxxxxx

[ipv4]
method=shared

[ipv6]
method=ignore
```

In my regular config, I have this instead:

```
[ipv4]
method=auto
```

I deleted the second file, and my mystery auto-hotspot issue has since disappeared, thankfully.

---

