---
title: "10.10 Server - Static IP set, reverting to dynamic IP on it's own"
date: 2011-08-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by steven6282 on 2011-08-27
Hello,
I'm having a very weird problem that I have never seen happen before and can't figure out the cause of it.

I have configured a Ubuntu Server 10.10 64bit setup.  After initial setup I went in and changed the interfaces file to use a static IP instead of the dynamic IP.  Restarted networking and all is fine for a little while.  But after a few hours it suddenly reverts back to the dynamic IP address.  The interfaces file still shows a static IP address set, but ifconfig shows the dynamic IP address.

I tried a clean install twice and it still did it both times.  I can't figure out what the heck is causing this.

Ubuntu is running in an ESXi Virtual Machine, configured with a single E1000 network card, 4 cpu cores, 4 gb of ram, 60 gb hdd.  And there is a hardware based pfSense router box configured that it gets it's dynamic IP from initially.

Any ideas?  I'm guessing it's an outside of ubuntu problem since it happened on multiple installs but I thought that once you set static in interfaces, it was static.  DIdn't realize an outside source can overrule Ubuntu's own interfaces setting, that kind of defeats the purpose of having an interfaces setting in the first place =/

---

### Post by Iowan on 2011-08-27
I (barely) remember that happening in a previous release - can't remember which one. Seems like either an old lease was getting recalled, or dhclient was still active.

---

### Post by steven6282 on 2011-08-27
I just discovered recently that dhclient is running.  But I don't understand why it is is the problem.

I've never had this problem before in the 5 or 6 other ubuntu 10.10 server installs I've done (all have static IPs), what is special about installing it on ESXi 4.1 that makes it do this.

---

