---
title: "2.6.32-37 kernel and wireless"
date: 2011-12-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by TimGS on 2011-12-26
Hi,

After a recent kernel upgrade to kernel 2.6.32-37 I have intermittent wireless to the point of it being unusable.

Booting with the previous kernel 2.6.32-36 is a workaround, and I have commented out the lines for 2.6.32-37 in /boot/grub/menu.lst.

A number of people seem to have had wireless woes after this recent upgrade. I have 32bit 10.04 LTS on a Thinkpad T42, but I suspect the issue is with the specific kernel.

-- Tim.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-12-26
Tell us more about your system ;-)

```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
lsusb
lsmod
iwconfig
rfkill list
sudo iwlist scan
```
You can install the tool "startupmanager" for choosing a default boot-kernel and write back the lines for the new kernel (or reinstall it).

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-26
> **TimGS said:**
> Hi,

After a recent kernel upgrade to kernel 2.6.32-37 I have intermittent wireless to the point of it being unusable.

Booting with the previous kernel 2.6.32-36 is a workaround, and I have commented out the lines for 2.6.32-37 in /boot/grub/menu.lst.

A number of people seem to have had wireless woes after this recent upgrade. I have 32bit 10.04 LTS on a Thinkpad T42, but I suspect the issue is with the specific kernel.

-- Tim.

Apart from the solution of @praseodym you could try installing the next kernel. The existing kernels are here:
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)
From synaptic you could search for the 2.6.32-38 or something like this, to install. In a case of a problem you can boot with the working kernel.

---

### Post by TimGS on 2012-01-02
Thanks for the extra help - but I think the line of least resistance is to just use the -36 kernel until the -38 arrives  in the usual repos.

-- Tim.

---

