---
title: "11.10 no wireless recognition &lt;-- noob"
date: 2012-04-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by CraiGDaniel on 2012-04-20
Decided to give ubuntu a go for the first time ever.

I am trying to get my wifi usb stick to work, but no luck. 

the usb stick is this one:

[http://www.ebay.co.uk/itm/Mini-Wireless-Wifi-150mbps-11-N-Usb-Dongle-WLAN-Network-Adapter-/170816410531?pt=UK_Computing_Networking_SM&hash=item27c57393a3](http://www.ebay.co.uk/itm/Mini-Wireless-Wifi-150mbps-11-N-Usb-Dongle-WLAN-Network-Adapter-/170816410531?pt=UK_Computing_Networking_SM&hash=item27c57393a3)

I have connected the os via ethernet and tried using 'additional drivers' it discovered the wireless usb device and say it is 'installed and active' however i still can't see any networks.


Any advice?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-20
Please insert the device in the USB slot and then let's ask the system for more information. Open a terminal and run and post:```
lsusb
uname -r
```Thanks.

---

### Post by CraiGDaniel on 2012-04-20
lsusb uname -r gives 'invalid option "r"'

here is my adapter in 'lsusb'

Bus 001 Device 007: ID 148f:5370 Ralink Technology, Corp.


Any good?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-20
> lsusb uname -r gives 'invalid option "r"'They are two separate commands:```
lsusb
```Press Enter; note the result. Then do:```
uname -r
```Press Enter; note the result. Post both.

You don't need to post *lsusb* since we see that. The proper method to install a Ralink 5370 device does depend on your kernel version; hence *uname -r*.

---

### Post by CraiGDaniel on 2012-04-21
Sorry my mistake hehe.

uname -r returns:

3.0.0-12 generic



Thanks for help so far!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-21
There are (at least) two ways to do this. Let's try the kwik 'n durty method first. We are going to create two text files and load the driver. If it doesn't go perfectly well, we'll try the long and hard method.

Remove the device and in a terminal, do:```

sudo gedit /etc/udev/rules.d/network_drivers.rules
```Add one long line:```

ACTION=="add", SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idVendor}=="148f", ATTR{idProduct}=="5370", RUN+="/sbin/modprobe -qba rt2800usb"
```Caps, brackets, punctuation, etc. are crucial. Proofread twice, save and close gedit.```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/network_drivers.conf
```Add one long single line:```

install rt2800usb /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install rt2800usb $CMDLINE_OPTS; /bin/echo "148f 5370" > /sys/bus/usb/drivers/rt2800usb/new_id
```
Proofread twice, save and close gedit. Insert the device. If it doesn't start immediately, you might have to do:```
sudo modprobe rt2800usb
```Please let us know if this semi-experimental method works.

---

### Post by CraiGDaniel on 2012-04-21
[FONT=monospace]worked perfectly! had to enter the last line to bring the device to life, but the second i did it showed up my wireless networks.

thank you very much, huge help.
[/FONT]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-21
Excellent! We have added to the 5370 knowledge base and I'm sure more than a few searchers will find it. Would you please help them out by using Thread Tools at the top and mark Solved?

---

