---
title: "21.04 install - no wifi in settings"
date: 2021-08-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jgw on 2021-08-13
I just installed 21.04 and have it up and running.  It is currently getting the wired environment.  I want to use this system in a wireless environment.  My problem is that wireless is not in setup and very strange things happen when I try and boot this system and no internet is available.  I checked my bios and found nothing to do with wireless.  I have tried a number of things to try and deal with this and everything failed (there are a lot of suggestions).  I am running with a gigabyte GA-F2A75M-HD2 and suspect there imay not be a wireless driver.  When I installed ubuntu I was on a wired network.  Oh, I have a wireless source (tp-link) which is easily found and used (just tested it on another system).  I have been trying to fix this for 2 days and have failed.

Thank you.............

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2021-08-13
Is "GA-F2A75M-HD2" amotherboard btand? What about a wireless card, does it have any? What is its model?

---

### Post by jgw on 2021-08-13
the motherboard is a gigabyte GA-F2A75M-HD2 - that is the name and model of the motherboard.  I have used it with no problems for a long time but swapped out my drive and installed everything on that drive

Again - my problem is that there is NO wifi option in the system  (21.04) settings!

---

### Post by jgw on 2021-08-13
My signature is for another system.  Here is info about the one I am dealing with:

Processor	AMD A8-7650K Radeon R7, 10 Compute Cores 4C+6G
Memory	15300MB (2881MB used)
Operating System	Ubuntu 21.04
OpenGL Renderer	AMD KAVERI (DRM 2.50.0, 5.11.0-25-generic, LLVM 12.0.0)

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2021-08-13
There are no wifi options because, apparently, there is no wireless hardware. 
If that is the case, you need to buy a wireless card, and install it.

---

### Post by jgw on 2021-08-13
Thanks for the reply!

That might be an option but I have been using this motherboard for a long time with wifi so .....  The only thing that I have changed is a new hard drive.  My suspicion is that I need a driver but have no idea what that might be.  I guess I could put the old drive back in the machine and see what happens but I don't trust that drive.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2021-08-13
Well, if there is a wireless card, you've not provided any info about it so far, nor have you definitively stated there is one.
Usually, we would expect a wireless help request framed along the following lines:
 - I have a wireless card
 - Its model/chipset is so and so
 - I know it works on another OS
...

This way, we have some useful info to work with, but here, all of the tech stuff you've posted is irrelevant.
If the card needs a driver, we need to know details, so the following terminal outputs will be helpful:
> lsusb

lspci | grep Net

---

### Post by jgw on 2021-08-14
Thank you for the replies!

It seems that everybody was right but me!  Seriously!  My mind got stuck and it only took me a day of misery to figure it out.  

My apologies for wasting everybody's time - again, seriously! 

I will mark this as solved - thanks again!

---

### Post by morrownr on 2021-08-14
Same thing happens to me.

If you find that you need info on available usb wifi adapters:

[https://github.com/morrownr/USB-WiFi](https://github.com/morrownr/USB-WiFi)

---

