---
title: "12.04 VPN not connecting"
date: 2012-07-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by frogotronic on 2012-07-07
Hello,

  Did a fresh install of Precise (12.04 LTS) and installed the vpn packages, but now I cannot connect.  Is there something different about 12.04 VPN?

Thanks,
CH

---

### Post by Kirk Schnable on 2012-07-11
Can you please clarify... which VPN application are you using? 

There are a lot of different VPN clients Ubuntu supports... OpenVPN, PPTP, L2TP, etc.

Which software have you installed?  What exactly happens when you're trying to establish your VPN connection?

Kirk

---

### Post by frogotronic on 2012-07-12
Well, I tried the VPN Network Manager plugin and no luck at all.  I may not have all the correct packages installed.  Does anyone have a list of them?

I've downloaded the Cisco AnyConnect Client (2.5.3041) and it seems to work well.

But the native Ubuntu VPN client doesn't.

- CH

---

### Post by Kirk Schnable on 2012-07-13
If its a Cisco VPN, you may want to try the client called "vpnc" as that works for the Cisco VPN at my work. 

I always used the CLI vpnc, but it sounds like there may be a Network Manager plugin for it too: [http://projects.gnome.org/NetworkManager/admins/](http://projects.gnome.org/NetworkManager/admins/)

Kirk

---

### Post by valem on 2012-07-16
Sad, I can't even figure out how to start a new post ... or I'm not allowed?
Anyway, I just installedL2TP IPsec VPN Manager, I set up the vpn connection as instructed, but when I select the connection, I get an error and then the whole system locks up completely, mouse cursor included.
Sometimes it just locks up with no info, and sometimes I get the following error: "Error 410 occurred when connecting to ...."
I can ping the server, so no problem there.
It appears to create a log, and I tried to copy and paste but it usually freezes before I get a chance.
I am running the latest 12.04 with a Z77 mobo with an i7-2600.
Any though is greatly appreciated!
Thanks

---

