---
title: "Help with wireless configuration with ubuntu drapper"
date: 2006-10-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Kishandr on 2006-10-18
Hello there , I have a toshiba satellite running on xp .I wanted to try linux for the first time in my life so i got ubuntu.Now my problem is i am unable to connect to the internet.

My internet:It is a broadband internet i access it wirelessly through a built in atheros card.My internet is not secured.No wep or wap .i am wirelessly connect to linksys router.I use sympatico as i live in canada .In xp i use sympatico acces manager to dail pppoe(with username and password) after i get connected wirelessly to my router.

Now the problem is when i try to connect net in ubuntu live cd i am unable to connect

My wireless card is recognized as i see the ath0 connected to my linksys router.
I tried configuring usin sudo pppoeconfig......i get this messeage at end of the whole thing ...Rp-pppoe ....etc/ppp/peer/dsl-provider unrecognised 'nic-ath0'
I tried configuring through system---administration--network the ath0 is enabled no problem with that but i am still uable to conncet to net .....help please..](*,) ](*,) ](*,) ](*,) ](*,)

---

### Post by Kishandr on 2006-10-18
Device name:Wan miniport(PPPOE)
Device type :PPPOE
Server type: PPP
Transports:tcp/ip
authentication:PAP
Compression : none
PPP multilink framing :none
this is what is given when i look in xp status .please help

---

### Post by Kishandr on 2006-10-20
This is my dsl provider file
# Minimalistic default options file for DSL/PPPoE connections

noipdefault
defaultroute
replacedefaultroute
hide-password
#lcp-echo-interval 30
#lcp-echo-failure 4
noauth
persist
#mtu 1492
usepeerdns
plugin rp-pppoe.so
nic-ath0
user "b1ixuw72"


kishan@kishan-laptop:~$ sudo ifconfig
ath0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:90:96:82:93:37
          inet addr:192.168.1.102  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::290:96ff:fe82:9337/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:15 errors:52 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:52
          TX packets:58 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:200
          RX bytes:2153 (2.1 KiB)  TX bytes:5466 (5.3 KiB)
          Interrupt:209 Memory:dfb00000-dfb10000

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:08:0D:32:B2:DB
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 b)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 b)

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:9 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:9 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
          RX bytes:472 (472.0 b)  TX bytes:472 (472.0 b)
kishan@kishan-laptop:~$ sudo iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

ath0      IEEE 802.11g  ESSID:"linksys"
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.437 GHz  Access Point: 00:0C:41:B0:89:26          Bit Rate:11 Mb/s   Tx-Power:18 dBm   Sensitivity=0/3
          Retry:off   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Encryption key:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=37/94  Signal level=-58 dBm  Noise level=-95 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

eth0      no wireless extensions.

sit0      no wireless


When ever i do sudo pppoeconfig
At the end it says 
Plugin rp-pppoe.so loaded.
/usr/sbin/pppd: In file /etc/ppp/peers/dsl-provider: unrecognized option 'nic-ath0'
Please Please some one help 

i am new to linux  please help

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2006-10-20
from the error, i would suggest to comment out that line. make it #nic-ath0.
also, when you say this your dsl provider file, are you saying that your dsl provider gave you this file? if you created it, then make sure that the line that the error is informing you of is correctly written. maybe it should be nic=ath0? I don't know. just trying to guess and help you the best I can. I have cable broadband so don't know about dsl?

---

### Post by Kishandr on 2006-10-20
Thanks for answering me But i tried to change to options like #nic-ath0 but no luck .Well the dsl-provider file is being generated by pppoeconf which i run from terminal .i open that file and has shown u the details .Can any help me to remove this ' nic-eth0' error

---

### Post by Kishandr on 2006-10-20
Thanks for answering me But i tried to change to options like #nic-ath0 but no luck .Well the dsl-provider file is being generated by pppoeconf which i run from terminal .i open that file and has shown u the details .Can any help me to remove this ' nic-ath0' error

---

### Post by Kishandr on 2006-10-20
i am able to connect to the net with etho(wired connection) but not with atho can u help me with this

---

### Post by Kishandr on 2006-10-21
There is a bug in the dsl-provider generation in rp-pppoe is it written as nic-ath0 u need to comment it so use #nic-ath0 and the above line use 
plugin rp-pppoe.so ath0
#nic-ath0
It is now working .
Thank you guys .I request the developer to make a note of it as the problem is with all the destro which uses rp-pppoe
Thanking you .

---

### Post by osinangi on 2006-10-22
Is your Atheros card associating with the Linksys ? Check to see if you can access linksys routers web page. If not you may be having problems with Atheros card. I use an Atheros card, It never starts automatically. I need to do sudo iwconfig ath0 essid xxx to force it to start.

---

