---
title: "10.04 Unstable Internet Connection"
date: 2010-06-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mpete16 on 2010-06-12
I've noticed that my internet connection  is pretty unstable at times. It works, and I have no problems connecting to the internet, but I can't download large files or watch YouTube videos because the connection often breaks up while it is downloading. When that happens, I need to disconnect (NetworkManager still says it's connected), unplug my USB modem, replug it again, and then reconnect. And then it works.

I would really appreciate some help.

Here are some details:
OS: Ubuntu 10.04
Location: Germany
ISP: T-Mobile
3G Modem: T-Mobile Web n' Walk stick (Option GI0225)

Thank you!

---

### Post by mpete16 on 2010-06-12
Please I really need help.

---

### Post by gunman.23 on 2010-06-12
I have the same problem.

Just installed 10.04 desktop edition from the live CD.      Everything worked fine until I installed all the updates that the update   manager told me to install (>100).  The internet connection until   then was perfect.  For instance, I had no problem downloading all these   updates (which took at least half an hour).  

Once I rebooted however, I  did not have a stable connection for more  then two minutes.  For instance I didn't manage to update Thunderbird  because the download would stop halfway.

Immediately after restarting, the connection seems to be fine.   For  instance, I made a Google  search after starting the PC.  I managed  to  do lots of more searches; however, I didn't manage to open any of  the  search results. The problem might thus be DNS-related (the other search  queries went through since  the google IP was cached). I could also ping  my ISP's DNS servers, but nslookup  ubuntu.com would timeout. 

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by gunman.23 on 2010-06-12
I should add that the problem is not modem/wireless related.  I am hooked up to my router through ethernet, and pinging the router always works.  Also my macbook did not have any problems to connect to the net.    This situation seems to be different from the parent, so I'll open a new thread.

Please ignore what I wrote here and see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1508131](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1508131)

---

