---
title: "networking.service failed.....exited with error code"
date: 2017-09-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by matt882 on 2017-09-14
hi guys I'm in need of some help ive ran Linux servers in the past thanks to the tutorials, but ive never came across this problem.
 I bought a cheap hp microserver n54l installed 2 1TB hard drives ive followed this tutorial howtoforge - ubuntu-16.04-xenial-xerus-minimal-server
 the only change I made to the install was running the server with soft raid 1.
 I got upto nano /etc/network/interfaces and placed the same settings as the tutorial
 # This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
 # and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).
 source /etc/network/interfaces.d/*
 # The loopback network interface
 auto lo
 iface lo inet loopback
 # The primary network interface
 auto ens33
 iface ens33 inet static
 address 192.168.1.100
 netmask 255.255.255.0
 network 192.168.1.0
 broadcast 192.168.1.255
 gateway 192.168.1.1
 dns-nameservers 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4
 the problem I had here is do I need to place the netmask, gateway from my isp or my router settings so I just copied the same settings and hope its right.
 I then service networking restart
 and got the following error Job for networking.service failed because the control process exited with error code. See "systemctl status networking.service" and "journalctl -xe" for details.

 Ive googled, bing and searched forums for a fix but there is so many different fixes I don't know whats right or wrong so I'm hoping someone would be nice enough to help.  I should of stayed with my old setup but it has to be done.

thanks guys

---

### Post by matt882 on 2017-09-14
can anyone help what am i doing wrong.

---

### Post by papibe on 2017-09-14
Hi matt882. Welcome to the forum ):P

Could open a terminal, run these commands and post back the results? You can copy/paste the text with your mouse. please use CODE tags.
```
ip address

ip route

cat /etc/network/interfaces

cat /etc/resolv.conf

cat /etc/nsswitch.conf 

nslookup ubuntu.com

dig ubuntuforums.org

ping 192.168.1.1
```
Regards.

---

### Post by matt882 on 2017-09-15
ok thanks
 ip address
 > 
 1: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 65536 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN group default qlen 1
     link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00
     inet 127.0.0.1/0 scope host lo
         valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
     indet6 ::1/128 scope host
         valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
 2: enp2s0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST> mtu 1500 qdic noop state DOWN group default qlen 1000
      link/ether 28:92:4a:32:06:28 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff

ip route - nothing at all

cat /etc/network/interfaces :
> 
# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto ens33
iface ens33 inet static
           address 192.168.1.100
           netmask 255.255.255.0
           network 192.168.1.0
           broadcast 192.168.1.255
           gateway 192.168.1.1

cat /etc/resolv.conf

>  
#Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#        DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN 

cat /etc/nsswitch.conf
> 
# Example configuration of GNU Name Service Switch functionality.
# If you have the 'glibc-doc-reference' and 'info' packages installed, try:
# 'info libc "Name Service Switch'" for information about this file.

passwd:       compat
group:         compat
shadow:      compat
qshadow:    files

hosts:         files dns
networks:   files

protocols:    db files
services:      db files
ethers:        db files
rpc:             db files

netgroup:     nis


nslookup ubuntu.com
> ;; connection timed out: no servers could be reached

dig ubuntuforums.org
> 
;<<>> DiG 9.10.3-P4-Ubuntu <<>> ubuntuforums.org
;; global options: +cmd
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

ping 192.168.1.1
> connect: Network is unreachable

I apologise on typos but ive had to type everything above.

---

### Post by papibe on 2017-09-15
Thanks.

Your correct interface's name is enp2s0 (from ip addr).

Edit the file /etc/network/interfaces and replace ens33 with enp2s0 (there are two lines you need to change).

Then reboot.

Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by matt882 on 2017-09-16
that worked great thank you so much i only have one thing left which im not sure if it is a problem or not.

when i : service hostname start
> failed to start hostname.service: unit hostname.service is masked.

once i have this sorted everything else should be smooth sailing. fingers crossed.

---

### Post by papibe on 2017-09-17
Make sure the your host's name is the same both files:
```
/etc/hostname

/etc/hosts
```
Then run:
```
sudo hostnamectl set-hostname your_host_name
```
where your_host_name is the name of your machine.

Let us know how that goes.
Regards.

---

