---
title: "[15.04] [X64] [Bug] IPtables Drastically Slows down connection when enabled."
date: 2015-08-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by aj-andrews-enterprise on 2015-08-20
Hello all, I am wandering if any one else has ran into the issue of on vivid verity, when IPTables is enabled incoming tcp traffic is negligibly slow.

I found this by running a speed test using the command line using the following method.

$ wget -O speedtest-cli [https://raw.github.com/sivel/speedtest-cli/master/speedtest_cli.py](https://raw.github.com/sivel/speedtest-cli/master/speedtest_cli.py)
$ chmod +x speedtest-cli
$ ./speedtest-cli

I noticed my ssh connection was sluggish after enabling the firewall so changing my policy to accept and flushing the rules list before testing was my first port of call.

Running the script above without iptables enabled i was getting 8ms ping, 23mb down and 5.2mb up after enabling iptables i was getting 456ms ping, 1.2mb down and 0.2mb up.

I also tested this out by firing up a couple of digital ocean droplets the $20 ones. 
On ubuntu 15.04 without iptables i was getting around 10ms ping, 466mb down and 122mb up on each test.
With iptables enabled i hit around 4010ms ping, 7.60mb down and 1.97mb up on each test.

Then i spun up multiple ubuntu 14.04 servers and ran the same tests

without iptables enabled i was getting in the area of 10ms, 466mb down and 122mb up same as on 15.04,
with iptables i was getting results in the area of 7.3ms ping, 462mb down and 131mb up.

Each os was tested 6 times all x64.

Has anyone else ran in to this issue, if so did you resolve it and how?

---

### Post by Doug S on 2015-08-21
Please post your iptables rule set. We can not speculate as to why things might be running slowly without understanding the packet flow through the iptables chains.

---

### Post by aj-andrews-enterprise on 2015-08-21
Personal ip is replaced with 0.0.0.0, The rule set is supposed to be Allow all http and https traffic from Cloudflare's servers and https direct from my static ip, aswell as ssh from my ip only. plus smtp, submission and imap2 port to public. Exact same rules were tested on 14.04 x64 aswell and the speed issue was non existent.

iptables -I INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 102.21.244.0/22 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 103.22.200.0/22 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 103.31.4.0/22 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 104.16.0.0/12 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 108.162.192.0/18 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 141.101.64.0/18 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 162.158.0.0/15 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 172.64.0.0/13 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 173.245.48.0/20 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 188.114.96.0/20 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 190.93.240.0/20 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 197.234.240.0/22 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 198.41.128.0/17 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 199.27.128.0/21 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp --dport 587 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp --dport 143 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m tcp -s 0.0.0.0 --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
iptables -I INPUT -p tcp -m tcp -s 0.0.0.0 --dport 443 -j ACCEPT
iptables -P INPUT DROP
ip6tables -I INPUT -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
ip6tables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 2400:cb00::/32 -j ACCEPT
ip6tables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 2405:8100::/32 -j ACCEPT
ip6tables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 2405:b500::/32 -j ACCEPT
ip6tables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 2606:4700::/32 -j ACCEPT
ip6tables -I INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports http,https -s 2803:f800::/32 -j ACCEPT
ip6tables -I INPUT -p tcp --dport 587 -j ACCEPT
ip6tables -I INPUT -p tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT
ip6tables -I INPUT -p tcp --dport 143 -j ACCEPT
ip6tables -P INPUT DROP

---

### Post by Doug S on 2015-08-23
I agree, there is no obvious reason for your troubles, nor have I been able to re-create your situation on any of my test servers.

---

### Post by aj-andrews-enterprise on 2015-08-26
No idea i have just reverted back to Trusty.

---

