---
title: "dwl-g520 problems with hoary..."
date: 2005-04-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Krash1201 on 2005-04-08
i share a wifi network with some other people in my building, which means i don't have access to the ethernet connection, and my only access is through wireless.  this hasn't been a problem since i have been running windows, but it has become one now that i am moving to windows.

here is my problem, the hoary install doesn't see my dwl-g520.  i bought this card because the support page says its supported out of the box, and i have had some trouble with ndis wrapper in the past, and want to avoid it.  after the install i get nothing.  iwconfig shows lo eth0 and sit0 noth of which have wireless exetnsions.

i know that the card should come up as ath0, but i don't see it anywhere.  do i need to have something that didn't come with the install cd to make it run out of the box?  if i do, how can i get it on a windows computer so i can transfer it to the linux box?  if i can configure the card without anything else, how do i do that?

so lost...  ](*,)

---

### Post by az on 2005-04-08
open a terminal.  do you see your card when you do 
lspci


try sudo modprobe ath_pci

and then do 
sudo iwconfig

to see if that loads...

---

### Post by Krash1201 on 2005-04-08
after doing the modprobe iwconfig desplays the same thing...

---

### Post by az on 2005-04-08
Do you get an error when you inster the module?

Also, do you see your card listed with lspci?

---

### Post by Krash1201 on 2005-04-09
didn't really get anythnig from the modprobe, and when i do lspci, it sees the atheros wifi card.

one of the things i have been trying is installing the madwifi drivers.  the problem is that there are too many dependencies.  madwifi relies on gcc and sharutils.  i got the  .deb for shareutils installed no problem.  the trouble i am having now is with gcc.  can anyone get me a list of what i need to get gcc to work so i can install the driver, or point me in the direction of a complete .deb for a c-compiler that doesn't have any other dependencies?

Thanks.

---

### Post by jsaints on 2005-04-09
I had trouble with my dwl-g520 initially, but now all is working fine.  My problem was with WEP encryption.  I have a linksys router and there is a setting called "Default Transit Key" and the value is set to "key 1". When configuring my network from within Ubuntu I had to use the first of four WEP keys generated by my router after I entered a pass phrase. 

Of course also you could try as I have in debian before: changing a line in  /etc/net/interfaces

from
wireless-key MY_VERY_SECURE_KEY_GOES_HERE

to
wireless-key1 MY_VERY_SECURE_KEY_GOES_HERE

or
wireless-key2 MY_VERY_SECURE_KEY_GOES_HERE

depending upon which of the listed key I chose from my router's html administration/configuration interface.

Could this be the problem?

---

### Post by Krash1201 on 2005-04-10
i don't know if it has anything to do with our linksys router, but i doubt it.  so in the interum i got a hold of the .deb files for the madwifi driver on disk moved it to the linux box, and installed it, dependencies and all.  no major problem there.  now the when i lspci i see the card, but when i ifconfig i only see eth0 and lo.  modprobe list also doesn't show pci ath anything.  the card is there, the software is there, but for some reason, ubuntu doesn't see it.

it gets more perverse too.  lsmod spits back ath_pci, ath_rate_onoe, and ath_hal, but still no ath0.

anyone have any ideas????    still  ](*,)

---

### Post by Krash1201 on 2005-04-12
updating the issues i am having...

i have a .deb version of madwifi installed along with all of its dependencies as well.  lspci sees the DWL-g520 wifi card as the Atheros a/b/g NIC, but named it an ethernet adapter.

lsmod shows ath_pci, ath_rate_onoe, and ath_hal.  when i do ifconfig ath0 isn't listed.  same with wlan0.

when i try sudo ifup ath0, it gives me an error saying that it doesn't exist, same with wlan0.


the drivers are there, the modules are there (i think), but ubuntu still can't see or use the wireless card.

anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by Ubuntu_User on 2005-04-21
hope this helps:

[http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/WiFiWithSomeoneElsesRouterHowTo](http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/WiFiWithSomeoneElsesRouterHowTo)

---

### Post by fjleal on 2005-07-05
Greetings, I have this same problem with a D-Link DWL-G520. "modprobe -l ath*" shows ath_rate_one.ko, ath_pci.ko and ath_hal.ko, lspci reports an ethernet controller "Atheros Communications, Inc. AR5212 802.11abg NIC (rev 01)", but ifconfig lists only eth0 and lo, neither ath* nor wlan* are reported.

Any solution? (According to the Ubuntu wiki, these cards should be detected "out-of-the-box".)

Thanks a lot! ;)

---

### Post by Simplimus on 2005-07-05
I have the same card and I got it to work, thanx to this forum.
Here is the link to what I did.
[DWL-G520](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=43311&highlight=D-Link) 
 However I'm not quite done yet. My wireless works now but my CUPS is down once I start dhclient. Any ideas on that?

---

