---
title: "help connecting mac to ubuntu's usb network adaptor"
date: 2009-04-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ishwar on 2009-04-17
Hellow everyone!

I need suggestions how to set up a home network between ubuntu Interpid ibex and mac.

1. My ubuntu desktop has a usb wireless network adaptor (FULLY FUNCTIONAL) through which i would like to connect my mac laptop!! is it possible? i have been trying a lot! 
2. i cld establish a wired connection using a wired router.. 
3. My purpose is to create a home network btw ubuntu and mac, 
using my ubuntu wireless network adaptor, i would like to connect to the internet and file share etc.. 

is this possible?

my knowledge in computer esp networking protocol is very limitted. 

any help wil be of great use..


thanx in advance
cheers
eswar

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-04-17
The easy way is to get a wireless router, to which both Ubuntu and Mac connect. Then you can share directories, printers, internet etc over the wireless links. You can probably find a router for nothing or near nothing (on Freecycle or EBay) because ISPs keep giving them away with new connections.

---

### Post by ishwar on 2009-04-17
hi thanx for the reply!

i did think of that! but since i bought this new wireless usb adapter for my desktop i thought of configuring it!! 

i could see the new network i created in both computers but its not establishing the connection. i m missing something very small.. i was curious what type of setting i shld be doing! 

i will quicklly explaing what i did on ubuntu!
i created a new wireless nentwork on ubuntu NETWORK CONNECTION- named it.
SSID:  (name)
Mode: Ad-hoc
BSSID: i used the mac address of my MAC os laptop
MAC Address: i used the same mac address again
MTU: Automatic
on the wireless security tab
Security: WEP 40/128 bit-key ( i used the same setting on the macOSX)
IPV4 settings tab:
Method - Manuel
Address - my mac comp address( which was created by mac machine - autogenerated ip)
netmask: my wired router which is connected to my ubuntu machine for internet
Gateway: i used router gateway ip
DNS server: i used it from the router again
on the routes tab option i did the same

after this setting i could see both computer in the wifi range! but lasts only for a short while, more than this nothing could be seen! 

I guess i m nearlly there -- and i have also applied the same rules in my firestarter firewall on ubuntu by allowing my mac comps ip , inbound as well as outbound!

Any help will be much appriciated
regards
ishwar

---

### Post by ishwar on 2009-04-17
I am also adding some netstat network infor a screen shot!!

if its of any use! 



regards

---

### Post by ishwar on 2009-04-17
Hello again ANYONE TO HELP !!!

So far i managed to establish my windows to get connected to ubuntu!! via the wireless router but ubuntu is not providing the internet connection to the windows! i guess its something to do with the DNS-server settings..
if i get this right then i must be able to share my internet with all other machines!!

# Sample /etc/dhcpd.conf
# (add your comments here) 
ddns-update-style none;
log-facility local7;

subnet 192.168.1.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {

        option routers                  192.168.1.1;
        option subnet-mask              255.255.255.0;
        option broadcast-address        192.168.1.255;
        option domain-name-servers      194.168.4.100;
        option ntp-servers              192.168.1.1;
        option netbios-name-servers     192.168.1.1;
        option netbios-node-type 2;
        default-lease-time 86400;
        max-lease-time 86400;

        host bla1 {
                hardware ethernet 00:06:5b:13:5e:28; **_[ [B]THIS IS NOT THE RIGHT MAC OR PHYSICAL ADDRESS SHOULD I REPLACE IT WITH THE RIGHT ONE]-_**---
                

             fixed-address 192.168.1.2;
        }
        host bla2 {
                hardware ethernet 00:JJ:YU:38:AC:45;
                fixed-address 192.168.1.20;
        }
}

subnet  10.152.187.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {

        option routers                  10.152.187.1;
        option subnet-mask              255.255.255.0;
        option broadcast-address        10.152.187.255;
        option domain-name-servers      194.168.4.100;
        option ntp-servers              10.152.187.1;
        option netbios-name-servers     10.152.187.1;
        option netbios-node-type 2;

        default-lease-time 86400;
        max-lease-time 86400;

        host bla3 {
                hardware ethernet 00:06:5b:13:5e:28;
                fixed-address 10.152.187.2;
        }
}

END.. and if any one could suggest me what are the options i should change accordinglly that will be of great help.. thanx in adavance..
eswar

---

