---
title: "Bizarre Wired Network Problem"
date: 2010-06-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by raywood on 2010-06-03
I have a dual-boot Compaq CQ60-420US laptop.  It can connect wirelessly in Vista without a problem.  I have not yet figured out how to connect it wirelessly in Ubuntu (10.04, Lucid), but that's not the problem here.

The problem here is on the wired side.  Whether I boot in Vista or Ubuntu, I cannot get it to go online.  Ubuntu says that the Auto eth2 connection is established; I am able to disconnect and reconnect it normally; but I can't download updates and Firefox can't connect to CNN.com.  Likewise, in Vista, diagnostics find no problem; everything seems to be fine; but no connection.

I thought the problem might be the laptop's ethernet port, so I bought a Trendnet TU2-ET100 USB-to-Ethernet adapter.  It comes highly recommended; it seems to have installed successfully in Vista; it appears properly in Vista's Network Connections; its lights are blinking appropriately; and Ubuntu tells me that my Auto eth2 connection is established when I connect through that adapter.  And yet still no connection to CNN.com and no downloads of updates in either OS.

I wondered if some other circuitry might be at issue, so I sent the laptop back to HP.  They claim to have replaced the mobo.  The symptoms remain unchanged before and after.  I went through an extensive tech support call with HP.  The last thing their technician could advise was to power cycle the laptop and router.  This has not helped.

The ethernet connection itself is good.  I can unplug the cable from the laptop's ethernet port or the Trendnet unit, plug it into the desktop computer on which I am typing this note, and I'm connected with no problem.

I thought, well, maybe I have to have the laptop's wireless button on, even when I want to connect via wire, but that hasn't made a difference.  I tried installing Windows drivers from the Trendnet website instead of from the CD; no joy.

I suspect you will be as stumped as I am.  I have gone through a lot of other people's comments.  At this point, I am just interested in general possibilities.  What, in theory, could be causing this?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-06-03
I'm not sure why it would affect Vista, but you can check */etc/resolv.conf* to see if you have a valid nameserver. **route -n** (from a terminal) should show what the machine is using for a gateway (usually the last line - with UG). You can try pinging the router and internet by IP address (74.125.95.103).

> **raywood said:**
> I suspect you will be as stumped as I am."Stumped" is my normal state of mind...

---

### Post by raywood on 2010-06-03
Thanks for the suggestions.  When I type "ping 74.125.95.103" I get an endless series of messages back:

From 67.194.192.2 icmp_seq=1 Packet filtered
From 67.194.192.2 icmp_seq=2 Packet filtered
From 67.194.192.2 icmp_seq=3 Packet filtered

etc.  When I break out of that, I get this:

113 packets transmitted, 0 received, +73 errors, 100% packet loss, time ...

gedit /etc/resolv.conf produces this:

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 141.211.144.17
nameserver 141.211.125.17

The last line produced by route -n says the gateway on that last line is 10.194.192.1.

So those are the tea leaves.  How should I read them?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-06-03
To what does the machine connect (what's on the other end of the cable - modem, router, etc.)?

---

