---
title: "F5D7050 ver 5000"
date: 2008-04-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bennis on 2008-04-04
So i bought a USB Belkin wifi card for my windows computer several months ago, and the return policy is obviously gone. I would really apreciate anybody's help that they would be willing to give. I have tried several different tutorials and would be happy to suply any information about my computer if it means getting help with this. i really want internet, and just enough to go back to windows. I would prefer linux so any help at all is greatly apreciated.

the tutorials/softwares i have tried are:
[http://steveth45.net/blog/?p=67](http://steveth45.net/blog/?p=67) ( i will be reinstalling my computer to retry this one however)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper)

oh, fun fact:
mister2@mister2-desktop:~$ lsusb
Bus 004 Device 005:  ID 050d:705e Belkin Components
Bus 004 Device 004:  ID 058f:6366 Alcor Micro Corp.
Bus 004 Device 001:  ID 0000:0000
Bus 003 Device 001:  ID 0000:0000
Bus 002 Device 002:  ID 1241:1166 Belkin
Bus 002 Device 001:  ID 0000:0000
Bus 001 Device 002:  ID 050d:0815 Belkin Components
Bus 001 Device 001:  ID 0000:0000

Why do i have 3 Belkin things? there is a USB extension thing that comes with it and i am using that, but it shouldn't be the same as the USB device itself...

---

### Post by bennis on 2008-04-05
so i have tried to install the driver from the website i said i would retry, and i can't figure out how to install it. it aparently has the same instructions as the cuervo driver, but i will continue looking and will report back if i get it.

---

### Post by james_vanb on 2008-04-07
This worked for me:

If you have the install cd, the following worked for me. If you open the install cd and navigate to the drivers under xp and they are not the rt73, then replace as necessary in your commands:

Unplug adapter before you boot.

Install ndiswrapper through Synaptic.

Open terminal.

Remove the following drivers using these commands (If not using Xubuntu, substitute commands as appropriate):

sudo modprobe -r rt2500usb
sudo modprobe -r rt73usb

I'm not sure that this actually removes the drivers, but after 3 weeks of farting around with them it made me feel better.

Blacklist rt2500usb and rt73usb by opening text editor (My default is mousepad) as follows:

sudo mousepad /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

add the following to end of list:

blacklist rt2500usb
blacklist rt73usb 

Save and close.

REBOOT

This is where the guides I was following failed. Blacklist doesn't work until you reboot. If you don't, the wrong driver will be associated.

On your desktop, open "Home" - right click in an open area and create a file - I called mine "Belkin".
Insert the install cd. Open and navigate to the driver file under XP. there will be 3 files. Copy all 3 files to the file you created under "Home" by dragging and dropping. The drivers will not load directly from the cd.

Now install the driver you just copied with the following :

sudo ndiswrapper -i /home/(your user name)/Belkin/rt73.inf

Insert the wireless adapter.

Now issue the following commands:

sudo depmod -a
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper

I think these create the module. Now edit modules to load ndiswrapper when you boot as follows:

sudo mousepad /etc/modules

Add "ndiswrapper" (without quotes) to the end of the list.

Establish alias with following command:

sudo ndiswrapper -m

Reboot

You should now have a connection. Roaming mode works sporadically, so I manually configure. Left click on the network manager at the upper right corner and enter manual configuration. Open wifi properties. Untick "enable roaming". Next to Network name, you should be able to click on the arrow and a drop down will show available networks, click on yours. Set Password type to WPA personal. Set Configuration to Automatic configuration (DHCP). I don't use WEP yet, but if you do, you may have to enter your password in Network password.

Good luck.

---

### Post by bennis on 2008-04-10
thanks! i'll give that a shot! i'm glad that there was a way to get ver 5 to work.
*edit*
also, for Ubuntu 7.10 users, for the blacklist file, in front of each driver you need to have the word 'blacklist'. this totally threw me and i couldn't get my adapter to work untill after i did this

---

### Post by james_vanb on 2008-04-14
Glad it worked.

My apologies for not indicating the necessity of placing the word "blacklist" before the drivers to prevent them from being loaded.  I have edited the above post appropriately.

Thanks for the input.

---

### Post by dep01 on 2008-06-09
Running hardy heron here.  ran through all the instructions but it is not working for me. Indeed, the light is blinking on the hardware and through roaming my wireless network DOES appear, but I am unable to connect to it.  I'm using precisely the security method used on my laptop (with identical OS) and that one is working fine.  arg!!  just have no idea what to do at this point!

dep

---

### Post by james_vanb on 2008-06-09
Have you tried manual configuration?

---

### Post by dep01 on 2008-06-09
Yes.  What's weird is, if I disable all wireless security it comes up fine. I've tried every encryption method... WEP, WPA, etc.. Nothing works.  Switch back to no security? works fine.

---

### Post by james_vanb on 2008-06-10
You already answered my second question - Does it work with security off?  I've seen a lot of posts with problems configuring security.  You may have already looked at this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=318539](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=318539)

Search Google and this forum - Particularly the "How to's" on setting up network.  Solution likely somewhere in same.

Sorry - Don't have a solution for this problem.

---

