---
title: "Zoom 3095"
date: 2008-06-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Drakelet on 2008-06-01
Does this work on Ubuntu 8.04?

I've gone through 3 modems now to no avail and don't want to keep buying new ones.

Is it software or hardware?  I fear the former.

[img]http://i18.ebayimg.com/05/i/000/f3/8c/a710_1.JPG[/img]

---

### Post by Drakelet on 2008-06-01
Bumpity bump bump bump.

---

### Post by Drakelet on 2008-06-03
I'm gonna give up any dignity I had and keep bumping this until I get a reply. :(

---

### Post by Drakelet on 2008-06-04
I've read some of you have this, pleeeeease?

---

### Post by zoomzoomzoom on 2008-06-07
Here is a link to my earlier posts. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=711646](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=711646) This modem is actually a hardware modem (has an onboard controller), BUT the way they set it up acm-cdc module cant read its info. They should have come up with a patch for the acm-cdc module but instead they came up with this dumb little driver (its tiny) that lets all this happen.  You have to compile this driver for a specific linux kernel or find a precompiled driver module as I mention doing in 7.10 in the link I give.  

It is a good modem and works fine in linux, just a shame Zoom wanted to make it such a pain to get working in linux.

I dont have a copy of Ubuntu 8.04 (havent had broadband access for sometime now) so cant give you step by step instructions though should be simular to steps I gave for getting it working in 7.10.  Good luck.

---

### Post by zoomzoomzoom on 2008-06-07
Oh by the way if you dont need super compact modem, just need usb connection cause your new computer doesnt have a serial port, the easiest way is plain old serial modem with a cheapo serial to usb coverter cable. (They are somewhere around $5-$6 total shipped price off ebay.)  I suggest getting the one with the pl2303 chip.  It works better and the pl2303.ko module has been included in linux kernel for some time so will work even with older versions of linux.   However from 2.6.24 and newer kernel, the cheaper ch341 chip (winchiphead) cables will work since the ch341.ko module is included.  It will maybe work on older linux kernels but you have to patch the kernel to have a chance. I have one of each kind of converter cable (cause I bought the stupid winchiphead cable first not knowing...) and finally got the ch341 cable working in Puppy Linux 4.00 with 2.6.25 kernel.  ch341.ko module should be in Ubuntu 8.04.

---

### Post by amoun on 2008-08-31
Hi zoomzoomzoom and Drakelet

I'm hoping you can help me get the zoom 3095 working on an eeePC.

First of I'm very new to Linux and have Installed a Ubuntu-eeepc 8.04.

I hardly understand the kernal issue, except that I think its the OS without the GUI.

Anyway my problem is that on following the instructions given with the modem I got to a point where I was asked for the path of the 'linux source build directory'.

Well I eventually found that as '/lib/modules/2.6.26-20-eeepc/build' but on using it I get an error message as follows:
Error: Module build failed!
Please examine the log file "/tmp/dgcconfig-buildlog.txt" to determine why. 

The dgcconfig-buildlog.txt is

"(cd /lib/modules/2.6.24-20-eeepc/build && make "CNXT_KERNELSRC=/lib/modules/2.6.24-20-eeepc/build" "M=/usr/lib/dgcmodem/modules" "CC=gcc" clean)
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24-20-eeepc'
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24-20-eeepc'
rm -rf *.o GPL/*.o *.ko GPL/*.ko *.mod.c GPL/*.mod.c .*.cmd GPL/.*.cmd .tmp_versions .tmp_versions  /lib/modules/2.6.24-20-eeepc/build/.tmp_versions/dgcusbdcp.mod Modules.symvers GPL/hda/Modules.symvers
(cd /lib/modules/2.6.24-20-eeepc/build && make "CNXT_KERNELSRC=/lib/modules/2.6.24-20-eeepc/build" "M=/usr/lib/dgcmodem/modules" "CC=gcc" modules)
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24-20-eeepc'
scripts/Makefile.build:46: *** CFLAGS was changed in "/usr/lib/dgcmodem/modules/Makefile". Fix it to use EXTRA_CFLAGS.  Stop.
make[1]: *** [_module_/usr/lib/dgcmodem/modules] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-2.6.24-20-eeepc'
make: *** [all] Error 2
"

I also tried 'sudo dcgconfig' and ended up with a request for the above build directory path and then the same instruction to read the buildlog.txt file again.

So I'm up the creak without a paddle.

Some directions from here would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks

---

