---
title: "localhost as dns server?"
date: 2012-10-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by joelgsf on 2012-10-04
After upgrading my desktop to Ubuntu 12.04 Precise Pangolin I observed that, though I have configured my network connection (cable Ethernet) including a primary DNS server address, which hapens to be my ADSL router to the Internet, I always get my localhost as my DNS server:

```

~$ nslookup ubuntuforuns.org
Server:		127.0.0.1
Address:	127.0.0.1#53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name:	ubuntuforuns.org
Address: 92.242.140.20

```

```

~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1

```

Why doesn't it just uses the nameserver I have specified? Can I tunr off this local service? How?

I have missed in 12.04 an utility to enable/disable services at boot time, showing all services installed, as there were in previous Ubuntu versions, such as 10.04.

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-10-04
This is the new way of doing things (resolvconf / dnsmasq) - this page explains it pretty well, I think

[http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/](http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/)

---

### Post by joelgsf on 2012-10-06
Thank you for your information steel driver. As my desktop is not part of any VPN, just a simple member of a home network with access to the Internet through an ADSL router, can we do things the old way, switching back to a standard dns client? Can I uninstall resolvconf?
TIA

---

### Post by bab1 on 2012-10-07
> **joelgsf said:**
> Thank you for your information steel driver. As my desktop is not part of any VPN, just a simple member of a home network with access to the Internet through an ADSL router, can we do things the old way, switching back to a standard dns client? Can I uninstall resolvconf?
TIA

On DHCP configured interfaces you can use the resolvconf package to dynamically configure the use of DNS servers.  The thinking is that if you have a mobile host (laptop or some such), the interface configuration might change depending on where you are using the device.  But instead, you can also configure the DNS servers statically  via /etc/network/interfaces

I have a Ubuntu  12.04.1 server that I have configured statically while still using the resolvconf package.  If you are using the resolvconf package it will look something like this (from my server)```
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.5
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        network 192.168.1.0
        broadcast 192.168.1.255
        gateway 192.168.1.1
       [COLOR="Red"] # dns-* options are implemented by the resolvconf package, if installed
        dns-nameservers 192.168.1.1 8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4[/COLOR]

```

So if you are statically configuring the interface you can remove **[COLOR="Red"]resolvconf[/COLOR]** and use the [COLOR="Blue"]/etc/resolv.conf [/COLOR] file -- or you can leave the resolvconf package in place and just configure DNS in the /etc/network/interfaces file.

For more information on the resolvconf package see ```
man resolvconf
```

---

### Post by joelgsf on 2012-10-07
> 
So if you are statically configuring the interface you can remove resolvconf and use the /etc/resolv.conf file -- or you can leave the resolvconf package in place and just configure DNS in the /etc/network/interfaces file.


This is my case. I am going to remove resolvconf. I like to have full control over my network :)
But I believe that when using DHCP this same protocol cares for configuring everything, including DNS servers, is'nt it?
Many thanks for your information. I am now more confident in removing resolvconf and stoping dnsmasq (what I had already done). Is there any way for removing dnsmasq without removing network-manager?

---

### Post by bab1 on 2012-10-07
> **joelgsf said:**
> ... Is there any way for removing dnsmasq without removing network-manager?
I don't know the answer to this one.  I have only installed 12.04 Server Edition which has no Network Manager installed.  If everything is statically configured why do you have Network Manager itself installed?

Read the link that @steeldriver has in his post if you don't want to remove Network Manager.  I think I would just disable DNSMasq and be done with it.

---

### Post by joelgsf on 2012-10-08
Ok Bab1, that's just how I'm working now. I need network-manager because sometimes I have to switch to other networks (contingency or testing purposes).
Anyway, I feel confortable now. Thank you.

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-10-29
> **joelgsf said:**
> After upgrading my desktop to Ubuntu 12.04 Precise Pangolin I observed that, though I have configured my network connection (cable Ethernet) including a primary DNS server address, which hapens to be my ADSL router to the Internet, I always get my localhost as my DNS server:

```

~$ nslookup ubuntuforuns.org
Server:		127.0.0.1
Address:	127.0.0.1#53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name:	ubuntuforuns.org
Address: 92.242.140.20

```

```

~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1

```

Why doesn't it just uses the nameserver I have specified?

Because it is using the local forwarding nameserver instead.

And the local forwarding nameserver uses the nameserver address you specified.

> Can I turn off this local service?

Yes

> How?

By commenting out the line "dns=dnsmasq" in /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf.

The introduction of a local forwarding nameserver is quite orthogonal to the introduction of resolvconf in Ubuntu 12.04.

---

