---
title: "hard questions about several issues lol"
date: 2010-03-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by XXMy_Little_ShinigamiXX on 2010-03-03
hi im not exactly an expert on IT here but i have a quesiton lol. i have a netbook and im trying not to let my family know about it, im just extremely introverted and have social problems and my parents are control freaks lol etc.. is all im not doing anythign bad or nothign but id just prefer them not knowing. well a while back my dad came to me and said something switching over to just mac addresses being able to access the internet. i opposed it of course and tried to talk him out of it, but when i asked him why he said that so that noone else can access the internet and connect to our network other than us. that was the gist of it anyway. so i dont know how he found out though.. i looked at the router configuration and the log was disabled so assuming it was disabled at the time how could he have known if he wasnt looking over the log? when i ran windows i had a registry key i put on to make myself invisible on the network, but after i switched to linux i didnt have that. im curious how did he find out if he didnt use the log? i checked the configuration and instead of the static ip option selected hes set up mac addresses and DHCP servers only. but i dont wanna add myself as a client he will notice. is there a way to per say clone your networking cards mac address? i mean im using a notebook right now, and really its not mine its his, cause again my parents are control freaks, but lets say i wanted to clone my mac address for my notebooks card and apply it to my netbooks card temporarily, could i do that? also a quesiton about crossover cables, if i plug a crossover cable from my netbook into my notebook for internet access how does that work? ive never used a hub so im not sure how it would.. would it work with DHCP servers limiting the internet access to soley a few mac addresses? and how would the computer internally read it? i mean would it still be a LAN connection? or would it be like a bridged connection? if i used a crossover cable for my netbook to access the internet, is a different ip on the log going to show up? surely because it has 2 computers bound out for access they have different ips? or is it like that one piece of technology.. someone PLEASE CORRECT ME lol.. but liek where you have 20 or so machines all hooked up bound for internet access with a single ip. whats the term for that lol its fairly new. sorry to be so lenghty but these are all very important quesitons lol. please help if possible.. thank you:popcorn:

---

