---
title: "9.10 bcm43xx wireless driver activation error"
date: 2011-03-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ZeroError on 2011-03-17
Evening,

I've just reinstalled vanilla 9.10 on my Dell Inspiron 1545, and I can't get the proprietary driver to install. I can install the "Broadcom B43 wireless driver", which doesn't appear to do anything, but I can't install "Broadcom STA proprietary wireless driver", which I'm fairly sure I could install the first time I put Ubuntu 9.10 on this machine. When I try to activate it, I get an error which is something along the lines of "System failed to install driver. Check /var/log/jockey.log for details."
I can't remember the exact wording.

According to Windows, my network adapter is a "Dell Wireless 1397 WLAN Mini-Card".

I appreciate that 9.10 may not be officially supported, but neither 10.04 nor 10.10 work on this machine, so I'd be grateful for any help that anyone can offer. I'll append dmesg and /var/log/jockey.log onto this message.

Thanks in advance for any help!


EDIT: The logs are too long, so I've pastebinned them:

dmesg: [http://pastebin.com/fiZ1zWQP](http://pastebin.com/fiZ1zWQP)
jockey.log: [http://pastebin.com/LhuQ4K8U](http://pastebin.com/LhuQ4K8U)

Thanks again in advance.

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-03-17
Is there any reason you haven't installed 10.04? I'm not sure 9.10 is supported anymore and broadcom support is much better with the newer kernels

---

### Post by ZeroError on 2011-03-17
> **Hippytaff said:**
> Is there any reason you haven't installed 10.04? I'm not sure 9.10 is supported anymore and broadcom support is much better with the newer kernels

I've found a few things I probably tried last time and I'll try those out.

Yes, I've tried 10.04 and it seems that plymouth conflicts with something in my onboard graphics setup, causing it to fail to boot after a few days.

10.10 didn't even begin to install. I clicked "Install Ubuntu" and it froze up. I had to force a restart and did this twice :/

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-03-17
Theres a[ fix ]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/538292")for a plymouth bug - do you get dropped into busybox iniramfs thing?

---

### Post by ZeroError on 2011-03-17
I don't think so. The startup image looped for a long time, so I pressed escape and saw this:

```
GLib-WARNING **: getpwuid_r(): failed due to unknown user id (0)
```

I googled a bit and it seemed to be an issue with my graphics setup and couldn't find a solution. That's why I installed 9.10.


I got the wireless working by the way. I purged bcmwl-kernel-source then reinstalled it and restarted. Thanks for replying, though.

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-03-17
There is a link to the bug fix in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1443231&highlight=GLib-WARNING") but I haven't got time to find it - I know because I followed it  for a while.

---

