---
title: "e100.mdio_ctrl  won't go Ready"
date: 2007-07-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wireguy on 2007-07-01
Installed Fiesty Fawn, and everything worked great for 2-3 weeks.  Then something happened (doesn't it always?)  May have been a power outage during a thunderstorm, or my kid installing 'something'.
I've got no network.

Network Settings shows an eth0 interface, but I can't enable it.

```
/etc/network/interfaces
iface eth0 inet dhcp
auto eth0

iface lo inet loopback
address 127.0.0.1
netmask 255.0.0.0
auto lo
```

Which all seems good to me (note: linux novice alert).

So the next thing I checked was  the cable.  I plugged it into a windows machine, and it successfully got an address from my dhcp router, and worked fine.

Then I did an 
lshw -C network
It said the network was disabled, but found the Ethernet interface, from Intel, 100mb etc
So I'm guessing the network card is not fried.


doing a dmesg
I get the message:
e100.mdio_ctrl (0000:02:08.0) won't go Ready
(about 120 times)
but then get the message:
e100: eth0: e100_probe: addr 0xfc4000000, irq 18, mac addr 00:08:02:yadda yadda

So, I try 
sudo ifconfig eth0 up
which returns
SIOCSIFLAGS: Connection timed out

googled that message, and the suggestion was that the ethernet card was using an interrupt or io address that would be in conflict with something else on the machine.  Everything is on board on this machine, except for the video card.  

Did a 
sudo lspci -v
and found the
usb on irqs 16 17
audio on irq 19
vga matrox card on irq 20
ethernet controller on irq 18, i/o ports at 1000 (size=64)

and as a double check,
/proc/interrupts 
says
 0: timer
 1: i8042
 6: floppy
 7: parport0
 8: rtc
 9: acpi
12: i8042
14: libata
15: libata
16: usb1
17: usb2
19: intel 82801BA-ICH2
20: mga@pci


so, it doesn't seem to me to be a hardware or interrupt issue.

Any ideas?
thanks
-wireguy

---

### Post by wireguy on 2007-07-03
update...
[INDENT]Tried many things, and I'm now at the point where eth0 has disappeared. 
So I'll go back to the lightening theory.  I will try and install a new nic.[/INDENT]
-wireguy

---

### Post by wireguy on 2007-07-04
That did it!  Hardware failure.:D

---

