---
title: "Wired connection doesn't work - route table is empty"
date: 2015-09-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by momocorpo on 2015-09-08
Hello,
I just installed ubuntu 14.04 LTS in a partition next to Windows 7 and my Internet connection doesn't work when it works using Windows 7.

"ifconfig -a" shows that I have eth0 and lo and when I do "ifconfig eth0 up" I still don't have a connection, and it doesn't show any inet addr except for ipv6.
"route" shows an empty table
"ping 8.8.8.8" Connect : Network is unreachable
I tried "service network-manager restart", adding "auto eth0" and "iface eth0 inet dhcp" to "/etc/network/interfaces" so far nothing worked...

Maybe I have a driver problem? I can still ping to localhost.

I'm completly lost.

Thanks!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-09-08
[http://blog.jdpfu.com/2013/03/01/linux-troubleshooting-101-networking](http://blog.jdpfu.com/2013/03/01/linux-troubleshooting-101-networking)
Be clear if you are using network manager or not.

---

### Post by momocorpo on 2015-09-08
I hope this is what you were asking.

dmesg |grep eth[0-9] :

```

[    2.831118] e1000e 0000:00:19.0 eth0: registered PHC clock
[    2.831121] e1000e 0000:00:19.0 eth0: (PCI Express:2.5GT/s:Width x1) 28:80:23:d8:5d:3f
[    2.831123] e1000e 0000:00:19.0 eth0: Intel(R) PRO/1000 Network Connection
[    2.831169] e1000e 0000:00:19.0 eth0: MAC: 11, PHY: 12, PBA No: FFFFFF-0FF
[   11.594778] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth0: link is not ready
[   13.101800] e1000e: eth0 NIC Link is Up 100 Mbps Full Duplex, Flow Control: Rx/Tx
[   13.101805] e1000e 0000:00:19.0 eth0: 10/100 speed: disabling TSO
[   13.101852] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): eth0: link becomes ready

```

 sudo lshw -C network :
```

 *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: Ethernet Connection I217-V
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 19
       bus info: pci@0000:00:19.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 04
       serial: 28:80:23:d8:5d:3f
       size: 100Mbit/s
       capacity: 1Gbit/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=e1000e driverversion=2.3.2-k duplex=full firmware=0.12-3 ip=192.168.1.10 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=twisted pair speed=100Mbit/s
       resources: irq:30 memory:d0700000-d071ffff memory:d073f000-d073ffff ioport:3080(size=32)
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: BCM43228 802.11a/b/g/n
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 00
       serial: 18:cf:5e:11:25:7b
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=wl0 driverversion=6.30.223.248 (r487574) ip=192.168.1.16 latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abg
       resources: irq:18 memory:d0500000-d0503fff

```

 more /etc/resolv.conf :

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.1.1 // I added this myself to try, this is my router address
nameserver 127.0.1.1
search home
```


 route -n :

```
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 wlan0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     9      0        0 wlan0
```

Edit: updated the command's result after reinstalling ubuntu and having the wi-fi working (and enabled)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-09-09
Good news. Looks like you have a NIC that is well supported with a solid driver. 
Can you tell us a little about your network, so we don't have to guess 20 different issues?
* network manager being used? In Ubuntu, that is the GUI tool.
* is this a laptop or desktop?
* router running DHCP? reboot it?
* try swapping the ethernet cable?
* If you edit the /etc/network/interfaces file, it thinks you want to manually control the networking. If you want to use network-manager don't touch it.

---

### Post by momocorpo on 2015-09-09
I'm not sure how to tell if network manager is being used.
I reinstalled, this time I allowed Ubuntu to install third party software and the Wi-fi works!
This is a laptop, HP ProBook 650 G1.
Since I my wi-fi now works I believe the router is running DHCP, I tried to reboot it and it didn't change.
I tried 2 different cables, both work with windows but none but Ubuntu.

I've rolled back /etc/network/interfaces to

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```

Then used "service network-manager restart" but it didn't change anything.

When I click on the "connection" icon in the top right corner, I don't see the wired connection 1 anymore, only the ethernet connection 1 which uses eth0 and automatic method for IPv4 (nothing else is wirtten in it).

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-09-09
Network manager works best (only) when simple connections are used. In theory, it should see the wired connection and use that over the wifi. If that doesn't work - well, you can add a manual connection in the wired section and fill in appropriate data for your network.

I don't use network manager or the GUI. Hopefully someone else will see this, see that you've provided real data above and will get you working on the wired connection.  If you don't know much about networking, this is the best course of action.  Wired is always, always better than wifi.

Allowing proprietary software means that wifi drivers and video drivers from the vendors can be used.

If you've reloaded the OS (why????) - please repost the data from above again - and label it so someone not reading every detail here knows this.

---

### Post by momocorpo on 2015-09-09
I cannot add a wired connection, it isn't in the connection type list. I think ubuntu isn't seeing my cable connected.

I'll update the data.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-09-09
> **momocorpo said:**
> 
```
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 wlan0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     9      0        0 wlan0
```

Your computer has multiple routes for the 192.168.1.0/24 network using the both wired and wireless interfaces.  I've had this happen when I moved a machine from wired to wireless.  If you're connected over the wireless, issue the command
```
sudo ip route del 192.168.1.0/24 dev eth0
```
Everything should work fine after that.

If you want to connect over the wired network, check that you don't also have a route via wlan0.  If you do, use the same command above with "wlan0" rather than "eth0".

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-09-09
Wow - can't believe I missed that!
Was the **route** output included before?

---

### Post by andretahim on 2015-09-09
Hi,

I have a similar problem, maybe this post is the correct one to solve it. I recently installed Ubuntu 14.04 on a desktop in my university and I will only use wired connection. This connection works great on windows 7 (partition on the same desktop). Looking for solutions I saw many commands that might be useful for advanced users to help me out.  Thanks in advance.


~$ ifconfig -a
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 10:c3:7b:c4:60:be  
          inet addr:192.168.174.119  Bcast:192.168.174.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::12c3:7bff:fec4:60be/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:2270 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:89 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:367221 (367.2 KB)  TX bytes:10675 (10.6 KB)


lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:65536  Metric:1
          RX packets:93 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:93 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:8191 (8.1 KB)  TX bytes:8191 (8.1 KB)




~$ netstat -rn
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.174.1   0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U         0 0          0 eth0
192.168.174.0   0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U         0 0          0 eth0




~$ ip route show
default via 192.168.174.1 dev eth0 
169.254.0.0/16 dev eth0  scope link  metric 1000 
192.168.174.0/24 dev eth0  proto kernel  scope link  src 192.168.174.119 






~$ sudo vi /etc/network/interfaces
# interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8)
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


~$ sudo lshw |grep -ia2 net
             configuration: driver=pcieport
             resources: irq:18 ioport:e000(size=4096) ioport:f0000000(size=1048576)
           *-network
                description: Ethernet interface
                product: RTL8111/8168/8411 PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet Controller
                vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
                physical id: 0
--
                width: 64 bits
                clock: 33MHz
                capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
                configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=full firmware=rtl8168f-1_0.0.5 06/18/12 ip=192.168.174.119 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=MII speed=100Mbit/s
                resources: irq:27 ioport:e000(size=256) memory:f0004000-f0004fff memory:f0000000-f0003fff

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-09-09
andretahim - please create your own thread. Your issue probably is not related. Thread hijacking is frowned upon in these forums.

and please use "code tags" like the OP did, so cmd output is easier to read.

---

### Post by momocorpo on 2015-09-09
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> Your computer has multiple routes for the 192.168.1.0/24 network using the both wired and wireless interfaces.  I've had this happen when I moved a machine from wired to wireless.  If you're connected over the wireless, issue the command
```
sudo ip route del 192.168.1.0/24 dev eth0
```
Everything should work fine after that.

If you want to connect over the wired network, check that you don't also have a route via wlan0.  If you do, use the same command above with "wlan0" rather than "eth0".

Will I be able to switch from wireless to wired without using this command everytime?
As of now, the wireless works, but I'd like to be able to connect using wired when possible, and wireless when it isn't an option.

> Wow - can't believe I missed that!
Was the **route** output included before?
No, my previous ubuntu didn't work at all, wired and wireless, so the routing table was empty.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-09-09
> **momocorpo said:**
> No, my previous ubuntu didn't work at all, wired and wireless, so the routing table was empty.

An empty routing table is almost always **bad**.
A healthy routing table looks like this:
```
$ route
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
default         rt1             0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
172.22.22.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
```

Obviously, your subnets are probably different from mine and your gateway probably doesn't have a name (mine is in DNS) as "rt1" on the LAN. Regardless, you get the idea.  2 lines using the same interface (eth0) is good.  If there are multiple interfaces that you need active or multiple routes for different places (usually a work thing), it can be done, but I'd strongly suggest removing network-manager if that is the case and doing this stuff all manually through scripts or text config files.  Make sense?

---

### Post by momocorpo on 2015-09-09
Thanks, I'll keep the wireless connection since it's the one that works the best for the moment. At least I know what to do if I am required to use a wired connection!

---

