---
title: "U8.04 Wired Networking is BROKEN ! - PLEASE help us all with some good advice !"
date: 2008-06-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by PorterHouse_01 on 2008-06-16
Since my previous request for advice I have read dozens of threads from people also having networking problems on v8.04 

I believe the problem also affects Kubuntu 8.04

I have tried most of the advice but none of it is working.

8.04 absolutely refuses to get an address via DHCP

This is no laughing matter folks. Read the threads. People are having to revert to 7.10 or even M$ just to report this problem. (I'm on Vista right now)

Even fixing this problem is going to be a challenge for us if we can't download a fix - since we can't get an internet connection.

The last coherent advice I've tried myself, is to uninstalling NM via Synaptic Pkg Mgr (nm-applett 0.6.6) and setup /etc/networks/interface and /etc/resolv.conf manually, but even this hasn't worked for me at least. 

Maybe the problem is elsewhere in 8.04

I myself can use v7.10 in 32bit and 64bit vers on the same hardware as XP & Vista quite happily - but not so with 8.04 (LTS !!)

Has this been raised as an official bug ???

If not, can it be ???

Can we please have some sound advice/prognosis from experienced users/moderators to help many of us fix our internet connection problems.

Thanks in anticipation.

---

### Post by bigtel on 2008-06-16
I have this very problem too. I have tried to get advice but so far no replies to my questions.

I have found though that during boot up I can scroll down to a previous installation of Ubuntu (in the BRUB menu) and this seems to work fine. That is how I am able to post.

I have also noticed that my USB mouse has decided not to work too.

---

### Post by klaasvanschelven on 2008-06-16
[edited]: not relevant: I misread wired for wireless...


[Xaba Open Standaarden en Open Source (Dutch)]("http://www.xaba.nl")

---

### Post by PorterHouse_01 on 2008-06-16
For anyone looking on hoping to see if someone can help us with this problem, I already detailed my own setup and problem investigation here >> 

[http://ubuntuforums](http://ubuntuforums) .org/showthread.php?t=829709

.....I've since tried removing Network Manager and entering settings in etc/networks/interface but that hasn't helped.

Problem seems to be that 8.04 isn't reading DHCP b/casts, since every other version of Ubuntu and Windows I've tried works fine.

Rgds

---

### Post by johnwillis on 2008-06-16
What network card is it your using?

Maybe it could be hardware / firmware support issue.

I presume your talking about WIRED connections not Wireless?

Also if you put in a generic 10/100 LAN card into a PCI slot (if you have a spare) is this picked up and given an IP. If it does then that sugguests a problem with hardware support.

I have been using 8.04 from launch and it's been better than ever for networking in my opinion.

Hope it helps, keep us updated.

-J

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-06-16
> Has this been raised as an official bug ???Yes. A quick search yields this: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/136836](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/136836)

I suggest you try the work-around posted there:> open a terminal:

$ sudo su
# rmmod forcedeth
# modprobe forcedeth msi=0 msix=0
# /etc/init.d/networking restart

Your network interfaces should come back up and actually work now :-)Let us know, and if it works, we'll guide you to a permanent solution.

Your original post tells us nothing about what your problem is, the network card or driver involved. Generally posts like that get very limited or no response here. At a minimum, you could have said, "I am having trouble with my nVidia Corporation MCP55 Ethernet card using the forcedeth driver."

---

### Post by PorterHouse_01 on 2008-06-16
MANY Thanks to Chili555 for pointers to this _temporary_ fix:-

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Quote:
Has this been raised as an official bug ???
Yes. A quick search yields this: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ux/+bug/136836](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ux/+bug/136836)

I suggest you try the work-around posted there:
Quote:
open a terminal:

$ sudo su
# rmmod forcedeth
# modprobe forcedeth msi=0 msix=0
# /etc/init.d/networking restart

Your network interfaces should come back up and actually work now
Let us know, and if it works, we'll guide you to a permanent solution.

Your original post tells us nothing about what your problem is, the network card or driver involved. Generally posts like that get very limited or no response here. At a minimum, you could have said, "I am having trouble with my nVidia Corporation MCP55 Ethernet card using the forcedeth driver."
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note that my _original_ post (not this thread) identified my problem as being related to:
lspci|grep -i ethernet >
00:11.0 Bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP55 Ethernet (rev a2)
00:12.0 Bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP55 Ethernet (rev a2)

And the driver was also identified via:-
dmesg|grep eth >
[   33.364806] forcedeth.c: Reverse Engineered nForce ethernet driver. Version 0.60.

For completeness note that (also ref similarities in bug ref:136836, to which you kindly sent a link) my NICs are onboard on my Asus P5N32E-SLI mobo, and unfortunately I do not have a spare NIC to hand to try in its place, but oh what fun I will have when I come to setup a firewall and wireless. 

THANKYOU VERY MUCH for this helpful advice so far, but I can confirm that this is a one-time fix which is lost by each reboot. Also ref the commentary about this bug (136836), it is unlikely to be fixed via any patch to this version.

Therefore, please can you tell me if there is a more permanent fix for this problem as you implied earlier. 

Do you also know what other NICs/drivers are afflicted by this problem.

Thanks in anticipation.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-06-16
I am glad it's working now. 

There are a few solutions offered by those replying to the bug report, but I think the cleanest fix, assuming it works as expected, of course is to *sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth*. Substitute your favorite text editor if you don't have gedit; nano, kate, kwrite or vim will work just as well. An empty file will appear. Add a single line:```
options forcedeth msi=0 msix=0
```Proofread, save and close the text editor. Now does the work-around stay around? That is, after a reboot?> Do you also know what other NICs/drivers are afflicted by this problem.Not this exact problem, but a few NICs can only be coaxed to life with extra parameters. I think the biggest issue is that Nvidia, or is it nVidia, considers the nForce technology to be company confidential and do not share the driver details with the open source community. Therefor, *forcedeth* was reverse-engineered, and not perfectly.

---

### Post by PorterHouse_01 on 2008-06-16
Chili555 - I have tried the suggested fix and it doesn't appear to work :

Ubuntu32-HTPC > cat /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth
options forcedeth msi=0 msix=0


Could it be 'option' rather than 'options' or permissions or something
Any more ideas ?
Thanks

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-06-16
Let's try another, scarier way from the bug, but first, let's clean off what deosn't work:```
sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth
```Then:```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/options
```Add a line at the end:```
options forcedeth msi=0 msix=0
```Proofread, save and close.Then read this, from the bug report:> NOTE: if the update-initramfs bit goes wrong it could stop your system from booting - don't blame me - make sure you know how to fix it first.Gulp! But we are not going to make a mistake, we are going to proofread our command very carefully before we press 'Enter' and ask questions if in the slightest doubt:```
sudo update-initramfs -u
```Now reboot and see if the ethernet device works correctly.

---

### Post by Joor on 2008-06-17
$ sudo su
# rmmod forcedeth
# modprobe forcedeth msi=0 msix=0
# /etc/init.d/networking restart

Looks like this could work for my system also..
But nothing happend whne I write ; rmmod forcedeth ?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-06-17
@Joor-

> But nothing happend whne I write ; rmmod forcedeth ?That means the command was executed with no warnings or errors. No problem. Keep going.

---

### Post by PorterHouse_01 on 2008-06-17
Sorry for the delay in getting back to this issue but my MBR and Grub menus got corrupted so I had to do some urgent repairs first. Nothing to do with this issue though.

Many thanks to Chili555 for his excellent guidance & advice and on this problem - I can confirm that the above fix works for onboard nVIDEA MC555 ethernet card (on ASUS P5N32E-SLI) with 'forcedeth' driver v0.6.

The problem applies to wired networking of Ubuntu 8.04 and Kubuntu 8.04
I can't speak for any other scenario.

Symptoms are that U/Kubuntu 8.04 refuses to DHCP and implies that the DHCP server (eg your ADSL/cable modem) is not working...but its all lies !

For anyone reading this (170+ people to date), let me summarise for you:-

This issue is covered by bug ref 136836, See :-
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ux/+bug/136836](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ux/+bug/136836)

And refers to the following hardware/drivers combo :-

lspci|grep -i ethernet >
00:11.0 Bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP55 Ethernet (rev a2)

dmesg|grep eth >
[ 33.364806] forcedeth.c: Reverse Engineered nForce ethernet driver. Version 0.60.

If this applies to you, check that that the following fix will work until the PC is rebooted, to give you an IP address and restore your internet connection:-

....open a terminal and (carefully) type:-
$ sudo su
# rmmod forcedeth
# modprobe forcedeth msi=0 msix=0
# /etc/init.d/networking restart

If this works (i.e. it restores your internet connection) then the permanent fix if I have understood this correctly is to rebuild the relevant part of the kernel c/w some extra parameters (NOTE FIRST the dire warnings about the consequences of any pisstyming any of the following syntax, particularly the last line, which could corrupt and hang your system :

So do this at your own risk but it worked for me.

# sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth
# sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/options
....and add the following line to the end of this file:
options forcedeth msi=0 msix=0
....then save and close it.
....then CAREFULLY TYPE :-
sudo update-initramfs -u

....Then reboot

....Wired internet should be restored and should stay working when rebooted.

Job done.
Thanks again to Chili555
Now how do I change the status of this post to fixed ?

Rgds
:lolflag:

---

