---
title: ".local domain"
date: 2013-11-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Skunkfoot on 2013-11-15
I'd like to start this post out by saying that I've been trying to work this problem out on my own for the past week or so. I feel like I'm finally at a brick wall and just can't really go any farther without someone who knows more about linux to help me.

Here we go. The error message I get when I boot up is as follows:

```
**Network service discovery disabled**
Your current network has a .local domain, 
which is not recommended and 
incompatible with the Avahi network
service discovery. The service has been
disabled.
```

What's happening is that, when I try to connect to the network, my computer seems to connect for about 30 seconds or so, but then disconnects. Afterward, the network doesn't even show up anymore. I'm not sure if I'm having the same problem as all of the other people or if this error message is unrelated to my problem completely. The situation is unusually complex, though, because, since I can't seem to get the internet to work on Ubuntu (obviously), I can't download the packages or drivers or repositories or whatever I need easily. On top of that, I'm currently deployed and don't have physical access to the router (which would make things much easier). And, on top of all that, I'm clearly pretty new to linux, so, with my lack of linux knowledge, trying to install packages manually and diagnose problems is difficult and tedious, especially since I have to reboot back in windows every time I need to check something.

I've searched through dozens of forum posts and solutions and tutorials for similar problems, but none of them seem to help or fix my particular problem at all, which is what makes me think that this error message might be unrelated to my problem. Here's one example of the kind of thing I've tried so far (all the others have been similar):

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/339702/network-service-discovery-disabled-what-does-this-mean-for-me]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/339702/network-service-discovery-disabled-what-does-this-mean-for-me")

(In this one, the highest rated solution to this guy's problem claims "won't adversely affect your internet connection or DNS". Well, that's obviously not the case for me. This is what makes me think that the error message I'm getting is unrelated to my problem, but I'm not sure, and if that's the case, then I'm back to square one and have no idea what my problem is.)

I will say that most of the forum posts and articles I find about this error and problem are in Ubuntu 13.04. I've been following tutorials for that instead because I figure 13.10 can't be that different, but they haven't helped me yet.

Anyway, I feel like I'll probably get off-topic if I write any more in this post. I'm pretty stuck here and *any* help would be *much* appreciated! Thanks a lot guys!

--Skunkfoot

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-15
I agree, the avahi .local error is almost certainly unrelated to your connectivity problems. Are you trying to use a wired or wireless network? What network hardware do you have?

```

sudo lshw -C network -sanitize

lspci -nn | grep '\[02.0\]'

ifconfig

```

---

### Post by Skunkfoot on 2013-11-15
**sudo lshw -C network -sanitize**
```
sudo lshw -C network -sanitize
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8111/8168/8411 PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet Controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 0c
       serial: [REMOVED]
       size: 10Mbit/s
       capacity: 1Gbit/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=half firmware=rtl8168g-2_0.0.1 02/06/13 latency=0 link=no multicast=yes port=MII speed=10Mbit/s
       resources: irq:47 ioport:3000(size=256) memory:f0300000-f0300fff memory:f0100000-f0103fff
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: RT3290 Wireless 802.11n 1T/1R PCIe
       vendor: Ralink corp.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 00
       serial: [REMOVED]
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=rt2800pci driverversion=3.11.0-12-generic firmware=0.37 latency=0 link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn
       resources: irq:50 memory:f0210000-f021ffff
```

**lspci -nn | grep '\[02.0\]'**
```
lspci -nn | grep '\[02.0\]'
01:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168/8411 PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet Controller [10ec:8168] (rev 0c)
02:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Ralink corp. RT3290 Wireless 802.11n 1T/1R PCIe [1814:3290]

```

**ifconfig**
```
ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 6c:3b:e5:8d:a8:d1  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:65536  Metric:1
          RX packets:44 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:44 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:3320 (3.3 KB)  TX bytes:3320 (3.3 KB)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 1c:3e:84:a6:63:0d  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:68 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:70 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:6128 (6.1 KB)  TX bytes:16631 (16.6 KB)


```

And I'm trying to use this wireless network. I don't have physical access to the router here, so, unless I go snooping around the barracks, Ethernet is out of the question, which of course makes things much more difficult! 

--Skunkfoot

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-11-15
This problem for my household was caused by the ISP provided router (Time Warner Cable) and was solved with the purchase of our own router. I received  the same notification at every login yet the Internet connection worked. We did not know until after the router replacement what the cause was and if the router hadn't failed I still be getting the notification.

---

### Post by Skunkfoot on 2013-11-15
So you got the same error message, but your internet worked. That's exactly what makes me think that the error message is a coincidence and is completely unrelated to my not being able to get internet. Unfortunately, if that's the case, I really have no idea where to even start. I'll do some research with that assumption in mind and see if I can come up with anything.

--Skunkfoot

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-15
> **Skunkfoot said:**
> So you got the same error message, but your internet worked. That's exactly what makes me think that the error message is a coincidence and is completely unrelated to my not being able to get internet. Unfortunately, if that's the case, I really have no idea where to even start. I'll do some research with that assumption in mind and see if I can come up with anything.

--Skunkfoot
The message is informational only.  Avahi (Zerocof/Bonjour) uses .local  for mDNS local network name resolution by default.  If avahi finds that the local network is already configured to use .local as the DNS suffix it shuts down because the network has already configured the .local sufix.

I use .loc as a DNS suffix if I manually configure the network.  Either way the avahi daemon is just letting you know the mDNS name resolution is not going to be used on the local network.

---

### Post by Skunkfoot on 2013-11-15
Okay cool, good to know. At least I know where I'm at now. 

I've tried solutions like this one:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/253632/how-do-i-get-a-ralink-rt3290-wireless-card-working]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/253632/how-do-i-get-a-ralink-rt3290-wireless-card-working")

but without an internet connection, I'm unable to run

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-generic
```

which is why, when I follow those instructions, my "make" never completes (because it's part of the build-essential package, right?). Of course, like I said, I'm pretty new to all this stuff, so I realize that could be a completely wrong assumption on my part. It looks to me like I'm going to have to manually add in build-essential and linux-headers-generic in order to install the drivers for my wireless card. Is that the case or am I way off?

EDIT: Downloaded the build-essential and install-headers-generic packages and tried to install them with dpkg, but there were "dependency problems". Not too sure exactly what that means or how to fix it, but I'll do some research on that and try to figure it out when I get some time today. Just wanted to update y'all on what I'm trying in case that helps you understand my problem a little better!

--Skunkfoot

---

