---
title: "10.10 USB connects WEP, HD from it won't."
date: 2011-01-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Skittius on 2011-01-24
So... The basic package when installed and run from a USB stick connects to my router, at least to the point I can access websites via their IP. When I installed it fully on the HD, I lost all ability to connect to the router. 
When I'm using the USB flash, I can connect wirelessly via WEP to the router. I can then enter the router IP and I get the login screen. I can enter the IP for say, google, reach the search screen, do a search and get an error. I get that there is a DNS (?) error happening here, as the lookups are not happening. A bit of an issue, but it pales in comparison. 
I pop out the Flash card, and boot to the installed Ubuntu, and BAM, I can no longer connect to the router. I've tried uninstalling the Network Manager, and installing WICD, to no avail. Grrr...

I feel like an ****, but I've been trying to find solutions to this, and they are all not only a couple of years and versions old, but they are not working.. =/ 

I'm rather at a loss as to what setting could have gone sideways to turn the install of a slightly ill but functional USB version! I'm not aware of changing anything, so... 

Please let me know what info (and how to access it) might prove useful. I'm running on a Aspire One 250, 64/10 WEP, Ubuntu 10.10, WICD. Wired access works perfectly, under both NetworkManager and WICD, as I ended up using that to install WICD. 

Thanks in advance for any help. =)

---

