---
title: "20.04.6 with 5.4 series kernel would not connect to AT&amp;T Internet Air All-fi Hub"
date: 2023-10-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2023-10-27
I have two laptops that are still running Focal and I intentionally chose NOT to run the HWE (hardware enablement) stacks so I was still running the linux-generic 5.4 series kernel, which did still get updates, and things had been fine until yesterday when I got my new AT&T Internet Air All-fi Hub and set it up. Both smart phones connected just by scanning a barcode. I have two desktops and connected them using an ethernet switch connected to the single 1G ethernet connection on the back of the hub. HP printer was also easy-peasy just using WPS.

Then came the two laptops and they were a real bear. It would try to connect but just couldn't. They're both dual-booted with Windows 10 which connected just fine. They're both using Intel wifi chips - one is a Centrino, don't recall what the other is, but they had worked fine on my Uverse network. I plowed through many how-tos trying to troubleshoot it to no avail. Then it dawned on me to try a usb wifi dongle on my main desktop which is running Jammy (22.04) so I did just that after pulling the ethernet cable. No problem - connected easy-peasy. Network was recognized, as it had been on all of my devices including the two laptops, and entering the password and clicking connect had me connected in seconds.

So the only real difference was Focal vs Jammy. All I had to do was install 'linux-generic-hwe-20.04' which brought with it the latest 5.15 series kernel. Then I rebooted, ran 'uname -r' from the terminal to be sure I was booted into the 5.15 series kernel and connected to the wifi with no issue whatsoever! I did then remove 'linux-generic' to resolve any conflicts and ran sudo apt update followed by sudo apt -f install which indicated I could remove all but one (or maybe two) of the old 5.4 series kernels. So why didn't I think to try a different kernel sooner???

Anyway, no help needed - other than maybe a good psychologist - but I wanted to share this as I just couldn't find anything useful that was specific to AT&T Internet Air.

---

