---
title: "22.04 Mount Error CIFS"
date: 2022-04-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by makitso on 2022-04-19
Upgraded from 22.10 to 22.04.  
I have this in my fstab file:

//192.168.1.206/rob /NAS/rob cifs credentials=/var/credentials,uid=1000,gid=1000,vers=2.0,noauto,x-systemd.automount 0 0

After boot a df shows that the device is not mounted.  So, I do a sudo mount /NAS/rob and get the error:

mount error(16): Device or resource busy
Refer to the mount.cifs(8) manual page (e.g. man mount.cifs) and kernel log messages (dmesg)

However, a df shows that the device was in fact mounted.  

I looked at dmesg and there is nothing of importance shown.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-04-19
If you use the automount option, it doesn't get mounted until requested. It never gets umounted, like the proper autofs does. I consider that undesirable, but other people may not.

If you want it to mount at boot, remove the automount option, but you'll want be be 100% certain that other system is up and CIFS sharing is available. If not, the mount will stop the boot process.

Test this by 
[LIST=1]
[*]df -Th /NAS/rob   # it isn't mounted.
[*]ls  /NAS/rob
[*]df -Th /NAS/rob   # is is now mounted.
[/LIST]


Or use **autofs**, if you want it mounted only when used.  For that, my autofs settings look like this in the autofs config file(s)....
```
K       -fstype=cifs,iocharset=utf8,rw,vers=2.1,uid=thefu,gid=thefu,file_mode=0664,dir_mode=0775,credentials=/etc/samba/win-K.credentials  ://172.22.22.14/K
```
autofs has some oddities - config files point to other config files with the main config file specifying the top directory, then the sub-config files specifying a relative path off that top directory for mounts.  The initial "K" on the line says put this in a directory, K, under the top level. In my situation, that is /Data ... so this mount will be /Data/K.   vers=2.1 is for Win7 and later.  I think Win10 supports vers=3, which improves speed AND security.  I don't think any Windows system uses ver 2.0, but I could be wrong.  I'm POSITIVE that Win7 is CIFS v2.1.  

Using the IP address seems to avoid issues I've had. It doesn't make sense, because my LAN has a DNS and it handles forward and reverse DNS lookups perfect ... I'm guessing it is a problem with the Windows CIFS implementation.  Old versions going back to the mid-1990s never had the issue. Win7 broke stuff.

I use autofs for all USB connected storage too. After all, it is supposed to be easily pluggable. When there aren't any files open on the USB partition, about 2 minutes later, it gets automatically umounted, which I find extremely handy.

If you want more details about autofs, there's an ubuntu guide. I find it much nicer than the systemd-automount option.  I tested that for a few months before dropping it and going back to autofs/automountd, which I've been using since the mid-1990s. Could easily be that I just don't like change. But there are many systemd replacement tools that just don't work correctly too. "Correct" could be a matter of opinion, I suppose.  resolved and timesyncd both give me issues and have been disabled, masked, and purged from my systems too.  Life is too short to fight with solutions that are new when others are proven and work extremely well.

---

### Post by makitso on 2022-04-20
Yes, I was starting to suspect that. I tested and it works.

---

