---
title: "[SOLVED] Static IP on RT61 in Gutsy, needs networking restart to work"
date: 2007-10-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by SuperAndy on 2007-10-20
After a fresh install of Gutsy, I was thrilled to discover my RT61-based wifi card worked out of the box with WPA and other goodies. However, setting a static IP is a bit annoying.

I can set the static IP in network manager to what I want, and it works fine. However, when I reboot, the network wont work. iwconfig returns an ESSID of "" [aka nothing], and ifconfig has no IP. sudo /etc/init,d/networking returns the following:

```

 * Reconfiguring network interfaces...                                          ioctl[SIOCSIWAUTH]: Operation not supported
WEXT auth param 4 value 0x0 - ioctl[SIOCSIWAUTH]: Operation not supported
WEXT auth param 5 value 0x1 -                                            [ OK ]

```

and the connection then works, with the correct values in iwconfig and ifconfig

My interfaces file is as follows:
```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback




iface wlan0 inet static
address 192.168.1.52
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1
wpa-psk ********************************************************
wpa-driver wext
wpa-key-mgmt WPA-PSK
wpa-proto WPA
wpa-ssid **************

auto wlan0

```

as generated by network manager. Its such a strange fault, must be an easy fix. I realise i could implement a script to restart the networking daemon on startup, but thats a bit clunky really.

Cheers, SuperAndy

---

### Post by mpierce on 2007-10-20
In the example I give below, my wireless card is eth1. I set my router to always give it the same static ip based on its MAC address. 

I configured it as such:

# This is a list of hotpluggable network interfaces.
# They will be activated automatically by the hotplug subsystem.
# eth1
auto 00:0E:35:EB:A9:7F

# The primary network interface
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
        # wireless-* options are implemented by the wireless-tools package
        wireless-mode managed
        wireless-essid BiPAC_7402GL
        wireless-key1 xxx51xx47x072006807axxxxxx

Worked every time for me hope it does so for you!

---

### Post by SuperAndy on 2007-10-21
Cheers for the answer, but my router doesn't have this facility unfortunately. It would be a great solution. Sadly I can't do it.

Any other ideas?

---

### Post by Goombie on 2007-10-21
Well, you could try a program called wicd (wicd.sourceforge.net). I found it, and after a little tinkering, it seems to work ok.

---

### Post by SuperAndy on 2007-10-22
is that the network manager alternative? I will give it a go later today. Do I need to remove network manager to get it to work properly?

---

### Post by SuperAndy on 2007-10-22
right, i now have wicd installed and working, and it seems to be a lot more efficient than network-manager. Must be some kind of incompatibility issue i am guessing.

Cheers for the solution!

---

### Post by ushills on 2007-10-22
> **SuperAndy said:**
> right, i now have wicd installed and working, and it seems to be a lot more efficient than network-manager. Must be some kind of incompatibility issue i am guessing.

Cheers for the solution!


I have the same issues as you do, I tried Wicd but didn't know what driver to enter in the WPA driver box, what did you use?  Was it Wext?

---

### Post by Goombie on 2007-10-22
I'm glad that helped, Andy. :) I keep the deb packages for network-manager sitting around just in case, but wicd is working very well for me.

ushills: Keep trying drivers in the preferences box until you can connect to your network. It's a bit of a trial-and-error process. I'm using the wext driver myself, but your wireless card might need a different one.

---

### Post by SuperAndy on 2007-11-03
Right, wicd actually stopped working after a couple of weeks, so I got rid of it. I created a workaround in the form of this thread:

[Here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=599427)

The solution is at the end. You can use it in conjunction with network manager's gui for setting a static ip. It just restarts the networking module without sudo authentification. So stick it to run on login, and it works. Its a bit clunky, but works ok.

---

