---
title: "14.04 Dual LAN Same Network One port unusable"
date: 2017-02-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by johnnyysg on 2017-02-01
Hi, 

I have a PC with dual LAN, I wish them both to be on the same network and connectable to other systems. I boot with the below settings in /etc/network/interfaces

```
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
address 10.128.192.28
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 10.128.192.0
broadcast 10.128.192.255

auto eth2
iface eth2 inet static
address 10.128.192.19
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 10.128.192.0
broadcast 10.128.192.255
```

On bootup the IPs are configured correctly. However if I connect a laptop to eth1, I cannot ping the PC at all. If I connect to eth2, I can ping both 10.128.192.28 and 10.128.192.19.

If eth1 and eth2 are on different networks, both work without issue. However I need them to be on the same network. 

How can I get eth1 and eth2 to operate independently on the same 10.128.192.X network ?

Thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-02-01
I don't think it is practical.  All outbound packets will go out the higher priority interface if they are on the same network.  This is controlled by the metric in the **interfaces** file. If the metric is the same, some other priority method is used - don't know what that is - probably just which ever is configured first.

If you want traffic to go over different interfaces for different parts of the network, you'll need to set specific routes for that.
If you want to aggregate bandwidth across both NICs, then you'll need switches and routers which support it.  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBonding](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBonding)

BTW, ```
network 10.128.192.0 
broadcast 10.128.192.255
``` are useless. You need the "gateway" , address and netmask to be set for each interface. If there isn't a gateway set, traffic will be limited to the local LAN only. The network and broadcast are automatically know from those 3 things.

Make sense?
BTW, using "code tags" would be helpful. Easier to read for people used to reading these files.

Are you pinging by ip or hostname or hostname.local?

---

### Post by johnnyysg on 2017-02-01
Hi, thanks for the input. 

This application is totally LAN only. I have two sensors required to be connected to the dual LAN on the PC. IP of the sensors are 10.128.192.25 and 10.128.192.26 and unchangeable. I simply wish to be able to plug them both into the PC and communicate with them, I thought this would work without issue by setting the ports interfaces as I have done. I was surprised to see it didn't work (this stuff clearly isn't my forte). A switch and using 1 LAN on the PC would certainly work, but there are 2 LANs on PC which I think I should be able to use without adding more hardware. 

I believe your statement "If you want traffic to go over different interfaces for different parts  of the network, you'll need to set specific routes for that." is what I want ? I'm not really sure. If so, how would I go about doing that ? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-02-02
Network architecture doesn't care about your beliefs.   In short, 1 NIC = 1 subnet.  That is how IP networking works.

Add a $5-$10 switch, use 1 NIC. Be happy.  That would be the best, easiest, standard, solution. If you are in Singapore, it will be really cheap. Head over to Mustafa Centre. ;)

Anything else is non-standard and will cause problems, if not immediately, in 1 month or 6 or a year.  If you still want to add a route, use the "**route**" command. You'll need to pick exactly which NIC port goes to which IP and set a specific route just for that single point. Not a good idea for a non-networking pro, BTW.
[https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-route-add/](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-route-add/) and
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/168033/how-to-set-static-routes-in-ubuntu-server](https://askubuntu.com/questions/168033/how-to-set-static-routes-in-ubuntu-server) and
[http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/Firewall-Piercing/x296.html](http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/Firewall-Piercing/x296.html)

NICs aren't meant to be on the same subnet, putting them on the same subnet is saying "you know better and accept the difficulties." 

By using 2 NICs - 1 for each sensor, the failure rate has just more than doubled. Probably not an issue since NICs hardly ever fail, but still something to be considered.

---

### Post by johnnyysg on 2017-02-02
haha .. thanks for the feedback and suggestions, much appreciated. I shall investigate those links, I still 'believe' it shouldn't be such a mortal sin to have two NICs on the same network. :)

Its not about cost, its about free space constraints for extra hardware that is not in the design, powering that extra kit, changing the wiring layouts already finalised yada yada yada. 

Thanks again.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-02-02
When you learn a little more about networking and subnetting, you'll understand why the defaults almost always work. 

Hardly a mortal sin. If it were, then the system wouldn't work at all. All you are seeing is that 1 NIC is prioritized over the other one because that is how routing works. The subnet determines routing - what is on the LAN and what is not. If the sensors were on different subnets or connected to 2 different systems, this issue wouldn't happen. 

You are free to do whatever networking you like, just know that it isn't the usual way and will be highly manual to work.  The answer is 2 routing lines - 1 for each connection in the specific NIC port section.  Best if you code that up yourself because the knowledge will be necessary to fix any issues when (not if) they happen.

Those links have close to the answer - you'll just need to use a /32 for the specific route to each specific device - that makes it a point-to-point connection.

---

### Post by johnnyysg on 2017-02-10
The links provided pointed me down the right path, thanks!

For completeness of this thread, the below configurations in my  /etc/network/interfaces achieved the result that I wanted.

```
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
address 10.128.192.28
netmask 255.255.255.248
network 10.128.192.0
broadcast 10.128.192.255
post-up route add -net 10.128.192.18 netmask 255.255.255.255 dev eth1
post-up route del -net 10.128.192.18 netmask 255.255.255.255 dev eth1

auto eth2
iface eth2 inet static
address 10.128.192.19
netmask 255.255.255.248
network 10.128.192.0
broadcast 10.128.192.255
post-up route add -net 10.128.192.17 netmask 255.255.255.255 dev eth2
post-up route del -net 10.128.192.17 netmask 255.255.255.255 dev eth2
```

I assume this is forcing comms with the designated static target IPs to use the designated interface cards, which is precisely what I wanted.

---

