---
title: "10.04 Atheros AR5001 HPG50 &quot;Wireless is disabled&quot;"
date: 2010-06-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Rubidot on 2010-06-21
I'm using an HPG50 I got on a Black Friday a couple years ago. I used to have Windows 7 on it, and the wireless networking worked. I created a bootable usb drive with Ubuntu 10.04, and tested it live from the usb drive.  Everything worked fine, including the wireless networking, so I formatted the drive and installed Ubunutu.

After rebooting into the fresh install, the wireless networking no longer worked. I tried booting from the USB drive again, but the wireless didn't work in that any more either.  I've done a lot of googleing, but I still don't know how to get it to work.  The network manager applet says "wireless is disabled" under "Wireless Networks"

~$ lspci
01:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR5001 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)

~$ iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:off/any  
          Mode:Managed  Access Point: Not-Associated   Tx-Power=off   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off

~$ lsmod |grep ath5k
ath5k                 121792  0 
mac80211              204922  1 ath5k
ath                     7611  1 ath5k
cfg80211              126485  3 ath5k,mac80211,ath
led_class               2864  1 ath5k

~$ sudo lshw -C network
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:1f:16:41:c6:85
       size: 100MB/s
       capacity: 100MB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list rom ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=full ip=192.168.0.43 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=MII speed=100MB/s
       resources: irq:26 ioport:3000(size=256) memory:d0410000-d0410fff(prefetchable) memory:d0400000-d040ffff(prefetchable) memory:d0420000-d043ffff(prefetchable)
  *-network DISABLED
       description: Wireless interface
       product: AR5001 Wireless Network Adapter
       vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 01
       serial: 00:23:4d:a3:1a:96
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath5k latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg
       resources: irq:17 memory:d2600000-d260ffff


~$ iwlist scan
lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

wlan0     Failed to read scan data : Network is down



~$ lsb_release -d
Description:	Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
~$ uname -mr
2.6.32-22-generic i686

---

### Post by DarkHellBird on 2010-06-23
I know this might sound lame, but did you check that the wireless/bluetooth switch was turned on, I'm only posting because the exact situation has happened to me!

In case it was the problem, be sure to install the linux-backport-modules-wireless-lucid-generic, and headers modules as well. 
The Atheros driver in Lucid is extremley buggy. If these don't help, you'll have to try to install the compat-wireless drivers for your atheros card. 

If it was turned on and your wireless is actually disabled, then Im not sure what could be the cause because you atheros card appears to be supported in Ubuntu.

Good Luck

---

### Post by Rubidot on 2010-06-23
The wireless button didn't work before, but this morning I turned on my laptop and the wireless was working. The button randomly switches between on/off colors, but it works now...

Maybe it was installing updates, and then rebooting with the ethernet unplugged?

Thanks for your suggestions - I'll be back if the wireless randomly decides not to work.

---

