---
title: "Help with OpenVPN"
date: 2009-04-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by scott29 on 2009-04-15
Hi,

I've been struggling a great deal getting OpenVPN to work.  I am attempting to get it set up using a bridged connection.  Currently, I am able to connect and I am issued an IP address on my local network, however I cannot get to a NAS drive that is on my network.  My primary goal is to get me access to this NAS drive, so that's all I've tested for now.  I figure once this works the other access will work...

Here are my issues:

1)  In server.conf, if I don't have the 'duplicate-cn' parameter enabled, my connection goes through a cycle of connect and re-connect (it connects, drops, and reconnects again in an endless cycle).  I have no idea why I need this parameter enabled, and I am going to be the only person connecting to the VPN so I don't really want this parameter enabled.  Are there any ideas what would cause this?  My client certificates were generated by build-key-pkcs12.

2)  When I can connect (thus 'duplicate-cn' is enabled), I try and connect to my NAS via IP address and it won't connect.  I tried to ping it, and all requests time out and I get a message in there that says "no route to host".  I have a feeling I may have the pushroutes configured incorrectly, but I don't really know enough to understand what is wrong with them.

I can clean up the conf files and post them if that will help.  I can also try and get some logging files as well.

Any help would be so greatly appreciated.

Regards
Scott29

---

