---
title: "802.1q Tagging on Ubuntu (forcedeth)"
date: 2006-06-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by PirahnaBreaks on 2006-06-02
Just installed Dapper on my AMD64 box - went wonderfully, now I need to get network up and running so I can... do stuff.  When booting windows, I make use of the nForce4 mobo's built in ethernet controller, which is nice enough to include VLAN tagging support.  I noticed some fairly recent kernel patches to forcedeth that claim to add "vlan support" - is there any way to configure that at the driver/sysctl level, or do I need to recompile the kernel with VLAN support?

And if I need to recompile the kernel, what's the most Ubuntu-y, upgrade-friendly way of doing so?  Any chance of seeing vlan included as a module?

I need VLAN tagging in order to get to the part of my network that has a route to the Internet, so I'm going to work some shenanigans w/r/t installing the toolchain - USB sticks and such.

---

### Post by flickerfly on 2006-07-27
I've made this work on Gentoo using the command vconfig. It was fairly simple once I figured out the tools to install and use. That was over a year ago. I'm trying to remember how to do it again, but with Ubuntu, and was hoping for a Ubuntu-y hint myself. Have you found anything yet?

Here are some resources I plan to use if I don't come up with anything:
[http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/7268](http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/7268)
[http://linux-ip.net/html/ether-vlan.html](http://linux-ip.net/html/ether-vlan.html)

Also there appears to be vlan related packages called vlan and ifupdown-scripts-zg2 that may be useful in setting up vlans.

---

### Post by flickerfly on 2006-07-27
I found something that seems to work. Here is what I did. 

**Note:** My process requires access to the GUI. I'd really like to see this converted to a CLI only process.

[LIST=1]
[*]sudo apt-get install vlan (might also need ifupdown-scripts-zg2, not sure it's used below)
[*]modprobe 8021q
[*]sudo vconfig add eth0 2 (where 2 is the VLAN ID)
[*]System -> Administration -> Networking
[*]Select eth0.2
[*]Click Properties
[*]"Enable this Connection" and configure appropriately
[*]Click Activate
[/LIST]

When I run */etc/init.d/networking restart* it seems to pickup on the correct configuration including vlans. I haven't tried to restart to see if the modprobe is manually required each time.

Just in case it matters, I'm running the 686 kernel
```
Linux jritchie 2.6.15-26-686 #1 SMP PREEMPT Mon Jul 17 20:14:14 UTC 2006 i686 GNU/Linux
```

---

