---
title: "Y.a. USB modem wvdial error thread... ZTE on Lucid"
date: 2010-05-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cat.urandom on 2010-05-24
Hi,

I just installed Ubuntu Studio Lucid on my x86 machine. I wanted to use my UK 3G broadband dongle for networking but no...

It _did_ work. I grabbed wvdial and gnome-ppp, ejected the virtual 3G cdrom, fired up gnome-ppp and detected the modem. Changed the settings for modem type, modem speed and gave it my 3G details including an additional INIT for 3internet IP. Went into user settings - gave myself rights to run pppd and use networking.

It instantly hooked me up and went great-guns for a week or so. There I was - proudly surfing the web, frolicking through the synaptic repositories. Having a great old time of it. Then it broke. It just broke. I've tried everything listed in every Linux forum known to humanity but I just can't get the thing cranked up again.

[COLOR=Blue]Here's the gist;

One day I open gnome-ppp and hit connect. It does but status tells me that I have no Dynamic IP or DNS resolution. Then thirty seconds later it commits suicide. When I try gnome-ppp again I find my modem is no longer on ttyUSB1 but has apparently migrated to ttyUSB2. So I hit connect again and it fails with the dreaded -->Invalid Dial Command. [/COLOR]

I've googled back through three or four years worth of ideas. I've tried every fix in every thread on every board about every concievable topic related to my setup; ZTE USB modems, hf6x series modems, wvdial, wvdial.conf, gnome-ppp, DT syntax, PINlocks and demonic infestation. You just name it, mister. Nothing gets me past the -->Invalid Dial Command.

I _could_ just hobble together a microsoft carcass as a router with the dongle jammed in there but that's not the point. I'm trying to make a fresh break from mister Gates and the 'bun seems to be my perfect candidate.

Now, I'm a fast learner but I'm new to nix. Is there some silly thing I could have missed? What could cause the ppp to break so suddenly without warning when it had worked so well? I'd only pulled a couple of gnome games from Synaptic so it's nothing I installed. I didn't even get to update the base-system yet. Everything's fresh off the dvd iso.


Please help me before they move this thread to the verbose imbecile section. I'll post whatever details you ask for but bear in mind I'm only learning and don't know a modprobe output from a tin of shinola...

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-05-25
I just wonder if you need wvdial;

what about right-click on network manager to configure?

as in "create a mobile broadband connection .."

[http://www.pharscape.org/networkmanager-0.7.0-and-3g-wwan-modems.html](http://www.pharscape.org/networkmanager-0.7.0-and-3g-wwan-modems.html)

........ halfway down page?

if you tell us what

> lsusb

gives you for the modem with it plugged in for a minute or so ..

and 

> dmesg| grep tty

if you copy and paste these ..............

---

### Post by cat.urandom on 2010-05-25
Hi [COLOR=Red]pdc[/COLOR]. Thanks very much for your response! I sure needed the encouragement. Here's what I have so far...

[COLOR=RoyalBlue]POST-ZeroCD Eject - two minute uptime;[/COLOR]

> [COLOR=Gray]{ [COLOR=RoyalBlue]lsusb[/COLOR] output }[/COLOR] 
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 19d2:0031 ONDA Communication S.p.A. ZTE MF636
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub> [COLOR=Gray]{ [COLOR=RoyalBlue]dmesg | grep tty[/COLOR] output }[/COLOR]
[    0.000000] console [tty0] enabled
[   25.878970] usb 1-3: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB0
[   25.881262] usb 1-3: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB1
[   25.886333] usb 1-3: GSM modem (1-port) converter now attached to ttyUSB2FileBrowser lists an inaccessable ZTC MMC Storage drive after I eject the ZeroCD.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I'm bouncing between the bun and xp to get online so everything's a slow step by stepper.

I have never seen the link you posted before so that's a new approach I can try! I don't seem to have Network Manager at all. I know now it's silly but to be honest, in the back of my mind [COLOR=RoyalBlue]Menu>System>Administration>Network[/COLOR] _was_ the gnome network manager... Hopefully the obstacle is then as I suspected, down to my inexperience. Maybe I'll have something to run up the flagpole on my next post.

I'm currently looking for [COLOR=RoyalBlue]ozerocdoff[/COLOR] and the [COLOR=RoyalBlue]gnome network manager 0.7.0[/COLOR] and it's depends on this session so I'll update this thread when I'm installed and able to test it out. [COLOR=RoyalBlue]hso.ko[/COLOR] is kernel supplied already.

---

### Post by cat.urandom on 2010-05-25
Okay, feels like I'm getting somewhere now. Admittedly it appears to be somewhere close to useless but it's better then nowhere I guess...

You're right of course, psc. It's nothing to do with **wvdial **and I didn't need **wvdial**. I installed and set up Network Manager but it lists no available devices regardless of wether the 3G dongle is mounted or ejected.



I assumed it's a switching problem so I made and installed **ozerocdoff **but it dosn't work. Does nothing on system boot and complains there's no device ID if I run it from terminal.

So I installed **usb-modeswitch** along with it's data package but all it did was tell me that there's no **usb-modeswitch.conf** file.


> With the zerocd mounted lsub gives me an address of;
**19d2:0103**> Ejected I get;
**19d2:0031**

which is the correct address for the **hf636 **modem and it identifies itself clearly and attaches to **ttyUSB0**, **ttyUSB1 **and **ttyUSB2**.Now I found a couple of default configurations for modems closely matching mine; the ZTE hf646 and ZTE 110. ( mine is a ZTE 112 ). I created a **usb-modeswitch.conf** file and pasted in the two configurations. I changed the default vendor IDs from **19d2:2000** to reflect the address given by lsusb; **19d2:0103**. It still dosn't get any vendor strings and fails in sending the eject  message to the device.

I don't know what to try next. Am I just using **usb_modeswitch** and **ozercdoff **wrong? I am aren't I...
Why when the modem says it's attached to ttyUSB's does it not show up as an option on Network Manager?

nnnnnnng...!

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-05-25
> I installed and set up Network Manager but it *lists no available devices* regardless of wether the 3G dongle is mounted or ejected.

........ it will never *list devices* .................. but it does need to recognise them, to offer you the network options ............

ie network manager will list mobile broadband settings you have made, if a usb modem is plugged in to the computer and seen as that;

*Network manager should be on the top line; and the left-most of the right-hand menu options on the top line*; 

so you followed the pharscape link and specified your country and provider: which country are you?

when you get ttyUSB0 etc the modem is recognised and should be ready to go;

with the ID

> 19d2:0031

that is ready to go, and ...

it has an entry in usb_modeswitch

but you shouldn't need that; or ozerocdoff;

my experience of the ZTE MF636 (which is this device) is it flips in 10.04 by itself;

George Vitas who has written a lot on the ZTE modems, says they should only need the eject command: (and 10.04 seems to do that automatically)

so I come back to:

1) to get ID of 0031 you should be able to plug the modem in
2) ensure lsusb shows 0031; when you get that, right-click on network manager, check your entry is there for your provider .. all set up okay?
3) now left-click on network manager; is there the entry you set up? click on that to connect: any joy?

You might like to rename the title of the thread a little bit?

---

### Post by cat.urandom on 2010-05-25
Hot buttered crumpets! I'm back in action...

Again, you're completely correct in all that you say, pdc. I've been poking around in a lot of files and packages I really didn't need to. Well at least I learned a few things.  I'll re-title the thread with a nice _solved_ tag on the side.

Bun 10 does flip the modem automatically. I couldn't get usb_modeswitch to complete because I'd forgotten to run it as sudo. All it did anyway was reset my ttyUSB connections to what they already were in the posts above. Network Manager was doing it's job just fine. The Broadband-Data package had UK 3G all set up and ready to go.

The problem was that I hadn't installed ModemManager ( well how could I know ) so although the dongle was sitting there nicely, Network Manager didn't have the GSM patches in place to see it.

Thank you muchly for bending an ear to a beginner, pdc. Kudos. I'm off to frolic about in the Synaptic repositories again! 

Cheers.

-------------------------------
[COLOR=Gray]hmm... I retitled the thread but it's still listing the same in the main board.
And I'm still curious as to why wvdial worked in the first place then suddenly stopped.
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-05-25
well done; glad you are up and running; surprised modem-manager was not already installed; 

also surprised wvdial didn't work; 

pleased 10.04 seems to be doing well on mobile broadband

---

