---
title: "8.04 TRASHED connection"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by shdw.puppet on 2008-05-13
Back when i was using 7.10, I had a working, and fast, internet connection through ndiswrapper with a Dlink DWL G-122(A2) on my system. I have working drivers etc. but I can no longer connect.

After my update, instead of fresh install, everything was perfectly working, except for wifi. So, after playing around for a long time, I decided tgo do a fresh install and try again, no luck. I have tried every user question, step in community and official docs and even posted around.

More on my problem. I can connect to my device, and when I open up the network connection taskbar thing, it says that wlan0 is disconnected, but shows 88% signal strength. I can ping my router and everything, just not anything outside of my house.

I do use wep personal encrypting, and every time I open up network manager, it has always changed into a very long key. I cannot disable wep as my network admin refuses to do so even for a second. I am sure that I have the right key as it works on my windows partition (kept for gaming purposes only) and on my wii. 

I have no Idea what to do next. It is important that I get the internet working before summer. Please help

thank in advance
shdw

---

### Post by nixscripter on 2008-05-14
In this "sort of" working state, where you can only ping things in your house, please post the output of these commands: ```
ifconfig wlan0
``` ```
route
``` ```
iwconfig wlan0
```

In general, a problem of "I can ping in my network but nothing outside" is a DNS problem. Also post the contents of the file **/etc/resolv.conf** to see if there are any DNS servers listed. If so, can you ping those?

---

### Post by shdw.puppet on 2008-05-14
sure

```

ifconfig wlan0
wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:11:95:d5:c3:ec
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

```
```

Route:
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway Genmask    Flags Metric Ref Use Iface
Link-local      *       255.255.0.0 U     0      0    0 wlan0
default         *       0.0.0.0     U     1000   0    0 wlan0 

```
```

wlan0     IEEE 802.11g  ESSID:"myessidhere"
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: 00:13:10:45:B4:99
          Bit Rate=48 Mb/s   Tx-Power:32 dBm
          RTS thr:2432 B   Fragment thr:2432 dBm
          Power Management: off
          Link Quality 53/100   Signal level:-60 dBm Noise level:-96 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0   Rx invalid crypt:0    Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0    Invalid misc:0    Missed Beacon:0

```

While I was typing this up, I noticed that my ubuntu computer had internet access while I was halfway through iwconfig. Tests showed everything was functional, but when I rebooted, it turned off again with the same problems.
Btw I have a DWL G-122 revA2. it has two lights on the back, one lighted, for link, and the other flashing, for activity. Both are working. ndisgtk says the device is plugged in, as does ndiswrapper -l.
Firefox says "Address Not Found"
I cannot connect to my dns servers, but the windows laptop I am typing on can. I have verified they are the same ones in /etc/resolv.conf.
I have tried to apply the same IP given to windows to ubuntu, with the same results. I have blacklisted all of the ralink drivers that came with it (and tried one at a time) as well as the prism54usb and similar. I have disabled IPv6, everything I have every been told to do. I have never had anything like this problem before. I had some problems migrating to 7.04 and 6.xx, but nothing I couldn't fox on my own. I am out of ideas.

---

### Post by nixscripter on 2008-05-14
It just looks like you're missing an IP and that's the only problem. This probably isn't the case, given everything you've tried, but humor me. ;-)

What puzzles me is why DHCP isn't giving you one (assuming that is how IPs are assigned). What happens when you try run dhclient with the debugging flags (I don't remember what they are off the top of my head)?

The other thing you shoudl try (sorry I forgot to mention this part last time): add that IP back, and this time, if you know the IP of your gateway, hard route it:

```

sudo ifconfig wlan0 **safe-ip** up
sudo route add default gw **router-ip**

```

Then see if you can ping the DNS servers.

---

### Post by shdw.puppet on 2008-05-16
I have to agree, I think that I am not being assigned an ip address. when I tried the first command, nothing happened, then I tried the second and I get an error. I am not  at my ubuntu computer right now, but I think it was "SIOCARDDT not found" or something like that. I found the debugger tag is -d and when I tried both dhclient -r wlan0 and then dhclient -d, my internet worked, albiet VERY slowly (not typical for my highspeed broadband connection) and when I rebooted to see if it would stay, it would not. And  the combination of commands that I tied the first time did absolutly nothing. 
If I cant get this working, it could be the excuse I need to try out redhat or something else, I have heard good things about some of them. But I want to get this working, I have alot of time invested learning and customizing ubuntu and I think will be the first linux version to reach the masses of home users and be a serious competition to microsoft.

So, any idea on why my internet might be working intermittently (VERY rarely) and only after I try something new? It has happened three times, one when I first installed ndiswrapper and got everything configured, once when I blacklisted prism54usb and now once when I did the Ip thing. When I try them all again, it does not work. AHHHHHHHHHH I am so confused.

btw I could not ping my dns servers or my router and now not even anything else. But when I got it working, obviously I could ping all three.

---

### Post by nixscripter on 2008-05-16
If it worked, that's good. Let me make sure I got this right. It worked when you did this:

1. Booted the machine.
2. Made sure prism54sub was blacklisted.
3. Made sure ndiswrapper was loaded, and that **ifconfig -a** shows **wlan0** as UP.
4. Connected to the wireless network.
5. Ran dhcpd -d -r wlan0, which successfully got it an IP and routing information.

Then it worked slowly, right?

If you can get it working again, I would suggest checking **/var/log/messages** for any network messages. Some strange things I have seen include:

1. Link negotiation problems, arguing about full-duplex, half-duplex, etc., which makes the device cut the rate in half. There will be a flood of log entries talking about "TX errors" or "RX errors" on wlan0. Also the "dropped" or "errors" numbers on that ifconfig listing will go up.

2. Sometimes the hardware can be a little flaky, just because. See if there are errors in /var/log/messages of "wlan0: interface up" "wlan0 interface down", up, down, up, down, etc. Also, some tools have a habit of manipulating interfaces to keep their settings consistent. The simplest example is the Network Manager Applet, if you are on wireless and plug in ethernet, will bring down wireless, and up ethernet.


3. Wireless signal strength problems. Run **iwconfig wlan0**, and make sure "Link quality" is reasonable. It should also show the datarate it is using over the link, which can be lower than the card's maximum if there is old technology or a bad connection.

4. Have you looked into your router's configuration recently? It might be acting up. I've fixed one problem by showing the person their router had a firmware bug.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by shdw.puppet on 2008-05-16
Great news!!! I got it working again!
This is all I could find on the network side.
```

May 16 16:06:12 HAL kernel: [   63.167633] ndiswrapper: driver prisma02 (D-Link,08/05/2004, 3.00.22.0) loaded
May 16 16:06:12 HAL kernel: [   63.221925] PCI: Found IRQ 11 for device 0000:02:0a.0
May 16 16:06:12 HAL kernel: [   64.270999] wlan0: ethernet device 00:11:95:d5:c3:ec using NDIS driver: prisma02, version: 0x30016, NDIS version: 0x501, vendor: 'D-Link AirPlus G DWL-G122 Wireless USB Adapter(rev.A2)', 2001:3704.F.conf
May 16 16:06:12 HAL kernel: [   64.271047] wlan0: encryption modes supported: WEP; TKIP with WPA; AES/CCMP with WPA
May 16 16:06:12 HAL kernel: [   64.271094] usbcore: registered new interface driver ndiswrapper

```
And this is what was all wlan0 had to say
```
May 16 16:06:12 HAL kernel: [   64.270999] wlan0: ethernet device 00:11:95:d5:c3:ec using NDIS driver: prisma02, version: 0x30016, NDIS version: 0x501, vendor: 'D-Link AirPlus G DWL-G122 Wireless USB Adapter(rev.A2)', 2001:3704.F.conf
May 16 16:06:12 HAL kernel: [   64.271047] wlan0: encryption modes supported: WEP; TKIP with WPA; AES/CCMP with WPA
May 16 16:06:12 HAL kernel: [   64.271094] usbcore: registered new interface driver ndiswrapper

```

Only number three applies to me. I have gone back and looked at it several times, while it is at 45/100 now, I have seen anywhere from 30 to seventy. Is this a problem. I am very close, physically, to the router and my card has completely open space to it.here is output
```

wlan0     IEEE 802.11g  ESSID:"williams"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: 00:13:10:45:B4:99   
          Bit Rate=24 Mb/s   Tx-Power:32 dBm   
          RTS thr:2432 B   Fragment thr:2432 B   
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality:45/100  Signal level:-67 dBm  Noise level:-96 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

```
I just think that everything looks fine. Link quality is a little low, but that is it. But I know next to nothing about wireless and hardware, so I don't know for sure.

And yes, I just looked into my router's config. It seems to be great, the latest version of firmware was installed and all the settings seemed to be fine. I guess I just have bad link quality.

I notice that when I reboot, it can take up to ten minutes AFTER I put all of the commands in. Less than Ideal, but I am usually in no hurry to get things done while using my ubuntu computer. So I guess main problem is solved. Thanks for your support. If you have anymore comments or anything else, Ill keep this post open in firefox for a while. Thanks
shdw

---

### Post by nixscripter on 2008-05-17
The link quality of 40 percent is fine. If it were like 10, that might be a problem.

The lack of kernel messages is encouraging.

Glad to help.

---

