---
title: "802.11ac limited to 430Mbps right next to router?"
date: 2019-08-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kalyori on 2019-08-08
Hi,

I have the Dell Inspiron 11 3000 (running ubuntu 19.04) which supposedly has 802.11ac wireless. It's connected to the 5GHz network but the link speed is only 430Mbps however I was thinking it'd be closer to 800Mbps. I'm using it to transfer files over the local network so the faster the better.

Does anyone know why this might be? The wifi card is apparently the "Intel Corporation 3160 rev 83". Should I install drivers for it? I visited the Software Update app and it didn't say there were any additional drivers that needed downloading. Is this necessary?

Or perhaps there are some power saving settings in ubuntu by default that I'm not aware of?

The router is an 802.11ac router.

Appreciate any input.

**EDIT**: Well that was quick. Found an Intel page noting that the limit for this is 433Mbps so this is normal.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-08-10
Please mark the thread as SOLVED using the "thread tools" button at the top of the page to help others out.

And link speed usually has little to do with the actual throughput available.  
Since 802.11n, wifi speeds have been multi-tiered.  Saying "AC" isn't enough.  AC has lots of standard link speeds and different chips on the router and computing devices means they have to negotiate the best speed each side can talk.  With Dell, they often have an "upgrade Wifi" option for about $20 more. If you want the higher speeds, then get that update, always.

But really, the best answer is to use wired ethernet.  A GigE connection should support 920 Mbps transfers pretty much regardless of the NIC or GigE Router used.  Plus, wired ethernet is always stable throughput, unlike wifi. Wifi bandwidth changes from second to second and while a human doesn't notice the fluctuations, the computer definitely does.  And just to be clear, if you are transfering files to or from spinning disks, 430Mbps is about 3x more than the disks you have.  SSDs can be faster, but might not be if they are cheap.  Spinning HDDs are usually about 125 Mbps devices, so networking faster than that would be a waste.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-08-10
Ethernet connections have the advantage of being "full-duplex," meaning one pair of wires is used to transmit traffic and another pair is used to receive.  TCP connections continuously send acknowledgement ("ACK") packets confirming reception back upstream so they benefit from full-duplex connections.

Wifi is a "half-duplex" service.  Traffic flows in only one direction until it receives a stop signal from the receiver.  Then the receiver sends its traffic back upstream until it receives a stop.  This makes wifi inherently slower than Ethernet even on higher speed protocols like 802.11ac.

---

