---
title: "12.04 LTS Loses DHCP DNS Entries"
date: 2012-12-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Githlar on 2012-12-11
OK, this is bound to be a lengthy post. I'll try to keep it as concise as possible.

When I set my wireless connection (Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5100 AGN with no encryption [open]) to automatically obtain DNS servers through DHCP, NetworkManager gets the proper DNS server. However, I find that I quickly lose the DNS servers somehow.

This comes after only a few request have been made over the network (Only seems to happen with HTTP, but I haven't tried anything else but ping really. Ping doesn't cause it to faulter.). If I initialize the connection and let it sit, I can ping repeatedly with no problems. But as soon as I load a few web pages I find that they will not load and Firefox is stuck "Looking up..." A subsequent call to ping using a name rather than IP verifies that there is no more DNS resolution.

Here's the weird part: If I manually set DNS servers in the NetworkManager but keep the IP obtained through DHCP, I can continue to make request with no problems.

This leads me to believe that this is an issue with dnsmasq. Now, correct me if I'm wrong, but dnsmasq acts a local caching DNS server. Since NetworkManager starts dnsmasq and populates /etc/resolv.conf with "nameserver 127.0.0.1" this causes all DNS requests to be processed through dnsmasq first. If dnsmasq doesn't find a cached result, it will then do a hard query to the DNS for a result and cache it.

Now, since dnsmasq does the actual DNS calls I can assume that this is an issue with dnsmasq itself. The only problem is that I have no idea how to troubleshoot this issue. NetworkManager loads dnsmasq however it wants to, and I cannot discern a way to add a logging option to the dnsmasq started up by NetworkManager. Additionally, no information about this loss of DNS server shows up in any system logs.

This is what 'ps -AF' shows me about dnsmasq (as it is started by NetworkManager)

```

/usr/sbin/dnsmasq --no-resolv --keep-in-foreground --no-hosts --bind-interfaces --pid-file=/var/run/sendsigs.omit.d/network-manager.dnsmasq.pid --listen-address=127.0.0.1 --conf-file=/var/run/nm-dns-dnsmasq.conf --cache-size=0 --proxy-dnssec

```

So, how does setting the DNS servers inside NetworkManager itself keep dnsmasq from allegedly "losing" my DNS servers?

Here is the NetworkManager conf file for the connection.
```

[connection]
id=Auto Mine
uuid=25f5b63e-bde1-44a9-9ec4-11c4f6cd59af
type=802-11-wireless
timestamp=1355219500

[802-11-wireless]
ssid=Mine
mode=infrastructure
mac-address=00:1E:65:F3:EE:70

[ipv6]
method=auto

[ipv4]
method=auto
#This is the end of the non-working conf. The two lines below are
#added when I set the DNS servers in the NetworkManager configuration.
dns=8.8.8.8;8.8.4.4;
ignore-auto-dns=true

```

Is it possible to query dnsmasq directly about its current state? I suppose logging might also solve this problem, but again I can find no way to tell dnsmasq to log its output (preferrably in a verbose/debug format).

It is probably worth noting that this problem is only present on Linux. I have no problems with my Windows side or my other Windows computer.

---

