---
title: "7.10 and Wireless"
date: 2007-11-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by pdania on 2007-11-17
Well I've installed Ubuntu 7.10 on a 2.8ghz P4 with 384mb RAM and 40gb HDD, I use a WG111 V2 usb dongle, my ISP is Wanadoo.  When I check the Network I can see my wireless network as well as others displayed, so I select my Wireless security type (WPA) type in my passphrase, it does a scan but doesn't connect.  The PC is in my shed and it's quite cold in there!!!   Grrrrrr.  Any help appreciated.  

From the Wireless config utility on my Windows XP machine, it says my Security type is WPA-PSK (Pre-shared Key) and in a drop down TKIP, what is the Ubuntu Equivalent of this??  Thanks for your help in advance.

---

### Post by sennep on 2007-11-17
I have the same adapter and same security settings. I use "WPA - Personal".
But this might not be an encryption issue, but rather a driver issue, I had the same thing going on, it could see other networks, but it could not connect.

A little more detail would be helpful, are you using ndiswrapper? 

What is the output of ```
lsusb
```?

---

### Post by pdania on 2007-11-17
Thanks for your reply, The answer is no, I'm not currently using Ndiswrapper.  How did you get yours to work.  I'll quickly go and see what my output to that command is and then I'll post it.

Do I need definitely need Ndiswrapper?

---

### Post by pdania on 2007-11-17
I've done the lsub command and it does show my wg111 V2 on one of the lines.  Is this a good sign?  Still not sure if I need Ndis wrapper.

---

### Post by sennep on 2007-11-17
That's a good sign. Did it have any strange numbers like 0846 6a00?
The reason I'm asking is because some of these dongles are actually a version 1 even though it says version 2. It's vital to know the real version number if using ndiswrapper.

These dongles are actually supposed to work out of the box in Gutsy, but in my case it certainly didn't.

Basically what I did with my dongle (that says 0846:6a00) was:

Blacklisted the rtl8187 driver
(```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
``` and then you add "blacklist rtl8187" without the quotes and save the file.


Installed ndiswrapper, or more specifically the two packages named ndiswrapper-common, and ndiswrapper-utils-1.9 (didn't need internet connection, it just told me to put in the CD, I actually think I installed it using synaptic and not apt-get which seems to be the more common way.)


installed ndisgtk (a GUI for ndiswrapper) (this I needed an internet connection for, so I downloaded a .deb from packages.ubuntu.com, and used a floppy to get it to the ubuntu computer)

downloaded this driver [http://www.majorgeeks.com/Realtek_RTL8187_USB_Wireless_LAN_ME2000XP_d5165.html](http://www.majorgeeks.com/Realtek_RTL8187_USB_Wireless_LAN_ME2000XP_d5165.html)

(I tried the driver on my CD first but it didn't do the trick)


Loaded the driver using ndisgtk (a menu item called Windows Wireless Drivers is found
under System --> Administration after you install ndisgtk


Manually configured connection (setting the SSID,  password and encryption type and choosing DHCP)




It's not necesarry to use ndisgtk, I just prefer using a GUI instead of typing in the terminal.

EDIT:
Oh and I forgot to say that you must use the WIN98 driver found within the download from majorgeeks.com. 
Also, if the rtl8187 driver is conflicting with ndiswrapper, type sudo rmmod rtl8187 (you can see if they are both loaded by typing lsmod in the terminal, and see if both rtl8187 and ndiswrapper is listed)

---

### Post by pdania on 2007-11-18
Thanks mate, I'll have another go at this today and let you know how it goes.  Cheers.

---

### Post by sennep on 2007-11-18
No problem.
I forgot to say that if the output of ```
lsusb
``` doesn't say 0846:6a00 ,
but instead says 0846:4240 , then you would want to try this driver instead:
[ftp://downloads.netgear.com/files/wg111_2_1.zip](ftp://downloads.netgear.com/files/wg111_2_1.zip)

---

### Post by pdania on 2007-11-18
mine does list 0846:6a00 so that's fine:  so far I've used ndisgtk to install the driver; but i can't seem to be able to install ndiswrapper  correctly, my problem is that I'm unfanilliar with linux file system and therefore have a huge problem chaging directories e.t.c.  do u have a step by step guide on how to do this?  Also do i  need wpasupplicant?

---

### Post by pdania on 2007-11-18
Update:
I think I've successfully installed ndiswrapper because when I do 

ndiswrapper -l 

I get:

netrtuw  : Driver installed
device (0846:6A00) present (alternative driver: rtl8187)

but I still can't connect.

---

### Post by sennep on 2007-11-18
did you manually configure the network settings? (By clicking on network manager and choosing Manual configuration)

Also, make sure ndiswrapper itself is loaded, type ```
lsmod
``` in the terminal, and make sure ndiswrapper is listed, also make sure rtl8187 is not listed.
If you reboot, is ndiswrapper listed?

---

### Post by pdania on 2007-11-18
thanks for your reply:  Been on this for quite some time now, but I've decided to use MAC-Address filtering.

much less hassle.

---

### Post by sennep on 2007-11-18
So you got a connection established?

---

### Post by Blutack on 2007-11-18
Wanadoo?!
(Btw, this was two versions of ubuntu ago - things may have changed)
If you are using a livebox you need to be careful, they have this weird dual authentication thing going where they will connect with WPA or WEP.  You need to disable this and make everything authenticate by WPA or any linux wireless tool goes skitz.

---

