---
title: "Samba Issues"
date: 2014-02-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by orsome1 on 2014-02-17
I am new to Ubuntu but my story so far

Installed Ubuntu 12.04 onto an HP Proliant Microserver to use as a media server. All ok so far - then installed Samba so I could connect my Win7 PC to the Ubuntu machine and transfer files across. Used the GUI interface on Samba as not au fait with Linux command line. Set up access for users and shared my required drives with read/write access.
From my Win7 machine I can log onto the Ubuntu server and read all the files, however it will not allow me to write files to the Ubuntu server and gives error " Need permission to access"
What have I missed or done wrong?
can anyone help please

---

### Post by VamPikmin on 2014-02-17
Check your samba config file - /etc/samba/smb.conf

Might need to give us more info, if you have shared your home directory by default it's read only, this needs to be changed in the config

If it's a share you created trying adding read only = no like in my example below

[europa]
   comment = Europa Share
   browseable = yes
   path = /media/europa
   guest ok = no
   read only = no

Also note after every change to the smb.conf you will need to restart the service, in terminal type sudo /etc/init.d/smbd restart

---

### Post by orsome1 on 2014-02-18
thanks for response.
More info - I have an external USB drive attached and this is what I have shared. Has 3 NTFS partitions which are mounted and I have shared these with all users
here is my config file

#======================= Global Settings =====================================
[global]
        workgroup = workgroup
        server string = Samba Server %v
        netbios name = ubuntu
        security = user
        map to guest = bad user
        dns proxy = no
        username map = /etc/samba/smbusers
;       encrypt passwords = yes
;       guest ok = no
;       guest account = nobody
#============================ Share Definitions ==============================
[MyShare]
        path = /samba/share
;       browsable = yes
        writable = yes
        guest ok = yes

[ntfsdrive]
        comment = Series
        path = /media/ntfsdrive
        writeable = yes
;       browseable = yes
        guest ok = yes
[ntfsdrive1]
        comment = Movies
        path = /media/ntfsdrive1
        writeable = yes
;       browseable = yes
        guest ok = yes


[ntfsdrive2]
        comment = Series
        path = /media/ntfsdrive2
        writeable = yes
;       browseable = yes
        guest ok = yes

---

### Post by VamPikmin on 2014-02-18
I'm not an expert on the matter but just because it's USB there might be additional things to do.

I managed to get it working by doing this on my test machine:

1) Login with your normal account, find out what your uid is, by typing id in terminal

2) Find out what the UUID of the hard drive is, go to /dev/disk/by-uuid and type ls -l

There are other ways to find this out as well
Mine looks like this:
```

vampikmin@whatever:/dev/disk/by-uuid$ ls -l
total 0
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 Feb 19 10:07 0F14-1F14 -> ../../sdc1
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 Feb 17 08:05 a43a15ce-316b-4ed5-83e3-68fc07077b65 -> ../../sdb1
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 Feb 17 07:44 a7118d65-0d41-4b2e-8aed-2ad732bc6c2c -> ../../sda1
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 Feb 17 07:44 d43a89e9-21ff-45a0-9a58-1cb8a7211022 -> ../../sda5

```
My USB drive is /sdc1

3) add another entry in /etc/fstab, make sure you replace UUID with your external hdd and uid,gid with the number you get from id command
```

UUID=0F14-1F14                          /media/usb       vfat   rw,noatime,uid=1000,gid=1000,user 0 0

```

4) sudo mount -a , make sure there are errors, restart samba and try again

---

### Post by VamPikmin on 2014-02-18
I just noticed your external hard drives are ntfs so replace vfat with ntfs

---

### Post by orsome1 on 2014-02-19
the mounting of the drive is not a problem as I have already edited the fstab file. The NTFS drive mounts no problem.
I have tried all manner of edits to the smb.conf file to allow both my WIN7 PC and my MAC to write to the Ubuntu drive but keep getting same message - Need permission to Access.
can see from above that under NTFSdrive shares - writeable = yes. One thing I am noticing now is that under MYShare I have writable - could this spelling be causing the problem? Although the spelling under NTFS share was generated by Samba interface.

---

### Post by VamPikmin on 2014-02-19
I think you should create a share on the local drive first, test it and then move on to usb shares.

I understand that you can mount the drive but but it needs to be mounted with the right permissions. I don't know exactly but it seems like when USB drive get mounted root becomes the owner and everyone else gets read only unless you specify things manually in fstab, which worked for me. So in my case the problem wasn't samba config but the permissions on the usb drive

What does your fstab look like, the entry for the usb drives?

check your samba user, make sure he's there:

sudo pdbedit -L -v

testparm command should tell you if there's a problem like wrong spelling

I think both writeable and writable are fine

I have intentionally mispelt it here and as you can see testparm tells me about it
```

root@whatever:/home/vampikmin# testparm
Load smb config files from /etc/samba/smb.conf
rlimit_max: increasing rlimit_max (1024) to minimum Windows limit (16384)
Processing section "[homes]"
Processing section "[printers]"
Processing section "[print$]"
Processing section "[europa]"
Processing section "[usb]"
Unknown parameter encountered: "writeeable"
Ignoring unknown parameter "writeeable"
Loaded services file OK.
Server role: ROLE_STANDALONE
Press enter to see a dump of your service definitions

```

---

### Post by orsome1 on 2014-02-20
you might be 100% correct with the rights on mounting USB drives - did not think of that. Thanks will have a look at what fstab file says.
It does make sense then that the way it is mounted will supercede rights allocated in Samba

---

### Post by VamPikmin on 2014-02-23
No worries, can you let us know please so perhaps this topic can be changed to solved

---

### Post by orsome1 on 2014-02-26
I have tried everything I could possibly find to edit the fstab file to allow full  read and write permissions but have just not come right. I am at the stage where I am going to install an internal SATA drive and transfer all date from the USB/NTFS drive. Format the drive EXT3 so can still share witn WIN7 machine and be done with this problem - I hope at least

---

### Post by VamPikmin on 2014-03-02
Have you followed the steps I provided in post #4?

Paste your output here, especially if you get stuck half way and see errors

---

### Post by orsome1 on 2014-03-03
Yip followed all steps 
When installing the new internal HDD I came across the solution - "CHMOD -R" gave correct permissions to all drives and problem solved
thanks for all your guidance though - can mark thread resolved.

---

