---
title: "14.04 - making spoofed mac persistent?"
date: 2014-05-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by metroedged on 2014-05-19
I have tried before in 12.04 and it changes itself shortly after I bring the device back up.

(I checked by typing ifconfig eth0 or whatever - and it reverts back to the original mac very quickly. I don't know why)

Also, if anyone can tell me the proper way to bring the device up and down and change the mac, I will try that and post the results.

---

### Post by untrustytahr on 2014-05-19
It can be set in the interfaces file.  Use ***man interfaces*** for explanation.

Why are you trying to change it?

---

### Post by metroedged on 2014-05-19
> **untrustytahr said:**
> It can be set in the interfaces file.  Use ***man interfaces*** for explanation.

Why are you trying to change it?
My isp has started throttling my connection after seeding torrents for too long.

I confirmed this after changing router mac to a spoofed mac on my netbook via windows 7 and tmac (technitium or whatever) but I would prefer to be able to do it under ubuntu on my main machine.

---

### Post by untrustytahr on 2014-05-19
> **metroedged said:**
> I confirmed this after changing router mac to a spoofed mac on my netbook via windows 7 and tmac (technitium or whatever) but I would prefer to be able to do it under ubuntu on my main machine.

A MAC address never 'leaves' the subnet (LAN) that it is on.   The host's MAC address on the LAN beyond the first router hop are irrelevant.  The 'public' facing router interface is the only MAC that the ISP would be able to identify (and subsequently the ip since it assigned the ip to that particular MAC assuming you don't have a static ip from your ISP).

---

### Post by metroedged on 2014-05-19
> **untrustytahr said:**
> A MAC address never 'leaves' the subnet (LAN) that it is on.   The host's MAC address on the LAN beyond the first router hop are irrelevant.  The 'public' facing router interface is the only MAC that the ISP would be able to identify (and subsequently the ip since it assigned the ip to that particular MAC assuming you don't have a static ip from your ISP).

I think I understand now.

The wireless router distributes internet to multiple devices, but only through itself. During this process, the splitting up is handled by the router and the ISP only sees the mac of the router, and thus being the only mac that needs to be changed in order to "force" a new IP address from your ISP?

Yes I have a dynamic IP.

Also, would I be able to simply spoof the router's MAC manually each time instead of hitting the "clone computer's mac address" button (which just copies your spoofed or real mac address and which also required me to actually have the mac address apear to be different)

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-05-19
You can change your router - which would have a different outward facing mac - and your ISP would still know it was you.

> **metroedged said:**
> My isp has started throttling my connection after seeding torrents for too long.

This is between you, your ISP and the contract you have with your ISP. If you have overrun your download allowance, we are not going to help you circumvent the contract you have with your ISP. This is not supported here.

Thread closed.

---

