---
title: "10.04 sudden wireless connection problem"
date: 2011-04-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-04-26
10.04 in a couple of identical lenovo laptops (of friends) suddenly have stopped connecting successfully to wireless, coinciding approximately with a mains power socket fail at the modem router, now fixed.

presumably the machines were trying to connect to the access point, which may or may not have been working, but themodem router was not. 

Now, internet connection and wireless access point is fixed ok and is back up, and i can connect wirelessly to the access point ok using an eeepc with 10.04.2 with no problem so the access point is working ok 

the target laptop/s are still ok via wired ethernet, and can *also* connect to a neighbours open wireless (a british telecom so called fon network, it asks for an account password), and all local wireless networks can be seen normally, and the home access point ssid can also be seen ok. so the aptop wireless is connecting ok, but not to this particular access point now. maybe someting has got screwed up?

it is wpa2 and when clicked, after a long-ish time, the authentication is requested, then given, correctly, and still not connecting, asks for authentication again etc etc.

no local secure wallet is being used.

when upgrading these laptops for my friend some time ago from 9.04 i have a small recall that 10.04 had a odd thing with wireless authentication (?) bug?

i have deleted the network connections gui listing for this ssid and restarted the laptop, still no joy.

is it appropriate to delete a config file somewhere and restart or what?

comments much appreciated.

tia

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-04-26
I don't know what the problem is, but I know that when I've had that problem, I've turned off the modem, the router, and the computers. Leave them off for a couple of minutes. Turn on the modem; wait a full minute; turn on the router; wait another full minute; and only then turn on the computers. Try it and cross fingers it helps.

---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-04-26
Thanks for the response. I tried this, but no joy. 

I can see nothing wrong. I even used synaptec to reinstall most of th enetwork manager stuff I could identify, no change.

It is as if something in authentication for that particular ssid is messed up.

Friend is now using wired connection only until sorted out.

If nothing changes, the only think coming to my mind just now is to install or upgrade to 10.10

we will see.

---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-04-27
This looks a lot like
NetworkManager or wpa_supplicant timing out when connecting wireless 
Bug #572777

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bcmwl/+bug/572777](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bcmwl/+bug/572777)

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2011-04-27
Well done for finding the bug.

An alternative shown is to install WICD. Go to System > Administration > Synaptic Package Manager: 
[LIST=1]
[*]Install *wicd*.
[*]Mark for complete removal *network-manager* and *network-manager-gnome*. Apply.
[*]**EDIT:** For WICD, the users must belong to the group *netdev*. You can do this from System > Administration > Users and Groups.
[*]Reboot.
[/LIST]
You can also try the solution in post #35 of [the bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bcmwl/+bug/572777").

Good luck!

---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-07-07
Important news from my situation:
Although the symptoms were as described, I have found the main reason for my problem. Wireless interference from nearby (neighbours) systems! I did a series of experiments including taking all of the (wireless) hardware and laptop to my house where I was surprised shocked to find it all worked perfectly straight away. It took me several other time consuming experiments to fail to find a reason for things not working. I am (was) not experienced with basic wifi and the significance of the target location being in the middle of a block of apartments did not emerge for me until much later. A smartphone (Android) app for wireless scan immediately showed a dozen competing signals with useful channels occupied, and several signals were very strong indeed. So strong that even with our wireless access point (WAP) in the same room as the laptop and smartphone, the two competing signals were showing the -same- strength (!) the solution was to set the WAP to partly avoid the competition by using a fixed channel (3) just in between the competition (1) and (6). Not ideal but it works (so far).

The WAP is D-Link DAP 1353 which I think is good kit (?)
The history of wifi working then stopping working I put down to a neighbour or two deciding to increase their own power maybe.

---

