---
title: "16.04.1 Xubuntu clean install, unable to browse Windows workgroup shares after 1 day."
date: 2016-08-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by shewi on 2016-08-04
Hi.

Yesterday I did a clean install of 16.04.1 LTS 64bit Xubuntu on an HP Elitebook 2560p after previously running 14.04.
Everything was fine including networking and after installing favourite apps and reloading backed up data I created a link to my Windows PC as I had previously with 14.04. I could see everything as before.

Today I booted the laptop and I can't connect to the Windows PC and receive a "Failed to mount Windows share: Connection timed out." message.
Similarly, when I browse the network, although I can see the Windows Network and two workgroups: HOME and WORKGROUP, the latter being the relevant one, I get "Failed to retrieve share list from server: Connection timed out." when I click on WORKGROUP.

I have read many threads on these error messages and blundered about with Samba, smb.conf and nsswitch.conf tutorials, but I can't make any impression on the problem and am not confident with what I have done or failed to yet install.
Yesterday everything seemed to be working 'out of the box' without me installing anything additional for networking, such as Samba etc.

I'm worried that one of the final things I did yesterday before shutting down, a run of BleachBit, has corrupted something. That said I had run BleachBit a number of times during yesterday after the installation without any problems. I hope instead that it's something more benign.

Can anyone please help.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2016-08-04
There are people who swear by bleachbit, and people who swear at it. I don't see the point, unless you are running on a very restricted configuration.

Do you have smbclient installed?

---

### Post by shewi on 2016-08-15
Thanks for your reply.
I think I'll give bleachbit a miss from now on; I take your point, I'm not limited in disk space etc, so it's not worth the risk.
For what it's worth my problems have evaporated without me doing anything directly. That said, both the Ubuntu laptop in question and the Windows PC that it couldn't see, have been rebooted.
Not entirely happy, as I'd have preferred to have identified the problem and fixed it. This way, there's no saying it won't happen again.

Out of interest, how would I check to see of I have smbclient installed?

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-08-15
> **shewi said:**
> Out of interest, how would I check to see of I have smbclient installed?

What's the output of the following terminal command...

```
apt-cache policy smbclient | grep "Installed"
```

---

### Post by shewi on 2016-08-16
Hi.
My output is: Installed: 2:4.3.9+dfsg-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
I take that as indication that the smbclient is installed.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-08-16
> **shewi said:**
> Hi.
My output is: Installed: 2:4.3.9+dfsg-0ubuntu0.16.04.2
I take that as indication that the smbclient is installed.

Yes, that is the package and version that is installed, were it not installed the command would have output

```
 Installed: (none)
```

---

