---
title: "RT2500 in 7.10"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Episcopus on 2007-10-22
I just put Gutsy on my laptop through a fresh install.  After the install, I don't have wireless. I had wireless in Fiesty.  iwconfig tells me:

> wlan0  IEEE 802.11g      ESSID "MyID"
                           Mode:Managed   Frequency:2.437 Ghz    Access Point: 00:0F:3D:07:20:2D  
                           Retry min limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr=2346 B
                           Link Quality:0  Signal level:0   Noise level:0
                           Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
                           Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0  Missed beacon:0 

sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart says:

> wmaster0: unknown hardware address type 801
               wmaster0: unknown hardware address type 801
               Listening on LPF/wlan0/00:11:09:07:eb:ef
               Sending on  LPF/wlan0/00:11:09:07:eb:ef
               Sending on   Socket/fallback
               DHCPDISCOVER on wlan0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 8 

I don't get any DHCP offers.  My subnet mask is 255.255.255.0, so should my computer be seeking DHCP offers on 255.255.255.255?  Does anyone know what unknown hardware address type 801 is?  

ifconfig finds wlan0 and wmaster0, but the HWaddr for wmaster0 has 20 extra zeros at the end of the correct address. How can I change that? 

Does anyone have any ideas about how to fix the problem and get the wireless working? Do I need to supply more information?  Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by Episcopus on 2007-10-23
More info.

The device manger tells me that wmaster0 is something called "Networking Wireless Control Interface."  This is a subheading under RT2500 802.11g Cardbus/mini-PCI. WLAN interface, which is associated with wlan0 is also a subheading of this group.

lshw tells me that my wireless card has the logical name wmaster0, not wlan0. wlan0 is trying to connect to my network. How can I get rid of either wlan0 or wmaster0 so that only one interface is attempting to control my wireless card?

---

### Post by dr_agon on 2007-11-04
I spent last week wondering what this wmaster0 is for. I have rt2400 chipset. Today I switched drivers from supplied with Gutsy to downloaded from serialmonkey, and I got it running in 5 minutes. It's worth trying, there are many posts about it.

---

### Post by Episcopus on 2007-11-05
I actually got my connection working by reinstalling Fiesty, getting everything running the way I already knew how, and then upgrading to Gutsy instead of using a fresh Gutsy install.  Probably not the best or easiest way to do it, but it worked.

---

