---
title: "Unable to see wifi adapter Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS - DW1530"
date: 2019-03-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by olds97lss on 2019-03-06
I'm using ubuntu installed on a USB with persistence on a spare W10 laptop I have. I'd like to keep ubuntu on the USB until I figure out if I want to convert the machine over.

I've tried finding information about this but everything I find either causes my installation to become damaged/unbootable or does nothing at all for the wireless card. I'm able to connect via my Ethernet port, but I'd really like this to work over wireless.

The last thing I did was rebuild my USB (for the nth time), then I tried what was listed in this:
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214110](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214110)
> lspci -nn -d 14e4:
Mine came back as 4359, so I then did this:
> 
sudo apt-get purge bcmwl-kernel-source
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install bcmwl-kernel-source


This gave me this result:
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install bcmwl-kernel-source
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  bcmwl-kernel-source
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 113 not upgraded.
Need to get 0 B/1550 kB of archives.
After this operation, 8067 kB of additional disk space will be used.
Get:1 cdrom://Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS _Bionic Beaver_ - Release amd64 (20190210) bionic/restricted amd64 bcmwl-kernel-source amd64 6.30.223.271+bdcom-0ubuntu4 [1550 kB]
Selecting previously unselected package bcmwl-kernel-source.
(Reading database ... 148588 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to unpack .../bcmwl-kernel-source_6.30.223.271+bdcom-0ubuntu4_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking bcmwl-kernel-source (6.30.223.271+bdcom-0ubuntu4) ...
Setting up bcmwl-kernel-source (6.30.223.271+bdcom-0ubuntu4) ...
Loading new bcmwl-6.30.223.271+bdcom DKMS files...
Building for 4.18.0-15-generic
Building for architecture x86_64
Building initial module for 4.18.0-15-generic
Done.

wl:
Running module version sanity check.
 - Original module
   - No original module exists within this kernel
 - Installation
   - Installing to /lib/modules/4.18.0-15-generic/updates/dkms/

depmod....

DKMS: install completed.
update-initramfs: deferring update (trigger activated)
Processing triggers for initramfs-tools (0.130ubuntu3.6) ...
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-4.18.0-15-generic
cryptsetup: WARNING: failed to detect canonical device of overlay
cryptsetup: WARNING: could not determine root device from /etc/fstab
```

I don't know if those last 2 lines are a problem or not.

After that, I rebooted.

Still no wifi adapter found.

I do see this in the additional driver section:
[IMG]http://gmarquee98.x10host.com/myPics/98gmarquee/ComputerRelated/2019-0306-ubuntu-additionalDriverWifi01.jpg[/IMG]

If I change that to "Do not use the device", then click "Apply Changes", it corrupts the usb and it won't boot from it any longer, then I have to start over and rebuild it.

I'm using the following to build the USB:
iso from ubuntu.com directly for 18.04.2 LTS
unetbootin-windows-661 - create the bootable usb using the above iso
PDL-Casper-RW-Creator - create the casper-rw file for persistence

Then I edit the following files as needed to use the Try Ubuntu without installing option and making it persistent:
F:\boot\grub\grub.cfg
F:\isolinux\txt.cfg
F:\syslinux.cfg

---

### Post by olds97lss on 2019-03-08
Yes! I finally got it working!

I followed quite a few more steps  on various sites to try to re-install/install different driver packages.  Ended up on this site:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)

Ran the following:
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install bcmwl-kernel-source
sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer
sudo apt-get install firmware-b43legacy-installer
sudo modprobe -r b43 bcma
sudo modprobe -r wl
sudo modprobe -r brcmsmac bcma
sudo modprobe brcmsmac


Then it said to do this:
echo "blacklist drivername" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-broadcom-wireless.conf

Instead, I went to that folder to see what was in there already.

This file was there and was recently updated, so I looked at it's contents:
/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf

ubuntu@ubuntu:/etc/modprobe.d$ cat blacklist-bcm43.conf 
# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist brcm80211
blacklist brcmfmac
blacklist brcmsmac
blacklist bcma

Then I commented everything out except for one blacklist brcmsmac.
Then I umplugged my ethernet cable and was expecting it to not do anything other than remove the little icon from the top bar with the internet symbol, which it did. 
Then I opened up Settings and clicked on Wi-Fi and saw a list of wifi connections! I clicked on mine, put in a password and now I'm connected wirelessly!

I don't know/understand all of what I did or why it's now working, but I'll be copying the entire thumb drive to my PC to keep in case the usb gets corrupted.

In regards to that, I found that I can't just copy everything to a new usb and get it to boot with it. I have to rebuild the drive using this:
iso from ubuntu.com directly for 18.04.2 LTS
unetbootin-windows-661 - create the bootable usb using the above iso
PDL-Casper-RW-Creator - create the casper-rw file for persistence

Then I can just copy the entire contents onto that drive and it then boots and I still have all my stuff as it was.

---

