---
title: "8.10 Wireless will not find other networks"
date: 2009-04-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by flyingmule on 2009-04-07
I can connect wirelessly to the internet at home no problemo. Now I am traveling and want my machine to connect to a different wireless network. My network manager, or whatever that little two-computer icon is on my toolbar, won't show any other networks - everything is grayed out when I left click, except for VPN connections which I do not care about. Why???

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2009-04-09
It won't show networks with hidden SSIDs... not sure if that applius to your situation, but I don't know why else it wouldn't show them.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-04-09
ensure that your wifi interface is in Roaming mode..

---

### Post by PreviousN on 2009-04-09
I agree with superprash2003. Make sure that your wireless card is turned on. Also, it just could be the case that there are no networks near you to mooch off of.

---

### Post by jeremyjjbrown on 2009-04-09
I've had a lot of problems configuring the kludgey Gnome Network Manager too. You can switch to a much better network interface, Wicd. I think you might like it better. If you install it, it will automatically remove Network Manager. If you don't like Wicd (not sure why you wouldn't) you can enter this command in the terminal.

sudo apt-get install network-manager

And it will automatically put Network Manager back. There is the link for installing Wicd.

[http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php](http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php)

---

### Post by PreviousN on 2009-04-09
I use wicd too. I don't like the interface, but with my wirless card there is a bug in which gnome-network manager sometimes randomly drops connections. 

Give it a shot if you like, its more robust than gnome-network manager. I just don't like the interface, but once you learn it you get over it...

---

