---
title: "22.04 - Unable to connect to WPA2 Enterprise Wifi"
date: 2022-04-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by teeaaa on 2022-04-29
I didn't know where to put this, so hopefully this is the right space for me to address this.

I've been recently trying to upgrade to Ubuntu 22.04, however I ran into this issue that prevents me from completely switching over. Therefore, at this point I'm running Pop 21.10 as my main OS, alongside Ubuntu 22.04 so I can experiment and try to get this working.

The issue is that Ubuntu, Fedora 36, or any of the other recent Linux distributions will no longer want to work with my school's WiFi network. When I put in the config that normally (and currently) works on previous versions, it says "connecting" for a little bit before returning with a "could not connect" issue. 

The connection settings are:
[LIST]
[*]WPA2 Enterprise
[*]PEAP
[*]MSCHAPV2
[*]CA Certificate: Do not verify (this is interesting because on android it says "use system certificates", but no option shows up for Ubuntu 22.04)
[*]Domain equal to my school's domain
[*]username is my school username, and password is my school password
[/LIST]

I have a feeling that it has to do with Active Directory, since our school uses that for password management.

Does anyone have any ideas, suggestions, or potential fixes for this issue?

---

### Post by colonket on 2022-05-05
It turns out that a lot of enterprise networks like these rely on TLS 1.0 which has been deprecated and disabled in the new OpenSSL v3 by default.
I went through the same symptoms and issues you have and eventually I found that one of the last responses on this StackOverflow post solved my problems:
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/279762/how-to-connect-to-wpa2-peap-mschapv2-enterprise-wifi-networks-that-dont-use-a-c](https://askubuntu.com/questions/279762/how-to-connect-to-wpa2-peap-mschapv2-enterprise-wifi-networks-that-dont-use-a-c)

Per that reply, [I]'The following steps were contributed to [Launchpad Bug #1958267]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wpa/+bug/1958267") by users "nfalse" (#22) and Simon Chopin (#36)'

[/I]**Step 1: Create specific openssl.cnf for wpa_supplicant**

 $ sudo cp /etc/ssl/openssl.cnf /etc/wpa_supplicant/
 This will ensure that enabling TLS 1.0 applies only to WPA  negotiations, which will mitigate the security impact of this change  somewhat.
 [B]
Step 2: Enable legacy TLS in the copied config file[/B]

 As root, edit the new config file:
 $ sudo gedit /etc/wpa_supplicant/openssl.cnf
 Then, find the following lines:
 [openssl_init]
providers = provider_sect
 Immediately thereafter, insert the following lines:
 ssl_conf = ssl_sect

[ssl_sect]
system_default = system_default_sect

[system_default_sect]
Options = UnsafeLegacyRenegotiation
CipherString = DEFAULT@SECLEVEL=1
 [B]
Step 3: Make wpa_supplicant use the new configuration[/B]

 As root, edit /usr/lib/systemd/system/wpa_supplicant.service.
 $ sudo gedit /usr/lib/systemd/system/wpa_supplicant.service
 Find the following lines:
 [Service]
Type=dbus
BusName=fi.w1.wpa_supplicant1
ExecStart=/sbin/wpa_supplicant -u -s -O /run/wpa_supplicant
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
 After BusName, insert Environment="OPENSSL_CONF=/etc/wpa_supplicant/openssl.cnf". The whole section should read as follows:
 [Service]
Type=dbus
BusName=fi.w1.wpa_supplicant1
Environment="OPENSSL_CONF=/etc/wpa_supplicant/openssl.cnf"
ExecStart=/sbin/wpa_supplicant -u -s -O /run/wpa_supplicant
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
 [B]
Step 4: Restart the wpa_supplicant[/B]

 You can either reboot your whole computer at this point or just run the following commands:
 $ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
$ sudo systemctl restart wpa_supplicant.service

---

### Post by robegue on 2022-06-01
I've followed the above procedure and now it connects, but I cannot actually use it since no website or server responds. Somehow the network traffic is blocked.

---

### Post by wpasd on 2022-06-28
I'm also encountering this problem. I tried Ubuntu versions 18.04, 20.04 and 22.04. The bug was supposed to be solved in [version 2:2.10 of wpa_supplicant]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wpa/2:2.10-6ubuntu2") which is the version used in Ubuntu 22.04, but the problem still persists.
I tried the solution posted here and other solutions (editing ssid profile, many different ways) from mentioned forum post [askubuntu]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/279762/how-to-connect-to-wpa2-peap-mschapv2-enterprise-wifi-networks-that-dont-use-a-c") also other forum [1]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wpa/+bug/1958267").
On Ubuntu 18.04 I tried connecting with [WICD]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WICD#For_KDE_.28Kubuntu.29-1") insted of NetworkManager, I will also try this on 22.04 (will update).
Somewhere on Reddit (old post about Raspberry PI) I also saw that someone fixed this issue with downgrading to [wpa_supplicant 2:2.3]("https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/7.7/basicnet/wpa_supplicant.html"), not hopefull but will try. Any other things I could try?

*Edit
No luck with WICD on 22.04 or installing wpa_supplicant 2:2.1 or 2:2.3 had some error in the syntax while bulding it. (problems with '->' in the files).

---

### Post by gustafkusuma on 2022-07-15
I use KUBUNTU and still can't connect to Wifi

---

### Post by wpasd on 2022-07-15
We figured out that in our case it was an issue with the computer not wanting to use IPv6 only network. We found a way how to get around this issue by setting IPv4 to link-local only in NetworkManager or by setting a static local IPv4 address. I will include some images of our settings, but they could vary from one org. to another. To be sure, check which setting are right for your eduroam connection.
[IMG]https://i.postimg.cc/N0PppBQ5/Eduroam-Ubuntu0.png[/IMG]
[IMG]https://i.postimg.cc/LXYvWwsv/Eduroam-Ubuntu1.png[/IMG]
[IMG]https://i.postimg.cc/0NNVYbRT/Eduroam-Ubuntu2.png[/IMG]

---

