---
title: "[SOLVED] Can't Browse Windows Shares via Wireless. Wired Works Fine"
date: 2007-09-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by CowzRule on 2007-09-29
I have a laptop (Dual booting Feisty & XP) with both wired and wireless cards. The wireless card is (I think) configured correctly as I am connected to my Linksys wireless router and can surf the net just fine. What I can't do is browse the Windows shares on the 2 desktop pcs (wired connections) or access the routers configuration pages. 
However, if I turn the wireless card off and then plug the wire into the wired connection then everything works just fine.
I have a feeling it has something to do with wireless security but I don't know much about it. The only thing I do know is that I'm using the WPA Personal and TKIP security modes in the router.
The laptop is an Acer Aspire 3000 with the Broadcom BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] wireless adapter and I'm using ndiswrapper to make it work.
If you need to know anything else, just let me know and I'll get it posted asap.
Thanks.

---

### Post by MobiusNZ on 2007-09-29
Sounds like a router configuration problem. You've probably got some security option that firewalls between wired and wireless computers, and blocks wireless-based modifications of the router.

---

### Post by CowzRule on 2007-09-30
> **MobiusNZ said:**
> Sounds like a router configuration problem. You've probably got some security option that firewalls between wired and wireless computers, and blocks wireless-based modifications of the router.

Thanks for the reply.

I guess I should have mentioned that when I'm booted into Windows XP and using the wireless that every thing works fine. Internet, shared folders and the routers configuration pages, so I don't think there's anything in the routers configuration that would block access from the wireless card. (see attached screenshot)
Also, the desktops can't access my shared folder on my laptop when using the wireless and Feisty but they can when the laptop is wired.
I know this looks like a firewall issue, and maybe it is, but it seems to me that if the firewall (iptables) is blocking "local" network traffic on the wireless connection, then it would be doing the same blocking on the wired connection.

---

### Post by MobiusNZ on 2007-09-30
Can you please post your /etc/network/interfaces ?
Also, check if /etc/resolv.conf changes when connected to the wired or wireless networks

---

### Post by CowzRule on 2007-09-30
> **MobiusNZ said:**
> Can you please post your /etc/network/interfaces ?
Also, check if /etc/resolv.conf changes when connected to the wired or wireless networks
Here's my /etc/network/interfaces
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.2
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp

auto eth2
iface eth2 inet dhcp

auto ath0
iface ath0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
```
And here's my /etc/resolv.conf when wired
```
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!

search roc.mn.charter.com

nameserver 24.159.193.40
nameserver 68.115.71.53

```
And when wireless
```
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!

search roc.mn.charter.com

nameserver 24.159.193.40
nameserver 68.115.71.53

```
the resolv.conf didn't change.

---

### Post by CowzRule on 2007-09-30
I guess I kinda figured it out. I noticed in the network settings for my wireless card that it only gave me the option to select a wep password type. So I changed the routers wireless security from wpa to wep, then in network settings I unchecked my wired network, went into my wireless properties and unchecked "Enable Roaming Mode", selected wep key (hex) and typed in the network password. Clicked ok then tried surfing the net. The net worked. Then I tried browsing a network share and it also worked.
I guess I was right about it having something to do with wireless security, but not with the hardware, but with the software. So now I'm wondering if it's a limitation with the driver or with Ubuntu? If it's the driver there probably isn't much I can do with that. But if it's Ubuntu, might there be something I can do?

---

### Post by MobiusNZ on 2007-09-30
Another thing to try would be to set all your adapters in /etc/network/interfaces to auto (eth0 is currently set static).

---

### Post by CowzRule on 2007-10-01
> **MobiusNZ said:**
> Another thing to try would be to set all your adapters in /etc/network/interfaces to auto (eth0 is currently set static).

Thanks, but since I use the routers port mapping feature I need to keep the static IPs on all the machines.
I did find some info on setting up WPA security but it's a bit over my head. Besides, it's not that big a deal to swap from wireless to wired if I need to access those other pc's.

---

### Post by CowzRule on 2007-10-06
Solved!!
See this thread
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202834]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202834")

---

