---
title: "8.10 &quot;WPA Enterprise&quot; wifi connection, not the same as 8.04 how do i do it?"
date: 2008-09-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dracule on 2008-09-13
So I upgraded to 8.10, and now i am in a wifi only environment for the next 2 weeks.

The problem is that I cant connect to wifi, nmapplet is totally different.

Here is how I connected to the internet with 8.04:

clicked the network icon by clock, select the SSID
It would prompt me for a username and password
I would select "WPA enterprise", "PEAP", and put in my username and password, and hit connect.
it would connect.


Now I dont know what to do.
I click the SSID i want, it prompts me. 
Now it only gives the option of "wpa/wpa2 enterprise"
so i went with it, and selected "peap", put in my username and password.
then it says something about me needing a certificate.
My windows needs a certificate to connect to the wifi, so i got the certificate, but it is a *.cer file, while nmapplet only lets me select a *.der file. 



What is the best course of action?

---

### Post by dracule on 2008-09-14
should i try reinstalling?

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-09-14
> **dracule said:**
> 
My windows needs a certificate to connect to the wifi, so i got the certificate, but it is a *.cer file, while nmapplet only lets me select a *.der file. 

The file with a ".cer" extension, is actually a "DER encoded binary X.509". So you should try to use the DER file (which has a CER extension), and it should work without a problem. 

If it doesn't let you select the .cer file, try renaming the .der file to .cer and give it another try before you try reinstalling (anything).

---

