---
title: "16.04 no browser connects to google"
date: 2017-05-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ubuntubrian on 2017-05-05
Hi and pre-thanks to all!

I have been over, under, around and through every forum that I can find relevant to my not being able to connect with anything google. I've restarted avahi, Networkmanager, changed DNS settings, Ipv4, 6 settings and nothing works.
I can ping any google app like maps, gmail, etc, but even entering the address in any browser as pinged (172.217.11.238 for maps.google.com) will not open the page. I have changed my network to using openDNS and that seems all fine as I can still open any website that is not google. Weirdly there are a couple of things. I can reach out of country google pages, like google.cn (Hong Kong). I also have a VBox VM of 16.10 and that has no problem with google sites. I also have a FreeBSD VM that can do so. any google page. Obviously since these are VMs they are having to use the same network that I am currently using (WiFi). Cable connection has exact same results.
I am not bright enough to know but the fact that the VMs can connect to all things google that there must be some localhost issue or similar.
I can use the VMs if I have to but that was not my intention for them. 
Any and all help would be most graciously welcomed.
PS-I know there have been many posts on this issue but they are all closed or ancient. Still I apologize for any overt redundancy!

New Info alert-
I was able to get into google.groups by following a link to a page addressing my problem. the solution had to do with spyware from years back so that's irrelevant but I did connect. After trying to refresh the page I could not connect. 
I'm also including a screenshot resulting from my trying to connect to [https://maps.google.com](https://maps.google.com). Pretty weird. (Hope I got that right. Attachment method has changed in the years since I last posted!)
[ATTACH=CONFIG]274971[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2017-05-05
Googled this answer (ironically)
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/879110/ubuntu-16-04-cant-connect-to-http-google-com]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/879110/ubuntu-16-04-cant-connect-to-http-google-com")

---

### Post by ubuntubrian on 2017-05-05
Thanks Superfreak,
More irony....I changed my nameserver FROM 8.8.8.8 to open DNS servers as another solution suggested. That didn't work either nor does adding the lines as described in the link you posted. I restarted avahi and networkmanager. BTW both "/etc/resolv.conf" and "/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head" adamantly state to not modify the files as any changes will be overwritten.

---

### Post by ubuntubrian on 2017-05-05
Sorry about the double posting but in the time it took me to change the files and write the reply, groups.google.com opened after much time. I'll restart and try again. Maybe some good thing happened?

---

### Post by ubuntubrian on 2017-05-05
OK-I can actually sign into my account in google groups which is also one of my google account names. I get the apps icon on the page which allows me to choose maps, drive or whatever. Drive and photos load, gmail and news too. No maps, calendar. this is too quirky to comprehend for me

---

