---
title: "9.04 Jaunty - No network connection"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by TheNilo on 2009-04-23
Hello there

Since I upgraded from 8.10 to 9.04 my network is gone. The network-manager does not connect to my dhcp. I have connection to my network if I set up my IP manually but then I don't have any internet connection.

Does anybody know a solution?

thanks
thenilo

---

### Post by TheNilo on 2009-04-23
Ok I have an update

Internet is now working with manual ip-address. Don't know why, it's working now.

---

### Post by wildcheese on 2009-05-05
> **TheNilo said:**
> Ok I have an update

Internet is now working with manual ip-address. Don't know why, it's working now.

Hi, I've exactly the same problem. I can't enable the DHCP, but based on your post I've configured the network card (RTL81999) with a fixed IP and that works. Anybody an idea what this can be?

---

### Post by jellyfisharepretty on 2009-05-05
I confirm this as well, the same thing happened to me.  Internet connection would not work on my wireless network using DHCP as it did in Feisty.  After upgrade to Jaunty, I had to set a fixed address for that to work.  Another computer running Feisty on the same wireless network had no problem connecting with DHCP.

Would like to know what's the cause of this and how it could be fixed, because for a laptop, this is not very handy.

---

### Post by mnoyes on 2009-05-06
Had the same problem on my Dell Inspiron Mini 9 after installing Jaunty. 

I solved it using opendns ([http://www.opendns.com](http://www.opendns.com)). I went to Network Connections->wireless (selected the connection, authenticated)->IPv4 settings, method automatic (DHCP) addresses only, and added this DNS server 208.67.222.222

Hit Apply and all was well. I'm a beginner, though, so I wonder is this a good solution?

(This is a pretty significant bug -- it's not okay to have an OS in which first-time users install it only to find they have no internet connection.)

---

### Post by jellyfisharepretty on 2009-05-06
Seems like a good solution, provided you trust opendns.  It's an interesting finding too, since that means the problem with Jaunty's DCHP client on our machines was that somehow it couldn't get the DNS server.

I agree it's a significant bug, although I wonder just how big of a portion of people upgrading to Jaunty had it.

---

### Post by lokina on 2009-05-08
hey guys, i'm really hoping you can help me.

i'm running ubuntu 9.04 on a dell inspiron 8600 laptop.  i was new to 8.04, but could find my way around fairly well.  never had to get into the networking stuff because 8.04 automatically recognized the network connection when it installed.  once the installation was complete, the internet was just there.  

not so with 9.04, at least not with me.  the install went smooth, but when it completed, i get the message "no network connection".  

i power cycled my modem and router, and rebooted my laptop.  still no network connection.

with xp i could just ipconfig /all and get all my ip info, but i have no idea how to do that in ubuntu.  i also have no idea how to look at the various network connections (wired, wireless) like i did in xp.  

i guess i'm just a complete newbie, and i'm sort of freaked out by the fact that this long-awaited, highly anticipated update of ubuntu could actually have a bug this freakin huge right out of the gate.  i mean geez, how does this happen?  or is it something that i'm doing wrong?  

please help me if you can, but understand that i can find my way through the menu system, but that's about it.  i was a pro on windows, but this is a whole new world.

thanks for any assistance you guys can offer me.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-05-08
> **lokina said:**
> ...with xp i could just ipconfig /all and get all my ip info, but i have no idea how to do that in ubuntu. From a terminal, try **ifconfig -a** (so similar, it's scary). 

Not every change is an improvement. Sometimes fixing one thing breaks something else.  Yes, the alpha's and beta's *should* have caught it... sometimes a supplier decides to drop support for some of their products. Sometimes it's amazing how a new release makes the old one look better. I skipped Hardy and Intrepid, but so far, Jaunty looks pretty good.

---

### Post by lokina on 2009-05-08
thanks for replying. 

i got into ifconfig, but from there its pretty confusing.  4 or 5 sections of info (eth0, eth1, lo, pan0) which looks like hyroglyphics to me, and then this in the "lo" section:

inet addr: 127.0.0.1
mask: 255.0.0.0

so is "inet addr" the ip address?  is "mask" the default gateway?  because those numbers don't look right.  But there's nothing else in all that ifconfig info that looks anything like an ip address.

if you were me, what would you do next?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-05-08
The loopback (lo) section looks normal. 127.0.0.1 is standard address, and 255.0.0.0 is normal for loopback's netmask. 
Netmask is not the same as gateway. "Standard" netmask for "typical" home network  (common address is 192.168.1.0)is 255.255.255.0  Also written as CIDR notation (/24), that means the first 24 bits identify the network, the last 8 bits identify the machine. 
The gateway is typically the router - frequently with address X.X.X.1 (in example above, router might be 192.168.1.1) although I've seen some routers addressed at X.X.X.254 (X.X.X.0 and X.X.X.255 are reserved for broadcasting)

Too much info?  Next step might be posting results of **ifconfig -a**.

---

