---
title: "DNS getting changed everytime while reboot"
date: 2007-03-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rmadhu on 2007-03-04
My DNS settings vanishes everytime I reboot . I am behind a router . This doesnt happen to my WIN XP . Also , this problem started happening only after my upgrade to Dapper LTS.

Any Settings I need to change to get this resolved. I have some more problems too..I would keep posting them as and when these get resolved.

All after my upgrades to Dapper before whihc everything was fine .
Thanks in advance.

Madhu

---

### Post by bukwirm on 2007-03-04
What kind of router do you have?

You may have to set the DNS servers in your router configuration manually.

---

### Post by rmadhu on 2007-03-04
I have a netgear WGR614. I tried updating the DNS Settings in my router manually too ..That also didnt help.
BTW I never faced this problem before i upgraded to Dapper 6.06. Beforewhihc with the same settings my internet connection worked .

---

### Post by bukwirm on 2007-03-04
It's odd that the internet worked until you upgraded...

However, make sure you have the "Domain Name Server (DNS) Address" setting in the router config set to "Manual" and the correct DNS server IP addresses listed.
Then reboot and post the result of this command:

cat /etc/resolv.conf

---

### Post by rmadhu on 2007-03-04
madhu@madhu-lappy:~$cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
madhu@madhu-lappy:~$

---

### Post by bukwirm on 2007-03-04
And you CAN connect to the internet and view webpages?

---

### Post by rmadhu on 2007-03-05
yes..I am unable to connect when the system boots up.
 Ineed to update my resolv.conf everytime manually or change the DNS settings.
Please help.

---

### Post by mpx on 2007-03-11
I'm also running into the same problem after upgrading to Edgy.

After every reboot the DNS setting are gone. I have to remove resolvconf and reinstall resolvconf  to get it working on every reboot. This is getting tedious.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-03-11
It is clear that your DHCP request to obtain DNS settings is failing.  Please show output from

```
grep dhclient /var/log/syslog
```

and a screen shot of your router's IP configuration page where you have set the DNS servers and the LANs IP address, netmask, broadcast and gateway.

MrC

---

