---
title: "iptables for basic firewall"
date: 2013-08-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by giobaxx on 2013-08-17
[COLOR=#000000]Hi guys, first sorry for my english[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]I'm trying to understand how [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]iptables [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]woks. Now a friend made &#8203;&#8203;me a little "course" and gave a script with some basic rule to get a basic firewall but in reality now i have even more doubts [/COLOR][IMG]https://lqo-thequestionsnetw.netdna-ssl.com/questions/images/smilies/redface.gif[/IMG][COLOR=#000000].. [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Given a scenario of a machine that acts as a firewall and gateway on a LAN.   CLIENT<------------>FIREWALL(with two netcard - no dmz)<---------------->INTERNET.

First, is correct what write below related to the three chains??[/COLOR]

**[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Verdana]The FORWARD chain concerns packets traversing the firewall but that aredirected to other hosts (for example, from the Internet to theclients on the LAN and vice versa)[/FONT][/COLOR]**[B][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]
[/FONT][/COLOR][/B]**[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Verdana]THE INPUT chain concers packets that are directed to the firewall and cancome from both the LAN and the Internet[/FONT][/COLOR]**[B][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]
[/FONT][/COLOR][/B]**[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Verdana]THE OUTPUT chain concerns the packets generated by the firewall and thatare sent out to the LAN or to Internet [/FONT][/COLOR]**

These are the rule about the forward chain, in exact order he gave me:

[PHP]iptables -A FORWARD -i $lan -o $wan -j ACCEPT 
iptables -A FORWARD -i $wan -o $lan -j ACCEPT 

iptables -A FORWARD -i $lan -o $wan -m state --state NEW,ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT


[/PHP]1) One question is that for me the 3rd rule is ridondant, because 1st rule say "let pass all the packet   from the lan to Internet so what sense have to add "**iptables -A FORWARD -i $lan -o $wan -m state --state NEW,ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT** "?? it will never be applied...

2) the 2nd rule "**iptables -A FORWARD -i $wan -o $lan -j ACCEPT**" say "let pass all the packet from Internet to the lan" is not dangerous?...seem to open the firewall for all kind of packet directed to the client into the LAN....is so?

 relative to the input chain i have these rules: 


[PHP]iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT      
iptables -A INPUT -i $lan -s 0/0 -d 0/0 -j ACCEPT                                                               
iptables -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT                                                                                     
iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -p udp -s 208.67.222.222 --source-port 53 -d 0/0 -j ACCEPT  
iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -p tcp --dport 1024:65535 -j ACCEPT                     
iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -p udp --dport 1024:65535 -j ACCEPT                    
iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -p tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT                [/PHP]                     

say that **-d 0/0**  is ridondant in this rule **" iptables -A INPUT -i $lan -s 0/0 -d 0/0 -j ACCEPT "** is correct? since that the packet in the Input chain are directed to the Firewall  or there some specific reason i need to use all destinations in the rule given my scenario?

even the three rules abore are ridontant for me:
**iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -p udp -s 208.67.222.222 --source-port 53 -d 0/0 -j ACCEPT**  
**iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -p tcp --dport 1024:65535 -j ACCEPT                     **
**iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -p udp --dport 1024:65535 -j ACCEPT**

because they are a sub-category of the rule "**iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT**" 
a response form DNS is a not a packet with state established? the rules that open the ports1024:65535 are not packet in response to the Firewall so with state estabilshed? more in extreme ipotese, if i should know the NAT table i should forge packet directed and accepted by the Firewall even if state of the packet is NEW?


As you saw......i have a lot of dubs.........there some experts that help me to understand where i'm wrong?....

---

### Post by Toz on 2013-08-17
Threads merged. Please do not create duplicate threads, it dilutes community effort. Thank you.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2013-08-17
1) You are right. The 3rd rule is redundant because rules 1 and 2 have already allowed everything. No packet will ever reach rule 3.

2) Yes rule 2 is dangerous. I would probably never do that.

I think that -s 0/0 -d 0/0 means "any source and destination" and is therefore, as you say, redundant. I have never seen it used.

These 3 rules:
[B][FONT=Courier New]iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -p udp -s 208.67.222.222 --source-port 53 -d 0/0 -j ACCEPT  
iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -p tcp --dport 1024:65535 -j ACCEPT                     
iptables -A INPUT -i $wan -p udp --dport 1024:65535 -j ACCEPT[/FONT][/B]
are probably redundant. They are not needed to allow responses from external servers that you are trying to use, because as you have already worked out, the RELATED/ESTABLISHED rule will allow incoming responses to outgoing connections anyway. They do introduce a security hole though. The first rule allows the internet to send UDP packets to **any UDP port on any LAN PC** provided that it is sent from port 53. The other two rules allow the internet to make incoming connections to any service on any LAN PC which is listening on ports above 1024 (MySQL, VNC or RDP for instance). You should get rid of those 3 rules.

Actually, all those rules are redundant unless you change your default policy. The default policy is normally to accept any packet that does not match any of the rules. So you should always configure the policy to DROP by default, and then start adding ACCEPT rules for things that you want to allow. These are good to add early on:
```
iptables -P INPUT DROP
iptables -P FORWARD DROP
iptables -A INPUT -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
iptables -A FORWARD -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
```

P.S.
I removed your duplicate post for you.

---

### Post by giobaxx on 2013-08-17
Sorry , i made a mistake.....i wanted  the preview of the thread...but i clicked in "post"...so i clicked fastly on preview......but late.....i try to delate one messagge.....but i will not able...

Sorry again

---

