---
title: "16.04: detecting WiFi but unable to connect"
date: 2017-04-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by olia.bn on 2017-04-09
My system is able to detect WiFi networks but unable to successfully connect (using correct password, other devices can connect).

If I recall correctly, this first occurred after an update few weeks ago but but since I only use this machine to experiment with Linux a bit, I didn't investigate.
I updated again yesterday after connecting via Ethernet but I'm unable to find a solution on my own.

2017-04-28 results after software update
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/24475033/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/24475033/)

[OLD] Wireless info script results (after receiving a new router from my ISP)
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/24400490/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/24400490/)


[OLD] Wireless info script results:
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/24346975/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/24346975/)

---

### Post by praseodym on 2017-04-09
Please check if the MAC address filter is activated in your router. Also, there is a lot of traffic around. Which of these networks do you want to connect to?

---

### Post by olia.bn on 2017-04-09
> Please check if the MAC address filter is activated in your router.
Nope.

> Also, there is a lot of traffic around.
Busy neighbourhood :(
But: Current Channel: 11 ***Interference Level: Acceptable

> Which of these networks do you want to connect to?
UPC1377352

---

### Post by praseodym on 2017-04-09
Set the bandwidth to 20 MHz, not 20/40 MHz, change the encryption mode to WPA2-AES (CCMP) in your router, not mixed mode WPA/WPA2. Any chance to change to the 5GHz region from the router side?

---

### Post by olia.bn on 2017-04-17
Finally, holidays are over and I can get back on this issue.

Between now and a week ago I got a new router from my ISP and the problem persists in the same form.
The network I am trying to connect to is ZiggoE89663C

Edit: I included new results for the Wireless script after receiving the new router

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-28
Bump

---

### Post by frei.jao on 2017-04-30
hello, i have the same problem.... any soluction??

---

### Post by olia.bn on 2017-05-02
bump :cry:

---

### Post by olia.bn on 2017-05-04
bump..

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2017-05-04
That is an older chipset, lets see if disabling wifi power save helps
```
sudo sed -i 's/wifi.powersave = 3/wifi.powersave = 2/' /etc/NetworkManager/conf.d/default-wifi-powersave-on.conf
```
```
systemctl restart network-manager.service
```

---

