---
title: "12.04.2-64 dnsmasq &amp; &quot;share internet&quot; conflict"
date: 2013-08-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Fenderian_Mayhew on 2013-08-31
This is a continuation of a project discussed here ( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2170983](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2170983) )

I am setting up a Second network behind my U12.04.2 64 system.  " Net > Router 1 > eth0 > U12.04 > eth1 > Router 2:wifi )) systems."
both routers use dhcp currently.

I am using ubuntu's network manager, via the applet, to set eth1's IPv4 to "share with others" and its IPv6 to Ignore. 
the network connects fine. shares internet out to the other devices atached to the network.

when i run dnsmasq as a daemon from boot with network manager, NM can't connect to router 2 and all systems on R2 lose there internet. 

I want to use dnsmasq for PXE booting. 
I havn't attempted to turn off the routers dhcp server yet, every time i do that the device becomes a good switch and maintains all wifi settings but i can't access router controll (192.168.0.1 default in a browser) once the router stops giving addresses. I can't figure out where the router is addressed after that.

*more info about "why" i am doing this*
I am wanting to experiment w/networks and dumb/smart terminals. i hope to use pxe to host root fs' for other systems in the house. perhapse even make the laptops useable as external screens or even some form of clustering. ^.^

---

### Post by houstonbofh on 2013-08-31
Putting everything on one box both makes trouble shooting a challenge and can lead to odd conflicts.  Get and old PC and a copy of m0n0wall to be the firewall/router, and use your Ubuntu system as a server.

---

