---
title: "8.10 - Super Newbie- Cannot FInd Network Manager"
date: 2008-12-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jmauster on 2008-12-02
I just installed 8.10 on a dell laptop. I'm having trouble getting my wireless card set up. 

Following these instructions: 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/internet/C/wireless-connecting.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/internet/C/wireless-connecting.html)

Just isn't working for me. Under System -> Administrator, I do not have an option called "Network" but instead Network Tools, or something like that, which does not match the functionality descriped in the instructions. 

Am I missing something? Is Network the same as Network Tools? Or am I missing something else altogether?

Thanks,

---

### Post by Masuran on 2008-12-02
Network Manager is located under **System -> Preferences -> Network configuration** or in the top panel (icons looks like 2 black computer screens).

---

### Post by jwm93k on 2009-04-03
HELP,I am an experience Ubuntu person. Network manager is gone. It is not in the adm menu. I can not add a new wireless card. Is there a way to start this with a command line? I was having a good time with 8.10 up to now. Now I&#7743; stuck with a system that does not work.

---

### Post by jdcrownover on 2009-04-30
OK, please read this carefully.  I am in the same fix as the original poster.

We cannot FIND "Network Manager".  There is no icon for this on either of my panels.  There is NO **System -> Administration** -> ***Network ***available, only System -> Administration -> Network **Tools.**

I went to Applications -> Add and found the "Network Manager" in the list.  There was a check by it, indicating that it is already installed.

I **un**installed this, and then re-installed it hoping it would re-add the icon to one of the panels, but it didn't.

I, too, am running 8.10.  How do we find this application or get the icon back onto the panels.

Thank you,

---

### Post by ittiam on 2009-04-30
you can run nm-applet and add a custom application lanucher in the panel.

---

