---
title: "Realtek 8187L Connection peaks"
date: 2013-10-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dekadence2 on 2013-10-21
Regards,

I  am using Ubuntu 12.04 LTS x64 with usb network card Alfa Network  AWUS036H v5, this card contains the 8187L chipset, which gives  connection problems with Ubuntu.

I have read several threads and blogs where was the possible solution, but I have not managed to fix the problem completely.

These  are the steps I've followed several threads and tutorials, from  installing Ubuntu to step 3 the connection is constantly lost and it was  almost impossible to connect to the Internet, the sites not loading,  from step 3 I managed to reload pages slowly, but still feel speed problems, speed changes in peaks, as soon reaches 40kb/s as it gets to 0kb/s

1) I downloaded the version of my kernel to 3.2.0 to support native driver.

2 ) I entered the following command to disable the Ubuntu kernel modules:
```
sudo rmmod r8187 rtl8187 mac80211 cfg80211
```

2) I have installed the native driver downloaded from Realtek page, which, should solve my problem, not in my case.

3) I have applied the following commands, found in this forum topic:

```
sudo modprobe rtl8187
sudo iwconfig wlan0 rate 5.5M fixed
sudo iwconfig wlan0 frag 2346
sudo iwconfig wlan0 rts 2347
sudo iwconfig wlan0 txpower 20

```

Currently I can browse and experiencing slow speed peaks my connection quite drastic.

The  adapter works, has been tested on a Windows system and the problem is  not, however, just want to have Ubuntu as the operating system on my  computer.

Attached some basic commands on the status of my connection .

Output of ifconfig:
```
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  direcciónHW 54:04:a6:83:xx:xx  
          Direc. inet:10.42.0.1  Difus.:10.42.0.255  Másc:255.255.255.0
          Dirección inet6: fe80::5604:a6ff:fe83:2e13/64 Alcance:Enlace
          ACTIVO DIFUSIÓN FUNCIONANDO MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Métrica:1
          Paquetes RX:4955 errores:0 perdidos:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          Paquetes TX:4526 errores:0 perdidos:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          colisiones:0 long.colaTX:1000 
          Bytes RX:530339 (530.3 KB)  TX bytes:4193542 (4.1 MB)
          Interrupción:42 Dirección base: 0xe000 

lo        Link encap:Bucle local  
          Direc. inet:127.0.0.1  Másc:255.0.0.0
          Dirección inet6: ::1/128 Alcance:Anfitrión
          ACTIVO BUCLE FUNCIONANDO  MTU:16436  Métrica:1
          Paquetes RX:460 errores:0 perdidos:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          Paquetes TX:460 errores:0 perdidos:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          colisiones:0 long.colaTX:0 
          Bytes RX:45731 (45.7 KB)  TX bytes:45731 (45.7 KB)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  direcciónHW 00:c0:ca:75:xx:xx  
          Direc. inet:192.168.1.34  Difus.:192.168.1.255  Másc:255.255.255.0
          Dirección inet6: fe80::2c0:caff:fe75:6bc9/64 Alcance:Enlace
          ACTIVO DIFUSIÓN FUNCIONANDO MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Métrica:1
          Paquetes RX:32769 errores:0 perdidos:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          Paquetes TX:28962 errores:0 perdidos:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          colisiones:0 long.colaTX:1000 
          Bytes RX:42098383 (42.0 MB)  TX bytes:3254483 (3.2 MB)

```

Output of iwconfig:
```
lo        no wireless extensions.
wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:"WLAN"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: 00:80:5A:47:xx:xx   
          Bit Rate=5.5 Mb/s   Tx-Power=20 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr=2347 B   Fragment thr=2346 B   
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=44/70  Signal level=-66 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:2524  Invalid misc:5051   Missed beacon:0

eth0      no wireless extensions.

```

Does anyone have this chipset or had these problems can help me?

Sorry for the inconvenience, but I have been 5 days researching self and my last resort is this post.

Thanks in advance, greetings

P.D: Sorry for my bad English, my native languaje is Spanish

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-10-23
Hello dekadence2, Welcome to the forums! :)

I hope this 'last resort' of yours may prove helpful eventually. Please follow the "Wireless Script" link in my signature, download and run the script as per instructions there, and post back the report it generates.

Based on the information we get from it, we may try more than one possible solution.

---

### Post by dekadence2 on 2013-10-23
Thanks for the welcome and for the help varunendra :)

This is the info generated by the script, i upload it to pastebin, the forums not allow me to upload atachment with this size.

[http://pastebin.com/cpAgq1sj](http://pastebin.com/cpAgq1sj)

Thanks in advance, a greetings ^^

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-10-23
First alert -
```
***** lsmod *****
 
**[COLOR="#FF0000"]r8187l [/COLOR]**               159292  0
**rtl8187**                57035  0
mac80211              506862  1 rtl8187
cfg80211              205774  2 rtl8187,mac80211
eeprom_93cx6           12767  1 rtl8187
```

You have installed the proprietary driver, but not using it. Both the native and the proprietary one are loaded and may be conflicting with each other.

Please blacklist the native one to try the proprietary one -
```
echo "blacklist rtl8187" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
```

Then either reboot or manually unload the modules and reload only the desired one -
```
sudo modprobe -rv r8187l rtl8187
sudo modprobe -v r8187l
```

On next boot (and plugging in the USB), make sure the native one is not loaded again. Check -
```
lsmod | egrep 'rtl8|r81'
```
..it should return only one line showing r8187l in it.

Additionally, delete the current udev rules file as it contains two entries for the same interface (usb) -
```
sudo rm /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
```
It will be automatically regenerated at next boot or when you replug the USB adapter.

As a side note, you may wish to use WPA2-PSK (AES/CCMP) encryption for your access-point, of course if you have admin access to it. WEP security is almost no security, and is probably not good for speeds as well.

On another note, is that "*Pablo & Cindii [o8.o6.1o]*" access-point yours? If yes, it is highly recommended to change its encryption to same above too (WPA2-PSK(AES/CCMP)). The WPA/WPA2 mixed mode + TKIP is strongly discouraged with Linux as that combination is inefficient and doesn't work well with Linux drivers.

Anyway, try these and let me know how it goes.

---

### Post by dekadence2 on 2013-10-24
After apply all steps, the lsmod only return 2 interfaces: r8169 (My LAN card) and r8187l (My Wireless card), but when system take connection with router the system freeze (no show errors, the screen frezee and no mouse move)

I blacklisted r8187l, and connect now with no problems, but connection is slow :S

In the past, I put this lines in rc.local from this topic: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/288280/how-to-install-the-new-version-of-the-rtl8187-driver-on-ubuntu-13-04](http://askubuntu.com/questions/288280/how-to-install-the-new-version-of-the-rtl8187-driver-on-ubuntu-13-04)

```
sudo modprobe rtl8187
sudo iwconfig wlan0 rate 5.5M fixed
sudo iwconfig wlan0 frag 2346
sudo iwconfig wlan0 rts 2347
sudo iwconfig wlan0 txpower 20
```

I should remove these lines from file?

Yes, I have two access points, 1 for internet (WLAN) and 1 for LAN (*Pablo & Cindii [o8.o6.1o]*) the LAN access point is connected by ethernet cable, but have more PC with Ubuntu connected by Wireless, I apply change to WPA2-PSK now, thanks for the tip ;)

A greeting

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-10-24
> **dekadence2 said:**
> After apply all steps, the lsmod only return 2 interfaces: r8169 (My LAN card) and r8187l (My Wireless card), but when system take connection with router the system freeze (no show errors, the screen frezee and no mouse move)
Unfortunately, this is a problem with this driver which I couldn't find a solution to (or even the reason yet). It works for some, not for others. So yeah, unless you can find a solution to the freezing problem, you'd have to live with the native driver. Probably the best idea is to remove the proprietary one altogether then.

And..
> In the past, I put this lines in rc.local from this topic: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/288280/how-to-install-the-new-version-of-the-rtl8187-driver-on-ubuntu-13-04](http://askubuntu.com/questions/288280/how-to-install-the-new-version-of-the-rtl8187-driver-on-ubuntu-13-04)

```
sudo modprobe rtl8187
sudo iwconfig wlan0 rate 5.5M fixed
sudo iwconfig wlan0 frag 2346
sudo iwconfig wlan0 rts 2347
sudo iwconfig wlan0 txpower 20
```
Yes, you should indeed remove these lines from it. I don't think they are helping anything. On the contrary, it seems to me that the value of frag is too high (if I'm understanding correctly). As a side note on this, you don't need to add "sudo" to anything in that file, it is already run as root. :)

Try the changes, and post back the output of -
```
ifconfig wlan0
```
..plus, a fresh output of wireless_script. Oh, and could you try the attached **EXPERIMENTAL VERSION** of  Wireless Script this time please? I'm still working on it, so not sure if there may be any problems with it. If the output seems incomplete (does not end with the last "**** done ****" line), use the regular one instead.

---

### Post by dekadence2 on 2013-10-24
Hello ^^

I removed lines from rc.local and reboot my system, after this, this is the info outputs from my system:

From ifconfig wlan0:
```
pabloycindii@TeAmoCindii:~$ ifconfig wlan0
wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  direcciónHW 00:c0:ca:75:6b:c9  
          Direc. inet:192.168.1.34  Difus.:192.168.1.255  Másc:255.255.255.0
          Dirección inet6: fe80::2c0:caff:fe75:6bc9/64 Alcance:Enlace
          ACTIVO DIFUSIÓN FUNCIONANDO MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Métrica:1
          Paquetes RX:10265 errores:0 perdidos:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          Paquetes TX:10720 errores:0 perdidos:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          colisiones:0 long.colaTX:1000 
          Bytes RX:10541714 (10.5 MB)  TX bytes:1623861 (1.6 MB)

```

From wireless-script-v2 (The script no present any problems or errors and finish the output with *** done *** line :)):
[ATTACH]247210[/ATTACH]

P.D: Unexpectly, my conection now is more fast :D

Thanks for the time you spend in my case, I stay alert to new tips.

A greetings ^^

---

### Post by dekadence2 on 2013-10-24
It is possible that the problem has been solved, if not completely, at least partially, my connection currently browsing 5 times faster than earlier sailing.

Unfortunately I do not know exactly what was the failure to serve as a future contribution, I just followed all your steps.

Is it possible that the error is in mac80211 and cfg80211 modules Ubuntu? (The manufacturer's driver module contains its own mac80211 and cfg80211)

Once again, many thanks varunendra, I will investigate and see if I detect that causes the error and attentive to any recommendations, you're a wireless master! :D

Greetings ^^

---

### Post by dekadence2 on 2013-10-24
One question... If my problem is resolved in 3.2.0 kernel, I can update now to 3.8.0 with any problems? (I downgrade this to install manufacturer driver)

A greeting, and thanks, really a lot of thanks ^^

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-10-24
> **dekadence2 said:**
> P.D: Unexpectly, my conection now is more fast :D

That's because earlier you had 'fixed' it to 5.5m, while now it is free to negotiate and try to reach the optimal speed. It currently shows to be connected at 11Mb/s, which is apparently the maximum speed your access point can support (??) -
```
wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:"WLAN"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: <MAC address removed>   
          **[COLOR="#FF0000"]Bit Rate=11 Mb/s[/COLOR]**   Tx-Power=20 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=44/70  Signal level=-66 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:168  Invalid misc:267   Missed beacon:0
....
....
Cell 01 - Address: <MAC address removed>
                    Channel:11
                    Frequency:2.462 GHz (Channel 11)
                    Quality=43/70  Signal level=-67 dBm  
                    Encryption key:on
                    ESSID:"WLAN"
                    **Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; [COLOR="#FF0000"]11 Mb/s[/COLOR]**
                    Mode:Master
```
So okay, slightly higher this time, but does it really support only that much speed? Is it set to use only 'b' channel? Even if not, it may currently be working in 'b' only mode, because 'g' channel supports upto 54Mb/s. Can you confirm if any other device/computer is able to get higher speed from the same access-point?

Oh, and regarding the other AP ("*Pablo & Cindii [o8.o6.1o]*"), not just the encryption, change its channel to 1 or 11 too, which usually work much better with Linux drivers. Currently that one is set to channel 5.

A few more things to try -

[INDENT]1) Try disabling IPv6 as mentioned in this post.

2) Try changing the DNS from your current ones to Google's **8.8.8.8** and **8.8.4.4** (set it in Network Manager, then confirm with "nm-tool" command).

3) If using channel 11 on both Access Points, you may try this -
```
sudo modprobe -rv rtl8187
sudo modprobe -v cfg80211 cfg80211_disable_40mhz_24ghz=Y
sudo modprobe -v rtl8187
```
Note that this may disable support for channel 5 which seems to be using 40MHz frequency as per your regulatory domain. It means you may no longer be able to connect to the other access-point "Pablo & Cindii.." until you change its channel to 11 (or channel that falls within 2457000 KHz - 2494000 KHz band). Besides, it is not guaranteed to improve anything. But anyway, it will be just a temporary change and will be lost at next boot. Whether or not to make it permanent depends upon whether it helps anything or not.[/INDENT]

Of course none of above is needed if 11Mb/s is all your access-point can support, and the 'peaking' problem is gone. So please test these *(whether it can support higher speed or not, and whether the 'peaking' is still happening)* and let me know the result.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-10-24
Ouch, you're fast ! Made two posts while I could make one :D

> **dekadence2 said:**
> Unfortunately I do not know exactly what was the failure to serve as a future contribution
Limiting the speed to 5.5 was definitely one of the factors, even if not the major one.
And *if I understand correctly*, setting the "frag" size to 2346 could be the other factor, probably causing the 'peaks', but I'm not sure. What it was doing is setting the "packet size" to be 2346 byte, probably trying to emulate a "Jumbo Frame" size to achieve a better throughput. But not all devices support "Jumbo Frames" and thus it could be making the situation worse. The most commonly supported "frame" size is 1492 or 1500 bytes, and that's what it is using now.

But this is just my assumption based on a quick read of the man page of "iwconfig", and I may be interpreting it incorrectly. I'd love if someone can shed more light on this.

> Is it possible that the error is in mac80211 and cfg80211 modules Ubuntu? (The manufacturer's driver module contains its own mac80211 and cfg80211)While it is possible, I highly doubt it. Because these are common drivers (loaded with plenty of other hardware specific drivers) and use to work nicely with them.

> Once again, many thanks varunendra, I will investigate and see if I detect that causes the error and attentive to any recommendations, you're a wireless master! :D
You're welcome, and thanks for your generous comment, just tryin' to be a good student as of yet. :P
Please try what I suggested above, and let me know the outcome.

> **dekadence2 said:**
> One question... If my problem is resolved in 3.2.0 kernel, I can update now to 3.8.0 with any problems?
Some of the native drivers in kernel 3.8 have been greatly improved, while some faced some regression. Especially the newer drivers are those that are improved, so I'd suggest to give it a shot. Since you are currently not using the proprietary driver, that point is already moot. So an upgrade is definitely recommended.

Try 12.04.3 with a Live CD/USB first. If it seems to be working significantly better, upgrade to it or even better, do a clean install. 13.10 uses an even newer kernel, but it has just been released, so I won't put any high recommendation on it (can have bugs that may take a month or so to get fixed). Nevertheless, it is always safe and recommended to "Try" any version in live mode first, then no problem in installing if it behaves nicely in the live session. :)

---

### Post by dekadence2 on 2013-10-25
Bad news varum, after reboot (with anything more changes) my conection is slow now :/

I go to apply all tips and i back to you with reports.

This problem it's extrange :S

A greeting

---

### Post by dekadence2 on 2013-10-27
Greetings again and sorry for the delay Varum, these days I could not be much time for personal PC for testing.

Apparently only supports 11MB WLAN AP's, I searched through the settings, but nothing appears regarding support for Wifi B / G

I disabled IPv6, there were no apparent changes.

I changed the 2 router to channel 1 and I think this time I set correctly encryption my router for the LAN, there have been no apparent changes.

I apply google DNS's in my connection settings, no apparent changes.

To save work and try to disturb as little as possible, I have tried for myself to try to install the compat-drivers, this has been a most negative change versus Ubuntu native driver.

I have done several speed tests, incidentally, always gives me rise faster against down.

By applying the command:
```
sudo modprobe -rv rtl8187
sudo modprobe -v cfg80211 cfg80211_disable_40mhz_24ghz=Y
sudo modprobe -v rtl8187
```
It shows a little improvement in speed, but it is very minimal.

Nor have I gotten correct kernel panic when connecting to the manufacturer's driver, I tried to find information, but there are people who claim that their works and another that they got it.

My last idea is to try Windows driver under ndiswrapper, however, in my point of view this should not be an improvement, if not rather a step back.

I enclose recent information right now to see if they can give you some clue, as you can verify you have followed all the steps:

**iwconfig wlan0:**
```
wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:"WLAN"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: <MAC adress of AP> 
          Bit Rate=11 Mb/s   Tx-Power=20 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Encryption key:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=39/70  Signal level=-71 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:1306  Invalid misc:1218   Missed beacon:0

```

[B]ifconfig:
[/B]```
wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  direcciónHW <MAC adress of my card>
          Direc. inet:192.168.1.36  Difus.:192.168.1.255  Másc:255.255.255.0
          ACTIVO DIFUSIÓN FUNCIONANDO MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Métrica:1
          Paquetes RX:22970 errores:0 perdidos:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          Paquetes TX:24551 errores:0 perdidos:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          colisiones:0 long.colaTX:1000 
          Bytes RX:20427264 (20.4 MB)  TX bytes:5065277 (5.0 MB)

```

**WirelessScript v2:** [ATTACH]247310[/ATTACH]

Regards and many thanks again

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-10-27
You are still using WEP encryption on the current one, and WPA/WPA2 mixed mode on the other one. None of them is using the recommended WPA2-PSK only with CCMP. Please make sure it is changed (change > save > reboot the AP > relogin to it > check). Does your current access-point even have support for WPA2?

If it supports only upto 11 Mb/s speed, then maybe it is too old and probably wouldn't have support for WPA2 either. In that case, we may be just beating a dead horse. :)

Could you provide a link to the user manual of this exact Router/AP model we are playing with?

If it does have support for WPA2, you haven't enabled it. If it doesn't, then maybe there is not much that can be done with it. You may try ndiswrapper if you wish, it is not difficult to remove it in case it doesn't work well. In my experience (from user feedbacks here), whenever a native linux driver is available for a card, it always performs better than a windows driver on ndiswrapper can. But trying won't hurt.

**PS:**
How's the performance with the other AP by the way? Same? If yes, please post one more report 'AFTER' changing the encryption to pure WPA2-PSK (CCMP) only, on both APs if possible. So far, all the reports show WEP on the current one, and the dreaded mixed mode on the other (see the part showing "nm-tool" output).

---

