---
title: "6.10 Any wireless improvements?"
date: 2006-12-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Sasquatch2000 on 2006-12-13
Last update said so right here, about 3/4 of the way to the bottom: [Improved Wireless support](http://www.ubuntu.com/testing/dapperbeta?highlight=%28wireless%29)

What I am now wondering is if things have progressed at all since then.

Thanks.

---

### Post by meng on 2006-12-13
I can't speak to technical details, but I have found my wireless connection to be more reliable with 6.10 than with 6.06. With the older version, I found the connection would suddenly drop out for no reason (at least it did not seem to be related to signal strength).

---

### Post by dmizer on 2006-12-13
i also got improved wireless support.  cards that i could not make work even with ndiswrapper now work.  cards i could only previously get to work with ndiswrapper now work with native firmware.

---

### Post by OneSeventeen on 2006-12-13
I hate to be the first negative guy on the post, but it took longer to set up my wifi card in 6.10 than in 6.06, and it keeps adding invalid DNS servers and search domains every few minutes. Even with proper DNS servers hardcoded in it, I still can't access sites until I comment out the invalid DNS servers sometimes.

weird, huh?

I'm sure this misses the whole wireless support issue, but as an end-user, all I know is my wireless worked then I formatted and installed 6.10 and have had issues ever since.  DNS and DHCP seem to be the main bad-guys on mylaptop (I have shortcuts to run dhclient on my machine since I have to run it manually otherwise it will just lose the IP or switch to an invalid IP and then I can no longer access the network... a bummer for posting online!.)

Due to wireless support alone I don't show off my Ubuntu laptop anymore.  (spending 5+ minutes after login to get networking up doesn't impress too many people)

Sorry for the negatives.  I love Ubuntu and how functional it is, but for my machine (HP zv6000 laptop with broadcom wireless BCM4306) wireless definitely took the biggest hit on the upgrade.

Oh, and if it makes a difference I used the fwcutter script to get wireless working, rather than ndiswrapper.

---

### Post by Sasquatch2000 on 2006-12-19
bump

---

### Post by Sasquatch2000 on 2007-01-18
I can't seem to find a FAQ anywhere. 

Does anyone know whether the Feisty Fawn beta is any better at wireless than the failed attempts made by 6.10?

Does someone want to start a new poll? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by neilford on 2007-01-18
I have found wireless to more problematic in 6.10 than 6.06. In 6.06, it worked with very little prodding; just setting the parameters using the networking tools. I have not got it fully operational in 6.10 after 4+ days of intensive working, reading posts and following the tutorials that existed. At this point I can see the networks, I just can't connect. Maybe, I will figure it out, maybe I will give up. But, this is the kind of thing that scares aware everyone except the most avid users.

neilford

---

### Post by Hase on 2007-01-19
> **neilford said:**
> Maybe, I will figure it out, maybe I will give up. But, this is the kind of thing that scares aware everyone except the most avid users.

neilford

In my experience, and presumably the rest of the quickly growing laptop-user world, wireless support is a huge whole in what is otherwise, a very user friendly experience.  I know how computers work and enjoy figuring new thing out but most don't.  It's my opinion that the wireless instabilities and problems need to be worked out soon or Ubuntu/Linux will miss this great opportunity to gain market-share and influence.

(By the way I am a bit bitter after having spent the last four days troubleshooting wpa_supplicant and NetworkManager in 6.06.)

---

### Post by Sasquatch2000 on 2007-05-20
Bump.

---

