---
title: "11.04 closes Remote desktop connections"
date: 2011-05-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kin37ik on 2011-05-04
g'day, i just slammed ubuntu 11.04 onto a spare server i had and im having a real issue with remote desktopping from my Win7 computer, ive checked the settings for the remote desktop server on 11.04 and all seem fine, i go to connect to it using tightVNC from my win7 machine, ask's for password, fill that out then click connect, and as soon as i hit connect it connects for about 1 second, then says there was an error contacting the server, i checked 11.04 and it then says that i can only connect via local host and not the IP address anymore, how do i fix this?

---

### Post by commsbyte on 2011-05-04
Same, here possibly happened since last updates applied, am looking into it.

---

### Post by mente on 2011-05-05
Same problem. Ubuntu 11.04 and ChickenVNC as a viewer.
Works fine, when using this [guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/VNC"). However Remote Desktop is more comfortable.
Any feedback?

---

### Post by commsbyte on 2011-05-17
Any one any idea? 

I havent had much time to investigate other than I dont see any local 5900 port running. So presume its not starting the service.

---

### Post by commsbyte on 2011-05-17
Ok, so the vino service is not running. 

To sort this out, add the following commands to a shell script 
sudo nano /usr/local/bin/restart_vnc 
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/restart_vnc

```
#commands to restart vino-server
export DISPLAY=:0.0
start vino /usr/lib/vino-server &
```

run the script /usr/local/bin/restart_vnc


Possibly your next problem will be not accepting the vino password if you set 11.04 with gnome auto logon desktop
Either diable auto logon, or run the startvnc script at startup, and look at removing gnome keyring module

Hope this helps, anyone with any other idea on the keyring issue, please post.

Regards

---

### Post by Nebastion on 2011-05-21
Hi there, 

Ty for sorting this Commsbyte,

But for the unexpierienced could you explain a little further please, 

"[COLOR=Silver]To sort this out, add the following commands to a shell script 
sudo nano /usr/local/bin/restart_vnc 
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/restart_vnc[/COLOR]"

How does one add commands to a shell script??

Thanks in advance.
Regards 
Neb

---

