---
title: "14.04 RTL8190 Wireless Card can't connect(ndiswrapper driver's successfully instaled)"
date: 2014-04-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by felipe-antunes on 2014-04-26
Hi ubuntu's forums members.


I installed RTL8190, using ndiswrapper driver, following [this thread]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper") and checked all [this points]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=885847&"). I'm also read many other related topics, but I'm not able to find any solution to my problem.


I'm able to find my SSID at Network Manager, but I can't connect. When I try, nm-applet return this warming:
```
Connection activation failed: (4) Did not receive a reply. Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.
```
the system stuck (partially) and I'm not able even to reboot the system. 


I'm using ndiswrapper's 1.59 version. My arch is 64 bit, and the driver's version is 64bit for XP. 


Here some commonly asked information:

```
ndiswrapper -l
```
returns:
```
net819xp : driver installed
    device (10EC:8190) present



```

```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]lsmod | grep ndis[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
returns:
```
ndiswrapper           283985  0
```


```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]dmesg | grep ndis[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
returns:
```

[    9.155290] ndiswrapper: module verification failed: signature and/or  required key missing - tainting kernel
[    9.155892] ndiswrapper version 1.59 loaded (smp=yes, preempt=no)
[    9.725681] ndiswrapper: driver net819xp (Realtek Semiconductor Corp.,07/01/2009,1677.1.0708.2009) loaded
[    9.725913] ndiswrapper 0000:05:02.0: enabling device (0000 -> 0003)
[    9.819664] ndiswrapper: using IRQ 17
[   10.470928] usbcore: registered new interface driver ndiswrapper

```

For wireless information I followed the recommendation of [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2219885"). My wireless_script output is [here]("http://pastebin.com/Wjpngy5p"). 

obs.: wlan0 is my other access point (usb rtl8187B), where I'm connected now. 
obs2.: wlan1 is my rlt8190.
obs3.: "home" is my SSID.

Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by ZeroFossilFuel on 2014-07-17
I too have a similar problem with a VZW Pantech UML295VW. NDISwrapper since upgrading to Xubuntu 14.04 is broken. Connects for a few seconds, drops for a few seconds and repeats indefinitely. New kernal update today. Still no joy. {sigh}

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-07-18
> **ZeroFossilFuel said:**
> I too have a similar problem with a VZW Pantech UML295VW.

It seems the "VZW Pantech UML295VW" is a 4G modem device, not a wireless card. As such, your problem is nowhere even close to the problem mentioned in this thread. The nature of your device, hence the problem and the solution would be completely different.

You should start a new thread of your own in a relevant section with a relevant title. Apart from the description of the problem, you should also post the outputs of -
```
lsusb
dmesg | tail -40
```
After plugging in the modem and waiting for about 30 seconds.

---

### Post by ZeroFossilFuel on 2014-10-01
> **varunendra said:**
> It seems the "VZW Pantech UML295VW" is a 4G modem device, not a wireless card. As such, your problem is nowhere even close to the problem mentioned in this thread. The nature of your device, hence the problem and the solution would be completely different.

You should start a new thread of your own in a relevant section with a relevant title. Apart from the description of the problem, you should also post the outputs of -
```
lsusb
dmesg | tail -40
```
After plugging in the modem and waiting for about 30 seconds.
I did as you suggest here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2239564](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2239564)
To say that the thread has not received much attention would be an understatement. ](*,)

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-10-01
> **ZeroFossilFuel said:**
> To say that the thread has not received much attention would be an understatement. ](*,)

Yes, not many of us have experience with 4G devices, and they work quite differently so our 'generic ways' don't apply to them. Unfortunately, I'm not even sure about the correct place to direct you to.

All I can do is to subscribe to your thread, and shall post there if I found something useful about it. I'll try to look up for some references about it, but can't really promise anything useful. Sorry.

---

### Post by ZeroFossilFuel on 2014-10-06
> **varunendra said:**
> Yes, not many of us have experience with 4G devices, and they work quite differently so our 'generic ways' don't apply to them. Unfortunately, I'm not even sure about the correct place to direct you to.

All I can do is to subscribe to your thread, and shall post there if I found something useful about it. I'll try to look up for some references about it, but can't really promise anything useful. Sorry.
My biggest beef is that this problem is purely a regression. It worked PERFECTLY in 12.04, 12.10, 13.04 and 13.10. Someone at some point had it figured out. 14.04 is where it was broken and I see no reason why it cannot immediately be restored.

---

### Post by jwoste42 on 2015-04-11
> **felipe-antunes said:**
> Hi ubuntu's forums members.   I installed RTL8190, using ndiswrapper driver, following [this thread]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper") and checked all [this points]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=885847&"). I'm also read many other related topics, but I'm not able to find any solution to my problem.   I'm able to find my SSID at Network Manager, but I can't connect. When I try, nm-applet return this warming: ```
Connection activation failed: (4) Did not receive a reply. Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.
``` the system stuck (partially) and I'm not able even to reboot the system.    I'm using ndiswrapper's 1.59 version. My arch is 64 bit, and the driver's version is 64bit for XP.    Here some commonly asked information:  ```
ndiswrapper -l
``` returns: ```
net819xp : driver installed     device (10EC:8190) present   
```  ```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]lsmod | grep ndis[/FONT][/COLOR]
``` returns: ```
ndiswrapper           283985  0
```   ```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]dmesg | grep ndis[/FONT][/COLOR]
``` returns: ```
 [    9.155290] ndiswrapper: module verification failed: signature and/or  required key missing - tainting kernel [    9.155892] ndiswrapper version 1.59 loaded (smp=yes, preempt=no) [    9.725681] ndiswrapper: driver net819xp (Realtek Semiconductor Corp.,07/01/2009,1677.1.0708.2009) loaded [    9.725913] ndiswrapper 0000:05:02.0: enabling device (0000 -> 0003) [    9.819664] ndiswrapper: using IRQ 17 [   10.470928] usbcore: registered new interface driver ndiswrapper 
```  For wireless information I followed the recommendation of [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2219885"). My wireless_script output is [here]("http://pastebin.com/Wjpngy5p").   obs.: wlan0 is my other access point (usb rtl8187B), where I'm connected now.  obs2.: wlan1 is my rlt8190. obs3.: "home" is my SSID.  Thanks in advance for any help.  I am having practically the same problem and would be very happy to see it fixed. I cannot find any documentation of someone who made RTL8190 run on Ubuntu 14.04, just some extremely vague hints.

---

