---
title: "Wireless connection not working anymore"
date: 2009-03-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tg1w on 2009-03-17
Hello everyone

I'm still reasonably new to Ubuntu, so the part with working with configuration files is a domain where I have to improve.

The problem I'm having is, whereas three days ago my wireless connection was going perfectly, Ubuntu started gradually to start asking me 3-5-10 times for the password, before being able to connect itself to the wireless network, and now it cannot connect at all.

Yesterday I switched off the encryption from the router, so Ubuntu connected easily, now even with no encryption, it doesn't connect, so certainly there is something scrambled. 

The facts are:
- Network: WPA-PSK security mode
- Router replies on 192.168.1.254

My /etc/network/interfaces contains only:
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```

The /etc/resolv.conf contains:
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain lan
search lan
nameserver 192.168.1.254
```

and that's pretty much it. Please let me know if you have any answers/questions.

I tried following this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=490724](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=490724) post, but couldn't quite get it to work.

Thank you very much

---

### Post by tg1w on 2009-03-17
Now it works... 
This time.

---

### Post by tg1w on 2009-03-17
I restarted and again, it keeps asking me for the password, than trying to the wireless network, on and on.

Might it be something with the router? 

I'll take the laptop (where Ubuntu is installed) to work and see if it behaves better.

Any help/ideas though?

Thank you

---

### Post by braufrau on 2009-03-17
I have the same problem. I've tracked it down to something to do with DHCP but not further.

What happens if you right click on the network manager icon, uncheck enable wireless, turn off the card (on my computer its Fn F11 , don't know on yours), count to 10, turn the card back on, check enable on the network manager. Does it reconnect and act happy again?

are you using a billion router by any chance?

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-03-17
having similar problem i right clicked the connection icon and selected "edit connections" clicked wireless tab and removed/ deleted all in the list !

i did a reboot and reconnected 

i did have one problem that required me to un-tick the old connection when left clicking the icon.

---

### Post by braufrau on 2009-03-17
Unfortunately this happens repeatedly, so we can't keep deleting networks and adding them back in.

WICD lets you add in preconnection scripts and I was wondering if it might be help to add
ifdown wlan0
sleep 10000 (is sleep in millisecs. can't remember)
ifup wlan0

which would give the router a chance to realise the computer wasn't talking to it anymore.

The reason being .. I can see the laptop sending out dhcpdiscovery packets but not getting a dhcpoffer and I'm guessing the router thinks the laptop is still connected.
I haven't been able to check this brilliant theory because now my laptop is running perfectly. But it wont be long 'til its up the creek again.

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-03-17
i heard of this :scratches head:



if you run into the problem again' clear the wireless list, disable ssid broadcast and reboot the router' then attempt to connect to hidden wireless network....

just a hunch

---

### Post by braufrau on 2009-03-18
I just tried turning everything on and off, includign the router and didn't reconnect (the wireless had become discombobulated since my last post).

I have written myself a script based upon a thread in this forum 

Here it is ...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=571188](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=571188)

I just stuck #!/bin/sh at the top 
added the commands as per that page
made the permission 100
and ran it with 
sudo ./connect_net (where connect_net is the name of the file).

So far its connected me reliably even when wicd was stuck at obtaining IP address.

---

### Post by tg1w on 2009-03-19
> **braufrau said:**
> I have the same problem. I've tracked it down to something to do with DHCP but not further.

What happens if you right click on the network manager icon, uncheck enable wireless, turn off the card (on my computer its Fn F11 , don't know on yours), count to 10, turn the card back on, check enable on the network manager. Does it reconnect and act happy again?

are you using a billion router by any chance?

Yes, this worked. Temporary solution

---

