---
title: "v10.10 Can't see wireless networks"
date: 2011-02-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by St.McAndrew on 2011-02-22
I just recently installed Ubuntu 10.10 on my desktop and have had issues with getting it on my wireless network.

I have dug through and tried several hints from the forums as well as the community docs / how to's / google found articles but all of the help that I find/follow doesn't get me online.

'sudo lshw -C network'
lists a disabled RaLink-RT2860 wireless interface.

iwconfig lists 3 things
lo, eth0 and wlan0
wlan0 is the only one with any significant data.

As I said I tried several different ways to get things to work but confusion + being new to the OS (and linux in general) has driven me to my wits end.

My PC is hand built and I know that the RaLink is the wireless card.

---

### Post by uncaspi on 2011-02-23
Do you have any hardware radio switch? Pleas post the content of 

rfkill list

---

### Post by St.McAndrew on 2011-02-23
0: phy0: Wireless LAN
  Soft block: no
  Hard block: no

This is in a desktop machine so there isn't a hardware switch or any of that.

I right clicked the network icon in the upper right and unchecked Enable Networking, then turned it back on and repeated the process for the wireless option. This had the effect of changing the Wireless Networks list (from left click) to say 'device not ready' instead of disconnected.

---

### Post by St.McAndrew on 2011-02-23
After some fiddling and more google/reading I re-called lshw -C netweork and checked the output. in the config section firmware=N/A so I'm guessing that is my problem or at least one of them. Without the ability to get that machine on the 'net is there a way I can supply my pc with the firmware?

---

