---
title: "15.10 openssh No longer asking for passphrase for key pair"
date: 2016-04-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by andrew283 on 2016-04-28
Over the last several weeks, I've built up a nice little home file server running 14.04 Server, added a 2nd server in a different physical location (but same network) that serves as the redundant backup server, and built a nice little 15.10 laptop for use at work. The router has been port-forwarded to allow for remote SSH sessions and all SSH traffic is strictly on key pairs with passphrases. There is no password login option in the ssh config - just RSA key pairs with passphrases and the permitted users are restricted to me.

I've been looking for an easier method to access my softether VPN (bear with me - it might be relevant) and as a result have installed and removed a handful of vpn clients that softether will connect to. Yesterday, connecting via ssh to my server at home worked as expected - passphrase required at every connection. This morning, same functionality. At some point during the day, perhaps this evening, that functionality went away and I was no longer being asked for the passphrase. Given that the whole idea of the passphrase is to protect the private key long enough to revoke the public keys, it's a bit...frustrating to say the least.

According to the software centre history, I installed Strongswan and network manager strongswan. I *believe* this behaviour started after the download, but that could well be wishful thinking.  I've used ```
sudo apt-get purge strongswan network-manager-strongswan
``` and ```
sudo apt-get autoremove
```.I've found and removed the passphrase from *Passwords and Keys*, but it still connected to the remote server without ever asking for a passphrase.

Google led to me ssh-add and ssh-agent which in turn let me to ssh-askpass. I was able to interrupt the login process with ```
ssh-add -D
```, effectively removing the IDs from the agent, however now there's a graphical pop-up window that asks for the passphrase, and if I ignore it and click cancel, the ssh session fails.

How do I get the behaviour back to the means it used to be?

---

### Post by andrew283 on 2016-04-28
Solution:

The gnome password and keys manager was activated at some point in my messing around. Deleting the passphrase from the list of Login passwords only forced the GUI pop-up to ask for it again when trying to start a new session (and not entering it / cancelling the window would of course fail the authentication process). 

By going to Startup Applications and deleting *gnome passwords and keys -ssh component, *logging out and in again, things appear to be back to their original self. 

I don't like saved passwords except perhaps for the most benign of forums. How does one disable this password manager all together?

---

