---
title: "8.10 Wireless problems on Dell"
date: 2008-12-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by james.wilde on 2008-12-30
I've been with Ubuntu since about v.6 but v.8.10 is in danger of sending me kicking and screaming back to Windows.

I am trying to get it working on a Dell Latitude D505 with both the Dell 1450 wireless card and a D-Link DWL650+ pcmcia card, neither of which work out of the box, which is a real surprise.  Broadcom-based wireless cards (the Dell 1450 is a bcm4309) have never worked out of the box.  Neither does there appear to be a simple add-on package for either of these wireless adapters that one can download to another machine with apt-get or yum, transfer to the machine in question and apply.

By now I am used to having a machine that can't connect to the net until I have messed about with ndiswrapper and a usb stick for a couple of hours, but the problem appears to have got worse with 8.10.  I can't find any of my usual useful references to an easy to apply fix, and the ones I have found are, to say the least, obscure even by unix standards.  

Can anyone point me to a good, straightforward method of making preferably a D-Link DWL 650+ (== TI acx100) pcmcia card or alternatively the Dell 1450 (==Broadcom 4309) on-board pci work with 8.10 or must I go back to 8.04?  Thanks in advance if you can.

//James

---

### Post by ieee488 on 2008-12-30
see if this link is useful
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=405552](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=405552)

Also, your PCMCIA card is a DWL-**G**650.

---

### Post by james.wilde on 2009-01-01
Good try, ieee488, but no cigar.  This will only work if the machine is connected - presumably via ethernet - to the internet.  Mine isn't and all software has to be installed via the cd or usb stick.  The procedure requires the machine to do a wget from the internet for wl_apsta.o and although I have installed this in /lib/firmware and /lib/firmware/`uname -r` it still tries to surf out and the software bombs out.

BTW bcm43-fwcutter is now called b43-fwcutter for anyone else who tries.

The Dell card (the one this method is for) has a very weak signal, and I'd prefer it if someone has a procedure for configuring the D-Link card I mentioned.  It is a DWL-G650+.

TIA

---

### Post by grandpavic on 2009-01-01
> **james.wilde said:**
> I've been with Ubuntu since about v.6 but v.8.10 is in danger of sending me kicking and screaming back to Windows.

 

Can anyone point me to a good, straightforward method of making preferably a D-Link DWL 650+ (== TI acx100) pcmcia card or alternatively the Dell 1450 (==Broadcom 4309) on-board pci work with 8.10 or must I go back to 8.04?  Thanks in advance if you can.

//James

I have a solution, maybe, for the DWL 650+. It worked for me under openSUSE. 

Look here:

[http://forums.opensuse.org/network-internet/wireless/389281-wireless-adapter-dlink-dwl-650-not-detected.html](http://forums.opensuse.org/network-internet/wireless/389281-wireless-adapter-dlink-dwl-650-not-detected.html)

I can't try this under ubuntu 8.10 because my machine hangs when I plug the card in!!

---

### Post by james.wilde on 2009-01-02
Thanks, Vic, I'll take a look

//James

---

