---
title: "Dialup 56 K SWEEX external modem configuration, PAP-CHAP scritps - Festy Fawn 7.04"
date: 2007-07-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by persistentstubborn on 2007-07-01
Hi,


To cut long story short, I think either modem has not been created as a device during installation (I don't know how to do it now), or dial scripts are not working. Kppp has not been installed - Festy Fawn reports it can't be installed on my system.


Standalone computer uses 56 K SWEEX hardware external modem - I suppose no driver is required and haven't installed it.

Modem is recognized at ttyS0, but cant get dial out. It actually starts dialing, but can't complete.

I edited etc/ppp/options and #commented ABORT "NO DIALTONE" i "NO DIAL TONE" during various attempts. Below are plog results.

There are various modem initialization strings - ATZ or ATX3 - I added ATX3 as the third choice in some file.

Below are the information I believe useful:


lazar@lazar-desktop:~$ sudo wvdialconf wvtest
Password:
Editing `wvtest'.

Scanning your serial ports for a modem.

ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 Z -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Modem Identifier: ATI -- 56000
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 4800: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 9600: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 19200: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 38400: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 57600: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Speed 115200: AT -- OK
ttyS0<*1>: Max speed is 115200; that should be safe.
ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud
ttyS1<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.
Modem Port Scan<*1>: S2   S3   

Found a modem on /dev/ttyS0.
wvtest<Warn>: Can't open 'wvtest' for reading: No such file or directory
wvtest<Warn>: ...starting with blank configuration.
Modem configuration written to wvtest.
ttyS0<Info>: Speed 115200; init "ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0"
lazar@lazar-desktop:~$ plog
Jul  1 08:57:00 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: expect (OK)
Jul  1 08:57:00 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: ATZ^MAT^M
Jul  1 08:57:00 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: OK
Jul  1 08:57:00 lazar-desktop chat[7124]:  -- got it 
Jul  1 08:57:00 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: send (ATDP042500500^M)
Jul  1 08:57:01 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: timeout set to 75 seconds
Jul  1 08:57:01 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: expect (CONNECT)
Jul  1 08:57:01 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: ^M
Jul  1 08:57:09 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: TX3^MATDP042500500^M^M
Jul  1 08:57:09 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: NO DIALTONE^M
NOTE: THIS WAS ATDP (PULSE DIAL)

lazar@lazar-desktop:~$ plog
Jul  1 08:57:00 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: send (ATDP042500500^M)
Jul  1 08:57:01 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: timeout set to 75 seconds
Jul  1 08:57:01 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: expect (CONNECT)
Jul  1 08:57:01 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: ^M
Jul  1 08:57:09 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: TX3^MATDP042500500^M^M
Jul  1 08:57:09 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: NO DIALTONE^M
Jul  1 08:58:16 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: alarm
Jul  1 08:58:16 lazar-desktop chat[7124]: Failed
Jul  1 08:58:16 lazar-desktop pppd[7106]: Connect script failed
Jul  1 08:58:17 lazar-desktop pppd[7106]: Exit.

NOTE: THIS WAS ATDP (PULSE DIAL)

lazar@lazar-desktop:~$ plog
Jul  1 09:08:30 lazar-desktop chat[7728]: ^M
Jul  1 09:08:39 lazar-desktop chat[7728]: TX3^MATDT042500500^M^M
Jul  1 09:08:39 lazar-desktop chat[7728]: NO DIALTONE^M
lazar@lazar-desktop:~$ plog
Jul  1 09:08:30 lazar-desktop chat[7728]: ^M
Jul  1 09:08:39 lazar-desktop chat[7728]: TX3^MATDT042500500^M^M
Jul  1 09:08:39 lazar-desktop chat[7728]: NO DIALTONE^M
lazar@lazar-desktop:~$ 

NOTE: THIS WAS ATDT (TOME DIAL)
file
etc/chatscripts/ppp0
  GNU nano 2.0.2                File: ppp0                                      

TIMEOUT 60
ABORT ERROR
ABORT BUSY
ABORT VOICE
ABORT "NO CARRIER"
#ABORT "NO DIALTONE"
#ABORT "NO DIAL TONE"
ABORT "NO ANSWER"
"" "ATZ"
"" "AT&FH0L3"
"" "ATX3"
OK-AT-OK "ATDP042500500"
TIMEOUT 75
CONNECT


etc/chatscripts/provider
  GNU nano 2.0.2              File: provider                                    

# This chatfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.15.
# Please do not delete any of the comments.  Pppconfig needs them.
#
# ispauth PAP
# abortstring
ABORT BUSY ABORT 'NO CARRIER' ABORT VOICE ABORT 'NO ANSWER' ABORT DELAYED
# modeminit
'' ATX3
# ispnumber
OK-AT-OK "ATL3DT042500500"
# ispconnect
CONNECT \d\c
# prelogin

# ispname
# isppassword
# postlogin

# end of pppconfig stuff

[b]NOTE that modeminit is ATX3 in /etc/chatscripts provider, while "" "ATZ"
"" "AT&FH0L3" "" "ATX3" in etc/chatscripts/ppp0[/b]

lazar@lazar-desktop:/etc/ppp$    egrep -v '#|^ *$' /etc/ppp/options
asyncmap 0
noauth
crtscts
lock
hide-password
modem
proxyarp
lcp-echo-interval 30
lcp-echo-failure 4
noipx
lazar@lazar-desktop:/etc/ppp$ 
----------------------------------------------------------

Any thoughts, suggestions? 


Thanks in advance&#65279;

---

### Post by Bartender on 2007-07-02
Get someone to burn you a copy of MEPIS or PCLOS LiveCD.  Use KPPP to try and talk to the modem.  That way we can tell if the problem is Feisty or the modem.

---

### Post by edwardLS on 2007-07-03
I am having a very similar problem with Feisty Fawn, just recently installed.  I am using an external US Robotics modems which works well in Windows XP as well as Ubuntu Dapper Drake.  I have the modem/dialup working correctly until I downloaded and installed the first set of "upgrades" to Feisty.  Since that download and install I am unable to complete the dialup connection.

Carefully observing the modem LEDs, and modem tones, and the attempted connection dialog on Feisty it appears to me that the modem dials my ISP, but as soon as my ISP modem response and starts the negotiation, the attempted connection is dropped.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2007-07-04
edward -
Our ISP (Juno) doesn't do Linux, and we haven't yet dumped them for a better ISP, so I don't even have a functioning Feisty dial-up PC to experiment with.  I do know for sure that the Networking GUI for dial-up, which worked in Dapper, got broken in Edgy and is still broken in Feisty.
Try this
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=480717](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=480717)
and tell me (PM me if you want) if it worked for you, OK?  I'm not sure what it takes to get Feisty working with an external modem that should work ("should" as in "it worked with Dapper").

I can tell you for sure that my USR external, which worked with the Dapper Networking GUI but not in Edgy, worked like a champ with PCLOS2007.  I just brought up KPPP, did the detection thing, put in the user/password, and was connected.  Not being very good with Linux, I'll go with the distro that works instead of fighting the one that doesn't.  This was at a friend's house, where they use Copper.net for an ISP.

I keep hearing that Puppy is good with dial-up too, but I've never seen Puppy so don't have any recommendation on that.

---

### Post by edwardLS on 2007-07-05
Bartender -
I am somewhat doing the same thing as you; use the version that works (Dapper) rather than the one that don't.  I have both Dapper and Feisty installed in a multi-boot system.  Dapper is my "productive" system, whereas Feisty is my "learn what is new" system.
In further testing of the dialup connection problem I accidentally stumbled onto something which I find interesting.  I did a new re-install of Feisty, no upgrades, and attempted to configure my dialup networking.  It worked exactly as I hoped that it would.  That is, it dialed my ISP, connected, and I was able to surf around just to make sure I didn't get disconnected after a brief period of connection.  I then disconnected, and attempted to reconnect, and the old failing-symptoms were back exactly as before.  A reboot of Feisty did not help.  However, I noticed that when the connection attempt was dropped, the networking dialog showed a check mark as though I was "active" on the connection.  Generally I had been clicking that check-mark to get reality in sync with the dialog.  One time I forgot to uncheck the box.  I rebooted Feisty, and as it was booting up, suddenly my external modem starting dialing.  It connected as desired, and after logging in I was able to surf the web.  I repeated this test several times, and though the sample size is small, I have 100% repeatability.  I certainly do not know enought about Linux to make any sense of that.

I am at work right now, but will try you suggestion this evening.  Thanks for the suggestion.

---

