---
title: "9.10 keeps dropping wireless connection"
date: 2009-11-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rlelina on 2009-11-11
Machine: Dell Latitude C610 (P4, 1.2GHz, 784MB memory, 20GB HD)
Netgear WG511v2 PCMCIA card for wireless

I had WinXP Pro installed on this box for the longest time until Sunday when it somehow got infected by the Win32/Heur virus. My AVG antivirus could not clean it. Since this is just a machine I use for web surfing, I decided to install 9.04 since I have the install CD.

I was so surprised that everything went smoothly. I was able to connect wirelessly to my router via WPA. And then I was able to seamlessly connect to my Epson Artisan 700 wireless printer!

Then I ran the update manager and told me an upgrade to 9.10 was available. So last night I went ahead and performed the upgrade. After rebooting at the end of the upgrade process, my wireless connection suddenly kept being dropped every minute or so.

It would still connect to my router and I can still access the Internet but after about a minute, I can see the connection being dropped and the icon animates as it tries to reconnect. But it cannot reconnect. I have to pull out the PCMCIA card (which after a minute feels like it's overheating) and push it back in -- then it can reconnect but then drop out again after about a minute.

What could be wrong? I'm thinking of reinstalling 9.04 and staying with it.

Thanks

---

### Post by rlelina on 2009-11-12
Problem solved: I just downgraded back to 9.04 and wireless connection is stable -- automatically connects and stays connected. I decided to do this after seeing so many wireless-related problems after moving up to 9.10. I guess I can wait until things stabilizes further.

---

### Post by mecheng on 2009-11-21
I also upgraded to 9.10 and now my wireless connection is unstable. It was rock solid in 9.04. It disconnects randomly and automatically reconnects. It seems to happen most when the laptop hp zt3380 is idle on the network. 

Any ideas?

---

### Post by rlelina on 2009-11-21
> **mecheng said:**
> I also upgraded to 9.10 and now my wireless connection is unstable. It was rock solid in 9.04. It disconnects randomly and automatically reconnects. It seems to happen most when the laptop hp zt3380 is idle on the network. 

Any ideas?

I am running 9.10 at the moment from the CD. I wanted to try it again because I just got a new router. I used to have Netgear WGR614v4 and now am running Linksys WRT160Nv3 with firmware v3.0.02 build 3. It's been about 15 minutes and the connection hasn't dropped yet. I'm going to leave it running for a few hours and see if the connection is dropped. I hope the new router works because it looks like 9.10 is a lot snappier on my machine, an old Dell C610 laptop with 784Mb RAM and Pentium 3 1.2GHz CPU.

So here's my current setup that seems to work much better in 9.10:
PCMCIA card: Netgear WG511v1
router: Linksys WRT160Nv3
Security set for WPA Personal2 with TKIP/AES

I've read in other posts here (and it's true in my case) that 9.10 has a problem with WPA security. When security was turned to WEP or off altogether, I was fine. But now I really need WPA because some of my other machines don't work well with WEP and I certainly don't want to turn security off.

---

### Post by darco on 2009-11-22
I have the same router...works fine in Karmic w/wpa2 psk. What you could have done was upgrade the stock firmware to a 3rd party. I use Tomato and its a great firmware...Heres a link to a website where you can look around and see which would work for you. I do see that you dumped the perfectly working router but oh well...

[http://www.linksysinfo.org/forums/?](http://www.linksysinfo.org/forums/?)

darco

---

### Post by rlelina on 2009-11-22
> **darco said:**
> I have the same router...works fine in Karmic w/wpa2 psk. What you could have done was upgrade the stock firmware to a 3rd party. I use Tomato and its a great firmware...Heres a link to a website where you can look around and see which would work for you. I do see that you dumped the perfectly working router but oh well...

[http://www.linksysinfo.org/forums/?](http://www.linksysinfo.org/forums/?)

darco

Hmmm, you're giving me a link for Linksys to find firmware. My old router was a Netgear like I stated in my message. BTW, I didn't dump it just because of my initial 9.10 problems. I wanted to get a 802.11n router and I found this recertified one for $30 so I got it. Thanks.

---

### Post by gscharf on 2010-03-29
Your problem may be solved.  But what is the solution to this issue in 9.10?

---

### Post by rlelina on 2010-03-29
> **gscharf said:**
> Your problem may be solved.  But what is the solution to this issue in 9.10?

The problem was solved by switching to the Linksys router (see my reply from Nov. 21st). When the new Ubuntu comes out, I will try my Netgear again.

---

