---
title: "T-mobile web n walk stick III - Mobile Broadband problems"
date: 2010-02-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by djdazyb on 2010-02-22
I have recently made the full switch over to Ubuntu 9.10 from Windows. I have been able to solve most of the teething problems but there is one small problem which is really getting on my nerves!

Upon booting into Ubuntu, I proceed to connect to the Internet by clicking on the Networking icon in the panel, and selecting my mobile broadband connection (T-Mobile Default 1). I am then told that the connection is active. However, upon opening Firefox, I cannot browse websites.

I can solve this by disconnecting the Web n Walk stick, deleting connection, reconnecting the Web n Walk stick, recreate the connection. This works about 70% of the time, sometimes rebooting works, sometimes it takes me 10 minutes of randomly disconnecting and rebooting to get the Internet to work.

Once connected, I can use the connection without trouble. It has proven to be a big problem when I need to quickly boot the computer to find some information, e.g. train times, only to have to mess about for 10 minutes to get the connection to work!

I have searched these forums and found many problems with this device, but no definitive answers! Any help most appreciated.

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-02-23
Hi

Try setting the IPv4 settings in the Network Manager to { Automatic (PPP) addresses only }

This can be done in several ways

1. next time you have a connection and the browser is working get the addresses from the NM connection information : you will see Primary DNS and Secondary DNS , in terminology these are called NS1 and NS2, to enter both addresses    	 	 	 	 	separate with a "," : or just enter the Secondary Address NS2, this will work most of the time if your mobile

2. the addresses can be look up in the Network Manager Data base { the file is called serviceproviders.xml } you can find the default NS1 and NS2 from this file (best way)

3. also you can look in the /etc/resolv.conf , this is the constantly change file of the return addresses made by the Network Manager, IE, generated By : also look in the etc/ppp/resolv.conf

4. Get the addresses from your Service Provider

This NM is still a bit buggy as to returning the Resolved Addresses, according to the site NM 7. is still under development , with a final release been NM 8 { I think} .  if you have problems it is best to set NM to  use the Automatic (PPP) addresses only

---

### Post by djdazyb on 2010-02-23
Thanks! This seems to have worked so far - I'll post back here should the problem show up again.

Thanks again :)

---

### Post by djdazyb on 2010-03-01
To follow up on this issue:

Although the problem is now largely resolved, there is a small problem which shows up from time to time.

Upon booting the computer, usually the mobile broadband would automatically connect, and I can use the Internet normally.

However, about 25% of the time, the connection won't automatically connect. I click on the networking icon and select the connection, but all I get is the spinning 'connecting' icon, spinning very quickly, never ending, without actually connecting to the Internet.

Rebooting will solve the problem.

Just a little problem, but one I'd like to resolve. I hope the description of the issue makes sense - it is hard to describe!

Thanks

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-03-02
Hi

there are a few devices which can be problematic with the tty lines it uses

you can check the lines which are been used by the modem with this command from the terminal

Code:

dmesg | grep -e "modem" -e "tty" 

also check the state of the messages

from a separate terminal

Code: 

tail -f /var/log/syslog

Check these before making the connection and post the results of the two results IE one when the connection is working and one when it is just spinning, 

also could you post the results of this command

Code :

lsusb

thanks in advance

alexfish

---

