---
title: "18.04 Firefox ignoring /etc/hosts?"
date: 2020-01-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by stoogiebuncho on 2020-01-20
I have a custom hosts file that blocks some time-wasting websites.  I use cron to switch it to /etc/hosts at certain times during the day, and then to set the hosts file back to normal during other times.  

For the past while, however, Firefox seems to be ignoring the hosts file.

If I ping the site, it pings 127.0.0.1 (which is what it's set to do in the custom hosts file).  If I try to open the site in Chromium, I get an error message as expected.  So I know that cron and the hosts file are both working.  But even if I clear my cache and close and re-open Firefox, it still loads the sites.

Any idea what's going on here?

---

### Post by pcfan1234 on 2020-01-20
FF now uses DNS over HTTPS. You can disable that in the proxy settings. 
Or you can switch to another browser that doesn't use DNS over HTTPS.

EDIT:
DNS over HTTPS means a bypass of you local DNS server settings and the hosts file.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-01-20
> **pcfan1234 said:**
>  
EDIT:
DNS over HTTPS means a bypass of you local DNS server settings and the hosts file.

Not necessarily true.  I've been using DNS over HTTPS for a few years.  There is a local caching server which acts like the DNS server for the system, but sends any DNS requests external if the DNS record has expired.   For my domains, I use a 60 min timeout on DNS records to limit DNS hits - my external DNS provider charges by the number of hits each month. 

Also, there is a setting to disable the new firefox behavior.  Google finds it easily. 
[https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/firefox-dns-over-https#w_opt-out](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/firefox-dns-over-https#w_opt-out)

This is nothing new. Android 6+ has ignored local /etc/hosts files for a long time.  Only people running LAN web servers usually notice these sorts of things. It was a big hassle until my tablet finally became root-able about a year ago.

---

### Post by stoogiebuncho on 2020-01-22
Thanks TheFu, that link was helpful.  I used the network.trr.excluded-domains setting to add exceptions for the sites I want to block, and everything else continues to use DNS over HTTP.

---

