---
title: "Dial up problems -edgy ext Us robotics"
date: 2007-07-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Bernie_the_bolt on 2007-07-29
Help please, I have searched for an answer to this problem but am confused.
I have edgy + a external serial US Robotics 56K messgae modem (not sporster).
I cannot get it to stay connected using gnome ppp - it clicks off after a about 20 seconds.
This is a copy of the log file :

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATX3
ATX3
OK
--> Sending: AT&F V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 s10=250 +FCLASS=0 S19=0
AT&F V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 s10=250 +FCLASS=0 S19=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L3DT0868,929898
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L3DT0868,929898
CONNECT 45333/ARQ
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
`[1c][1c][1c] `  ~[1c] `[0e][1c] `p8[1c][1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c]~8[1c]|[1c] p8|[1c][0e][1c][0e]|[1c] p8|[1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c]p8[1c]  | `[0e][1c][1c][0e]G|[1c]~8[1c]`[1c]p` `pG[1c]~[1c][0e]|[1c]`pG[1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c] [1c][0e]|[1c][0e]8[1c][1c]pG[1c][1c]~|
--> Hmm... a prompt.  Sending "ppp".
`[1c][1c][1c] `  ~[1c] `[0e][1c] `~8[1c][1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c]~8[1c]|[1c] p8|[1c][0e][1c][0e]|[1c] p8|[1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c]p8[1c]  | `[0e][1c][1c][0e]G|[1c]~8[1c]`[1c]p` `pG[1c]~[1c][0e]|[1c]`pG[1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c] [1c][0e]|[1c][0e]8[1c]p ` `|
--> Hmm... a prompt.  Sending "ppp".
`[1c][1c][1c] `  ~[1c] `[0e][1c] ` [1c][1c][1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c]~8[1c]|[1c] p8|[1c][0e][1c][0e]|[1c] p8|[1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c]p8[1c]  | `[0e][1c][1c][0e]G|[1c]~8[1c]`[1c]p` `pG[1c]~[1c][0e]|[1c]`pG[1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c] [1c][0e]|[1c][0e]8[1c]  | [1c]~|
--> Hmm... a prompt.  Sending "ppp".
`[1c][1c][1c] `  ~[1c] `[0e][1c] `[0e][1c][1c][1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c]~8[1c]|[1c] p8|[1c][0e][1c][0e]|[1c] p8|[1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c]p8[1c]  | `[0e][1c][1c][0e]G|[1c]~8[1c]`[1c]p` `pG[1c]~[1c][0e]|[1c]`pG[1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c] [1c][0e]|[1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c]`[0e][07]``|
--> Hmm... a prompt.  Sending "ppp".
`[1c][1c][1c] `  ~[1c] `[0e][1c] `p[1c][1c][1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c]~8[1c]|[1c] p8|[1c][0e][1c][0e]|[1c] p8|[1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c]p8[1c]  | `[0e][1c][1c][0e]G|[1c]~8[1c]`[1c]p` `pG[1c]~[1c][0e]|[1c]`pG[1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c] [1c][0e]|[1c][0e]8[1c] [1c]p[1c]`|
--> Hmm... a prompt.  Sending "ppp".
--> Don't know what to do!  Starting pppd and hoping for the best.
--> Starting pppd at Sun Jul 29 22:34:53 2007
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 5444
--> Using interface ppp0
--> Disconnecting at Sun Jul 29 22:35:24 2007
--> The PPP daemon has died: A modem hung up the phone (exit code = 16)
--> man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
--> Try again and look into /var/log/messages and the wvdial and pppd man pages for more information.

So instead of gnome ,I have tried sudo pon Free (Free is my isp) in a terminal. - it stays connected accordingly to the modem lights, but i cannot access net using firefox or update packager.
Is there as way of deleting gnome ppp & starting again ?
Any help much appreciated.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2007-07-30
Hi, Bernie -
I don't know how the phone systems work in France.  The weird code you get here

--> Carrier detected. Waiting for prompt.
`[1c][1c][1c] ` ~[1c] `[0e][1c] `p8[1c][1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c]~8[1c]|[1c] p8|[1c][0e][1c][0e]|[1c] p8|[1c] p8|[1c] `[0e][1c]p8[1c] | `[0e][1c][1c][0e]G|[1c]~8[1c]`[1c]p` `pG[1c]~[1c][0e]|[1c]`pG[1c][0e]8[1c]|[1c] [1c][0e]|[1c][0e]8[1c][1c]pG[1c][1c]~|
 
is unfamiliar to me.

It appears from the log that your modem has contacted the ISP.  At least it's dialed out to someone!  The prompt it's receiving back does not appear to be the sort of handshake that wvdial understands.  See these lines?

--> Hmm... a prompt. Sending "ppp".
--> Don't know what to do! Starting pppd and hoping for the best.
--> Starting pppd at Sun Jul 29 22:34:53 2007

That's what wvdial does when it doesn't understand the prompt.  It knows it's made a connection, but doesn't know what to do with the reply, so it just starts the point-to-point protocol and hopes for the best.

Then someone at the other end hangs up on you.  That's my admittedly amateurish understanding of your log.

My best guess is that this ISP doesn't work with Linux.  Is there specific software they want you to download?  Some ISP's require proprietary software and won't cooperate with Linux.

I think you can reset either wvdial or ppp-config by deleting the entries then restarting the utility.

---

### Post by _duncan_ on 2007-07-30
Looks like an authentication problem, possibly because the default initialization strings supplied by gnome-ppp is insufficient for your modem.

I was able to get an old US Robotics modem working before by studying the modem logs while running Windows XP, then specifying the same init strings in gnome-ppp. But this a difficult and time-consuming process.

If you're willing to try, here are the init strings I used to make it work:

```
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = AT&F&D2V1Q0E0S0=0&C1
Init3 = AT&A3X4&B1
Init4 = ATS7=60S19=0M1&M4&K1&H1&R2&I0B0X4
Init5 = ATDT;

```

Here's what you have to do:

1. Open gnome-ppp like you normally would.
2. Click on the 'Setup' button.
3. A new window will pop up. Click on the 'Init Strings...' button.
4. Init Strings 2-9 will be listed, along with the current settings.
5. Enter the provided init strings by clicking on each line (init2 to init5). Type or copy/paste, then hit the 'Enter' key. Note that you have to press the 'Enter' key after editing each line.

These init strings work for my specific model of US Robotics, it may not work for you. If it doesn't, you may have to figure it out using the process described earlier.


P.S. A fellow forum user here ( chuckman78 ) used a different set of init strings, as follows:

```
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = AT&F1E0Q0V1&C1&D2S0=0
Init3 = ATS7=60S19=0M1&M4&K1&H1&R2&I0B0X4
Init4 = ATS10=255S11=40&U30&N39
Init5 = ATDT;

```

These also work for my modem, but authentication fails about 1 every 3 times.

---

### Post by Bernie_the_bolt on 2007-08-01
Thank you Bartender & _duncan_
Before I read your replies I managed to run pppconfig in a terminal & figured out for myself deleteing the existing connection & starting again would help.
It did !
I can now connect reliably each time, but when running "apply" in synaptic package manager, I get very variable & slow download speeds -( from 900 bps to 3362 bps -never kbs ) and it takes hours even days to acheive anything.
Also I cannot get gnome ppp to work I connect through a terminal with  "sudo pon xxxx"
Also I get disconnections every 5 to 30 minutes.
I dont mind connecting through the terminal but would like to make the connection run at the same speed I acheive in XP (45.2Kbps) without dropouts.
I will back up my existing pppconfig init strings and try your suggestions.
Many many thanks for your support.
-it's never too late to learn.

---

### Post by Bernie_the_bolt on 2007-08-02
Thank you _duncan_,
I followed your instructions using the first set of init string data you posted and it has improved things a lot. It only disconnected once last night (but a large thunder storm was approaching so I then unplugged modem anyway).
Hope to get broadband soon but at the moment it is not fast here in the middle of rural France, they tell me i will get 512kbps but I will get charged for 2 - 8 mb depending on provider.
-still that would be 12 times faster than my average dial up connection !

---

### Post by Bartender on 2007-08-04
Hi, Bernie -
I've also seen what you describe - faster connections in Windows than Linux using the exact same hardware - but don't know why that is.
Very frustrating.

---

