---
title: "ubuntu 11.10 + router + internal wireless = problem"
date: 2011-11-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by e_james on 2011-11-04
I recently bought an Acer Aspire One D257 which has a Centrino Wireless-N 100 internal wireless adapter and my current home router is a Belkin "N Wireless Modem Router". Currently I have Lubuntu 11.10 installed in dual boot with Windows 7 Starter. 

The combination of ubuntu 11.10 with the internal wireless adapter and the Belkin router seems to experience some sort of "log-jam" - a few seconds of good speed and then a drop to as low as 6kBps with occasional flickers to higher speeds. If I change any one of the above components, everything works well. 

I visited the homes of a couple of friends and the system works well with their routers (including a Belkin - different model).

If I use an external usb wireless adapter (Tenda) - no problem.

Windows 7 works well as does Linux Mint 11.

As far as I have been able to verify ubuntu 11.10, lubuntu 11.10 and xubuntu 11.10 all have the same problem. Testing is a bit of a fiddle and I may have missed something.

Any comments?

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-11-04
Hi,

please show:

```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
iwconfig
rfkill list
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
If the driver is "iwlagn", shut off the N-mode (driver bug):

```
echo "options iwlagn 11n_disable=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwlagn.conf
sudo modprobe -rfv iwlagn
sudo modprobe -v iwlagn
```

---

### Post by e_james on 2011-11-06
Thank you for your helpful reply. I think you wanted to see the results.

```

lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net

01:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller [10ec:8136] (rev 05)
	Subsystem: Acer Incorporated [ALI] Device [1025:0590]
	Kernel driver in use: r8169
--
02:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N 100 [8086:08ae]
	Subsystem: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N 100 BGN [8086:1005]
	Kernel driver in use: iwlagn

iwconfig 
wlan0     IEEE 802.11bgn  ESSID:"Belkin_32N"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.437 GHz  Access Point: 94:44:52:9C:00:F8   
          Bit Rate=27 Mb/s   Tx-Power=14 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=66/70  Signal level=-44 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:6   Missed beacon:0


rfkill list 
0: phy0: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: no


cat /etc/resolv.conf

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.102    (this is my router's usual IP address)


--@acer-lubuntu:~$ echo "options iwlagn 11n_disable=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwlagn.conf
[sudo] password for --: 
options iwlagn 11n_disable=1
--@acer-lubuntu:~$ sudo modprobe -rfv iwlagn
rmmod /lib/modules/3.0.0-12-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/iwlwifi/iwlagn.ko
rmmod /lib/modules/3.0.0-12-generic/kernel/net/mac80211/mac80211.ko
rmmod /lib/modules/3.0.0-12-generic/kernel/net/wireless/cfg80211.ko
--@acer-lubuntu:~$ sudo modprobe -v iwlagn
insmod /lib/modules/3.0.0-12-generic/kernel/net/wireless/cfg80211.ko 
insmod /lib/modules/3.0.0-12-generic/kernel/net/mac80211/mac80211.ko 
insmod /lib/modules/3.0.0-12-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/iwlwifi/iwlagn.ko 11n_disable=1
--@acer-lubuntu:~$ 


```
The commands you suggested did the job and the internal adapter worked fine until I rebooted. I would like to make the adjustment permanent. I assume that it will be necessary to apply the same changes if I choose to install another version of linux with the same driver bug. I am thinking that, since no software was changed, only the configuration, a kernel update should need no intervention.

My apologies if my response took longer than you might have expected. Either the computer or myself was distracted by other tasks.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-11-06
It is permanent. Some other issues...Add the nameservers of your ISP directly in the NM-applet.

---

### Post by e_james on 2011-11-06
Sorry about that. I did a reboot immediately after applying the fix and the speed test was poor but now it's fine. I just did another reboot to be sure - wired, usb wireless or internal wireless all produce the same good results.

Is there a reason for adding the nameservers? I have had problems with DNS in the past and I think I recognise the symptoms, which I am not seeing now. My inclination is not to fix what isn't broken. In addition, please bear in mind that this is lubuntu and I don't know how to access the NM-applet or even if it is installed. As with windows, the name of the application and the name of the executable file are usually different. Unlike Windows, I do not yet understand linux well enough to be able to find the executable file if it's not available in the menus.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-11-06
Routers are caching the websites, not their corresponding IP addresses. In Ubuntu the service dhclient is responsible for resolving the IP addresses. This disturbes the connections

---

### Post by e_james on 2011-11-06
Please excuse my lack of understanding. Normally these things follow a general pattern

1. Describe the problem, circumstances and symptoms.
2. Explain what causes the problem and why.
3. Describe the solution to the problem and any additional consequences.

Your last comment looks to me like a part of step 2 but I don't see the problem you are trying to fix. Apart from the speed issue (now resolved, with your assistance, thank you), I don't appear to have a problem (at least, not with the network).

---

