---
title: "Whitelisting the internet using hosts"
date: 2017-10-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by heebiejeebies2 on 2017-10-30
So I tried the various methods listed for filtering the internet in the parental controls tutorial.  Dansguardian and Privoxy simply don't work as they choke on HTTPS traffic - might as well remove them from the list.  Using hosts and disabling DNS works OK but I'm struggling to find all the necessary hosts for certain webpages.  Is there any way to easily list them all?  Of course I've tried examining the source but this doesn't always tell you all of them.

Thanks

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-10-31
It is next to impossible to  do what you ask, since every website includes 3rd party content which changes their includes from minute to minute.

You could try to get the list using curl and some scripting.  Plus blocking ad servers speeds up the internet. Pi-hole is a project to block the "bad parts" of the internet using DNS filters. For kids PCs, I'd go with the whitelist method and disable DNS, setting up only the primary hosts into the /etc/hosts files on those systems.  I'd probably setup a squid proxy with keyword filtering too.  Whitelisting for a 7 yr old is different from whitelisting for a 10yr old.

Read that google-chrome and chromium browsers ignore OS settings for DNS. They have used google's  DNS servers without asking and without honoring the local settings.  I don't know if that is still a bug in those browsers or not.  [https://productforums.google.com/forum/?_escaped_fragment_=topic/chrome/zmaqbD2p6OY#!topic/chrome/zmaqbD2p6OY](https://productforums.google.com/forum/?_escaped_fragment_=topic/chrome/zmaqbD2p6OY#!topic/chrome/zmaqbD2p6OY)

If you find a method, please post the solution.  I bet lots of people would be interested.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2017-10-31
Try opening a free parental control site at OpenDNS.com

[https://support.opendns.com/hc/en-us/articles/227987287-How-to-Add-Domains-to-your-Blacklist-Whitelist](https://support.opendns.com/hc/en-us/articles/227987287-How-to-Add-Domains-to-your-Blacklist-Whitelist)

Then edit your Ubuntu Network Settings .. edit Connections
IPv4 settings

Method: Automatic (DHCP)
Additional DNS Servers: 208.67.222.123, 208.67.220.123

Test by accessing an OpenDNS test site.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2017-10-31
Would something like [this]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2330221&p=13515479&viewfull=1#post13515479") work?

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2017-10-31
Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless** for a better fit

---

### Post by heebiejeebies2 on 2017-10-31
Thanks guys.  Most sites actually work fine so I don't think it is such a massive task.  Just a few sites that spoil it by having one or two components missing that I can't identify.  Halogen's technique might work as a last resort but I'm kind of worried about breaking things at the moment.  I'll try that if I don't get anywhere.

I'm sure in the past I used some kind of security gatekeeper software that asked your permission before it accessed any new host, and in this way I was able to identify whatever pesky domains were needed.  I just can't remember if that was on Ubuntu or Mac.  Anyone have a clue what I'm talking about?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-10-31
I use and recommend this:  [http://winhelp2002.mvps.org/hosts.htm](http://winhelp2002.mvps.org/hosts.htm)

I download the zip file and extract it. I then append the file to the end of my hosts file, after a back-up, of course. The original:```
127.0.0.1	localhost
127.0.1.1	T440p

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

```The new file:```
127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.1.1       T440p

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters


# [Start of entries generated by MVPS HOSTS]
#
# [Misc A - Z]
0.0.0.0 fr.a2dfp.net
0.0.0.0 m.fr.a2dfp.net
0.0.0.0 mfr.a2dfp.net
0.0.0.0 ad.a8.net
0.0.0.0 asy.a8ww.net
0.0.0.0 static.a-ads.com
<snip>
etc., for hundreds of lines
```The list is updated often, so I periodically rinse and repeat.

---

### Post by heebiejeebies2 on 2017-11-01
Thanks, nice list but it's not actually what I wanted at all.  I have used that before on other computers though, it's a good idea if you're not already whitelisting.

---

