---
title: "Can't SSH after errors with NoMachine nxclient"
date: 2013-12-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cjluna1 on 2013-12-27
Hello all,

I recently downloaded NoMachine for amd64, for my 12.04 LTS Ubuntu from: [https://www.nomachine.com/download/download&id=4](https://www.nomachine.com/download/download&id=4)

When I tried to connect to x.x.com in the GUI generated by ./nxclient I ran into some errors. I tried to SSH to host x.x.com with and HTTP proxy providing my username and password, and host: x.x.com, but I got this:

> 
Error: ssh_exchange_identification: Connection closed by remote host

Then, after I tried to SSH regularly from my terminal to x.x.com, ssh hung at:

> 
debug1: Connecting to x.x.com [x.x.x.x] port xxx


Until my connection attempt was timed out. 

All of the previous steps were attempted using a certain WIFI connection, and when I tried to regularly SSH to x.x.com using an ethernet connection there were no problems (I did not try to use nxclient on the ethernet). Also, a different computer of mine running an older version of nxclient is still able to connect to the x.x.com using the same wireless WIFI connection that I attempted the previous steps with. Prior to attempting to use the nxclient on the troubling WIFI connection, I was able to SSH perfectly by using the terminal on said WIFI connection. If anyone could offer advice I would be very greatful, thanks!

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-12-28
Hello!

I had been waiting for NX 4.0 to come out and had given up hope, but this caught my eye earlier today.  When I got home, I experimented with Trusty (yes, the development version) and found out the client works, so I installed it on my daily-driver Saucy machine.

I went to one of my other Ubuntu machines and installed it and started the server.  Then I did the same thing on my Win 7 machine.  Everything works fine (streaming video from server to client is still not perfect, but it's better than ever), except that when the Win 7 client is maximized I can't click anything that happens to be at the top of the screen.  I'll have to report a bug.  But it seems to be working better with Win 7 than my finnicky remmina was.

I was able to SSH via the terminal to another machine just fine after installing everything.

Anyway ...

Have you checked your ssh directory to see if everything is in order there?  Are your keys intact?  Nomachine should be using its own directory for keys and authentication.  Did Nomachine overwrite anything it shouldn't have?  What sort of machine were you trying to NX in to?  

It's too new for me to have any good answers for you, but that directory is where I'd start.  Since it's working for me, I can conclude that it is not a universal problem.

---

