---
title: "10.04: Network Manager &amp; Wireless: rt2870"
date: 2010-07-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by DThurman on 2010-07-03
First off, I am not having any issues with WIRED connections,
my two Ethernet NICS work fine via nm-applet configurations.

But, I find that Wireless connections seem to have issues:

   My AP base station is a Trendnet TEW-631BR7 and my USB
   client adapter is an Airlink 150N, rt2870 type device.

   Take notice, that I have been able to easily get the same system
   (multi-boot) to work under Fedora and Wins system, just not with
   Ubuntu v9.04 nor 10.04... so this is the task on hand.

   On a fresh installation of Ubuntu, the USB wireless client
   adapter does establish connectivity to the AP base station
   but gives me limited access to my local and remote connections.

   Strangely, the nm-applet listing does not show my AP base station
   SSID, perhaps its hidden, and stranger still, my neighborhood
   AP base stations are not listed, yet listed are AP base stations
   definitely not in my neighborhood.

   The default NM setup appears be dnsmasq & dhcp3 and I am getting
   strange default settings as shown in the following log entry
   from /var/log/debug:

   Jul  3 10:37:32 <hostname> NetworkManager: <debug> \
     [1278178652.998281] nm_dnsmasq_manager_start(): Command line: \
     /usr/sbin/dnsmasq --no-hosts --keep-in-foreground --bind- \
     interfaces --except-interface=lo --clear-on-reload --strict-order \
     --listen-address=10.42.43.1 --dhcp \
     range=10.42.43.10,10.42.43.100,60m --dhcp- \
     option=option:router,10.42.43.1 --dhcp-lease-max=50 \
     --pid-file=/var/run/nm-dnsmasq-wlan0.pid

    I am at loss to understand, from what configuration file
    (there is no /etc/dnsmasq.conf file) or script, do
    these addresses originate?

    My network is 10.1.0.0, and yet, somehow NM, dnsmasq, or
    dhcp3 assumes my network is 10.42.43.0?

    This will not work for me.

    So, what I have tried to do was to configure my wireless
    in the following ways:

    1. Connect to hidden Wireless Network...
    2. Create New Wireless Network
    3. Edit Connections, Wireless Tab, Add, etc.

    I find that in using any of the steps above, it breaks
    the wireless connectivity previously established by the fresh
    installation process and I have not been able to recover
    the wireless connectivity ever since. Thankfully,  my WIRED
    connections are still operational.

    In each of the above 3 steps in trying to establish connectivity
    I have tried DHCP and Manual, none of which works.  Using Shared
    is rather strange to me, it claims connectivity however there
    is no network access...

    I have found, that physically reconnecting the USB wireless
    device can cause permanent disconnects, causes the nm-applet to
    die, and unless a reboot is performed, manually restarting NM
    does not restore any normalcy.

    At this point, I am about to give up since I have not been
    able to get wireless networking to work on Ubuntu.

    If there is any information I can provide or pointers
    or references on how to get my wireless connectivity
    working, please let me know?

Kind regards,
Dan

---

### Post by DThurman on 2010-07-03
See thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1523341](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1523341)

From the above thread, one has to:
# sudo rmmod rt2800usb

To make this change permanent:
# gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

Add the following entry to bottom:

# Prevent rt2800usb from breaking rt2870 (Ubuntu bug)
blacklist rt2800usb

---

