---
title: "Sniffer"
date: 2014-12-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gabriel40 on 2014-12-30
Hello guys!!

I have a problem with an ip cam connected through a 3G internet mobile connection. This ip cam is generating a huge traffic even when it is not used and I don't know why. The principal issue is that all that traffic is consuming my monthly data limit and if I pass it I have to pay an extra charge. 

All this has been occurred since I installed another ip cam in mi private network and I could see in the router statistics that the increase in the traffic is generated by this last one. Of course that traffic doesn't make any sense because there's nothing configured in the ip cam for generating it.  

So, I am thinking about doing something with that. I have got a computer configured with an ubuntu server edition and I am thinking about putting that computer in the same network as the ip cam and try to capture all the traffic with an sniffer to figure out what is happening and what is the reason and the destination of that packets. The reason of putting a computer in that network and control it remotely is because that network is configured in a remote house and I normaly access it remotely. 

But, before doing it, is it possible to capture the traffic of a remote network from an external ip? I think that is not possible but I want to ask before because it would be easier for me to find out the problem. 

Thanks!!

---

### Post by bashiergui on 2014-12-31
How do you connect to the cameras from your remote location?

---

