---
title: "17.10 how to change IP to use netplan command"
date: 2017-10-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by a2940uw on 2017-10-20
After install 17.10, the default network configuration tools was changed to netplan, but no any wiki page or technical document to know how to change the network setting , such as static IP or gateway, please advise.

---

### Post by beameup on 2017-10-20
I found this:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Netplan](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Netplan)

---

### Post by adzrayner on 2017-10-27
Hi, Did you fix this issue? Ive read about 2 pages of info but no help. Appears netplan loads before the network manager which changes my network to DHCP.
I would like to know how to stop this happening or how to set netplan to static

---

### Post by zKhtdyX on 2017-11-28
> **adzrayner said:**
> Hi, Did you fix this issue? Ive read about 2 pages of info but no help. Appears netplan loads before the network manager which changes my network to DHCP.
I would like to know how to stop this happening or how to set netplan to static

If you have network-manager installed you might have a netplan config file named /etc/netplan/01-network-manager-all.yaml that looks something like this:
```

network:  
  version: 2
  renderer: NetworkManager

```

That tells netplan that your network devices should be managed by NetworkManager (and create appropriate backend config files for you and networkmanager resp.)

To maintain a static network configuration I found the following config example at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Netplan](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Netplan):

```

[COLOR=#333333]network:[/COLOR]    
    version: 2
    renderer: networkd
    ethernets:
        eth0:
            addresses:
                - 10.10.10.2/24 [COLOR=#333333]            
            dhcp4: no
[/COLOR]
```

For a full documentation have a look at [https://git.launchpad.net/netplan/tree/doc/netplan.md](https://git.launchpad.net/netplan/tree/doc/netplan.md)

But one thing I don't understand is what particular netplan yaml config files I have to expect in /etc/netplan/

According to [https://kofler.info/ubuntu-17-10/](https://kofler.info/ubuntu-17-10/) (german) there is
[LIST]
[*]one a server installation: a /etc/netplan/01-netcfg.yaml
[*]one a workstation: /etc/netplan/01-network-manager-all.yaml
[/LIST]

I got here a Ubuntu-Next 17.10 Minimal Install (which comes without network-manager) and I got a /etc/netplan/01-netcfg.yaml
What happens to that file if I would install network-manager? Will it be deleted or will it coexists besides /etc/netplan/01-network-manager-all.yaml ?

---

### Post by powersj on 2017-11-29
> **zKhtdyX said:**
> 
But one thing I don't understand is what particular netplan yaml config files I have to expect in /etc/netplan/


There are no expected files named a specific way. You can name the file whatever you want as long as it ends with the extension .yaml: "[COLOR=#333333][FONT=&amp]Netplan reads network configuration from /etc/netplan/*.yaml which are written by administrators, installers, cloud image instantiations, or other OS deployments" from: [/FONT][/COLOR]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Netplan

> **zKhtdyX said:**
> 
What happens to that file if I would install network-manager? Will it be deleted or will it coexists besides /etc/netplan/01-network-manager-all.yaml ?


Netplan can also work with network-manager as one of the 'providers' see: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Netplan#Configuration](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Netplan#Configuration)

---

### Post by zKhtdyX on 2017-11-30
> **powersj said:**
> There are no expected files named a specific way. You can name the file whatever you want as long as it ends with the extension .yaml: "[COLOR=#333333][FONT=&amp]Netplan reads network configuration from /etc/netplan/*.yaml which are written by administrators, installers, cloud image instantiations, or other OS deployments" from: [/FONT][/COLOR]https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Netplan

When someone wants to configure something someone has to take account what config files are appearing and could interfere with custom configuration files right? I cannot just create my own *yaml files and do not care about what the distribution might put into /etc/netplan. So It would be advised to know what package puts what into /etc/netplan. Documentation?

---

### Post by powersj on 2017-11-30
> **zKhtdyX said:**
> what the distribution might put into /etc/netplan

Ah my mistake, I misunderstood what you meant by expected. I thought you  were asking if there was a certain naming schema you had to follow for  additional files.

> **zKhtdyX said:**
> So It would be advised to know what package puts what into /etc/netplan. Documentation?

Those initial files are created by the installer at install time. As you discovered from that blog, the default file names do vary and depend on the platform you are running. On my desktop system, using NetworkManager produces `01-network-manager-all.yaml` and on a fresh install of Bionic Server via ISO which uses systemd-network produces `/etc/netplan/01-netcfg.yaml`. To give you one more example, on a Bionic daily LXD I see `50-cloud-init.yaml`.

> **zKhtdyX said:**
> What happens to that file if I would install network-manager? Will it be  deleted or will it coexists besides  /etc/netplan/01-network-manager-all.yaml ? 

I asked about this and even tried changing my server install to use NetworkManager and the files do not change and more importantly it is up to you to go in and change the renderer key from networkd to NetworkManager.

---

