---
title: "10.10 32bit new install now need to hook up to home network"
date: 2011-01-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by broekskw on 2011-01-03
hi all, it's been some time since i last posted, but need some guidance on this

just installed ubuntu 10.10 on a old reformatted machine with 2 hard drives, 1 has xp and the other ubuntu, on the install (ubuntu 10.10) the default network name was "WORKGROUP". I have 3 other computer all on"HOMEGROUP" sharing a wireless printer, need to get on the "HOMEGROUP" network to try to use this printer for ubuntu 10.10, have looked and looked but can not find a guide on how to change the ubuntu to "HOMEGROUP"

I do have wireless Internet going on this machine 
thanks for any replies:guitar:

---

### Post by bhadotia on 2011-01-03
> **broekskw said:**
> hi all, it's been some time since i last posted, but need some guidance on this

just installed ubuntu 10.10 on a old reformatted machine with 2 hard drives, 1 has xp and the other ubuntu, on the install (ubuntu 10.10) the default network name was "WORKGROUP". I have 3 other computer all on"HOMEGROUP" sharing a wireless printer, need to get on the "HOMEGROUP" network to try to use this printer for ubuntu 10.10, have looked and looked but can not find a guide on how to change the ubuntu to "HOMEGROUP"

I do have wireless Internet going on this machine 
thanks for any replies:guitar:

I think your printers are shared using samba try searching for samba configuration on ubuntu. That might help..

---

### Post by PatchesTheCaveman on 2011-01-03
Do you know the hostname the wireless printer is sharing on?  On Windows, you can find this by going to Start > Devices and Printers (on Vista/7, it's Printers and Faxes on XP) and looking at the printer name.  It should say something like "HP DeskJet 420 on MUCHIES".  MUNCHIES would be the hostname in that case.

Once you figure that out, go to System > Administration > Printing on your top panel.  Click *Add*, enter your password when asked, choose *Find Network Printer* under *Network Printer*, and type the hostname you found earlier under *Host:*.  Click *Find*.  Your printer should appear below.

You can then complete the wizard by selecting your driver and configuring it.

---

