---
title: "12.04 Thin client desktop display problem"
date: 2012-06-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by v4169sgr on 2012-06-06
Hello,

I am using two types of thin client with my ltsp-server-standalone installation on ubuntu 12.04:
* 2 DELL FX170s Intel Atom based with integrated graphics based on the GMA50 chip;
* a 10zig RB56xx series Intel Atom based with [at the moment, to me] unknown grahics hardware.

Both thin clients download the kernel, boot through the Plymouth 'dots' to the login page, succesfully accept valid credentials, but then display a desktop which has:
* Inverse video;
* Four tiled desktops;
* A thick horizontal black line about 1/3 of the way down the display.

I am using a DVI-to-VGA adapter with both, and a VGA cable. The monitor has a DVI socket, but I have no spare cable.

Here is my lts.conf file:

```
/var/lib/tftpboot/ltsp/i386$ cat lts.conf
# This is the default lts.conf file for ltsp 5.
# For more information about valid options please see:
# /usr/share/doc/ltsp-client/examples/lts-parameters.txt.gz
# in the client environment.
#
# Note that things like sound and local device support are
# auto-enabled if the corresponding packages are installed,
# there is no need to manually set these options anymore.
#
# [example]
# key=value
[default]
	LDM_DIRECTX=True
#	X_MODE_0 = 1024x768
#	XRANDR_DISABLE = True
#	XSERVER = i810
#	XRANDR_MODE_0 = 1280x1024
```

Currently my thin clients are unusable. Any help appreciated! :)

---

### Post by v4169sgr on 2012-06-06
EDIT:

I used Ubuntu Tweaks to change the number of desktops to one, then on the 10Zig logged in again.

I can see a proper-video desktop, but no dash or launcher. I suspect I have the wrong resolution. I can use the three fingered salute to log out, but that's about it.

---

### Post by v4169sgr on 2012-06-06
Don't think I want to do that.

I tried replacing compiz with metacity as a trial but landed in a mess. Lucky the system remembered my defaults on next boot :)

So:
* setting the number of desktops to one does not solve the problem [I tried with different resolutions: same problem].

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by v4169sgr on 2012-06-06
SOLVED

Thin clients won't log into a usable display with 3D effects turned on.

Use the session preferences menu on the login screen, and select 'Gnome-classic [without effects]', or 'Ubuntu 2D' (for Unity), and all is good.

YAY - one horrible nasty problem down, one more to go :) :)

Now to make my system actually boot predictably LOL

see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1997417](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1997417)

---

### Post by voipmaster on 2012-08-15
I'm having a similar issue getting my 10zig thin clients to pxe boot to a 12.04 LTSP server. I get to the boot splash screen after the client loads the kernel, then the monitor goes "out of range". I'm betting I don't have something set correctly in lts.conf. Would you mind sharing the specific configs that fixed your issue?

Thank you.

---

### Post by unevenflow on 2012-08-15
In lts.conf put

LDM_SESSION="gnome-fallback"

---

### Post by voipmaster on 2012-08-16
Ok...This was my old /var/lib/tftpboot/ltsp/i386/lts.conf

[default]
X_COLOR_DEPTH=24
LOCALDEV=True
LDM_SESSION="gnome-session --session=gnome-fallback"
LDM_SESSION="gnome-session --session=ubuntu-2d"
SOUND=True
USE_LOCAL_SWAP=True
NBD_SWAP=False
SYSLOG_HOST=server
SCREEN_02=shell
SCREEN_03=shell
SCREEN_04=shell
SCREEN_05=shell
SCREEN_06=shell
SCREEN_07=ldm
# LDM_DIRECTX=True allows greater scalability and performance
# Turn this off if you want greater security instead.
LDM_DIRECTX=True
# LDM_SYSLOG=True writes to server's syslog
LDM_SYSLOG=True

Heres the new one:

[default]
LDM_SESSION="gnome-fallback"

I'm going to reboot the 10zig and see if that does it.

---

### Post by voipmaster on 2012-08-16
The change did not appear to do anything. I'm not totally confident that these changes are being read and applied by the thin client as no matter what i do I always see the 12.04 loading screen with the dots, then "out of range" on my display.

---

### Post by voipmaster on 2012-08-16
I found this URL regarding VIA graphics chipsets (which the 10zig uses) and have applied the changes in this section to no avail.

[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/ltsp/index.php?title=Ltsp_VideoCards#Via_embedded_graphics]("http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/ltsp/index.php?title=Ltsp_VideoCards#Via_embedded_graphics")

---

### Post by unevenflow on 2012-08-16
Hey, try this

[default]
X_COLOR_DEPTH=16
#in server terminal sudo apt-get install gnome-system-tools gnome-panel
LDM_SESSION="gnome-fallback"
#client
[mac:addresss]
LTSP_FATCLIENT=False

XRANDR_MODE_0=1024x768
#or if the above doesn't work 
X_MODE_0=1024x768

#read your monitor manual for refresh rates
X_HORZSYNC=30.0-88.0 
X_VERTREFRESH=50.0-70.0

---

### Post by voipmaster on 2012-08-16
Hm..now my screen looks like this guys.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9345420]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9345420")

---

### Post by unevenflow on 2012-08-16
Hey look back [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12176456&postcount=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=12176456&postcount=10)

---

### Post by voipmaster on 2012-08-16
The speed and quantity of the garbled stuff seems to be faster, but it's still giving me the garbled screen. I'm wondering if this is a driver issue and if so how to compile the client image with the correct video driver.

---

### Post by unevenflow on 2012-08-16
Can you boot in your client pc using a live cd or usb and see if it's ok?

---

### Post by voipmaster on 2012-08-17
I can boot it off the local disk just fine. It has a minimal linux OS running on it with a gui to setup things like citrix, vmware view, etc.

---

### Post by unevenflow on 2012-08-17
Hey
please add this to your lts.conf

XSERVER=vesa
and see what happens
do you use an NVIDIA card on your server?

---

### Post by voipmaster on 2012-08-17
LSPCI says it's an ATI card in the server. The graphics chipset in the 10zig is a VIA


00:00.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS880 Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. RS880 PCI to PCI bridge (int gfx)
00:07.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780 PCI to PCI bridge (PCIE port 3)
00:0a.0 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] RS780/RS880 PCI to PCI bridge (PCIE port 5)
00:11.0 RAID bus controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 SATA Controller [Non-RAID5 mode]
00:12.0 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 USB OHCI0 Controller
00:12.1 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SB7x0 USB OHCI1 Controller
00:12.2 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 USB EHCI Controller
00:13.0 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 USB OHCI0 Controller
00:13.1 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SB7x0 USB OHCI1 Controller
00:13.2 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 USB EHCI Controller
00:14.0 SMBus: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SBx00 SMBus Controller (rev 3c)
00:14.1 IDE interface: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 IDE Controller
00:14.2 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA)
00:14.3 ISA bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 LPC host controller
00:14.4 PCI bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SBx00 PCI to PCI Bridge
00:14.5 USB controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SB7x0/SB8x0/SB9x0 USB OHCI2 Controller
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor HyperTransport Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor Miscellaneous Control
00:18.4 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Family 10h Processor Link Control
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI RS880 [Radeon HD 4200]
01:05.1 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI RS880 HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 4200 Series]
02:00.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): JMicron Technology Corp. IEEE 1394 Host Controller
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 03)

---

### Post by unevenflow on 2012-08-17
please subscribe here 
[https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/ltsp-discuss](https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/ltsp-discuss)
[http://www.mail-archive.com/ltsp-discuss@lists.sourceforge.net/info.html](http://www.mail-archive.com/ltsp-discuss@lists.sourceforge.net/info.html)
UBUNTU-LTSP developers post there. I hope they should be able to help you i've used many kind of clients but its the first time i see this problem

---

### Post by DrKay on 2013-04-23
@ unevenflow : Your XSERVER=vesa fixed my issue. Thanks!!

---

