---
title: "12.04 LTS upgrade breaks networking"
date: 2013-04-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wydna on 2013-04-18
Yes, it's another 12.04 LTS upgrade issue. Just thought I'd tap the hornets nest on this one....

After upgrading from 10.04 LTS to 12.04 LTS my networking stopped. My instance is a Hyper-V VM and was working 100% before using a legacy card.

After the upgrade I can still login via the console and see all services running but no packets seem to be leaving or reaching the services. It feels like a firewall is blocking all traffic and the logs show NIC transmission timeouts.

However, when booting I can go into grub and select the current kernel in recovery mode, then select the option to start networking, then drop to root shell and start services manually. I'm probably not starting all the services, but at least the ones I need - ssh, apache, mysql, cron etc. After this I can access the server remotely, all my services respond and generally everything is working and accessible. I have to leave root logged into the console as the only other option is to "Continue booting normally" and this breaks networking. I've noticed from a constant ping that during boot I briefly get ping replies, before they stop.

Anyone have suggestions as to what might be the problem? I've uninstalled ufw and apparmor but the same issue remains. I get the feeling that after the upgrade extra services are starting that stop the packets - or maybe I'm completely wrong.

---

