---
title: "ubuntu 14.04 wifi issue broadcom bcm43228"
date: 2014-11-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by abhishek18 on 2014-11-16
Hi 

I have just installed ubuntu 14.04 as a dual boot along with my Win 7. The isuue is that I am not able to get any Wifi on ubuntu though it works fine for windows. I have tried reinstalling the driver using the following script while conected to the internet with a lan cable```
#/bin/bash
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic
sudo apt-get install --reinstall bcmwl-kernel-source
```

After running the code, the wifi starts to work but as soon as I reboot the machine, the wifi stops working again. 

Could someone please help me with this?

P.S.I am new to Linux. So I wold appreciate if you could explain the solution to me in layman terms :)

---

### Post by praseodym on 2014-11-16
Please check the blacklists:
```

grep wl /etc/modprobe.d/*
cat /etc/modules
```

---

### Post by abhishek18 on 2014-11-16
Here is the ouput:--

abhishek@abhishek-Aspire-V3-571G:~$ grep wl /etc/modprobe.d/*
/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcm43.conf:# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf:blacklist wl
/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-watchdog.conf:blacklist twl4030_wdt
/etc/modprobe.d/broadcom-sta-common.conf:# wl module from Broadcom conflicts with ssb
/etc/modprobe.d/broadcom-sta-common.conf:install wl /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install wl $CMDLINE_OPTS
/etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf:# /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
/etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf:# iwlwifi will dyamically load either iwldvm or iwlmvm depending on the
/etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf:# microcode file installed on the system.  When removing iwlwifi, first
/etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf:# remove the iwl?vm module and then iwlwifi.
/etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf:remove iwlwifi \
/etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf:(/sbin/lsmod | grep -o -e ^iwlmvm -e ^iwldvm -e ^iwlwifi | xargs /sbin/rmmod) \
abhishek@abhishek-Aspire-V3-571G:~$ cat /etc/modules
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.
# Parameters can be specified after the module name.

lp
rtc

---

### Post by abhishek18 on 2014-11-17
Hi [[COLOR=#000000]praseodym[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1411497")

What to do next?

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2014-11-17
Please open a terminal...ctrl/alt/t then COPY and
paste...
```
sudo sed -i '/blacklist wl/ d' /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo "wl" | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
```
boot and test
thanks

---

### Post by abhishek18 on 2014-11-17
Yes.. It is working fine now.. thanks guys.. Will update if it crashes again.. Keeping the thread unsolved for few hours before changing the status

---

