---
title: "Unusual high outgoing traffic"
date: 2010-08-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by thekraut on 2010-08-12
Hi

My apologies in advance - I'm no expert in regards to networks

I've noticed recently that a lot of outgoing internet traffic is generated by my laptop (running Ubuntu 10.04 - 64 bit). This wasn't the case previously. I only found out because my wireless broadband traffic allowance suddenly was used up very quickly.

I've installed ntop to try to find out where all this traffic is going to.
I did find that there were a very high number (at one stage over 11.000) of active TCP/UDP sessions (see attached screenshot). 

Although the traffic generated by each is only small (about 100 bits/bytes - not sure what) multiplied by thousands, makes a fair bit of traffic.

I wonder if I've got some kind of a virus/bug or do I have a configuration problem with my laptop?

Any help/advice in this matter is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by rollin on 2010-08-12
I'll be honest too I'm no expert but this looks slightly similar   [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-networking-3/lots-of-outbound-syn_sent-from-apache-401612/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-networking-3/lots-of-outbound-syn_sent-from-apache-401612/).
  
  Are you running apache or anything though? If not the above link would  be kind of irrelevant but might suggest a few commands you can run to dig out more info...
 
 Don't panic over it. I'm sure an  expert here can wrap it up for you in no time!

---

### Post by blade1950 on 2010-08-12
You've been hacked. Disconnect from the network and check ALL your logs. Find out who, what, when, and where.

---

### Post by thekraut on 2010-08-12
Thanks for the quick reply.

I'm running apache, virtualbox and wine on my laptop.

I do a bit of website coding (hence apache) but I'm not running it as a web server to the outside world.

I'll check the link you've provided for more clues and see if stopping apache will make a difference.

Thanks vm again

---

### Post by thekraut on 2010-08-12
> **blade1950 said:**
> You've been hacked. Disconnect from the network and check ALL your logs. Find out who, what, when, and where.
What do I have to look for in the log files?

---

### Post by rollin on 2010-08-12
> **thekraut said:**
> Thanks for the quick reply.

I'm running apache, virtualbox and wine on my laptop.

I do a bit of website coding (hence apache) but I'm not running it as a web server to the outside world.

I'll check the link you've provided for more clues and see if stopping apache will make a difference.

Thanks vm again

Your most welcome. To disable apache from starting at boot you can copy this into a terminal:

```

sudo update-rc.d -f apache2 remove
```It won't remove the application but will kill the startup script. You can then boot it from the command line when you wish. 

Last notes would be to keep an eye on the thread of course as someone else can probably give much better info than me. Also try not to go chasing an IP addresses they will most likely be spoofed anyway. Maybe have a look around for some digital forensics. I hope you get it back on track soon.

Last bit! Have a search for bodhi.zazen on this forum who has some great posts on securing your installation for the future.

---

### Post by thekraut on 2010-08-12
I think I've found the culprit generating that high outgoing traffic.

I kind of "hacked" myself.

First I've stopped the apache2 server on my laptop and that didn't make any difference whatsoever. But the clue that a server might be involved, made me look at the wine server.

And in particular one program (Yagoon Time Pro 2.31) that I have running on it. It is an old calendar program from my past Windows days. Using the System Monitor of Ubuntu I could see that every time I start this program my outgoing traffic goes up heaps. Closing the program will close it in the desktop, but it keeps running in the background on the wine server (showing as time.exe in the Processes window). As soon as I kill that process the outgoing traffic stops.
It is not the Wine server itself, as I have other programs running on it and they don't cause any increase in outgoing traffic.

It seems I have downloaded a copy of that program that has been tinkered with. That starts making sense, as this increased traffic only happened occasionally (guess when I used the Yagoon program). Whereas my Apache server runs all the time.

Now I need to find a clean version of that particular program in my old disks.

Thanks to everyone that replied and gave me ideas where and what to look for.

---

