---
title: "14.04 ssh for multi-node cloudera cluster"
date: 2016-07-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jcuhitlab on 2016-07-06
Hello,

We have four computers running Ubuntu Desktop 14.04 that we have connected using a Netgear router.  We are trying to use these four computers to create a multi-node Hadoop cluster using Cloudera Manager and CDH, which requires a network using SSH.  We haven't done any configuring of the router, just used the default settings.

We have tried installing openssh-server using sudo apt-get install onto each of the computers.  We used ```
ssh-keygen -t rsa
``` to generate a public/private RSA key.  When we try to connect using ```
ssh username@hostname.local
```, we get an error message: Permission denied (publickey).  We also tried copying the RSA key over to the server from the client using ```
scp -P "22" ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub clientusername@serveripaddress:~/.ssh
```, but we still got the same error message: Permission denied (publickey).

How can we solve this public key problem?  Does it have to do with our router settings?  Is there a better way to cluster these computers for using Cloudera/Hadoop?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Fire_Chief on 2016-07-07
Are you trying to ssh as root? This is blocked by default. You would first SSH as a standard user and then su to root or just use sudo.

---

### Post by jcuhitlab on 2016-07-08
When we try to do "sudo ssh username@hostname" it still requests for the server's password.  When we enter the password we think it should be (the password used to log into the machine, the only password we have created on it), we get a "Permission denied, please try again" message.

---

### Post by Fire_Chief on 2016-07-08
Let me try to be more clear. If your servers are named server1, server2, etc., then you cannot connect to server1 using ssh as root i.e. "ssh root@server1". Let's say you have a normal user account on each server of the Cloudera cluster named Cadmin. You would use this account for ssh access "ssh cadmin@server1". Then once you are logged in as cadmin, you can then promote yourself to root if required using "su root" or just execute what you need per command using sudo.

Also, trying to connect with the actual command of "ssh username@hostname" is not valid unless your actual user account is called "username" and the actual name of one of the servers is "hostname".
Does this make sense?

---

### Post by jcuhitlab on 2016-07-11
Thank you, I appreciate your help.  It makes sense, and I think I'm doing it correctly,   but I'm getting a "Permission denied (publickey)" message now.

Yes, I'm using username and hostname as generic fill words instead of  using the names of our computers and users.  Each machine has a single  user, and each username is distinct, let's say master, server1, server2,  server3 for clarity.  We are trying "ssh [EMAIL="master@server1.local"]master@server1.local[/EMAIL]" but we're getting the error message mentioned above.  And when we try "ssh master@server1" we get "ssh: Could not resolve hostname server1: Name or service not known."

---

### Post by Fire_Chief on 2016-07-11
You can look in the ssh auth log file (/var/log/auth.log) for errors in the process. You can also run the ssh command with the -vvv option for extremely verbose output that may hint at the problem.

Also, you should not use scp to transfer the keys between machines. It is better to use the ssh-copy-id command.

See more info on this setup at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Keys]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SSH/OpenSSH/Keys")

---

