---
title: "Total failure of wired networking"
date: 2011-06-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
Hi :)

Got big problems here! Would really appreciate some help.

I've been unable to get WiFi working on a fresh Ubuntu 11.04 install so resorted to using a wired connection to a domestic router. Worked fine until yesterday when the computer awoke from hibernation. Now the wired connection doesn't work. I've followed the instructions from literally dozens of forum posts and I'm hitting a brick wall every time.

The major problems I'm experiencing are:

1. When I make changes to **/etc/network/interfaces** and then **sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart** I get:
**RTNETLINK answers: No such process**
The restart command never returns and I have to ctrl+c.

2. When I do **sudo dhclient eth0** the command never returns and I have to ctrl+c. I can **sudo dhclient -nw eth0** and the command returns but of course no net connection.

3. I need to config for a dynamic IP address. Static IP not an option :(

4. I've now ended up with network-manager and network-manager-gnome uninstalled and when I try to reinstall them (from backup package files) I get dependency errors.

Can anyone suggest why points #1 and #2 may be happening? I think those may indicate the core problem.

Any help at all would be brilliant. I'm desperate!! Ideally I would like to solve the problem through manually editing config files so I understand WHY the problem occurred and HOW to solve it.

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-26
> 1. When I make changes to /etc/network/interfaces and then sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart I get:
RTNETLINK answers: No such processI always like to start at the start! May we see your file? In a terminal, please run and post:```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
```Please disguise any passwords. Thanks.

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
Hi! Thank you for taking the time to reply :)

Contents are currently:
```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

#auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

```

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-26
I see nothing there that produce an error like RTNETLINK answers: No such process. Perhaps you've cleaned it up. 

I do see that auto eth0 is commented out. That tells the system that we do not want the interface to start on boot and that when the time comes, we'll start it manually. Is that what you intend? You can start it with:```
sudo ifup eth0
```See if it's running and got an IP address from the router or other access point:```
ifconfig eth0
```If you use manual methods, you are responsible to supply DNS nameserver addresses. Did you?```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
Hi. Quick reply from Windows before I go back to Linux to follow your steps :)

At this stage yes I am intentionally not starting eth0 on boot. That just makes sense to me while it isn't working. Is my thinking faulty here?

I have NOT been supplying DNS. I thought dhclient took care of that?

I believe resolv.conf is currently an empty file apart from a line saying that it was automatically created by Network Manager. I'll confirm and post again in a few minutes.

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
When I **sudo ifup eth0** the command never returns until ctrl+c.

**ifconfig eth0** shows:
```

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1f:16:59:36:a2  
          inet6 addr: fe80::21f:16ff:fe59:36a2/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:28 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:60 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:5422 (5.4 KB)  TX bytes:16506 (16.5 KB)
          Interrupt:42 Base address:0x2000 

```Contents of **/etc/resolv.conf**:
```

# Generated by NetworkManager

```I wasn't sure how to add DNS to resolv.conf so I edited **/etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf** and added the line:
```

prepend domain-name-servers 192.168.1.254;

```I got the DNS from doing **ipconfig /all** in Windows. I was surprised that it only showed one DNS when I was expecting two?

After adding the DNS to dhclient.conf I tried **sudo ifup eth0** again but it still hangs until ctrl+c.

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
I should have said at the end:

After adding the DNS, _before_ doing **sudo ifup eth0** again, I did:
```

sudo service networking stop
sudo service networking start

```

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-26
> **AndrewSmith said:**
> I should have said at the end:

After adding the DNS, _before_ doing **sudo ifup eth0** again, I did:
```

sudo service networking stop
sudo service networking start

```I am quite troubled by this part:> When I sudo ifup eth0 the command ***never returns until ctrl+c***.Something is going on that needs tweaking. I wonder if there are clues in:```
sudo cat /var/log/syslog | grep -e etwork -e eth0 | tail -n25
```> At this stage yes I am intentionally not starting eth0 on boot. That just makes sense to me while it isn't working. Is my thinking faulty here?
It adds very little overhead but we ought to get it fine-tuned and working first; then we can confidently remove the hash #.

I will be in and out as long as F1 is on...

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
Thank you for your continued help.

Results of **sudo cat /var/log/syslog | grep -e etwork -e eth0 | tail -n25**:
```

Jun 26 17:19:34 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [  353.570258] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth0: link is not ready
Jun 26 17:19:34 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
Jun 26 17:19:35 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [  355.196574] r8169 0000:01:00.0: eth0: link up
Jun 26 17:19:35 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [  355.196920] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): eth0: link becomes ready
Jun 26 17:19:37 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
Jun 26 17:19:42 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: can't create /var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.eth0.leases: No such file or directory
Jun 26 17:20:00 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [  379.802036] r8169 0000:01:00.0: eth0: link down
Jun 26 17:20:00 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [  379.802047] r8169 0000:01:00.0: eth0: link down
Jun 26 17:20:00 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [  379.802245] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth0: link is not ready
Jun 26 17:20:00 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
Jun 26 17:20:02 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [  381.746137] r8169 0000:01:00.0: eth0: link up
Jun 26 17:20:02 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [  381.746477] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): eth0: link becomes ready
Jun 26 17:20:03 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
Jun 26 17:20:04 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Jun 26 17:20:07 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Jun 26 17:20:12 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [  391.936045] eth0: no IPv6 routers present
Jun 26 17:20:13 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Jun 26 17:20:17 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: can't create /var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.eth0.leases: No such file or directory
Jun 26 17:20:17 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
Jun 26 17:20:19 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Jun 26 17:20:22 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Jun 26 18:03:13 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC avahi-daemon[683]: Network interface enumeration completed.
Jun 26 18:03:13 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [    1.514236] r8169 0000:01:00.0: eth0: RTL8102e at 0xf8054000, 00:1f:16:59:36:a2, XID 14a00000 IRQ 42
Jun 26 18:03:13 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [   16.878048] type=1400 audit(1309107793.010:3): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_load" name="/usr/lib/NetworkManager/nm-dhcp-client.action" pid=528 comm="apparmor_parser"
Jun 26 18:03:13 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC kernel: [   17.293150] type=1400 audit(1309107793.426:7): apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_replace" name="/usr/lib/NetworkManager/nm-dhcp-client.action" pid=699 comm="apparmor_parser"

```

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-26
> apparmor="STATUS" operation="profile_load" name="/usr/lib/[COLOR="Red"]NetworkManager[/COLOR]/nm-dhcp-client.action" pid=528 comm="apparmor_parser"I'm not quite sure that quite agrees with:> I've now ended up with network-manager and network-manager-gnome uninstalled Can you please check:```
ps aux | grep -i network
sudo dpkg -s network-manager
```If it says:> $ sudo dpkg -s network-manager
Package: network-manager
Status: install [COLOR="Red"]ok installed[/COLOR]Then it's still hanging on and you should do:```
sudo apt-get remove --purge network-manag*
```Then let's try again:```
sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0
```

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
Part of Network Manager was indeed hanging around. I have removed it and confirmed. I also have Wicd installed but (a) unable to start and (b) unable to remove due to permission errors!!

Here's how everything else went:

```

**sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0**
ifdown: interface eth0 not configured
(hangs, ctrl+c)
**sudo ifup eth0**
ifup: interface eth0 already configured
**sudo service networking stop**
stop: Unknown instance: 
**sudo service networking start**
networking stop/waiting
**sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0**
RTNETLINK answers: No such process
(hangs, ctrl+c)
**sudo ifup eth0**
ifup: interface eth0 already configured
**sudo dhclient eth0**
(hangs, ctrl+c)

```

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-26
> I also have Wicd installed but (a) unable to start and (b) unable to remove Yikes! What is the error message when you start Wicd in the terminal:```
wicd
```

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
Yikes indeed! I've probably made a big mess of this system :) Sorry but I tried everything I could find to fix the problem myself before asking for help.

```

**wicd**
bash: /usr/sbin/wicd: Permission denied
**sudo wicd**
sudo: wicd: command not found
**cd wicd-1.7.0/**
**sudo python setup.py uninstall**
Using init file ('/etc/init.d/', 'init/debian/wicd')
Using pid path wicd.pid
Language support for it es_CL nl he sr ar_PS ca zh_HK kk gl fr_CA es_VE eu fa lv ml el fi ko fr eo es_MX ka pt_BR id uk de_DE pt fr_FR pl nl_NL it_IT tr de es_ES zh_TW es hu cs sk lt sl ja zh_CN vi es_AR en_CA no ru_RU es_GT bg ro ar_EG et hr_HR te da sv es_NI ru
running uninstall
sh: ./uninstall.sh: Permission denied

```

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-26
Please do:```
sudo updatedb
locate wicd
```When you find it, /usr/bin or /usr/sbin or /wherever/whenever find out its permissions:```
ls -al /usr/wherever/wicd
```If it doesn't have x included, it's not executable. Then do:```
sudo su
chmod +x /usr/wherever/wicd
exit
```Now try to start it:```
wicd
```Does it show up in Synaptic?```
sudo synaptic
```Can you remove it there?

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
This is getting stranger and stranger!

I did **sudo updatedb** and found wicd in /usr/sbin. Then:

```

**ls -al wicd**
-rw------- 1 root root 78 2011-06-26 15:30 wicd
**sudo su**
**chmod +x wicd**
**exit**
**ls -al wicd**
-rwx--x--x 1 root root 78 2011-06-26 15:30 wicd
**wicd**
Permission denied
**sudo wicd**
rename failed

```I have no idea what the "rename failed" is about!!

There does not appear to be a listing for wicd in Synaptic.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-26
> I have no idea what the "rename failed" is about!!likewise.

Let's throw the kitchen sink at it:```
sudo su
chmod 777 /usr/sbin/wicd
exit
wicd
```I'm rather surprised it's not in Synaptic and you can't remove it. Is it a version you downloaded? Is the binary, tar.gz or deb still in your user directory?

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
After chmod 777 running wicd produces:
```
/usr/bin/python: can't open file '/usr/share/wicd/daemon/wicd-daemon.py': [Errno 13] Permission denied
```I first installed wicd through Synaptic while I had ethernet, and later removed it. (This was when I was trying to get WiFi working.) When I needed to reinstall wicd after I lost ethernet I downloaded the file **wicd-1.7.0.tar.bz2** in Windows, moved it to my Ubuntu partition, and followed the installation instructions within. (I did the basic install, not the "package" install because I don't know what that means.)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-26
```
sudo su
chmod 777 /usr/share/wicd/daemon/wicd-daemon.py
exit
wicd
```I am starting to think this is really a Python problem.

Snakes. Why'd it have to be snakes?

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
More fail I'm afraid :(

```

**sudo su**
**chmod 777 /usr/share/wicd/daemon/wicd-daemon.py **
**exit**
**wicd**
rename failed
Root privileges are required for the daemon to run properly.  Exiting.
**sudo wicd**
rename failed

```

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-26
> I downloaded the file wicd-1.7.0.tar.bz2 in Windows, moved it to my Ubuntu partition, and followed the installation instructions within. (I did the basic install, not the "package" install because I don't know what that means.)Can you please post the README as an attachment to your reply? Is Wicd actually running? I suspect not.```
ps aux | grep wicd
```If it's not actually running, the correct settings in /etc/network/interfaces ought to get the connection going.

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-26
**ps aux | grep wicd** produces:
```

andrew    1621  0.0  0.0   4156   856 pts/0    S+   03:42   0:00 grep --color=auto wicd

```That's just the grep process showing up though I think?

I managed to uninstall wicd by doing **chmod a+x uninstall.sh** (which was the file reported as permission denied) and then following the uninstall instructions. It said that wicd had been successfully uninstalled but config files created after installation would NOT be removed. There are now maybe 2 dozen wicd files still showing on the filesystem, but as far as I'm aware wicd itself is gone.

I've done all the usual networking stop/start, ifdown/ifup and dhclient eth0 but networking start still produces the RTNETLINK error and both ifup and dhclient still hang until ctrl+c.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-27
> There are now maybe 2 dozen wicd files still showing on the filesystem, but as far as I'm aware wicd itself is gone.That's fine; they do no harm. You may safely remove them if you wish.

I'd like to try to capture whatever is going wrong in networking. Let's try two approaches. First. un-comment 'auto eth0' in interfaces and shut down and cold boot. After the desktop is settled, open a terminal and do:```
dmesg > asmith.txt
```Post asmith.txt as an attachment to your reply using the paperclip tool at the top of the reply box. Second, open a terminal and do:```
sudo tail -f /var/log/syslog
```Leave *syslog* open. Open another terminal and do:```
sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0
```Watch *syslog* as events unfold. Keep watching until it starts to repeat or gives up. Copy and paste the syslog output to a text document; save it as asmith_syslog.txt and attach it to your reply. The goal is to see where the system reports, 'I can't go on because I don't have X.'

The forums are a funny place; I am working on a case where the poster has re-installed 30 times (!!). You have yet to mention it.

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-27
Firstly let me thank you again for taking time to help me. In the photography world I've always made an effort to help people, so it's really nice that someone has stepped up to help me when I'm the one asking! :)

Do you think I should reinstall? I have considered it, but I think it's much better to work out what is wrong and fix it. That way I can help others with the same problem in future. The whole reinstall-to-fix thing has never made sense to me! Plus I'm sure to learn more about Linux by fixing a problem than simply "undoing" whatever caused it.

I have attached the two files. I had to put asmith.txt in a zip file because the forum said the txt file was too large.

You'll see in the syslog file that it gets in to a pattern of repeating blocks like this:
```

DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
DHCPOFFER of 192.168.1.98 from 192.168.1.254
DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
DHCPNAK from 192.168.1.254
DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
DHCPNAK from 192.168.1.254
DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
DHCPNAK from 192.168.1.254

```It took around 8 seconds for each block to come up, with a gap of around 2 seconds between each set of 2 lines. Don't know if that helps at all but I thought it may be relevant.

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-27
Oops sorry sorry sorry please ignore above message, I forgot to uncomment **auto eth0**. I'll do that now and repeat the previous steps. BRB!! :-)

---

### Post by fiacobelli on 2011-06-27
I had something similar (identical?) happen on my HP dm1 (Similar ethernet card). Tried a lot of the things you tried (like restarting Networkmanager and networking several times). I never modified the scripts, though.

Here's what worked:
```

sudo rmmod r8169
sudo modprobe r8169

```

Problem solved this time around... the question I have now is: how do I automate it so that every time my computer wakes up it reloads the module?
Check my post (if it is of any help) [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1791806").

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-27
> [    3.500799] ums-realtek 1-3:1.0: This device (0bda,0158,5887 S 06 P 50) has unneeded SubClass and Protocol entries in unusual_devs.h (kernel 2.6.39-0-generic)
[    3.500801]    Please send a copy of this message to <linux-usb@vger.kernel.org> and <usb-storage@lists.one-eyed-alien.net>I am continuing to study dmesg and I note the above within it. I'd go ahead and email them; include a description of the Realtek USB device you have, your kernel version and an invitation to request further data:```
lsusb
uname -a
```You aren't a Canon cowboy, are you? My daddy says we don't speak to Canon shooters and that they're evil.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-27
Seen here:  [http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:UZZ43FnAKFsJ:www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2131.txt+DHCPNAK+definition&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&source=www.google.com](http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:UZZ43FnAKFsJ:www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2131.txt+DHCPNAK+definition&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&source=www.google.com)> If the client's request is invalid (e.g., the client has moved
      to a new subnet), servers SHOULD respond with a [COLOR="Red"]DHCPNAK[/COLOR] message to
      the client. Servers SHOULD NOT respond if their information is not
      guaranteed to be accurate.  For example, a server that identifies a
      request for an expired binding that is owned by another server SHOULD
      NOT respond with a DHCPNAK unless the servers are using an explicit
      mechanism to maintain coherency among the servers.Your messages are:> DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
DHCPOFFER of 192.168.1.98 from 192.168.1.254
DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
[COLOR="Red"]DHCPNAK[/COLOR] from 192.168.1.254Roughly, I think this means:

Your Computer: Anybody got an IP address?
Router: Sure! You want x.98?
Your Computer: I'd love to have x.98, please.
Router: Sorry, that's an invalid address, no deal. Bye.

So, why does the router (switch, access point, etc.) offer an address and then claim it's invalid? Does DHCP networking work perfectly well on other computers on the network? Is this your router so we can confidently look in its configuration pages if needed? May we threaten it with violence?

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-29
Hi. Sorry I've been away for a few days. Got called away on business and had to just switch the laptop off and run!

Attached are the files produced after uncommenting **auto eth0** and following the instructions again.

There are two syslog files. In the first one I noticed this line:
```
can't create /var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.eth0.leases: No such file or directory
```So I created the directory **/var/lib/dhcp3/** and then followed the instructions again, producing the second syslog file.

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-29
> **chili555 said:**
> So, why does the router (switch, access point, etc.) offer an address and then claim it's invalid? Does DHCP networking work perfectly well on other computers on the network? Is this your router so we can confidently look in its configuration pages if needed? May we threaten it with violence?

Yes it is my router. Other devices connecting to this machine are:

[LIST]
[*]Laptop running Windows 7, both wired and WiFi (same laptop that I'm having the Linux problem with)
[*]Desktop running Vista, wired
[*]Laptop running Vista, WiFi
[*]iPhone
[*]Android phone
[/LIST]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-29
I've examined your logs and, again, the only thing notable is exactly the same:> Jun 27 15:47:45 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
Jun 27 15:47:46 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Jun 27 15:47:46 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPNAK from 192.168.1.254
Jun 27 15:47:46 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPOFFER of 192.168.1.98 from 192.168.1.254
Jun 27 15:47:46 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Jun 27 15:47:46 andrew-HP-G70-Notebook-PC dhclient: [COLOR="Red"]DHCPNAK[/COLOR] from 192.168.1.254

Since other machines connect normally and this machine complains and won't connect and spews out mysterious messages; obviously it's a local fault. Taking the dhclient message as a possible clue, let's try to repair that system. Please open Applications > Synaptic and go to Edit > Fix Broken Packages. Does it seem to do anything significant? Next, search for 'dhcp' and mark these packages for reinstallation:

isc-dhcp-client
isc-dhcp-common

Then try this again:```
sudo ifdown eth0 && sudo ifup eth0
```Does it conclude or need Ctrl+c?

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-30
I'm sorry to say that we don't appear to be any further on.

I couldn't reinstall the dhcp packages through Synaptic due to no net connection, so I downloaded them in Windows then booted back in to Ubuntu and installed them. These are the packages I installed:

[http://launchpadlibrarian.net/69915718/isc-dhcp-common_4.1.1-P1-15ubuntu9_i386.deb](http://launchpadlibrarian.net/69915718/isc-dhcp-common_4.1.1-P1-15ubuntu9_i386.deb)
[http://launchpadlibrarian.net/69915720/isc-dhcp-client_4.1.1-P1-15ubuntu9_i386.deb](http://launchpadlibrarian.net/69915720/isc-dhcp-client_4.1.1-P1-15ubuntu9_i386.deb)

After installing I did **ifdown/ifup** but sadly I'm still getting **RTNETLINK answers: No such process** and then the ifup hangs until ctrl+c.

Honestly this is so depressing! Every time I go in to Linux it "feels right", but then I have to come back in to Windows to do anything that needs a net connection. Would I be kidding myself to think that the best solution might be to use a different distro? People seem to have so many problems with networking in Ubuntu. Thinking about what has happened here -- laptop hibernates, loses ethernet, can't get it back -- it's hard to believe that's Linux we're talking about! :o

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-30
> Would I be kidding myself to think that the best solution might be to use a different distro? People seem to have so many problems with networking in Ubuntu. Thinking about what has happened here -- laptop hibernates, loses ethernet, can't get it back -- it's hard to believe that's Linux we're talking about! The blunt answer is yes, you are kidding yourself. The kernel and driver modules are virtually identical, except for version, from distro to distro. By that, I mean, Suse 8.0 uses earlier versions of the kernel, drivers, dhcp, etc., etc. than Suse 11.0. However, I am confident that some version of Suse and some version of Fedora and some version of Mint, etc. is identical under the hood to some version of Ubuntu. Whatever is mis-configured or missing in your Ubuntu system would be just as troublesome in any distro.

Now, I am no Ubuntu absolutist. I think you should use whatever distro that gives you a satisfying experience. I sent my own sister a free laptop with Ubuntu pre-loaded and running perfectly. Within a few weeks, she changed to PCLinuxOS. If it suits her better, then I applaud her decision.

You can certainly do what many of us have done over the years, including me. Download and burn the live CDs of several distros. Run them live; play with them, use them for a few days. One of them will make you happy to use it. Several will hit the trash bin. When you've narrowed down to the one you like the most, install it!

I don't believe Ubuntu has more or fewer networking problems than any other distro. It probably looks like it because Web statistics suggest that Ubuntu's share of Linux desktop usage is about 50%, and indicate upward-trending usage as a web server. That means all those other distros, together, split up the other 50%. [http://stats.wikimedia.org/wikimedia/squids/SquidReportOperatingSystems.htm](http://stats.wikimedia.org/wikimedia/squids/SquidReportOperatingSystems.htm)

Surf their forums and you'll certainly see networking and, especially wireless issues. However, it may seem like they have only 10-15% of the issues as Ubuntu, but they also have 10-15% of the users!

Moreover, many of the posts here are repeats because I can't bear to reply, "Search the forum, the answer to your Broadcom wireless is right there." > DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
DHCPOFFER of 192.168.1.98 from 192.168.1.254
DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.98 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
[COLOR="Red"]DHCPNAK[/COLOR] from 192.168.1.254 In many years and many posts on this forum, that's the very first occurrence of DHCPNAK I have seen.

Do you have the Ubuntu install CD? Can you run live and connect?

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-06-30
> **chili555 said:**
> I don't believe Ubuntu has more or fewer networking problems than any other distro. It probably looks like it because Web statistics suggest that Ubuntu's share of Linux desktop usage is about 50%, and indicate upward-trending usage as a web server. That means all those other distros, together, split up the other 50%.
Of course! That was silly of me not to realise how the complaint stats are skewed by the market share. I'll stick with Ubuntu. I have to say, despite all the negative comments I've read about changes to Unity, as a new user I really like it.
> Do you have the Ubuntu install CD? Can you run live and connect?Will try that right now... Back out of Windows again, yay! :-)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-06-30
Do you know you can remove Network Manager and populate /etc/network/interfaces quite well even running live?

---

### Post by AndrewSmith on 2011-07-01
I booted from the live CD and Network Manager tried to connect to eth0 but failed. I tried again a few times and it failed each time. I also tried to connect to WiFi but (no surprise!) that failed too.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-07-01
While in the live CD and NM is trying to connect, please run:```
sudo cat /var/log/syslog | grep etwork | tail -n25 > asmithlive.txt
dmesg | grep -e r8169 -e eth >> asmithlive.txt
```Transfer the file on a USB key or similar and post it as an attachment to your reply.

---

