---
title: "4.13.0-22-generic kernel updated caused wifi driver to stop working."
date: 2017-12-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by derek-ross666 on 2017-12-22
Hi All, 

I was using 4.13.0-19-generic and all previous kernels since my 17.10 upgrade and i've been using the same driver for my Realtek 8192du for many many years (2013). 

The lsusb command lists my card as : "Bus 002 Device 002: ID 050d:110a Belkin Components F9L1101v2 802.11abgn Wireless Adapter [Realtek RTL8192DU]"

Refer to this page for the driver in use (previously since 2013) as of now if will not work : "https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2176114&p=12799964#post12799964"

Obviously i can drop back to 4.13.0-19 but I am used to keeping my system updated as since 4.13.0-22 my "LIRC" is working again for my universal remote. 

I also have a wired LAN which gives me internet access so although the WiFi isn't essential it limits some apps i run which connect to hardware via my WiFi network which is a separate network to my wired LAN so any help anyone could provide would be welcomed. 

If you need any further information from myself please let me know and i'll post it asap. 

This is my standard driver install info below; Thanks for reading this and hope to get some help if possible. 

git clone [https://github.com/lwfinger/rtl8192du.git](https://github.com/lwfinger/rtl8192du.git)
cd rtl8192du
make
sudo make install
sudo modprobe 8192du

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2017-12-22
Do
```
cd rtl8192du
git status
```
Post results

---

### Post by derek-ross666 on 2017-12-22
On branch master
Your branch is up-to-date with 'origin/master'.


nothing to commit, working tree clean

-------------------------------------------------

Also iwconfig outputs: 

```
enp2s0    no wireless extensions.

wlx00e04c819200  unassociated  Nickname:"<WIFI@REALTEK>"
          Mode:Auto  Frequency=2.412 GHz  Access Point: Not-Associated   
          Sensitivity:0/0  
          Retry:off   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality:0  Signal level:0  Noise level:0
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0


lo        no wireless extensions.



```

As if the adaptor is there but not configured as not shown under ifconfig, i've never tried this when its not working so unsure if anything should show or not.

---

### Post by derek-ross666 on 2017-12-23
Has anything changed from rev 19 to 22 in the kernel that would case problems with this?

I reckon maybe i could configure the card manually, also why do the adaptor names have such long ones rather than lan01, wifi01 etc?

It also lists that there is no driver for my card and i need to use ndiswrapper which is incorrect?

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2017-12-23
The long interface names have been around since Ubuntu 15.10 IIRC part of [https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/PredictableNetworkInterfaceNames/](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd/PredictableNetworkInterfaceNames/)
Does
```
iwlist scan
```
Have any results?
Also check ```
dmesg | grep 8192du
```

---

