---
title: "11.10 overwrites my resolv.conf"
date: 2011-11-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by antimatter on 2011-11-03
for years i have been manually configuring my networks settings. this pc has a static ip address. since i updated however, whenever i reboot my resolv.conf is wiped and i have to manually put in the dns nameserver again. how do i stop it from wiping it blank whenever i reboot? oh yea, one more thing, why cant i start gedit as root from the console anymore? i sign in as su and then try launching gedit /etc/resolv.conf ?
(root@balk-linux:/home/balk# gedit /etc/resolv.conf 

(gedit:2006): EggSMClient-WARNING **: Failed to connect to the session manager: None of the authentication protocols specified are supported


** (gedit:2006): WARNING **: Could not connect to session bus
)

i tried using the network manager thing in the top right corner, but that didnt work at all. why did ubuntu have to become so "user friendly"(nothing works at all and ubuntu prevents you from changing settings[does it assume im stupid?]) and "maclike"(unity sucks a can of beans)? i wish i had never updated ... 11.04 was bearable, cause that came with classic gnome still. why force this ******** onto everyone? -rant over- can i get some help please :popcorn:

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-11-03
This statement:> for years i have been manually configuring my networks settings.Is in conflict with this statement:> i tried using the network manager thing in the top right corner,If you have Network Manager installed and running, it will attempt, often unsuccessfully, to manage your network connections for you. I suggest either of two alternatives. Edit connections in Network Manager and set all your details there. Please see attached for an example.

The other is to remove NM altogether and set up your own /etc/network/interfaces and /etc/resolv.conf files.> ubuntu prevents you from changing settings[does it assume im stupid?])It doesn't. I suspect something else is incorrect in your system. Have you tried logging in as an ordinaly user and doing:```
sudo gedit /some/file
```Does it still error out?

Finally, you can easily install Gnome shell on 11.10. In my opinion, one of the greatest features of Ubuntu is the ability to install and use Unity, Gnome, KDE, XFCE, et al freely. You needn't feel you are forced to do anything. For example: [http://www.kubuntu.org/news/11.10-release](http://www.kubuntu.org/news/11.10-release)

PS - I use Gnome shell and not Network Manager!

---

### Post by antimatter on 2011-11-03
thanks for your reply:

> The other is to remove NM altogether and set up your own /etc/network/interfaces and /etc/resolv.conf files.

ive really been manually configuring my network via the network/interfaces and resolv.conf for years. but seeing as updating to 11.10 broke my network settings due to overwriting my resolv.conf i decided i might give the network manager thingie a chance, but no dice. ive filled it out just like you did in your screenshot, but nothing. so i should probably axe that piece of software altogether and rely on my manual settings? which packages would i have to remove thought, to get rid of NM

about the gedit problem: interestingly it worked using sudo gedit. for years ive been setting a root passd though, so i usually just type in su and then log in as root and run whatever. too lazy to put sudo into everything i want to run as admin. so i guess that was causing the problem. still puzzles me, why i cant run gedit as su from console?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-11-03
```
which packages would i have to remove thought, to get rid of NM
```Try this:```
sudo apt-get remove --purge network-manager*
```I suggest you reboot afterwards.> still puzzles me, why i cant run gedit as su from console? Ubuntu, I believe, makes it very difficult, maybe impossible, to effectively run as root. I think it prefers to minimize the dangers, great, small and imagined, of leaving administrative privileges open continuously. For 99% of Ubuntu users, I think it's the right decision. Of course, you can always do:```
sudo su
gedit /some/file
some-service restart
apt-get install some-software
exit
```

---

### Post by linuxwin2 on 2011-11-04
I have the same problem, after reboot the file resolv.conf is empty.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-11-04
> **linuxwin2 said:**
> I have the same problem, after reboot the file resolv.conf is empty.And I have the same answer as above unless there is something else going on that you haven't described.

---

### Post by antimatter on 2011-11-08
purging the network manager fixed the problem of the overwritten resolv.conf 
thanks bro!

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2011-11-08
Yes, standard Ubuntu always overwrites resolv.conf. There is a package you can install to allow you to manage it manually, but I have never tried it. The package name is resolvconf.

Tim

---

### Post by Rumpty on 2011-11-14
Using Lubuntu 11.10. and having the same trouble with an overwritten resolve.conf. 

I set up the network with the Network Manager GUI, manual, not DHCP for the IPv4 info, same as I've done in 11.04 and earlier, with no resolv.conf problems there, but something has changed in 11.10. For one thing,I don't have to "authenticate" at the finish of the setting up, after using Save. Could that be significant?

---

### Post by JCyberinux on 2012-03-04
In other computer my Network Manager works flawlessly, i think in other profiles/settings might change the network manager from working. I encounter the same problem lately, the only option i do is to manage to reinstall the network manager or delete it and manually edit the network. (resolv.conf and interfaces).

---

