---
title: "802.11n three antenna setup, do they need to be identical?"
date: 2011-11-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jarthurs on 2011-11-11
I've just purchased a PCI 802.11n card with sockets for three antenna. Can't find any reference online as to whether or not these antenna need to be identical or if the card can cope with different antenna on each connector.

This is for a PC that's at the very edge of the existing 802.11g access point and an upgrade to a 802.11n AP has improved the signal strength on it's existing 802.11g PCI card.

The system box is in a cupboard which leaves little room for stubby antenna sticking out the back of the case. I do have a few 2.4GHz antenna with short cables but I don't think I have three the same.

Regards,
Jason.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-11-11
> **jarthurs said:**
> I've just purchased a PCI 802.11n card with sockets for three antenna. Can't find any reference online as to whether or not these antenna need to be identical or if the card can cope with different antenna on each connector.

This is for a PC that's at the very edge of the existing 802.11g access point and an upgrade to a 802.11n AP has improved the signal strength on it's existing 802.11g PCI card.

The system box is in a cupboard which leaves little room for stubby antenna sticking out the back of the case. I do have a few 2.4GHz antenna with short cables but I don't think I have three the same.

Regards,
Jason.

as far as i know devices that use multiple antennas use them for diversity so not all 3 at the same time, therefore if you connected a omnidiretional, a high gain OD or Directional etc it would use whichever had the best or strongest signal.

Someone with better knowledge may have further input on the subject though, i am not a 802.11 telecoms guru

Check with the manual of the card

---

