---
title: "Grysnc/rsync over network"
date: 2008-07-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Tom_ZeCat on 2008-07-23
I've got rysync's GUI, Grsync, working great for backing up some files from one of my Ubuntu PCs to an external drive.  However, I'm not having any luck copying files over the network.  My network is a simple wired one with two Ubuntu 8.04 PCs and one Windows XP one.  I'm copying from on Linux PC to another one.  The Windows PC is not being copied to.  

I understand that Grsync/rsync does not support Samba virtual locations.  You've got to put the PC's IP address in.  I'm trying to do so based on the info I've found in this tutorial:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=795668]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=795668")

My source is on my PC named Tom-FastJuke: 
```
/home/tom/Documents/LetsSync/
```
It's the one I'm running Grsync on.  

My destination is on the PC named Toms-JukeBox: 
```
smb://toms-jukebox/pent3mainhd/SyncTo
```

Of course, that's its Samba path.  Since Rsync doesn't support Samba, I'm extrapolating that path to an IP-based one:
```
192.168.0.102:pent3mainhd/SyncTo
```

Here are the options I'm using in Grsync:
```
Basic Options:
Delete on destination
Show transfer progress
Skip newer

Advanced options:
Copy symlinks and symlinks

Additional options:
-e ssh

```

It's not working.  Here's what I get when I run the simulation:

> ```
output:
*** Launching RSYNC command:
rsync -r --progress -u -l -e ssh /home/tom/Documents/LetsSync/ 192.168.0.102:pent3mainhd/SyncTo/

ssh: connect to host 192.168.0.102 port 22: Connection refused

rsync: writefd_unbuffered failed to write 4 bytes [sender]: Broken pipe (32)
rsync error: unexplained error (code 255) at io.c(1123) [sender=2.6.9]
```

What's going on?  I thought I followed the instructions in the tutorial exactly.  Why isn't it working?

---

### Post by jtniehof on 2008-07-23
Since you're using ssh, are you able to just ssh from one box to another? (removing the rsync layer). Is the ssh server installed on toms-jukebox?

---

### Post by gnulinuxoss on 2008-07-23
Now would also be a great time to ensure you've setup, and are using ssh-key-based authentication so that (G)rsync won't complain about a password. And, as the other post asks you to verify, be sure that you can ssh from one machine to another before trying to use (G)rsync to ensure ssh is playing nicely.

---

### Post by Tom_ZeCat on 2008-07-23
I believe ssh is installed.  As was suggested in the tutorial, I ran this to install ssh:

> ```
sudo apt-get install openssh-server
```

And when I run "ssh --help", I get this:

> ```
usage: ssh [-1246AaCfgKkMNnqsTtVvXxY] [-b bind_address] [-c cipher_spec]
           [-D [bind_address:]port] [-e escape_char] [-F configfile]
           [-i identity_file] [-L [bind_address:]port:host:hostport]
           [-l login_name] [-m mac_spec] [-O ctl_cmd] [-o option] [-p port]
           [-R [bind_address:]port:host:hostport] [-S ctl_path]
           [-w local_tun[:remote_tun]] [user@]hostname [command]
```


The ssh help would not come up if it weren't installed, right?  Is all the syntax correct in the rsync command generated by the GUI?  It came out like this:

> ```
rsync -r --progress -u -l -e ssh /home/tom/Documents/LetsSync/ 192.168.0.102:pent3mainhd/SyncTo/
```

I used Smb4k to verify I've got the IP address right.

---

### Post by jtniehof on 2008-07-23
> **Tom_ZeCat said:**
> I believe ssh is installed.  As was suggested in the tutorial, I ran this to install ssh:
On which machine? The server needs to be installed on Toms-Jukebox. What happens if, on Tom-Fastjuke, you run:
```
ssh 192.168.0.102
```?

---

### Post by Tom_ZeCat on 2008-07-23
> **jtniehof said:**
> On which machine? The server needs to be installed on Toms-Jukebox. What happens if, on Tom-Fastjuke, you run:
```
ssh 192.168.0.102
```?

I get this:

```
tom@tom-FastJuke:~$ ssh 192.168.0.102
ssh: connect to host 192.168.0.102 port 22: Connection refused
tom@tom-FastJuke:~$ 

```

I'd bet that's it.  I don't think I've installed ssh on toms-JukeBox.  I'm going to try that now.  I also notice it's on port 22 and wonder if that is of significance.  

Gonna go install that now and report what happens.

---

### Post by Tom_ZeCat on 2008-07-23
All right, I'm back.  I installed ssh on the other machine.  That changed some things, but it still didn't work.  According to Grsync's simulation, it was going to work.  When I ran the simulation, I got this.  

```
*** Launching RSYNC command (simulation mode):
rsync -r -n --progress --delete -u -l -e ssh /home/tom/Documents/LetsSync/ 192.168.0.102:pent3mainhd/SyncTo/

building file list ... 
7 files to consider
created directory pent3mainhd/SyncTo
./
01 Le Boom - Run, Run, Run.mp3
03 Le Boom - Sad Boys.mp3
Avril Lavigne - Forgotten.mp3
Avril Lavigne - My Happy Ending.mp3
house cleared.odt
why it should be questioned.odt

sent 319 bytes  received 62 bytes  58.62 bytes/sec
total size is 23824366  speedup is 62531.14
```

It looked like all my sample files were going to copy over just fine.  However, when I ran the real deal, the files didn't copy over, and I got this:

```
rsync: mkdir "/home/tom/pent3mainhd/SyncTo" failed: No such file or directory (2)
rsync error: error in file IO (code 11) at main.c(529) [receiver=2.6.9]
rsync: connection unexpectedly closed (8 bytes received so far) [sender]
rsync error: error in rsync protocol data stream (code 12) at io.c(454) [sender=2.6.9]
```

It didn't work whether I put the ending slash "/" on SyncTo or if I didn't.

---

### Post by jtniehof on 2008-07-24
> **Tom_ZeCat said:**
> mkdir "/home/tom/pent3mainhd/SyncTo" failed: No such file or directory (2)
This suggests to me you want your rsync command line to be ```
rsync -r -n --progress --delete -u -l -e ssh /home/tom/Documents/LetsSync/ 192.168.0.102:/pent3mainhd/SyncTo/
```
(note the / at the front of the destination path.) Is pent3mainhd mounted under the root, or in your home directory? If you don't "anchor" the target directory with a /, it assumes it's relative to your home directory on the target machine.

---

### Post by Tom_ZeCat on 2008-07-24
Very strange.  I ran the command exactly as you suggested -- at the command line, not in the GUI -- and it acted like it worked.  There were no error messages.  However, the files did not show up on the target computer.

---

### Post by jtniehof on 2008-07-25
> **Tom_ZeCat said:**
> Very strange.  I ran the command exactly as you suggested -- at the command line, not in the GUI -- and it acted like it worked.  There were no error messages.  However, the files did not show up on the target computer.

Oops, yeah, the "-n" is dry-run mode, so it wouldn't actually transfer...I was just copying your command line and fixing the error you had listed, not going through the whole alphabet soup. Take away the -n and it should work, and you should also be able to do it through the GUI by including the leading / ...did I make the difference clear there?

---

### Post by Tom_ZeCat on 2008-07-25
> **jtniehof said:**
> Oops, yeah, the "-n" is dry-run mode, so it wouldn't actually transfer...I was just copying your command line and fixing the error you had listed, not going through the whole alphabet soup. Take away the -n and it should work, and you should also be able to do it through the GUI by including the leading / ...did I make the difference clear there?

You did.  I just wanted to try it at the command line first.  Gonna try it now.  If it works, I'll try it in the GUI.  Your help is very appreciated.

---

