---
title: "15.10 Keeps Asking for Wireless Authentication"
date: 2016-02-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by john524 on 2016-02-26
I have a workstation with Ubuntu 15.10 installed. Its a fresh install with all the latest updates. Unfortunately due to location I can't have a wired connection to it in the office, so its connected to the offices 2.4GHz wifi network with a "The Pi Hut" usb wifi dongle (other adapter didn't work so figured this one that was built for the RPi will work with ubuntu). It connects fine and wireless works good (even from boot up), but every few hours a "Wirless Needs Authentication" pop up goes up (which already has the password pre-filled), but it brings down net until I physically press the confirmation button. 

This is extremely annoying and pretty much makes the system useless. Is there any way to disable this pop up and force the system to use the authentication credentials it has stored? Im assuming since the internet works fine and this only happens ever few hours the router itself is either going down, or the system temporarily loses connection thus brining up this pop up. It does not make sense though since the system Auto logs into the network on boot.

I have searched and gone over all the basics (all the proper password and autologin in the wifi preferences pane, power save state is turned off etc). Below is a pastebin of the wifi check utility in the sticky thread of this forum.

pastebin.com/i5CtwLUu

---

### Post by john524 on 2016-02-26
ok I got lucky just now and another pop up came in about 15 minutes in. I grabbed dmesg from the time that the network went down and below is what was reported

pastebin.com/KZVeeCBW

Looks like what might be triggering these messages is with the weird cfg80211 regions that keep getting set and unset

The last deauthentication reason is 6=CLASS2_FRAME_FROM_NOAUTH_STA

which it reauthenticats correctly, then ultimately fails and gets deauthenticated a few seconds later for 2=PREV_AUTH_NOT_VALID which I'm assuming triggers the popup.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2016-02-26
Did you see this, as well?> send auth to 2c:c5:d3:a2:ad:d8 
.....
authenticate with 2c:c5:d3:a3:1c:58
.....
authenticate with 2c:c5:d3:a2:18:f8
.....
etc., etc.It appears that you are in a corporate or university environment with several access points, all with the same name. Your device is endlessly roaming among them. I suggest you try binding to the strongest like this: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/425583/ubuntu-connect-drops-worked-for-a-while-then-started-dropping-again/425617#425617](http://askubuntu.com/questions/425583/ubuntu-connect-drops-worked-for-a-while-then-started-dropping-again/425617#425617)

---

### Post by john524 on 2016-02-27
yea I'm in an office with multiple APs with the same name. Ill try sticking to one AP and see what that does, but either way, the OS itself should not be prompting the user for authentication credentials when the SSID is the same. This is obviously a bug in how ubuntu handles wifi.

---

