---
title: "puTTy + ssh = secure?"
date: 2009-02-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by toasty_ghosty on 2009-02-11
Hello

I recently started using No Machine to access my computer from work, which I love being able to do. I stumbled on puTTy and thought that it got the job done much better and simpler. I don't need all the GUI that No Machine provides and puTTy is much lighter in general on the so so computers we have at work.

But my question is this. I want to be able to listen to music and watch movies while on break. But I am increasingly more worried about the security of ssh and puTTy. How secure is puTTy and ssh and how can I make it more secure? I have heard of ssh tunneling. Is that through ssh or what?

Thanks.

~toasty

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-02-11
ssh and putty are really secure!!They are used for various purposes right from file sharing to vnc etc..

---

### Post by JK3mp on 2009-02-11
SSH + PUTTY + KEEPING UPDATED (ON CLIENT/SERVER etc) = MOSTLY SECURE.
Nothings ever entirely secure. But the above states it is MORE secure. And putty is a VERY good program... and  yes SSH tunneling does involve SSH xD.. its basically used to forward insecured traffic through SSH workstations...umm...heres a good article ;)

[http://www.ssh.com/support/documentation/online/ssh/winhelp/32/Tunneling_Explained.html](http://www.ssh.com/support/documentation/online/ssh/winhelp/32/Tunneling_Explained.html)

---

### Post by toasty_ghosty on 2009-02-11
> **JK3mp said:**
> SSH + PUTTY + KEEPING UPDATED (ON CLIENT/SERVER etc) = MOSTLY SECURE.
Nothings ever entirely secure. But the above states it is MORE secure. And putty is a VERY good program... and  yes SSH tunneling does involve SSH xD.. its basically used to forward insecured traffic through SSH workstations...umm...heres a good article ;)

[http://www.ssh.com/support/documentation/online/ssh/winhelp/32/Tunneling_Explained.html](http://www.ssh.com/support/documentation/online/ssh/winhelp/32/Tunneling_Explained.html)

I guess my reason for that really basic question is at my work they have been trying to cut down on the amount of people who download music (legally or illegally) and was asking if they could see what I was getting off my home pc. Which can they?

---

### Post by inhalentbroom on 2009-02-11
SSH is really more of a protocol than an actual program.  Ubuntu uses OpenSSH for the client and server, and PuTTY is an SSH client.  SSH uses public key cryptography to authenticate users and to negotiate a symmetric key for use in the rest of your SSH communications after the initial authentication step.  Both forms of encryption used are VERY secure.  Two things to watch out for though, SSHv1 is vulnerable to a man in the middle attack, this has been fixed with SSHv2.  Ubuntu, by default will force the use of SSHv2 so you shouldn't have any problems with that.  The other problem is with the random number generator used to create your public key.  A while back, a critical security flaw was discovered within the OpenSSH binaries used by Debian (and by extension, Ubuntu) that allowed one to predict the outcome of numbers created by the random number generator.  That bug has been patched for some time now but if you are still using keys generated by the faulty version of the OpenSSH binary, you're still at risk.  If that is the case, you can go ahead and generate a new public key with your patched version of OpenSSH and then you should be good.

I apologize for my rambling response their but the long and the short of it is that, yes your communications are safe unless you got hit by that OpenSSH bug.  How long have you been using ssh on this machine?

---

