---
title: "Brother MFC-490 Printer?"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Simon Jexter on 2009-11-13
Hey there... I searched the forums for the answer to this issue, and actually found a specific thread with my same problem, but I think it was solved with no posted answer and no one reads it any more.  If I'm doing something wrong posting here, let me know XD

I'm trying to get this printer working - Brother MFC-490.  I download the cups and (lpd?) drivers as instructed in the oh-so-many guides I've found, but I get an error referring to my architecture (amd64 as opposed to i836 or whatever it is).  I'm clearly new to Ubuntu, indeed new to linux - and I've actually found this to be the ONLY piece of equipment I owned that I can't seem to get figured out.  Everything else runs like a dream.  Can someone help me out?

---

### Post by pdc on 2009-11-13
you have logged in to the wireless page; 

to get your brother printer going, go here

[http://solutions.brother.com/linux/en_us/download_prn.html#MFC-490CW](http://solutions.brother.com/linux/en_us/download_prn.html#MFC-490CW)

Brother provide very good linux support;

you need to download two drivers

lpr and the cupswrapper

you need to install the lpr first, and use the .deb files, as Ubuntu takes its origin from debian

before installing those, you need to make sure you have 

>     Debian 64 bit version, Ubuntu 64 bit version
    Related products/drivers
    printer/PC-FAX drivers
    Requirement
    **ia32-libs** or **lib32stdc++** is required to be installed.

I guess if you open up Synaptic, enter your sudo password when asked; enter the two files above in the "Search" function, and check that they are already installed; if they are not, install them

then follow the instructions:

the cupswrapper instructions provide the overview

[http://solutions.brother.com/linux/en_us/instruction_prn1a.html](http://solutions.brother.com/linux/en_us/instruction_prn1a.html)

and the lpr

[http://solutions.brother.com/linux/en_us/instruction_prn3.html](http://solutions.brother.com/linux/en_us/instruction_prn3.html)

is the first driver you need to install;

let us know how it goes:

there are detailed instructions in the above;

if you copy and paste those into a terminal, that should keep the syntax intact

---

### Post by Simon Jexter on 2009-11-14
Hey, first off, thanks a ton for the help... 

Sorry I posted here, but the printer is wireless, and i'm trying to install it on a wireless network.  Suppose I should have mentioned that?  ;)

Anyway, those links are the same ones outlined in a few how-to's I've found, but they give me the "wrong architecture: "i386" error.  I'm assuming that means these are for 32 bit machines, but I'm by far not an expert... your thoughts?  As it stands, I have the required drivers, everything running smoothly and synaptic shows green for lib32stdc++ thingy.  Is it possible those links are broken?  How can I verify?

Thanks again!

*EDIT*

Just popped in to add the following... this is my terminal readout after trying to use the drivers the terminal way (rather than using package installer, as I'd done before).  Anywho, here it is:

jex@jex-desktop:~/Downloads$ sudo dpkg  -i  --force-all mfc490cwlpr-1.1.2-2.i386.deb
[sudo] password for jex: 
dpkg: warning: overriding problem because --force enabled:
 package architecture (i386) does not match system (amd64)
Selecting previously deselected package mfc490cwlpr.
(Reading database ... 138689 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking mfc490cwlpr (from mfc490cwlpr-1.1.2-2.i386.deb) ...
Setting up mfc490cwlpr (1.1.2-2) ...
mkdir: cannot create directory `/var/spool/lpd/mfc490cw': No such file or directory
chown: cannot access `/var/spool/lpd/mfc490cw': No such file or directory
chgrp: cannot access `/var/spool/lpd/mfc490cw': No such file or directory
chmod: cannot access `/var/spool/lpd/mfc490cw': No such file or directory

jex@jex-desktop:~/Downloads$ 


For all I know, the above is telling me to get a cucumber and and stick it into a free USB port.  Ideas?

---

### Post by hoare on 2009-12-03
hi

i am also having problems with this printer.

i want to install it as network printer and i followed the steps acording to:
[http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/instruction_prn3.html](http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/instruction_prn3.html)

but they also ask you to change: /etc/printcap

```

# This file was automatically generated by cupsd(8) from the
# /etc/cups/printers.conf file.  All changes to this file
# will be lost.
MFC490CW|MFC490CW:rm=max-desktop:rp=MFC490CW:
```


so i can not do any changes there... 

i already tried changing the installed printer location to the ip adress of the printer  (in system/admin/printer), but this also did not work. it seems as the printer does not exist.

any ideas??

thanks

---

### Post by sunbear on 2009-12-23
My post here might help you:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8548760&postcount=17](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8548760&postcount=17)

---

