---
title: "12.04 server no network connection"
date: 2012-08-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gerhardl on 2012-08-13
Hey everybody,
im new here...

I was playing around with 12.04 server on an old laptop and had quite some fun with it. So i decided to put it on one of my servers.

I have just installed a Dell Poweredge 1850 with the latest 12.04 server release and cant get the network online. I am at a point where i dont know how to go on.

The installer went through fine, asked me for the primary NIC (I chose eth0 our of 3) and after that it couldnt pick up a DHCP address so i assigned a static IP.

I cant ping out and no other machine can ping this server. However, I get a response from pinging localhost. I checked physical connectivity, changed switch ports, checked the IP for typos and ran ifconfig to check if the adapter is up. Everything looks good to me...

What could be the problem here? I didnt install any drivers, this is just straight the install image i downloaded. But eth0 is listed when i run ifconfig and a ping to localhost works too, isnt that an indicator that the NIC is working?

Can anybody give me a hint here?

Thanks!

Gerhard

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-08-13
If you think the NIC is ok, then the question is why is the machine not able to get an IP address from the DHCP server. Some random ideas are:
- the contingent of available IP addresses is depleted
- the DHCP server is blocking the request since the server has to be registered/enabled
- network cable is broken

---

### Post by gerhardl on 2012-08-13
Hey,

i have ruled out all of your points. Still no connection.
The question is if the NIC is really ok. I just think it is but I am not sure.

Any ideas? :(

Gerhard

EDIT: I also plugged in eth1 and eth2. Same thing.

---

### Post by gerhardl on 2012-08-13
Yeah so it is solved and it was my fault...
 
My server actually had 4 ethernet ports and the one i was so damn sure that its eth0 was the iLO...
 
Well, silly me...
 
Gerhard

---

