---
title: "14.04.1LTS wired connections not working"
date: 2014-10-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Derek_Gentle on 2014-10-22
Hello All
 
I’ve been running into some difficulty getting networking to work on my new installation of Kubuntu 14.04.1 LTS:
 
Intel S5000PSL
Dual Xeon 5160
16GB DDR2 FB ECC
GeForce GT610 w/1GB
64GB Kingston SSD
500GB WDC
 
During the installation, networking was not detected. I tried the 2[SUP]nd[/SUP] LAN port on the MB and no change.  I checked in the BIOS and ensured that everything is set correctly.
So I went ahead and completed the installation w/ third party software selected without issue. 
 
Once the desktop loaded, I started getting repeating error messages. The first error indicated that the network connection is disabled, and the second one said that IP config was not available.
 
Unfortunately, I don’t have any means to copy/paste any details as this machine has no network connection at all.
 
I’ve googled and searched the forums, but everything I’ve found so far tends to deal with wireless connectivity.
 
Lshw correctly shows both Intel NIC’s
Ifconfig shows eth0, eth1 and the loopback
Both eth0/1 have different MAC’s, but no IPv4 address
I’ve tried randomly assigning a new MAC to each of them
I’ve tried manually setting the config in /network/interfaces and restarting networking
Rebooting has not resolved either
Activity lights flash on both the NIC's and the TP Link switch the cables are connected to
different cables have been tried, as have different ports on the switch
 
I’ve not checked my router to see what’s showing up in the DHCP records as this is my only (currently) working system.  It is *possible* that Sophos is preventing my board from getting a DHCP IP, I highly I doubt this, but I won’t be able to confirm until later. This is the first time this board has been connected to my network, so there (shouldn't) be any conflicts.
 
Any help and suggestions will be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by Steven_Williams on 2014-10-22
Check your /var/log/boot.log and /var/log/kern.log. Also check dmesg and see what shows up concerning your NICs. Have you tried booting other distros live images to see if those work?

---

### Post by Derek_Gentle on 2014-10-22
I'll check the logs when I get home from work tonight.
I don't have another distro that I am aware of at the moment.  I just moved, hence why nothing else is connected :)
I am downloading OpenSUSE at the moment and will give that a try also.

---

