---
title: "10.04 will not connect automatically"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by snakeman21 on 2010-05-02
Hi all.  My wife and I have been using Ubuntu since 8.04, and so far have been very happy.  I downloaded Lucid and wiped both our hard drives and installed.  I'm very happy with it, I find it a little more elegant than Karmic, but my wife seems to be having a little quirk...  When she boots up or resumes from suspend, her wireless will not connect automatically.  She has to click the wireless icon and select our network.  My wireless, on the other hand, works automatically every time.  She did not have this problem with any previous versions.

Anybody know a fix?

---

### Post by flyver on 2010-05-02
Hi, sorry but I don't have the answer... But my problem is pretty much the same (although it always connects after boot-up, but almost never does so after "suspend"), so you could check my post if you don't get an answer here... Maybe I will get one.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469609](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469609)

---

### Post by coslo on 2010-05-02
Try editing your wife's connection from the NetworkManager applet: there should be the option "Connect automatically", which may not be enabled by default (in fact, after a fresh 10.04 install on my laptop, it was not).

---

### Post by snakeman21 on 2010-05-02
> **coslo said:**
> Try editing your wife's connection from the NetworkManager applet: there should be the option "Connect automatically", which may not be enabled by default (in fact, after a fresh 10.04 install on my laptop, it was not).

Sorry, I should have mentioned that... That was the first thing I tried.  I've looked at all the settings in the Network Manager with no luck.  I'm currently browsing different network utilities; perhaps there is one that will work better.  I'd just have her find one that she likes and try them out herself, but she's not tech-savvy at all.

---

### Post by snakeman21 on 2010-05-02
> **flyver said:**
> Hi, sorry but I don't have the answer... But my problem is pretty much the same (although it always connects after boot-up, but almost never does so after "suspend"), so you could check my post if you don't get an answer here... Maybe I will get one.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469609](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469609)

Thanks for the link, I'll subscribe to that thread and keep an eye out.  You might do well to watch mine, as well... Perhaps one solution will work for both of us... Good luck!

EDIT:  Actually, your problem seems very different from my wife's... she has no problem connecting, but the computer won't do it automatically.  Networks are visible, and work fine, the only problem is that she has to tell it to connect every time.

---

### Post by stek_87 on 2010-05-03
exactly same problem here. HP laptop "HDX premium series"

wireless works fine, but no auto connect when logged in after reboot.
worked fine in 9.04, but now after a fresh install 10.04 I am having this issue..

---

### Post by BrownHorse on 2010-05-03
I am having exact same problem. When laptop is rebooted, it will not automatically connect to my home wireless network. I have to manually connect each time. Hope some one finds a fix for this as its bit inconvenience!

---

### Post by NutmegCT on 2010-05-03
I've posted on another thread here, but thought I'd add another symptom:  My Lucid (updated this morning) connects automatically to my wireless router (linksys) whenever started or re-booted.  But *never* connects automatically when waked from sleep/suspend.  Only way to connect on waking is by clicking the spinning arrow and choosing my wireless network (which is correctly identified, as are three other wireless networks in my neighborhood).

Just my two cents.
Tom

---

### Post by snakeman21 on 2010-05-03
Well, now it started doing it on my laptop, too... So my wife and I are BOTH having the issue... She has an older Gateway Tablet PC, and I'm using an HP dv6000.  This is really annoying!

---

### Post by weasel423 on 2010-05-04
I am having the same issue, but with a hidden wireless network. I have to manually connect to the network even though "connect automatically" is checked in the wireless configuration page

---

### Post by timehAndGod on 2010-05-06
I can also confirm this issue on Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.

Has a bug report been made yet?

---

### Post by makmiler on 2010-05-21
Hi,

I've noticed the same problem on tree different laptops. I have also filled a bug report, which you can find here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/583743](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/583743)


Can the others confirm this behaviour on their computers:

Instead of selecting a network, right click the Network manager applet icon, and one of the selections is disabled. Either Enable Networking or Enable wireless. When the disabled one is enabled, the network manager connects to the network.

---

### Post by PDA1 on 2010-05-21
Problem- no Networking enabled with Ubuntu 10.04. 



 Network connection was lost 1 day after I upgraded from 9.04. I couldn't connect to the web with wireless or ethernet and Networking was grayed and said it was “disabled” 
 The steps are numbered below 
 (DO NOT enter the numbers when you're using Terminal)(anything in quotes marks doesn't need to be typed- they are there for reference only)
 
Here's how I fixed it- 
 Start TERMINAL 
 
[LIST=1]
[*]     sudo Nautilus
[/LIST]
 
[LIST=1]
[*]     Go to the folder /var/lib/NetworkManager/ 
[*]     Edit the file NetworkManager.state to read “setting NetworkingEnabled=true” 
[*]     Save the edited NetworkManager.state file 
[*]     Close Nautilus 
[*]     Using TERMINAL type “sudo restart network-manager”
[/LIST]
  This should enable networking again. I hope it works for you.....believe it or not it did for me.

---

### Post by Maximus_ARNP on 2010-05-29
> **PDA1 said:**
> 
[LIST=1]
[*]     sudo Nautilus
[/LIST]
 
[LIST=1]
[*]     Go to the folder /var/lib/NetworkManager/ 
[*]     Edit the file NetworkManager.state to read “setting NetworkingEnabled=true” 
[*]     Save the edited NetworkManager.state file 
[*]     Close Nautilus 
[*]     Using TERMINAL type “sudo restart network-manager”
[/LIST]
  This should enable networking again. I hope it works for you.....believe it or not it did for me.

My network manager on Ubuntu 10.04 Desktop did not connect to wired Internet automatically at reboot. These instructions [COLOR="Lime"]**[COLOR="Red"]solved[/COLOR]**[/COLOR] my problem.

Thanks.

---

### Post by PDA1 on 2010-05-29
You're welcome.  Not bad for a guy who has no idea what he's doing!

Just copy down what I said to do- I've used it several times when I've messed up the network thing.

---

### Post by MstrDavey on 2010-08-01
> **makmiler said:**
> Hi,

I've noticed the same problem on tree different laptops. I have also filled a bug report, which you can find here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/583743](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/583743)


Can the others confirm this behaviour on their computers:

Instead of selecting a network, right click the Network manager applet icon, and one of the selections is disabled. Either Enable Networking or Enable wireless. When the disabled one is enabled, the network manager connects to the network.
I have the same problem with Lucid Lynx on HP Compaq V6000/ Broadcom/
Wireless networking works fine but no automatic (re)connect to hidden (no SSID broadcast) networks. Option *apply to all users* was selected
When clicking *connect to hidden networks* and selecting the network a dialog box appears asking for adminstrator authentication. Clicking *cancel* gives opportunity to click *connect*.

---

### Post by eesofgraham on 2010-08-27
I have exactly the same problem described above, which at the risk of boring everyone I will repeat:
PC - HP Pavilion zv6000, Broadcom B43 wireless driver.
Networking is absolutely fine when connected, but _never_ connects automatically after reboot or suspend - you have to manually do the following:
1. Select the wireless network icon (which has the red exclamation point)
2. Connect to Hidden Wireless Network
3. In the dialog which then opens click the down arrow on Connections to find the network you already configured
4. You then get an Authenticate dialog where you have to type in your password
5. Then you see another dialog which shows your connection details grayed out and you click connect, at which point we are back in business.
All the usual boxes are checked for automatic reconnect and all users, and I even went into the Users and Groups manager, clicked Advanced Settings, User Privileges tab and made sure the box was checked for Connect to Wireless and Ethernet networks.
One interesting thing I did note was that if I right click on the wireless icon and then Edit Connections and the Wireless tab my connection is shown there but under the Last Used column it says "Never", which clearly isn't right and may be a clue...
I hope someone finds an answer to this because its really spoiling what would otherwise be a good experience with 10.04.

---

### Post by eesofgraham on 2010-08-27
A couple more things -
1. When I right click my network icon the top three entries are all checked
2. If all those who have this problem would go to the bug report mentioned above by makmiler and add a "me too" that might help get some attention from the developers. The link is  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...er/+bug/583743]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/583743")

---

### Post by flyver on 2010-09-07
That doesn't help me. After "suspend", the only things appearing are "wired network: disconnected" and "wireless network: disconnected", and also "VPN connections". "Connect to hidden wireless network" doesn't appear... :(

---

### Post by olivaresj on 2010-09-13
I just posted something over at:
[[COLOR=#444444]https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...er/+bug/583743[/COLOR]]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...er/+bug/583743")
... but I'll put it here as well.
 
I've done several 10.04 installations, and I THINK I see a pattern. On the computers that are behaving, the OS installation and updates was done when the computer was connected to a wired network. On the computers that have this issue, the OS installation was done when the computer was NOT connted to a wired network.
 
Has anyone else noticed or experienced this?

---

### Post by weasel423 on 2010-09-14
> **olivaresj said:**
> I just posted something over at:
[[COLOR=#444444]https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...er/+bug/583743[/COLOR]]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...er/+bug/583743")
... but I'll put it here as well.
 
I've done several 10.04 installations, and I THINK I see a pattern. On the computers that are behaving, the OS installation and updates was done when the computer was connected to a wired network. On the computers that have this issue, the OS installation was done when the computer was NOT connted to a wired network.
 
Has anyone else noticed or experienced this?

I had the same thing happen to me. My first installation of 10.04 I did not connect my wired network. I got a new hard drive and did a fresh install, this time connected to my LAN and it works perfectly.

---

### Post by oldunixguy on 2011-03-09
I have the same problem on a Presario X1000 with Intel 2200.
Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (updated to latest)
NetworkManager Applet 0.8
NetworkManager settings all checked.
Auto Connect in the specific network config is checked.

I can select the saved wireless config for my hidden network and request Connect and it will work just fine.

It won't connect auto.

Installation was done without networks.

---

