---
title: "10.04.1 - Only getting wireless g speeds with Belkin N150 adapter"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wah fun on 2010-10-12
Hello,

I am using ubu 10.04.1 fully updated. I have a Belkin N150 wireless usb adapter and a Belkin N150 wireless router. Everything works fine except that I can only get 802.11g speed (54 Mbps) not 802.11n (150 Mbps) speed. I hate to mention it but I consistently connected at 135 -146 Mbps in w'doze. I have googled this issue and haven't seen much in the way of a usable answer. If anyone can provide some direction, I sure would appreciate it.

System:
Dell box, 3 GB ram, running at 2 Ghz on dual core AMD processors.

thx

---

### Post by abeowitz on 2010-10-12
[http://www.belkin.com/IWCatProductPage.process?Product_Id=492430](http://www.belkin.com/IWCatProductPage.process?Product_Id=492430)

According to the specs, it doesn't really do N.

It looks like it does a proprietary G+ that *MIGHT* give N speeds.  No guarantee the Linux kernel/driver supports that proprietary feature.

Deceptive marketing, IMHO.

---

### Post by wah fun on 2010-10-13
Thanks abeowitz. That's pretty much what I found out as well. I tried contacting Belkin but with no avail. BTW, do u kno of a wireless adapter that will give N speeds on linux?

thx

---

### Post by abeowitz on 2010-10-14
The Intel 1000 in my laptop works fine, no probs.  150Mb/s.  Not sure if it's available via USB.

The Intel 4965 and 5300 also work, but there is a known bug in the firmware.  These tend to be internal mini-pcie cards, not sure if they have USB versions.  I'd buy one of these, even with the firmware bug, as they are reasonably well supported.

I have a USB RaLink 3070/2870 (Azio AWU101n), but it's buggy.  Haven't found the right driver/firmware combo to work yet.

Suggestion:  If you buy another router for N, get a 5GHz one and a 5GHz USB dongle that works with Linux.  Bandwidth is cleaner and wider up there, so theoretically, you could get the full 300Mb/s.

You'll need gigabit ports on that router, too, naturally.  This will be my next step, provided I can find the right dongle/mini-pci-e that works with Linux.

Then keep your G router for 2.4GHz and legacy devices.

I've had Atheros mini-pci-e chips in my laptops, but they've all had very poor signal strength.  The one embedded in the EeePC's seems OK, however.

Companies like Azio, Belkin, etc. use various chipsets behind their brand name, and can even switch them without changing the product ID.  So research the chipset inside a product, rather than the product ID.

---

### Post by wah fun on 2010-10-15
Thx. I will search for a network card with linux support. That might be better than a usb adapter anyway.

later

---

### Post by abhishekbawkar on 2011-03-20
Hello together,

I have HP 6720s notebook with dual boot; Windows Xp and Ubuntu 10.04. The notebook wireless adapter is Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG.

I have routed my internet connection through Belkin N150 wireless router.

On windows, the wifi router gets connected and I am able to surf the internet.

But on ubuntu, the wifi router gets detected but doesn't get connected even when given correct password.

Can anybody help me in this regard??

Thanks in advance.

Regards,
Abhishek

---

