---
title: "14.04 won't connect with built-in wifi"
date: 2014-06-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by r_avital on 2014-06-28
PC: HP DV8T with built-in wifi, according to lspci, "Network controller: Intel Corporation Centrino Advanced-N 6200 (rev 35)"

Under both Ubuntu 13.04 and 13.10 (this on the SAME computer), this connects flawlessly, quickly, every time, before I even get to log in.

Testing 14.04 booting from a USB HDD:
WIDC does not recognize it.  Neither does network manager.  I have to connect a wifi dongle to have any wifi at all.

I've heard of a recurring bug with wifi adapters using "N" capabilities, but seen no resolution anywhere.

Again, this was working flawlessly in 13.04 and 13.10.

Any thoughts, anyone?

TIA :)

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-06-30
If WICD and Network Manager both are installed and working simultaneously, it is a problem itself. Even if one is disabled, I suggest to remove WICD and use NM unless there is some good reason or evidence that the former one is working better.

To provide the details of your wireless setup, please follow the instructions in this post to download and run 'wireless_script' (experimental version) and post back the report it generates : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=13024222](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=13024222)

---

### Post by r_avital on 2014-06-30
Thank you, varunendra.  Here's what I did:

1. Installed gnome network manager
2. sudo apt-get purge widc
3. Rebooted
4. Ran nm-applet, was able to connect using the USB WIFI dongle.
5. Downloaded the script.
6. Manually executed the script.
7. Rebooted WITHOUT the USB WIFI dongle
8. Manually executed the script again.

I have two archives, they are named according to which test they reflect.
Thanks again, and please let me know what I can do to help.

---

### Post by r_avital on 2014-07-09
bump

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-07-10
The reports you have attached are not of the script I recommended, they are generated by the regular script. The experimental version mentioned (and linked) in the post I mentioned provides some extra useful information that we often need to confirm otherwise. Please re-read the post carefully that I linked to, and post back the report of that one.

From the current reports, the only thing I can recommend is to change the encryption type in the router to pure WPA2-PSK with AES (CCMP). It is currently set to WPA/WPA2 mixed mode with TKIP. I have re-read your first post and understand that this same setting works with previous versions, but be aware that the WPA/WPA2 mixed mode or TKIP are only meant for backward compatibility (with ancient devices that can't support WPA2 or AES) and should otherwise be avoided as long as possible.

We may also need to explicitly define your country code for RegDomain settings which is currently defaulted to '00'. So which country you are in?

For more clues and suggestions, please post the report generated by the new script mentioned in my first post, otherwise we may need to manually run many commands to find out extra clues.

---

### Post by coldraven on 2014-07-10
Just the other day I was about to install Xubuntu 14.04 onto a Toshiba NB100 *netbook from a bootable USB stick.
I noticed something new, the installer gave me the option of installing using a wifi connection. It had found my router's wifi channel. In the past the installer would always need a network cable.
To avoid any potential problems I decided to plug in a cable anyway and the install went ahead OK.
I know this does not help you solve your problem but it's good to know that 14.04 has become smarter in some areas. (and this bumps your thread)

*The wireless interface is a Qualcom Atheros AR242x/AR542x.

---

