---
title: "How to connect to the internet using Belkin G"
date: 2009-04-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by vinnie107 on 2009-04-16
hi, im new to linux just installed it the other day as a dual boot, but im having some trouble connecting to my wireless network.

Im using the Belkin USB G wireless USB adapter model number F5D7050.

my GCC version is 4.3.2 if you need that.

Thanks.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2009-04-16
I think you will need to run lsusb in a terminal and identify the chipset, because Belkin repackages several different chipsets in identical casing. I have a Belkin wireless G and it worked out of the box.

---

### Post by vinnie107 on 2009-04-16
Thanks for your response. Here is the result from the command 'lsusb'.

vinnie@ubuntu:~$ lsusb
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 050d:705e Belkin Components 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 1267:0213 Logic3 / SpectraVideo plc 
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
vinnie@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by vinnie107 on 2009-04-16
Sorry for the bump but im loosing  linux faith by the second.

---

### Post by adm1968 on 2009-04-17
> **StuartN said:**
> I think you will need to run lsusb in a terminal and identify the chipset, because Belkin repackages several different chipsets in identical casing. I have a Belkin wireless G and it worked out of the box.
Mine gets detected, a network connection is established, and a proper and valid IP address is provided, and yet I cannot access the Internet.
???

---

### Post by uncle-c on 2009-04-17
I take it that you cannot ping anything on the internet, but you can ping your router ?? What is your /etc/resolv.conf file like ?

---

### Post by adm1968 on 2009-04-17
I took for granted that getting an IP from the router implied having access to it ...
I'll do what you say when I'm back home

Cheers!
;)

---

### Post by vinnie107 on 2009-04-17
Ive fixed my problem now.

i took my computer downstairs and connected it using ethernet. then i updated it and the updates had my drivers.

thanks to pytheas22 for the help.

---

### Post by adm1968 on 2009-04-17
> **uncle-c said:**
> I take it that you cannot ping anything on the internet, but you can ping your router ?? What is your /etc/resolv.conf file like ?
My /etc/resolv.conf file says:
[B]
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1[/B]

(My router has this IP)

Anything wrong with the file?
It looks exactly the same as in one of my laptops ...

BTW, I can ping the router OK

---

### Post by adm1968 on 2009-04-17
I've been fiddling around, to no avail
This looks strange
I have the feeling I am overlooking something absolutely obvious ...

Anybody else?

---

### Post by adm1968 on 2009-04-18
[FONT="Georgia"]Anybody else?[/FONT]

---

### Post by abn91c on 2009-04-18
check the ssid and security  passkey for the router, I have the very same adapter and it is plug and play with ubuntu and kubuntu 8.10. did not have to   takeout/add anything like wicd or mess with the network manager

---

