---
title: "AT&amp;T Broadband Card Option GT Max 3.6"
date: 2008-02-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Kendrick_mark on 2008-02-26
I'm a noob and I've been trying on and off for three months to make my ATT/Cingular air card work in ubuntu 7.10.  I'd love to never need to boot to windows again.  But I have to to get remote internet access.   Any help would be appreciated.

My laptop (sony vaio sz260p) dual boots to ubuntu and XP.  The card works fine using the ATT software in XP.
It's a qualcom 3g cdma card model GX0202  labeled as a Cingular OPTION GT MAX 3.6

](*,)](*,)](*,)  I've surfed 50+ threads and articles about different air cards and making them work and found this one on my card in another country...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=405461&highlight=gx0202](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=405461&highlight=gx0202)

ubuntu sees the device..

mkendrick@mkendrick-laptop:~$ lsusb
Bus 007 Device 002: ID 0af0:6701 Option 
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 005 Device 003: ID 054c:0281 Sony Corp. 
Bus 005 Device 005: ID 05ca:1830 Ricoh Co., Ltd 
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 003 Device 004: ID 0483:2016 SGS Thomson Microelectronics Fingerprint Reader
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 002 Device 004: ID 046d:c404 Logitech, Inc. TrackMan Wheel
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  
Bus 004 Device 003: ID 044e:300c Alps Electric Co., Ltd 
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 0000:0000  

I set up a provider 'att' in etc/ppp/peers/

## example configuration for a dialup connection authenticated with PAP or CHAP
#
# This is the default configuration used by pon(1) and poff(1).
# See the manual page pppd( for information on all the options.

# MUST CHANGE: replace myusername@realm with the PPP login name given to
# your by your provider.
# There should be a matching entry with the password in /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
# and/or /etc/ppp/chap-secrets.
user "WAP@CINGULARGPRS.COM"

# MUST CHANGE: replace ******** with the phone number of your provider.
# The /etc/chatscripts/pap chat script may be modified to change the
# modem initialization string.
connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/pap -T *99#"

# Serial device to which the modem is connected.
/dev/ttyUSB1

# Speed of the serial line.
115200

# Assumes that your IP address is allocated dynamically by the ISP.
noipdefault
# Try to get the name server addresses from the ISP.
usepeerdns
# Use this connection as the default route.
defaultroute

# Makes pppd "dial again" when the connection is lost.
persist

# Do not ask the remote to authenticate.
noauth
##/etc/ppp/peers/att
connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/ppp0"
/dev/ttyUSB1
115200
user "WAP@CINGULARGPRS.COM"
usepeerdns

defaultroute

============================
/etc/chatscripts/att

# This chatfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.17.
# Please do not delete any of the comments.  Pppconfig needs them.
# 
# ispauth PAP
# abortstring
ABORT BUSY ABORT 'NO CARRIER' ABORT VOICE ABORT 'NO DIALTONE' ABORT 'NO DIAL TONE' ABORT 'NO ANSWER' ABORT DELAYED
# modeminit
'' "ATZ" 'OK' 'AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","ISP.CINGULAR"'
# ispconnect
 
#OK-AT-OK "ATDT*99#"
OK-AT-OK "ATDT*99***1#"
# ispconnect
CONNECT \d\c
# prelogin

# ispname
# isppassword
# postlogin

# end of pppconfig stuff

---

### Post by Kendrick_mark on 2008-03-06
I posted this in another thread but...

I got it to work using the 'vodafone mobile connect card driver'

[https://forge.vodafonebetavine.net/projects/vodafonemobilec/](https://forge.vodafonebetavine.net/projects/vodafonemobilec/)

After downloading and installing ( I followed the reame file in the download) it auto detected my modem.

I was able to connect using these settings( I am posting this from it now!!!):

user [email]ISP@CINGULARGPRS.COM[/email]
pwd CINGULAR1
apn name: isp.cingular

---

### Post by mk4umha on 2008-05-01
Did you guys get it to work in 8.04? I'm thinking about buying the card to use in the D630.

---

### Post by Kendrick_mark on 2008-05-01
I upgraded testerday but I haven't used the card yet.  I'll let you know tomorrow.

---

### Post by mk4umha on 2008-05-08
> **Kendrick_mark said:**
> I upgraded testerday but I haven't used the card yet.  I'll let you know tomorrow.

Any news? I just got the wireless setup in windows yesterday. I'd really like to get it working under linux.

---

### Post by Kendrick_mark on 2008-05-08
> **mk4umha said:**
> Any news? I just got the wireless setup in windows yesterday. I'd really like to get it working under linux.

I haven't been able to connect but I haven't had time to troubleshoot it.  It worked great under 7.10.  Not so much on 8.04.

---

### Post by mk4umha on 2008-05-08
This is the only thing holding me back right now :(

 pppd[7351]: Could not determine remote IP address: defaulting to 10.64.64.64

---

### Post by bwhite82 on 2008-05-22
This card is working "out of the box" in Hardy for me. The kernel driver Option detected the card and loaded itself upon boot. The only thing I had to do was edit /etc/wvdial.conf and added:

> [Dialer Defaults]
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
Baud = 115200
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2
Init3 = AT+CFUN=1;+CGDCONT=1,"IP","isp.cingular"
Area Code =
Phone = *99#
Username = [email]ISP@CINGULARGPRS.COM[/email]
Password = isp.cingular
Ask Password = 0
Dial Command = ATD
FlowControl=NOFLOW
Stupid Mode = 1
Compuserve = 0
Force Address =
Idle Seconds = 3000
DialMessage1 =
DialMessage2 =
ISDN = 0
Auto DNS = 1

Then simply issue the command: wvdial from the command prompt.

I do have issues however. The modem seems to hang quite frequently when downloading or updating. I have yet to resolve this issue.

---

### Post by bwhite82 on 2008-05-22
> I do have issues however. The modem seems to hang quite frequently when downloading or updating. I have yet to resolve this issue.

Alright, resolved that issue. I had to set the card's mode to "3g only".

---

### Post by terribletrouble on 2008-05-30
And how on earth did you change the setting on the card, without booting Windows? Is there a certain string you send to the card?.....

---

