---
title: "whats wrong???"
date: 2008-12-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dollylamb on 2008-12-01
I have 3 computers on my office. 2 are installed with ubuntu & the remain is windows. All of them are well configured with already working IPs & DNS. But now, 2 ubuntu computers become unstable, i cannot properly browse the web, it usually shows me the error: **Address Not Found! Firefox can't find the server at blahblah!.** while the windows box still works good on these addresses. anyone knows whats wrong with them?

thanks in advance

PS: below are my interfaces & resolv.conf files. Assume that ip, subnet, gateway & dns server are already well working.

[php]
//interfaces:
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.3
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1

auto eth0

//resolv.conf:
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!
nameserver 203.162.0.11
nameserver 203.162.4.1
[/php]

here is my hosts file:
[php]
127.0.0.1 localhost
127.0.0.1 MYPCNAME

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts


::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts
[/php]

---

### Post by scottmac112 on 2008-12-01
They both don't hold 192.168.1.3, right? That could cause problems.

---

### Post by dollylamb on 2008-12-01
yeah, of course its not. the other's ip is: 192.168.1.4

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2008-12-01
you don't say what version you are using, but network manager has been updated a few times recently on my machine. My suggestion is to rename the resolv.conf file to resolv.conf.old and reboot. Network manager should make a new, proper one. I am just guessing, though. I'd try it.

---

### Post by dollylamb on 2008-12-02
I'm using 8.10 ubuntu with newest updates. The problem occurred after i update ubuntu with the latest kernel updates through Update Manager. I also rename resolv.conf to another then restart NetworkManager/reboot computer but it still doesn't help. Should i remove NetworkManager to use the old one that comes with 7.10?

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2008-12-02
Yes, if my trick didn't work, I would probably boot in the last working kernel until they fixed it. For an office, you really should have just updated to Hardy 8.04. Be sure to report the problem to [Launchpad]("https://launchpad.net/"). I found a workaround to a wireless connection problem there and the latest kernel update must have had the fix. Gotta let them know it's broke before they can fix it. If you check, they may already have a fix you could apply.

---

### Post by dollylamb on 2008-12-02
yes, i tried older kernel & the problem is gone. Maybe something wrong with my new kernel, hmm, i'll use the older & wait for an update. thank you very much pastalavista.

---

