---
title: "16.04 Destination unavailable"
date: 2017-05-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2017-05-04
I've installed 16.04.2 on a separate drive from the production system which is 14.04, and the new installation is unable to contact any place on the WAN although the older system is posting this message with no problem. And yesterday, immediately after installing it, the new system was able to update itself satisfactorily. Today, however, every attempt to go to the WAN reports destination unavailable.

The changes from eth* to enp* labels for the interfaces were my first thought, but I've verified that they did work properly before the updating, and no longer do so. I've seen a couple of other threads here that indicate there could be a bad update involved. Suggestions for a cure? Meanwhile I'm sticking with 14.04 until the problem gets solved.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-05-04
Let's boot using an older kernel, reboot as soon as the computer starts to boot back up press and hold the shift key and you should see the grub menu choose advance mode for an older kernel not the newest, you have to be fast pressing the shift key. 

If you have two operating systems installed you do not have to hold the shift key down.

When the computer boots you should have a connection then do:
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-image-extra-4.4.0-77-generic
```
Reboot and see if your connection is back with the new kernel, also watch for errors while running the command.
Thanks

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2017-05-04
Since it was a clean install, the box has only two kernels: 4.4.0-36 and 4.4.0-51. Neither of them seems to have an internet connection, although I did do a re-install of linux-image-extra-4.4.0-51-generic via Synaptic with no reported errors. I'm a bit concerned, however that my highest kernel build number is 26 smaller than you recommend. Could this be a difference in Ubuntu and Xubuntu?

I have to reboot between communicating here and testing, so I'll wait a few minutes for your reply before going back to the new system and trying the exact command you suggest. Thanks!

EDIT: I mis-read my versions! My kernels are 4.8.0 rather than 4.4.0; apparently Xubuntu jumped ahead of the other *buntu variants.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-05-04
It was an educated guess based on an update that came out the second of may that broke wifi and ethernet on many computers running 16.04 including mine. Install by any means but the terminal failed on the second, the is why I gave the command to use.

Just run the following and that should fix it as well.
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt dist-upgrade
```
Reboot if wifi does not work then run the wireless script in my signature and post the results.
Thanks

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2017-05-04
It gets more weird, the deeper I dig! I ran your suggestion to update the dpkg list of available updates, and my newest kernel (4.4.0-51) vanished entirely. Then I attempted to change the routing table, and here's the result:```
jk@Mehitabel:~$ sudo ip route add default via 192.168.1.254 dev enp3s0
RTNETLINK answers: Network is unreachable
jk@Mehitabel:~$ ip ro
default via 192.168.1.254 dev enp0s7  proto static  metric 100 
169.254.0.0/16 dev enp0s7  scope link  metric 1000 
192.168.0.0/16 dev enp0s7  proto kernel  scope link  src 192.168.0.2  metric 100 

```The enp3s0 interface is the card cabled to the WAN gateway, and enp0s7 is connected to the LAN switch.

It definitely looks like hardware failure, on the surface, but I'm posting this just a few minutes later using the exact same hardware but rebooted to the 14.04 system. Here's its routing table:```
jk@mehitabel: ~ $ ip ro
default via 192.168.1.254 dev eth1 
192.168.0.0/24 dev eth0  scope link 

```The enp3s0 is eth1, and the 0s7 is eth0. This routing works. But I can't get the new one set to be the same, so the problem is somewhere else on the stack!

Could Network Manager be the problem? As I recall, I had to totally disable it in 14.04 and use the interfaces file instead. That was more than two years ago though and I don't remember all the details...

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2017-05-05
As I predicted, it turned out to be something simple -- the combination of avahi, Network Manager, and multiple NICs. I purged avahi from the system completely, disabled Network Manager (or attempted to) by adding two files for it to /etc/default, each with the single word "exit" (but it still loads; fortunately putting the active NICs into /etc/network/interfaces stopped NM from interfering), added the NICs to the interfaces file, and finally configured the routing properly. This finally solved the problem and restored my ability to communicate. If anyone is interested, I'll post the CLI commands I used to do these things, but it's late and my mattress is calling me right now.

The breakthrough was when I checked the other 16.04.2 box, which works perfectly in this area, and saw that I had used /etc/network/interfaces there instead of NM!

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-05-05
I am glad you resolved your issue.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2017-05-05
Quick question not directly related to thread topic but inspired by this effort: Other threads mention the kernel version as being 4.4.0-77 while my installation has 4.8.0-51 as the current version. Why the difference? Did Xubuntu move on to 4.8 while base Ubuntu remained at 4.4? I've been under the impression, for years, that all the *buntu variants used the same kernel, at any specific distro version such as 16.04.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-05-05
> Did Xubuntu move on to 4.8 while base Ubuntu remained at 4.4?
It looks that way, I have Ubuntu Mate and it has the 4.4 kernel and I have xubuntu in virtualbox that I was testing out for a friend and it is running kernel 4.8.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2017-05-05
Thanks for confirming my guess -- and for all the effort you put in on the forum here, and on this thread. Even though my problem turned out to be something totally different, your suggestions kept me digging ever deeper into the logs and searching other threads for leads!

---

### Post by him610 on 2017-05-05
> Did Xubuntu move on to 4.8 while base Ubuntu remained at 4.4?

FWIW, I have four machines all operating with Xubuntu 16.04-2 and release 4.4.0-77

```
hugh@e7200:~$ lsb_release -a && uname -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS
Release:	16.04
Codename:	xenial
Linux e7200 4.4.0-77-generic #98-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 26 08:34:02 UTC 2017 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

```

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2017-05-05
Interesting! I note that all of the files in /etc that show distro name and version also report "Ubuntu" rather than 'Xubuntu" but the clean install of 16.04.2 installed 4.8.0-36 kernel packages. Even the box that had 16.04.1 on it originally uses the 4.8 rather than 4.4 versions. Did you install 16.04 soon after it came out rather than waiting as I did for 16.04.1? The mystery deepens...

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-05-06
> **JKyleOKC said:**
> Interesting! I note that all of the files in /etc that show distro name and version also report "Ubuntu" rather than 'Xubuntu" but the clean install of 16.04.2 installed 4.8.0-36 kernel packages. Even the box that had 16.04.1 on it originally uses the 4.8 rather than 4.4 versions. Did you install 16.04 soon after it came out rather than waiting as I did for 16.04.1? The mystery deepens...
Well, if you do a clean install of 16.04, the original release, and then update, you will remain on the 4.4 kernel.

That's what I'm doing and I'm on Lubuntu:```
09:37 AM ~ $ uname -a
Linux vasa1-Inspiron-1545 4.4.0-77-generic #98-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 26 08:34:02 UTC 2017 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
09:37 AM ~ $ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS
Release:	16.04
Codename:	xenial
09:37 AM ~ $ 

```

If you do a clean install of 16.04.2, you'll keep getting higher kernel versions. All that is described in [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack).

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2017-05-06
Thanks for the wiki link! I did explain the apparent discrepancy, and it sounds like a good idea though I do believe there should have been a question in the pre-installation routine asking which path one wanted to follow, defaulting to the GA approach. I also think the Distro-id files in /etc should have been corrected to show the correct name. However I do realize that all the variants are maintained primarily by volunteers and these preferences of mine are pretty arcane points upon which to base a quibble or two.

---

