---
title: "9.04 fstab assistance needed"
date: 2009-05-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Heeter on 2009-05-19
Hi all,

I got this for an fstab entry:

```

//192.168.1.100/music /home/administrator/Music cifs username=administrator,password=password,_netdev,uid=administrator,gid=users,nobrl 0 0

```

everything works fine when I remount (mount -a) the drives, but I get cifs errors when my desktop is shutting down, even locking up.

just wondering what I am doing wrong with this fstab entry and what to edit to fix.

Server: Ubuntu 8.10 with Samba
Desktop: Ubuntu 9.04

Thanks all,



Heeter

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-05-20
You get this error right?
```
[18.312000] CIFS VFS: Server not responding
[18.312000] No response for cmd 5 mid 8
```

Edit /etc/gdm/PostSession/Default and add /etc/init.d/umountnfs.sh to the top of the file like so:
```
#!/bin/sh
[COLOR="Red"]/etc/init.d/umountnfs.sh[/COLOR]

PATH="/usr/bin/X11:/usr/X11R6/bin:/opt/X11R6/bin:$PATH:/bin:/usr/bin"
OLD_IFS=$IFS

gdmwhich () {
  COMMAND="$1"
  OUTPUT=
  IFS=:
  for dir in $PATH
  do
    if test -x "$dir/$COMMAND" ; then
      if test "x$OUTPUT" = "x" ; then
        OUTPUT="$dir/$COMMAND"
      fi
    fi
  done
  IFS=$OLD_IFS
  echo "$OUTPUT"
}

exit 0
```

---

### Post by Heeter on 2009-05-20
awesome,

that is the error.

will try your fix right away


thanks again,

Heeter

---

### Post by Heeter on 2009-05-20
That did the trick

Thanks again,


Heeter

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-05-20
The problem here is that network-manager runs in userspace. This means that networking is only active while you are logged in. So, as soon as you log out, networking disconnects even if remote file systems are still active because the umountnfs.sh script is set to run later in the shutdown sequence. So when the system comes to the umountnfs.sh script, it tries to unmount the (as far as the system is concerned) still mounted remote file system and hangs because (for obvious reasons) the server is not responding.

The script you edited is set to run before gnome actually logs you out of your system, so the remote filesystem can be unmounted before network-manager disconnects.

Previous to network-manager, networking was handled by the system so there was no need for a hack.

---

### Post by Heeter on 2009-05-20
Is this new to 9.04?

I would seem to think so because this wasn't an issue my 8.10, yet I copy'n'pasted my fstab entries into the 9.04 fstab.

Does my fstab entry look okay too?

Is there too much in the entry?

Is there anything that looks wrong?

Thank you soooo much for the help.


Heeter

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-05-20
This problem has been happening off and on since Hardy. It's become more widespread in Jaunty because networking has moved from the traditional system based tools to the userspace tools.

Your fstab line looks perfectly fine. You might take a quick look at tutorial number 2 in my sig, specifically the portion which talks about making a credentials file ("Permanent mount" section). That way, your usernames and passwords are not in a clear text file.

---

### Post by Heeter on 2009-05-20
Thanks for your responses, dmizer.

I am perusing your tutorials. Added them to my bookmarks.
Great work.


Heeter

---

