---
title: "have to run &quot;sudo dhclient wlan0&quot; to get ip address"
date: 2009-10-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by xtral0g1cal on 2009-10-18
Hi!

  I am running a Jaunty(v9.04) command line only system.  I have a working wired connection and have spent the last ~8 hours (ugghh) getting my wireless card connecting to my WPA network.  After I boot and login and run ifconfig, I see wlan0 has a inet6 addr but no indet addr.  Su can do "dhclient wlan0" to get an inet addr, after which point I can ping the wireless card from another computer.  

  I tried putting `sudo dhclient wlan0` in a file, giving it 755 permissions, and putting the file in /etc/init.d , but it did not work :( .  I have searched the forum and google and have found others with this problem (mostly from circa 2006), but they were either unresolved or deleted something in Gnome and now then magically worked.

  Any help someone could offer would be most appreciated. Thanks in advance!!

---

### Post by hal10000 on 2009-10-18
Open your /etc/network/interfaces file (as root). Your wireless configuration part has to look like this:
```

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wireless-key your_key_here
wireless-essid Your_essid_here

```

---

### Post by xtral0g1cal on 2009-10-18
Hi-

   Thank you very much for your reply!  My /etc/network/interfaces file looks like:

```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp

wireless-key MY_WIRELESS-KEY
wireless-essid MY_WIRELESS-ESSID

#wpa section
wpa-ap-scan 1
pre-up sudo /sbin/wpa_supplicant -iwlan0 -c/etc/wpa_supplicant.conf
pre-up sleep 5
post-down sudo killall -q wpa_supplicant
#

```


I tried using my WPA password as well as the hash generated by wpa_passphrase for MY_WIRELESS-KEY and leaving in and commenting out the wpa section and rebooted after each change to view the result (4 combinations total).  Each time  ifconfig showed wlan0 without an inet addr :( .

Any additional advice that could be offered would be extremely appreciated.  Thanks again!

---

### Post by RomaN. on 2009-10-23
I'd done a lot of googling to try to find a solution to this same problem and have finally managed to get it working using a mixture of different posts. I am a linux n00b, so unfortunately if you have a question concerning some of the code below I won't be the man to ask, lol.

This is my interfaces file:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto ra0
iface ra0 inet dhcp
wpa-ssid <_my ssid with no ""_>
wa-ap-scan 1
pre-up /sbin/wpa_supplicant -Dwext -ira0 -c/etc/wpa_supplicant.conf -B
post-down killall -q wpa_supplicant
```

This is my wpa_supplicant.conf

```
ctrl_interface=/var/run/wpa_supplicant
ap_scan=1

network={
ssid="<_my ssid (note the "" here)_>"
scan_ssid=1
proto=WPA
key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
pairwise=CCMP TKIP
psk="<_my passkey here in ascii form (note the "" here)_>"
}
```

I then followed it up with some advice from [THIS]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=352568") post, although I have altered it slightly so that it works for me.

I created a blank file in /etc/init.d called ra6.sh. Then I opened it up in text editor and put this:

```
#!/bin/sh
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
sleep 15
sudo dhclient ra0
```

Then I made it executable

```
chmod +x ra6.sh
```

Then added it to the startup script

```
sudo update-rc.d ra6.sh multiuser 99 00
```

And Bingo, it works after a restart. I have noticed it takes >20secs to connect but weather the sleep time can be altered I'm not sure.

Hope this helps. :)

If any ubuntu whizzes out there can clean this up to maybe make it connect quicker on boot I'm all ears. :)

---

### Post by xtral0g1cal on 2009-10-23
Thank you very much for your reply!!

N00b or no, thanks to your advice and the link you gave ( [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=352568](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=352568) ), I have been able to successfully get my wireless card connecting at boot.

My configuration is a little different than yours, so I will share mine in case it could help others.  Alternatively, if someone notices something wrong with this configuration or how it could be cleaner and wishes to offer some advice, that would be great too.

My /etc/network/interfaces looks like:
```

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
# The wired network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
# The wireless network interface
auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
#
wpa-ap-scan 1
pre-up sudo /sbin/wpa_supplicant -iwlan0 -c/etc/wpa_supplicant.conf
pre-up sleep 5
post-down sudo killall -q wpa_supplicant

```

My /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf looks like:
```

network={
   ssid="MY NETWORK NAME IN QUOTES"
   psk=THE OUTPUT OF wpa_passphrase
}

```

My script (path: /etc/init.d/dhclient) looks like:
```

#!/bin/sh
`sudo dhclient wlan0`

```

I, like you, ran
```

sudo update-rc.d dhclient multiuser 99 00

```
though got some deprication warnings (e.g., to specify run levels instead of using the multiuser option)

One thing I will note is that I have not had to include my passphrase in ASCII anywhere.  Thanks again to everyone who replied!!

---

