---
title: "(14.04) Internet Connection Drops After a Few Minutes"
date: 2015-05-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by qvalador on 2015-05-18
Hello, everyone!  I recently switched to Linux because of some discrepancies that had arisen as a result of my using Windows, and insofar the transition has been fairly smooth and Ubuntu has been living up to its hype!  Unfortunately, I've encountered an annoying problem that I can't seem to find solutions for elsewhere (well, I can, but they haven't helped).  Basically, my laptop will remain connected to the Internet for a few minutes to an hour, but it almost always drops its connectivity within a variable amount of time.  If I try to delete my wifi connection and reconnect, I'm returned with: "Error (32): Connection not found."  After losing connectivity on my laptop, my other devices are still perfectly fine and experience no Internet-related problems whatsoever.  The problem is fixed temporarily upon restart, but it still returns eventually after a few minutes.  I'm willing to post whatever logs necessary to get this issue fixed, and thank you in advance.

---

### Post by ctgcwiqc on 2015-05-20
So I am by far NOT the Ubuntu expert that you may actually need, but I can tell you to try a few things.  First, i assume you say that whenever your laptop loses connectivity your other devices remain connected and functional.  

1. I would, if you feel it is safe, to remove encryption from router and have an OPEN connection.  There have been times in the past where this was recommended and it did work, so the hardware I had was not compatible with the security type I had set up on a router.  If this fixes it, just try one of the less secure encryption methods until you hit the sweet spot that works with your device.
2. remove as many wireless devices that may cause interference with your connection.  I have had two instances where I would lose connectivity, and discovered this was due to a wireless security camera.  Eliminate all wireless devices from the equation and test your PC.  I had another instance where my wife's laptop would break my WiFi connection, yet hers would still work.  So more reason to eliminate potential interference.
3.  Try another router altogether.  I have 2 cradlepoint routers, I mbr1200 that my ubuntu laptop loves, and another mbr1400 that my laptop constantly connects and disconnects from for some reason.

As far as linux commands and things to troubleshoot your hardware, I am not the right person to help with that.  Sorry.

---

### Post by qvalador on 2015-05-21
Hi, ctgcwiqc!  I've tried my best to follow the second tip, taking off gaming consoles and the like off the Internet, but the other two are kind of out of my hands, as I'm using a family router.  The problem is persisting despite me having taken off other devices.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2015-05-21
There's a specific section for [Networking & Wireless]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=336") (do not post a duplicate there though, instead report your own original post and ask the mods to move it).
At that section you'll find stickies. Pay special attention to ["Before posting in the Networking & Wireless"]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370108"). The initial troubleshooting is outlined there and also instruction for running a script that will give lots of useful information.

---

### Post by plurga on 2015-05-21
must of the time info/answer are here on Ubuntu forums , just we have to figure it a little ;)

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2015-05-21
*Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless**.*

---

