---
title: "wireless in feisty breaks off"
date: 2007-06-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by friendly2004 on 2007-06-08
hi there!

i'm new here and hope to get answers to my current problem and maybe even give others help.

first of all please apologize possibly wrong used words or expressions since english is not my mother tongue.
so just ask if you don't understand anything.

my problem is the following:

i got my wifi run with the "how to" of wieman01. but after about 20-30 minutes (this times varies) my connection breaks away.

i'm using a notebook with a built in wifi module. the router is a dlink di-524 but the connection only goes off in ubuntu. i didn't have problems using it with open suse before and everything is still fine with windumb xp.

restarting the system is the only way to get a working connection again. restarting the network fails. i don't get any dhcp offers.

so, i don't know what to do. has anybody of you got a hint on that for me, please?

what details do you need?

greets
simon-

---

### Post by munckfish on 2007-06-08
Hi Simon

Try

1) Right-click NetworkManager applet (on panel top right) and de-select Enable Wireless, then re-enable it again. Wait a few seconds for it to connect - does that resolve the problem?

2) If not try completely stopping and restarting NetworkManager by typing these command in the Terminal:

```

# stop network-manager
sudo /etc/dbus-1/event.d/26NetworkManagerDispatcher stop
sudo /etc/dbus-1/event.d/25NetworkManager stop

# Wait 4 or 5 seconds

# now start it again
sudo /etc/dbus-1/event.d/25NetworkManager start
sudo /etc/dbus-1/event.d/26NetworkManagerDispatcher stop
```

These steps may stop you having to completely reboot.

Let me know what happens and next week I'll try to continue helping.

Cheers

Dan

---

### Post by friendly2004 on 2007-06-09
Hey there Dan!

Thanks for posting.


I don't use the networkmanager-applet it's removed.

I've only installed ndiswrapper to get the 54 mbit/s working and my wifi is configured with the how to of wieman01, as mentioned above.

I did that, cos connection to my wifi with he networkmanager-applet didn't work after installing ndiswrapper. First it worked but i didn't only want to have a 11 mbit/s connection.

I sometimes could connect but didn't get an IP. When trying it via a terminal with "dhclient eth1" I did never get DHCPOFFERS.

Applying wieman's how to solved that problem.

If I got the networkmanager-applet working that would be great because I use my notebook not only at home but also when I'm at friend's or some others... So, choosing the Wifi with a desktop program would be boss.


So long!

Simon

---

### Post by friendly2004 on 2007-06-11
Current state:

¹) For now it seems that connection break offs don't occur anymore. But it once happened today that I didn't have a wifi connection after starting the system.
I'll report my observations and post them here in the "EDIT"- part.

²) Noticed that after closing the lid and the screen got locked the connection was broken. But this does not happen regularly + my interface gets renamed when booting from wlan0 to eth1

³) The original problem occured a few minutes ago. The connection was suddenly broken. [Why isn't it possible to restart the network during running system mode? Why doesn't my eth1 get a DHCPOFFER even though it gets one during the boot up??!! *angry*]

____________
These were the last days.

Well I don't want to count my chickens before they are hatched but using static IP and having a key generated by wpa_passphrase (i forgot doing that) seems to work fine.

I'll keep you updated.



[COLOR="Red"]Today (wed, 13 june)[/COLOR]

The last two times I started my ubuntu I had no wifi connection and thus no internet. (although i use static ip now which had no break off the last days)

---

### Post by friendly2004 on 2007-06-13
Hi!

Maybe that's of interest to you..

I get the IP and everything seems to be fine but I don't have access to the network and internet.

For example when entering in a terminal --> netstat -anatup

i get shown, that my ip is connected with the dns...

so..what might be the problem? maybe i should rename the title to "DHCP works fine - I have an IP but no internet"..

---

### Post by munckfish on 2007-06-14
Hi 

Sorry I've not been back to help for a couple of days. I've never had to use ndiswrapper so I'm not sure I'll be of much help. I'll try to find time to look through your posts properly in the next couple of days and try to make some suggestions.

In the meantime maybe go on IRC to #ubuntu and try to get some others to come in and contribute here, as I'm struggling to find time to help this week.

Cheers

Dan

---

### Post by friendly2004 on 2007-06-15
hey-ho - let's go ..

no..

erm, installed the network-selector which i already had installed but didn't work. now trying it the 2nd time it seems 2b working.

i will check that this evening or tomorrow if the connection stays alive .. but so far, in the running ubuntu, it works.

i think i'll restart now and see whether it works, too..

cheers.


have a nice weekend + thx a lot for at least trying to help! :-)



[COLOR="Red"]It works after the 1st restart. Time will show if it will be always like that.[/COLOR]

[COLOR="SeaGreen"]Good morning! It's working after many restarts and it's never broken off so far. I think it's finally working :-)... Only question: How can I have the Network-Selector-Applet started on boot?[/COLOR]

[COLOR="Orange"]I can happily announce, that my wifi seems 2b working as it never has before[/COLOR]

---

