---
title: "/etc/resolv.conf &amp;&amp; network-manager-vpnc"
date: 2008-01-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by thrutchy on 2008-01-12
Has anybody had success using vpnc (open-source cisco vpn) with network-manager and have it still use your normal (non-VPN) DNS servers?  I've read multiple posts on the internet about this but no good solution.  I have it working, but it isn't very automated.  Here's what I'm doing now to get normal internet to work with an active VPN connection:

```

sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /root/resolv.novpn.conf

```* connect to your vpn

* ping a few machines to find out ip addresses you need over vpn.  Find out what the variable part of the addresses is.  Either the first 2 or 3 parts of address should be fixed.  You might have multiple groups.

* now go to the network-manager icon -> vpn connections -> configure vpn -> your-vpn -> edit -> optional -> "only use vpn connection for these addresses".  Enter your vpn ip address groups here.  The /16 or /24 refers to how many bits of the ip address is fixed (16: first 2 bytes are fixed, 24: first 3 bytes are fixed).

* disconnect and reconnect your vpn

```

(cat /root/resolv.novpn.conf;echo "options rotate") | sudo tee -a /etc/resolv.conf

```Now, both normal and vpn server names should work, but the name resolution might take longer (your vpn DNS servers will fail for internet servers, but "rotate" will cause it to try your normal DNS).

Here are the problems with the above:

1. everything but the last step above is just setup.  The last command (updating resolv.conf) needs to be done manually every time you reconnect to vpnc.  I haven't figured out how to automate this when I connect to the vpn.

2. dns resolution seems slow.  I'd like to unqualified addresses (no domain) to use the vpn dns servers first and fully qualified to addresses (with domain) to use my normal dns servers first.

Regarding the #1, here's what I've been able to determine (by wrapping executables with shell scripts) regarding what sets up the vpn:

* /usr/sbin/vpnc is called with  --non-inter --no-detach -
* stdin to vpnc is a normal vpnc .conf except for these:
```

Script /usr/lib/network-manager-vpnc/nm-vpnc-service-vpnc-helper
UDP Encapsulate
UDP Encapsulation Port 0
Rekeying interval 7200

```* neither vpnc or nm-vpnc-service-vpnc-helper modify /etc/resolv.conf
 (can't script the fixup either of those places).
* /usr/sbin/NetworkManager (started at boot?), has this which is also in /etc/resolv.conf:
  # generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!
* tried sudo chmod -w /etc/resolv.conf and sudo chattr +i /etc/resolv.conf.  Neither worked after I had a resolv.conf I wanted to keep.


Any ideas how to resolve these remaining issues?

---

### Post by dgar on 2008-01-16
For those having problems with /etc/resolv.con NOT updating via network-manager-vpnc:
  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=325581](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=325581)

The following fixed it for me:
   sudo apt-get remove resolvconf

It just works now.

---

### Post by thrutchy on 2008-01-17
Installing resolvconf worked for me!  Now network-manager-vpnc doesn't update my /etc/resolv.conf.  Instead, before starting resolvconf, I did a "ypcat hosts" on one of the hosts in my vpn and concatenated this to my /etc/hosts.  Now, when I connect to the vpn I have access to vpn hosts and the internet.

---

