---
title: "7.10 --&gt; Update [199 items] --&gt; reboot --&gt; &quot;network connectivity lost&quot;"
date: 2008-03-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by aspadistra on 2008-03-18
7.10 --> Update [199 items] --> reboot --> "network connectivity lost"

Any fixes for this?

I had not internet connectivity to my MiniPC until I swapped the USB and Ethernet connectors.
The router is a Comcast ARRIS Cable Modem -- it works fine for my PC (Vista).

==========
Other problems
==========
Logging into a user account takes 3x longer with the patches in place.
Turning off services makes little if any difference.
Behavior otherwise can be sluggish.

---

### Post by amd-64 on 2008-03-18
If you upgraded the linux kernel, you may have to  recompile modules or use restricted drivers for your network interface. 

Check the log files in /var/log for information. Start with daemon.log

---

### Post by aspadistra on 2008-03-18
All I get inthe /var/log/daemon.log are persistent errors with text:

No DHCPOFFERS recived.
No working leases in permanent database.
DCHPDISCOVER on ethX to 255.255.255.255 // X = 1 or 0

One oddball:
In vaInINinInrtwrt twert AllMar ... No DHCPOFFERS recived

---

### Post by aspadistra on 2008-03-18
I don't believe this set of upgrades upgraded the kernel.

---

### Post by amd-64 on 2008-03-19
This is a wired connection, correct

Check if the network cable is plugged in correctly in your machine and in the router. Check if another machine on your lan can connect to the internet.

Run the following commands and report the output here. 

ipconfig -a
sudo lspci 
more /etc/network/interfaces

---

