---
title: "Change WEP Code Lost Network"
date: 2006-11-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by leona on 2006-11-22
hi

I haven a IBM Thinkpad 600x notebook with a D-link dwl-g650 wireless card.

All was fine and dandy till I changed the wep code on my router.
Now I can not get a dhcp ip address.

Thinking it was the code, I also entered it into my pda and it came up and connected, received a dhcp ip no problem.  So I am happy the code is right.

I am having problems with the network admin tool also I've been in and created a new profile, with new wep code, when I go back in to check it, the settings are back to the old state, I've tried removing all the profiles and reseting again, again old settings still there.

I've tried deleting the interface file and letting it recreate it, but still no access to the network.

I've gone through the forum trying various scrips, commands, but I'm having no luck.

If I turn the wep off on the router, it works fine.

Is there a way i can remove all settings, once and for all, and start from a clean sheet?

Thanks

---

### Post by FrodoB on 2006-11-22
Manually editing the interfaces file is all you should have to do.  If you are using 128bit wep the same key should have 13 characters in ASCII format and 26 in hex.  Here is an excellent generator:

[http://www.andrewscompanies.com/tools/wep.asp](http://www.andrewscompanies.com/tools/wep.asp)

Here is an example output:

ASCII:
wireless-key s:X%'q\}wGw5Ks8

Hex:
wireless-key 582527715c7d774777354b7338


Good luck

---

### Post by leona on 2006-11-22
Hi FrodoB and thanks, I use 64 and use the Hex.
My router, generate the code, I've then copied this to the PDA and Notebook.
PDA works, Notebook doesn't.
Interesting that the code generated by the website link and by my router are different. (using the same phrase).
Also my router gives me 4 choices of code, I'm using the first one, I assume that's right.

---

### Post by FrodoB on 2006-11-22
You are correct, you just need to use the first one. You might try 128 bit though, I would bet that some Linux drivers do not get tested at lower wep bits much any more. 

So you are cutting and pasting a hex key from your router to Ubuntu so that you know that it is correct?

---

### Post by leona on 2006-11-23
> **FrodoB said:**
> You are correct, you just need to use the first one. You might try 128 bit though, I would bet that some Linux drivers do not get tested at lower wep bits much any more. 

So you are cutting and pasting a hex key from your router to Ubuntu so that you know that it is correct?

Nope I can't cut and paste it, cos I can't connect to it, I have to put it in  my hand, I type it into a text pad to ensure I get it right, then I copy / paste it into the network-admin, then load up the interfaces file to check it.

It  used to work with 64bit, like I say, it stopped working when I changed it, so I'm guessing the old code is hanging around somewhere in some file.

Just tried it again, with WEP off, it works, with WEP on, it doesn't :(

---

