---
title: "18.04 LTS x64:  for approx. a minute after boot, cannot connect to server on same LAN"
date: 2019-09-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mikeymikec on 2019-09-16
I'm reasonably new to Lubuntu, I've been using it since June last year (the same version the whole time).  I have a server on my own network that hosts my mail and websites.  I have Thunderbird to check for mail.  No problems until the last couple of weeks I'd say, then I started noticing in the mornings that Thunderbird could complain of the connection being refused to two mail accounts hosted on my server even though it could connect to say my gmail accounts during the same startup mail accounts check.

Today I looked into it a bit more thoroughly.  My first check was to see whether the issue was limited to TB.  It wasn't:  If I telnet'd to the mail server's mail port, it would time out.  Repeated attempts would time out for a minute or two then inexplicably it would be able to connect.

This evening I booted Lubuntu, left it on the login screen (without logging in at all) for about 30 minutes then signed in: same problem.

dmesg has this at the end of the output:
```
[  130.354226] [UFW BLOCK] IN=eno1 OUT= MAC=01:00:5e:00:00:01:1c:74:0d:7a:be:08:08:00 SRC=192.168.0.1 DST=224.0.0.1 LEN=36 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=1 ID=0 DF PROTO=2
```
But then it commonly has that in the output even when I haven't had this kind of problem, and I've had the firewall enabled for at least a year.
Side note:   I'd like to know what that entry is actually trying to tell me.

I tried another test:  Log out then back in again:  No problem.

I'm pretty sure the problem isn't intermittent:  Cold boot or reboot, sign in, problem occurs.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2019-09-17
> **mikeymikec said:**
> 
dmesg has this at the end of the output:
```
[  130.354226] [UFW BLOCK] IN=eno1 OUT= MAC=01:00:5e:00:00:01:1c:74:0d:7a:be:08:08:00 SRC=192.168.0.1 DST=224.0.0.1 LEN=36 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=1 ID=0 DF PROTO=2
```
But then it commonly has that in the output even when I haven't had this kind of problem, and I've had the firewall enabled for at least a year.
Side note:   I'd like to know what that entry is actually trying to tell me.


the below is largely copied from [here]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/1116145/understanding-ufw-log/1116155#1116155").

UFW is just a front end for iptables, and so those log entries are actually from iptables.

Part 1: 130.354226 time since boot in seconds.

Part 2: [UFW BLOCK] IN=eno1 OUT=

whenever iptables does a log entry there is an optional --log-prefix, in this case [UFW BLOCK]. The seriously annoying thing about UFW is that it uses the same prefix for every type of log entry, making it difficult to correlate back to the iptables rule set. The IN is the network interface name that the packet arrived on. The OUT is blank because the packet is not been re-transmitted, which might be the case if this was a router application.

Part 3: MAC=01:00:5e:00:00:01:1c:74:0d:7a:be:08:08:00

These are the Machine Address Codes for the local area destination (01:00:5e:00:00:01 (eno1)) and source (1c:74:0d:7a:be:08) network interface cards. In your case the source is probably the MAC of your router gateway NIC. 6 bytes each. The extra 2 bytes (08:00) at the end are the frame type, in this case it means "ethernet frame carried an IPv4 datagram".

Part 4: SRC=192.168.0.1 DST=224.0.0.1

Those are the IP addresses for where the packet came from, SRC, probably your router/gateway. However the destination, DST, is actually a [multicast address]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multicast_address").

Part 5: LEN=36 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=1 ID=0 DF PROTO=2

Length of the payload portion of the raw packet; Type of service, Presedence, Time to live (how many hops left before the packet will die from too many hops); DF I don't know; Identification; [Protocol]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_IP_protocol_numbers") (in this case 2 or IGMP).

In summary: The iptables rule set that resulted from your UFW front end did not like this packet and probably dropped it. 
I do also in my iptables rules set, but I don't bother to log it so as to prevent my logs from filling with this junk. I get about 2880 of these type packets per day (2 per minute) from my ISP gateway.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2019-09-17
Nice one, Doug S. 
DF is Do-not-Fragment. Routers should not cut the packet into smaller segments when forwarding. 

Protocol 2 (IGMP) is Internet Group Management Protocol - it's the router asking if anyone wants to join multicast groups - it's normal to see these queries on the LAN. They usually go unanswered. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Group_Management_Protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Group_Management_Protocol)

---

### Post by mikeymikec on 2019-09-19
Thanks for that.  I've also confirmed that the problem occurs with the firewall disabled and via IP or hostname.

---

