---
title: "How to get network info?"
date: 2010-06-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-06-10
How might I get output from Ubuntu similar to the Windows command "ipconfig /all"? I have found command "ifconfig -a", but what I am interested in is not shown. I am getting a strange setting of "DNS Search Suffix" on Windows and I want to see if Ubuntu is getting it, too.

Thanks,
Tim

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-06-10
Ok, I found out that the info I am looking for is in file /etc/resolv.conf. Specifically, it contains:

```

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain launchmodem.com
search launchmodem.com
nameserver 192.168.1.254

```It is the domain and search lines I am interested in. launchmodem.com - what exactly is that? It is the same thing I am seeing on Windows. Is it generated by my DHCP server (which is my DSL modem)? Is it the ***correct*** thing for it to be?

According to my real external DNS servers, OpenDNS, launchmodem.com is receiving a high proportion of my overall internet traffic. A tech support guy at OpenDNS advised me to get rid of it, but I have no idea how to do so.

Tim

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-06-10
In my /etc/resolv.conf I have my ISP listed and the IP address it lists is for my router.

This is what launchmodem.com is: (it was on yahoo answers)
_[http://gourmet-coffees.blogspot.com/2006/04/launchmodem-what-is-it.html](http://gourmet-coffees.blogspot.com/2006/04/launchmodem-what-is-it.html)_

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-06-10
Thanks, I saw that earlier today, but it didn't really make any sense to me. But, indeed, if I type "launchmodem" into my browser, it takes me to my modem's web page. It still seems weird that it would be my domain and search suffix, though.

But, everything works, so I just need to stop worrying about it. Networking is and always has been my computing weak point.

Tim

---

