---
title: "9.04+wireless=FAIL"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-05-03
The title says it all.

I see all these problems with wireless but no solutions.

I don't want to install 8.10 because it takes for ever for compiz+nvidia driver to load, about 10 seconds.

This may be the wrong area to post but its too late now.

---

### Post by shane8002 on 2009-05-03
What card do you have?

---

### Post by j0hnZ on 2009-05-04
I tried a couple of distro's on my laptop including linux mint and 8.10 none of them worked.  I have working wireless now on 9.04 but I still can't use WPA so it's still fAIL in my book.

I also have some other issues with Jaunty such as everything freezing up and having to restart.  That could be my fault though adding themes and junk.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2009-05-04
> **j0hnZ said:**
> I tried a couple of distro's on my laptop including linux mint and 8.10 none of them worked.  I have working wireless now on 9.04 but I still can't use WPA so it's still fAIL in my book.

I also have some other issues with Jaunty such as everything freezing up and having to restart.  That could be my fault though adding themes and junk.

I like to do test my system to the extreme. What do you do to freeze it? I haven't got it yet. I think this is one of the most stables versions ever.

---

### Post by j0hnZ on 2009-05-04
> **arashiko28 said:**
> I like to do test my system to the extreme. What do you do to freeze it? I haven't got it yet. I think this is one of the most stables versions ever.

Install a theme, have a couple of windows open and try to use the ssh client to connect to my server.  Everytime I have tried to connect to my server it crashes it seems.  A couple of themes on the gnome-look website, I try to install them and it just freezes.

---

