---
title: "Dwl-650+"
date: 2006-07-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by domonsura on 2006-07-02
I'm an ex-windows user, and reasonably tech savvy in windows, however, I am new to Ubuntu, and new to Linux and have the misfortune (So it seems) to be the owner of a D-Link dwl-650+ pcmcia wireless card. I have a fresh install of Breezy5.10 on my laptop, and I am pretty impressed so far, can surf the internet when wired, but can get no response whatsoever from the pcmcia card, no lights, nothing.
 I have for a few days now been following instructions as best i can to try and update the driver and firmware, but it doesn't seem to matter who's particular set of instructions I follow to try and resolve this, I always seem to hit a brick wall when it comes to things happening as they are described they will.
 I have read up in various different forums, google linux, etc, and the answers all seem to be a little different in the way in which they approach the problem.
 I would really appreciate some help. I haven't managed to conclusively do anything so far that leads me to believe thatI've made progress. The card is there, I can identify that it's a texas instruments device etc, but I strike a brick wall when it comes to finding the right directories to put files in, and doing it. 
 Can anyone spend some time to guide me through it? I saw a question somewhere today asking" What is the main thing preventing large scale migration to Linux?" In my opinion, this issue is the main thing, Linux's contradicting support information and un-user friendlyness. I am more persistent than the average person, and my stalemate with this issue is leaving me wondering if it's all worth it! HELP!!
 I'll put a fresh install on and follow exact instructions if someone can try and 8-[ help me....

---

### Post by domonsura on 2006-07-02
Or failing that, can someone recommend an 802.11b card that is easier to get going? Not my preferred direction, because I want to beat this damn thing now, but I don't want to spend the next month doing it either.

---

