---
title: "static ip address in jaunty?"
date: 2009-10-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-10-07
how to setup a static ip address in jaunty?  i tried adding the following to my /etc/network/interfaces file:

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.0.100
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        network 192.168.0.0
        broadcast 192.168.0.255
        gateway 192.168.0.1

when i do **sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart** the ip address is changed but i can't access any internet webpages via firefox.  when i reboot the network manager does not connect.  any idea what is wrong with these settings?  fyi, i am using a BeBox router.

thanks!

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-10-07
Check contents of */etc/resolv.conf*. You will need to manually include your DNS nameservers. Network Manager won't manage an interface configured in */etc/network/interfaces*. Network Manager has a manual configuration which should work about the same.

---

### Post by stefanadelbert on 2009-10-07
Just use NetworkManager to setup a static IP (right-click NetworkManager taskbar icon, Edit Connections, (select interface), Edit...). If you do find a way to change this without going through NetworkManager, then I would like to know!

Might be possible to do this using ifconfig. See [this guid]("http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/suse-linux-help/27880-configuring-static-ip-through-command-line.html").

---

### Post by Jive Turkey on 2009-10-07
I have my DHCP Server on static IP and all I have is this in my /etc/networking/interfaces file:
```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.100
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        gateway 192.168.1.1

```
...and nameservers in resolv.conf too, which is probably what your issue is.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2009-10-07
The needed line in /etc/resolv.conf takes the following form:
> nameserver 192.168.0.1
and you can configure multiple nameserver addresses by adding multiple nameserver lines to the file. The IP address you need to add might be your local router (my netgear router acts as a nameserver), but if your local router doesn't act as a maneserver then you will need to give the address(es) of your ISP's nameserver(s).

---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-10-07
i tried reconfiguring via network manager and put 192.168.0.1 for the nameserver.  i also tried 87.194.0.66 as suggested in the BE broadband forums.  neither seems to work, still my internet connection stops working.  when i switch it back to automatic everything works fine... :confused:

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-10-07
Check contents of /etc/resolv.conf again.  Sometimes it gets overwritten (although Network Manager is the usual culprit).

---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-10-07
yes, /etc/resolv.conf has **nameserver 192.168.0.1** in it, it is generated by NetworkManager.  as soon as i change it and reconnect i can no longer connect to the internet...  very strange.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2009-10-08
> **fcuk112 said:**
> yes, /etc/resolv.conf has **nameserver 192.168.0.1** in it, it is generated by NetworkManager.  as soon as i change it and reconnect i can no longer connect to the internet...  very strange.

So the internet works it the line **nameserver 192.168.0.1** is there - is that right? Then why not just leave it there? As a thought, you might have to remove the line that says created by network manager - maybe network manager itself is removing the nameserver line when you reconfigure for static addressing.

Can you do a little test, just to prove it is the DNS that is the problem and not something else? Try these commands:
> ping ubuntuforums.com
ping 91.189.94.186
If your problem is just DNS name resolution then the first command will fail but the second one will ping succesfully.

---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-10-08
> **The Cog said:**
> So the internet works it the line **nameserver 192.168.0.1** is there - is that right? Then why not just leave it there? As a thought, you might have to remove the line that says created by network manager - maybe network manager itself is removing the nameserver line when you reconfigure for static addressing.

Can you do a little test, just to prove it is the DNS that is the problem and not something else? Try these commands:

If your problem is just DNS name resolution then the first command will fail but the second one will ping succesfully.

no, the internet fails when static ip is configured with 192.168.0.1 nameserver.  both pings do not work (ping localhost does work though).

cheers, frank.

---

### Post by tenmoi on 2009-10-08
> **fcuk112 said:**
> no, the internet fails when static ip is configured with 192.168.0.1 nameserver.  both pings do not work (ping localhost does work though).

cheers, frank.

You have 2 NICs installed, dont you?

Post result of lshw -C network and contents of 'interfaces' file

---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-10-08
erm, i think i only have 1?

sudo lshw -C network:
> 
 *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 6
       bus info: pci@0000:02:06.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 10
       serial: 00:30:1b:ad:54:53
       size: 100MB/s
       capacity: 100MB/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=8139too driverversion=0.9.28 duplex=full ip=192.168.1.100 latency=32 link=yes maxlatency=64 mingnt=32 module=8139too multicast=yes port=MII speed=100MB/s
  *-network DISABLED
       description: Ethernet interface
       physical id: 1
       logical name: pan0
       serial: b6:64:0c:26:26:e4
       capabilities: ethernet physical
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=bridge driverversion=2.3 firmware=N/A link=yes multicast=yes


cat /etc/network/interfaces:
> 
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
   address 192.168.1.100
   netmask 255.255.255.0
   gateway 192.168.1.1


---

### Post by tenmoi on 2009-10-08
I thought you had at least  2 NICs because on my machine if I set both NICs to static IP, I'll get disconnected from the Internet.
Try the following and post back:

sudo route add default gw 192.168.1.1
sudo route add --net 192.168.1.100 dev eth0

---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-10-08
the 1st command seems to run OK (doesn't return anything).  the second command returns:

> 
NET/ROM: this needs to be written


---

### Post by tenmoi on 2009-10-08
> **fcuk112 said:**
> the 1st command seems to run OK (doesn't return anything).  the second command returns:

it doesn't matter.

can you ping google, now?

---

### Post by fcuk112 on 2009-10-08
nope... :(

---

### Post by tenmoi on 2009-10-08
Just check one last time your config file is correct
+resolv.conf: 
nameserver 192.168.1.1 (no leading space whatsoever)

AND VERY IMPORTANT 
+get your Machine to obtain IP dynamically then ping 192.168.1.100 and see if this IP is already claimed by another machine.

+ MANUALLY assign the IP that is DYNAMICALLY assigned by your router. 

And that would solve your problem. Else I know of no other way out of this.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2009-10-08
> +get your Machine to obtain IP dynamically then ping 192.168.1.100 and see if this IP is already claimed by another machine.Good thinking.

Also, let's see what the auto configuration actually gives you. When it's auto configured and working, please can you do the following commands and post the results here:
```
ifconfig
route -n
cat /etc/resolv.conf
sudo iptables -nvL
```

---

