---
title: "2WIRE 802.11g PCMCIA not detected!"
date: 2007-10-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by andre-w on 2007-10-14
So I decided to give my 6-year old laptop a "second second-chance" and installed Xubuntu 7.04. All went well... I connected my ethernet card, executed the Update Manager application and installed additional packages. Then I deemed my laptop ready, connected my wireless card and... nothing happens. The 'LINK' and 'ACT.' LEDs are dead, and so is my wireless card!

Here is the only device I see (the built-in modem) when I go to Applications > System > Network:

Modem connection
This network interface is not configured

I had some issues with the 2WIRE card with Ubuntu before, but back then at least the card was detected... now, not even that! I also tried to troubleshoot the problem by myself, but I came to the conclusion that "I don't speak Networking".

I hope someone may be able to shed some light on my situation and guide me step-by-step. I will be happy to write more info and specs at ones request given that I am instructed the means to do so.

All and any contribution will be greatly appreciated.

Andre W.

---

### Post by andre-w on 2007-10-17
Well, I did some reading around... and ended up even more puzzled! But I found out about some handy commands, namely *ifconfig* and *iwconfig* that list network interfaces (like *eth0* and *wlan0*). However, my PC card seems not to be listed among the interfaces.

**ifconfig**

[FONT="Courier New"]lo        Link encap:Local Loopback
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:10 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:10 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
          RX bytes:500 (500.0 b)  TX bytes:500 (500.0 b)[/FONT]

**iwconfig**

[FONT="Courier New"]lo        no wireless extensions.

irda0     no wireless extensions.[/FONT]

In addition I learned about the *lsmod* command that lists kernel modules (e.g. device drivers), and in my case I have to look for specific modules: *hermes*; *orinoco*; *orinoco_cs*; *orinoco_pci*; *pcmcia*; *pcmcia_core*; and/or *prism*. But when I carry out the instruction, it lists only two of the cited modules.

**lsmod**

[FONT="Courier New"]Module                  Size  Used by
...                      ...  ...
pcmcia                 39212  0
...                      ...  ...
pcmcia_core            40852  3 pcmcia,yenta_socket,rsrc_nonstatic
...                      ...  ...[/FONT]

I also tried the *lspci*, to list my PCI devices... however, much like the *lsmod*, I did not make sense of the output.

**lspci**

[FONT="Courier New"]00:00.0 Host bridge: ALi Corporation M1632M Northbridge+Trident (rev 01)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ALi Corporation PCI to AGP Controller (rev 01)
00:02.0 USB Controller: ALi Corporation USB 1.1 Controller (rev 03)
00:04.0 IDE interface: ALi Corporation M5229 IDE (rev c3)
00:06.0 Multimedia audio controller: ALi Corporation M5451 PCI AC-Link Controller Audio Device (rev 01)
00:07.0 ISA bridge: ALi Corporation M1533/M1535 PCI to ISA Bridge [Aladdin IV/V/V+]
00:08.0 Bridge: ALi Corporation M7101 Power Management Controller [PMU]
00:11.0 CardBus bridge: Toshiba America Info Systems ToPIC100 PCI to Cardbus Bridge with ZV Support (rev 32)
00:11.1 CardBus bridge: Toshiba America Info Systems ToPIC100 PCI to Cardbus Bridge with ZV Support (rev 32)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Trident Microsystems CyberBlade/i1 (rev 5d)
06:00.0 Network controller: Intersil Corporation ISL3886 [Prism Javelin/Prism Xbow] (rev 01)[/FONT]

Finally, just for the record, I checked my *interface* file.

**/etc/network/interface**

[FONT="Courier New"]auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp

auto eth2
iface eth2 inet dhcp

auto ath0
iface ath0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp[/FONT]

And that is as far as I go... maybe now someone will be able to point me on the right direction and help me to figure this out.

Thanks in advance,

Andre W.

---

### Post by tormod on 2007-10-19
This is your wifi card:
06:00.0 Network controller: Intersil Corporation ISL3886 [Prism Javelin/Prism Xbow] (rev 01)

Google around for "Prism Javelin". I wonder if bug #133823 is related.

---

### Post by andre-w on 2007-10-20
Hello tormod, thanks for the reply!

Yes, bug #133823 is related.

I checked "_Bugs in Ubuntu_"* for the given bug and it says that Feisty Fawn (7.04) does have the required modules (i.e. *prism54common* and *prism54pci*) but does not load them by default.

* [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/133823](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/133823)

I also searched for "_Prism Javelin_" as suggested and found out that one can load both modules by using the commands *modprobe prism54common* and *modprobe prism54pci*. However, I did not find where to write the two lines.

Yet, for the sake of the test, I typed them using the terminal (Applications > System > Konsole):

[FONT="Courier New"]sudo modprobe prism54common
sudo modprobe prism54pci[/FONT]

Now, *lsmod* lists the two newly loaded modules:

**lsmod**

[FONT="Courier New"]Module                  Size  Used by
...                      ...  ...
prism54pci             13440  0
prism54common          12288  1 prism54pci
...                      ...  ...[/FONT]

And when I run *ifconfig* and *iwconfig* they list two new interfaces, *wlan0* and *wmaster0*. Both interfaces are also listed when I open Applications > System > Network:

[I]Wireless connection (wmaster0)
Wireless connection (wlan0)[/I]

Then I picked one (*wlan0*), enabled and configured it, and voilà! Both LEDs (LINK and ACT.) on my 2WIRE wireless card are solid and I successfully connected to my router.

So far so good, but I still have no idea on which file the modules are to be loaded.

---

### Post by tormod on 2007-10-21
You can try adding the module names to the file /etc/modules

---

### Post by andre-w on 2007-10-21
Thanks again tormod!

I added *modprobe prism54common* and *modprobe prism54pci* to _/etc/modules_, rebooted and... I guess I did something wrong!

It seems both command lines were not executed. My PC card was not detected and no wireless interfaces are listed. I had to open the terminal again to load both modules in order to connect to the internet. Here is my new *modules* file:

**/etc/modules**

```
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

fuse
lp
modprobe prism54common
modprobe prism54pci
```

Did I miss something?

Thank you for your suggestion!

---

### Post by tormod on 2007-10-21
Just add:

prism54common
prism54pci

and not the modprobe command.

---

### Post by andre-w on 2007-10-21
Hello tormod, thanks once more!

Now my card is already being detected even before I log on... I can see the lights on!

Here is my working *modules* file:

**/etc/modules**

[FONT="Courier New"]# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

fuse
lp
prism54common
prism54pci[/FONT]

Everything is working smoothly now!

I hope the thread might be of some help to more people as it was for me.

Best regards,

Andre W.

---

### Post by rseldner on 2007-10-25
hello.  I was having the same exact problem and tried those two modprobe commands, and they worked!  i finally have a wireless interface and the lights on my card are lit up.  I ran into another problem though.  First off...roaming mode isnt picking up a connection.  Second...on manual connection, i am able to choose different SSIDs that are detected...but they stay at 0% and i never get a connection.  i thought maybe ndiswrapper was interfering with prism...so i removed it via synaptic manager, but alas, that had no effect.  any ideas?

---

### Post by BillB on 2008-02-08
Can anyone explain this (in beginner language)?

I have the exact same problem.

---

### Post by BillB on 2008-02-08
No takers?

---

### Post by BillB on 2008-02-08
> **BillB said:**
> No takers?

Great....and this looked a lot easier that the other way someone told me.

I give up....

I don't think ANYONE has a Ubuntu laptop w/ a good connection to the internet.

---

### Post by tormod on 2008-02-09
BillB, can you tell us which part you don't understand?

And yes, I have a good connection on several laptops...

---

### Post by BillB on 2008-02-10
> **tormod said:**
> BillB, can you tell us which part you don't understand?

And yes, I have a good connection on several laptops...

Great tormod!  

How do you enter the (prisim) modules, with out the modprobe?

Would it be "sudo prisim 54 pci"?  w/etc/modules?  In the terminal?
I need the exact line/s.

I have only had Ubuntu/linux for a few days (7.10)


I also get the usual "lo,  no wireless extension" & "eth0,  NOT READY"

And *_ network DISABLED
Someone says it's a 'switch'?

I really need help!

---

### Post by BillB on 2008-02-10
To be more precise -

lsmod shows -
 "p54 pci" & "p54 common"  
I believe "p" is for prism?

lshw shows -
*-bridge:0 UNCLAIMED
and
*-network DISSABLED

iwconfig shows -
lo,  no wireless extensions

eth0,  NOT READY! ESSID: off/any

lspci shows -
Subsystem: Unknown device
(the intersil ISL3886)

ifconfig shows -
lo,  Link encap: Local Loopback


I have ndiswrapper, w/ the Wlan UIG.inf & Wlan UIG.sys loaded from TwwwGPC-Temp directory files.


I have followed all the instructions I could find to get this 2WIRE adapter to work???   I need help!

---

### Post by tormod on 2008-02-11
BillB, These two commands will do it once for all (please cut and paste so that you will avoid spelling mistakes):
```

echo prism54common | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
echo prism54pci | sudo tee -a /etc/modules

```
(or you can edit the file by hand with: sudo gedit /etc/modules)

---

### Post by tormod on 2008-02-11
> **BillB said:**
> I have ndiswrapper, w/ the Wlan UIG.inf & Wlan UIG.sys loaded from TwwwGPC-Temp directory files.


I have followed all the instructions I could find to get this 2WIRE adapter to work???   I need help!

Don't use ndiswrapper if you want to use the above mentioned modules.

Maybe you shouldn't follow all the instructions you can find :) Select the right ones for your exact card.

---

### Post by BillB on 2008-02-11
> **tormod said:**
> Don't use ndiswrapper if you want to use the above mentioned modules.

Maybe you shouldn't follow all the instructions you can find :) Select the right ones for your exact card.

LOL (if I could)....and there lies the problem!

KNOWONE seem to know the "right" instruction (from start to finish)?  I don't see it anywhere?  Do you know?


I have tried a couple different methods, nothing worked.  Even the 'help' instructions *in *7.10 don't agree!
Calling for things that aren't even IN 7.10!
And the 32 page, on line instructions here at Umbutu (WifiDocs) I'm sure are out of date also.


tormod,  Do you know the* entire* process for a 2WIRE (Prism Javelin/Prism Xbow) adapter?
I can do it....I've only had 4 days w/ Linux/Ubuntu....but I'm becoming an expert at typing commands in by now!


p.s.  I can't even find someone who can tell me how to 'switch' on radio/wireless on my Dell CPX!

---

### Post by tormod on 2008-02-12
BillB, If you have the same card as Andre, these two commands above are all you need. Maybe you have to undo some other changes you have done though. Or you have an additional problem, like setting up your AP correctly, etc.

---

