---
title: "8.04 updated kernal to 2.6.24-18 &amp;amp;amp; Broke USB Internet"
date: 2008-06-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2008-06-07
I downloaded a **large** number of updates for Hardy Heron today. It updated the Kernal from 2.6.24-17 to 2.6.24-18. Now my USB Internet adapter doesn't work. I can reboot with 2.6.24-17 and everything works fine. 

What do I need to do to get the Broadcom working again with 2.6.24-18?

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2008-06-07
Moved to Networking and Wireless.

---

### Post by Unix_Slayer on 2008-06-07
Same thing will happen with 2.6.24-19. You have to re-install your network setup, be it ndiswrapper, or whatever you used. Same problem with the video drivers.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2008-06-08
I guess I need to learn how to write scripts.

---

### Post by Unix_Slayer on 2008-06-08
> **Old_Gray_Wolf said:**
> I guess I need to learn how to write scripts.

Actually just re-install the network driver. It should work. I go through this everytime there's a kernel update. Wireless, and video everytime.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2008-06-09
I thought that this was solved. I expected that I would need to reinstall the driver. But it didn't work with the procedure I use. I've used it for a fresh installation but not with updates or patches. 

Is there something I need to do to make it work with an update or patch? 

> I used the following steps to enable my Broadcom Wireless BCM4312 (rev 02).

Step 1 (run in terminal)
echo 'blacklist bcm43xx' | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
sudo apt-get install ndiswrapper-utils-1.9
mkdir ~/bcm43xx; cd ~/bcm43xx

Step 2 (run in terminal)
wget [http://myspamb8.googlepages.com/R174291-pruned.zip](http://myspamb8.googlepages.com/R174291-pruned.zip)
unzip R174291-pruned.zip

Step 3 (run in terminal)
sudo ndiswrapper -i bcmwl5.inf
ndiswrapper -l
sudo depmod -a
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
sudo cp /etc/network/interfaces /etc/network/interfaces.orig
echo -e 'auto lo\niface lo inet loopback\n' | sudo tee /etc/network/interfaces
sudo ndiswrapper -m
echo 'ndiswrapper' | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
echo 'ENABLED=0' | sudo tee -a /etc/default/wpasupplicant

Step 4 (run in terminal)
sudo aptitude remove b43-fwcutter

Step 5
Paste the followings in the opened file(wirelessfix.sh)and make sure you save it before continuing
Use sudo gedit and save to /etc/init.d/ filename wireless.sh

#!/bin/bash
modprobe -r b44
modprobe -r b43
modprobe -r b43legacy
modprobe -r ssb
modprobe -r ndiswrapper
modprobe ndiswrapper
modprobe b44

Step 6 (run in terminal)
Run this :
cd /etc/init.d/ && sudo chmod 755 wirelessfix.sh

Step 7 (run in terminal)
finally run this:
sudo update-rc.d wirelessfix.sh defaults 

Step 8
Restart your machine and enjoy the freedom from those wires....

---

### Post by Unix_Slayer on 2008-06-09
> **Old_Gray_Wolf said:**
> I thought that this was solved. I expected that I would need to reinstall the driver. But it didn't work with the procedure I use. I've used it for a fresh installation but not with updates or patches. 

Is there something I need to do to make it work with an update or patch?

Because the kernel was updated, the driver only might need to be inserted. The ndiswrapper should still be there. Run ndiswrapper, and see if your device is in there. You might have to just re-enter your .inf.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2008-06-10
I tried the suggestions, and no joy. I don't have time to figure this out right now, so I'm taking the easy way out. Reinstall -- update -- install Broadcom -- Done. I was hoping to learn something new but as I said I don't have the time. Broadcom really needs to provide a solution to this.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2008-06-10
Well, that didn't work either. I don't know what is in Kernal 2.6.24-18 but it borked the laptop's internet connection. Back to Vista on the laptop.

Edit: Well the 2.6.24-16 Kernal still works, so I'm not giving up just yet.

Second Edit: OK I need help. I'm not in a hurry, nor do I spend I lot of time on the computer, so if you have some ideas let me know. This isn't the only computer I have. It is the one I experiment with.

Third Edit: I installed a Linksys USB network adapter and everything works fine. I guess I need to learn how to replace the Broadcom mini-card in the laptop with an Intel Chip-Set version. [B]Broadcom needs to fix this problem!
[/B]
Thanks

:-({|=:-({|=

---

### Post by Unix_Slayer on 2008-06-11
> **Old_Gray_Wolf said:**
> Well, that didn't work either. I don't know what is in Kernal 2.6.24-18 but it borked the laptop's internet connection. Back to Vista on the laptop.

Edit: Well the 2.6.24-16 Kernal still works, so I'm not giving up just yet.

Second Edit: OK I need help. I'm not in a hurry, nor do I spend I lot of time on the computer, so if you have some ideas let me know. This isn't the only computer I have. It is the one I experiment with.

Third Edit: I installed a Linksys USB network adapter and everything works fine. I guess I need to learn how to replace the Broadcom mini-card in the laptop with an Intel Chip-Set version. [B]Broadcom needs to fix this problem!
[/B]
Thanks

:-({|=:-({|=

Sorry about that. Most of the time, I tell people to buy a cheap Linksys adapter on EBay or something. Glad your backup and running.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2008-06-11
To summarize where I'm at right now:

1) I did a complete reinstall of 8.04, accepted all the updates using the wired network, and rebooted the computer.

2) I then deleted bcmwl5.inf. I followed the procedure in post #6 to reinstall the internal Broadcom wireless while booted into Kernel 2.6.24-18.

3) I rebooted the computer into Kernel 2.6.24-18 again. The Broadcom wireless didn't work.

4) After the reinstall of 8.04 I had both the 2.6.24-16 and 2.6.24-18 Kernels. I rebooted the computer into Kernel 2.6.24-16. The internal Broadcom wireless worked. :confused:

5) Both versions of the Kernel work with a Linksys USB (WUSB54GC) wireless adapter.

I may continue working on this later this week, probably this weekend. 

I know that with Kernel 2.6.24-16, depending on what command I used to identify the Broadcom wireless device, I got different results. Maybe with Kernel 2.6.24-18 I need to download a different driver. That will be my project for the weekend. 

OK, this is fun. Don't mistake my comments as a complaint about Ubuntu.:)

---

### Post by mmxbass on 2008-06-19
The simple fact is that someone screwed something up majorly between 2.6.24.17 and 2.6.24.18. This is NOT a user problem so nobody here should be blaming themselves. There are dozens of reports both here and on launchpad of networking devices just BOMBING in 18 and 19.

I suggest everyone stick to 16 or 17 until whoever is responsible for the networking problems in 18 and 19 decides to get their act together.

---

### Post by Unix_Slayer on 2008-06-23
> **hexnet said:**
> The simple fact is that someone screwed something up majorly between 2.6.24.17 and 2.6.24.18. This is NOT a user problem so nobody here should be blaming themselves. There are dozens of reports both here and on launchpad of networking devices just BOMBING in 18 and 19.

I suggest everyone stick to 16 or 17 until whoever is responsible for the networking problems in 18 and 19 decides to get their act together.

Supposedly from what I'm hearing.... The newest kernel update fixes the Network/video driver problems. Each time the kernel updated, we were seeing broken video/network problems. Keep your fingers crossed for this new kernel.

---

