---
title: "802.3ad Teaming on Jaunty"
date: 2009-05-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Krause on 2009-05-04
Heya guys, I would like to team my 2 Nic ports into a 802.3ad/lacp team. Is the guide on [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LinkAggregation](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LinkAggregation) still the best way to do it? (installing ifenslave, having the module boot, editing /etc/network/interfaces and removing network manager)

Or is there a better potentially built in way of doing it now?

thanks guys

---

### Post by dvirdc on 2009-11-10
hey
have u done this? 
im trying to find a way of doing that kinda thing and i dont seem to find how to...

cheers

---

### Post by Krause on 2009-11-13
Yes I have, I used either that guide or this one: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBonding](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBonding)
I remember looking at both and I'm pretty sure only 1 of them worked right and I think it was the one I just linked now (although you do need to remove network manager as is said in the first guide I  linked).

Its a shame network manager needs to be removed, Really hope they add that functionality.

[EDIT]

Ok, decided to redo the LACP team on my Linux computer, I had just reinstalled the other day with a fresh 9.10 install, then updated the Karmic sources to Lucid.

I went through both those links, the one I posted above in this post is the correct one. If your doing 802.3ad (LACP) teaming then follow it pretty much word for word, but make sure you uninstall Network Manager (its buggy in Karmic and Lucid right now anyways, no loss) right after installing ifenslave and saving the contents of the guide to your hard drive, since you will loose network connectivity till you finish manually setting it up.

Also make sure when doing this part:
```
 alias bond0 bonding
 options bonding mode=0 miimon=100
```
That you change the bonding mode from 0 to 4 (4 is the number for 802.3ad)

He also has "bond-mode 4" in the interfaces file, which in our case is correct, but odd considering he used "0" in the above example. He did say "Your config file could look something like this" though. But if you wanted bonding mode 0 for example, both those values would need to be set to 0.

Also remember the ip/gateway/subnet in his example is just an example, make sure you change yours to the correct values for your network.

I haven't had time to mess with getting DHCP to work with it, but I remember the first time I tried setting this up I wasn't successful. Most likely an error on my part though, ill probably mess around with that again later.

---

### Post by dvirdc on 2009-11-17
sweet... haven't tried it but i will soon.
do you know if it should work with wifi nics aswell?
what about combining ethX and wlanX using 802.3ad?

i just wanna be sure- i've found out what i was looking for actually involves defining some new routes for the kernel and so that both eth0 and wlan0 work simultaneously. 
check this:
[http://lartc.org/howto/lartc.rpdb.multiple-links.html]("http://lartc.org/howto/lartc.rpdb.multiple-links.html")

so if your method works well, i'd rather try it cuz it sound much more simple :popcorn:

cheers

---

### Post by dvirdc on 2010-01-12
hey there! :)
found it at last.
haven't tried it but i will soon..

[http://blog.redvoodoo.org/2009/08/policy-based-routing-over-2-dsl-lines.html](http://blog.redvoodoo.org/2009/08/policy-based-routing-over-2-dsl-lines.html)

oh, and you might wanna think about manually configure your interfaces (wlan0/eth0)

good luck with that :)

---

