---
title: "6.06 boot up locks when &quot;configuring network interfaces&quot;"
date: 2007-01-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by popformula on 2007-01-20
hi

i just installed ubuntu 6.06 "dapper drake" for the first time about an hour ago (never used linux before), the installation seemed to go fine. i restarted my computer as directed and the os started to load, nice coloured screen "essential drivers... ok" etc. it gets as far as "Checking all file systems... ok" and then "Configuring network interfaces" and hangs up. After about 90 seconds, the screen changes to a plain white text and anything typed appears on the screen, although there is no command line.

i'm using a "Sitecom Wireless Network PCI Card - 54g (WL-115 V2)" and my nvidia motherboard has onboard ethernet. any clues as to what could be the problem?

thanks,

joe

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2007-01-20
Try removing the card and restarting the system. Check out the below website
and scroll down to the "S". The instructions for installing the card are there.

[http://ndiswrapper.sourceforge.net/mediawiki/index.php/List](http://ndiswrapper.sourceforge.net/mediawiki/index.php/List)

---

### Post by popformula on 2007-01-21
hi again.

i removed the network card and the system booted fine into ubuntu, i started making steps towards installing new drivers following the instructions found here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper)

i completed as far as step 6, and used the command

"echo 'blacklist bcm43xx' | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist" 

to blacklist the old driver. the next step required lspci information about the card, so i tried putting the card back in and rebooting, but with the card in, it crashes on boot again, at the "configuring network interfaces stage"

i don't know what to do!

joe

---

### Post by popformula on 2007-01-21
i used the drivers that were available on the page that metaljaz mentioned with the graphical ddisgtk util, plugged the card back in and rebooted. it locked up at the same point. about another 90 seconds after the screen switched from the brown text to the plain white text, the following message started to appear:

[17179xxx.xxx000] APIC error on CPU0: 02(02)

a new line every 10 seconds or so, with the number in square brackets slightly different.

any clues?

joe

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2007-01-21
it sounds like a hardware problem. Do some googling and you will read that you may have to disable apic.

---

### Post by popformula on 2007-01-22
thanks for your help metaljaz, i did a clean reinstall and ubuntu boots fine with the card in now. must have just been a glitch from the first installation. just got to sort out the ndiswrapper business and i'll be up and running :)

---

