---
title: "Sharing Internet Connection using Linksys WUSB54G v4 in Edgy Eft"
date: 2006-12-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by arinto on 2006-12-15
Dear All, 

I follow this [link]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=192588") to install my Linksys WUSB54G v4.  

After I blacklisted the rt2750, the wireless adapter can't be detected from System >> Administration >> Networking

I downloaded the ndiswrapper from above link and  I also installed the build-essential package. For the kernel headers, I'm using my kernel's default kernel-header which is linux-headers-2.6.17.-10-generic.

Then I also installed g++ package coz before I installed this package, the source codes can't be compiled correctly. The compiler generated some errors.

After that, I did 'make uninstall', 'make clean', 'make', and 'make install' as shown in above link.

I detect other driver using ndiswrapper -l, it says that no driver installed. After that I install the rt2500usb driver by using ndiswrapper -i rt2500usb.inf.

After that I restart my comp and the wireless adapter can't be detected using System >> Admin >> Networking. But, when I type ndiswrapper -l in terminal, it is shown that the rt500usb is installed an the hardware (the wireless adapter) is also detected)

Finally I manage to overcome this problem by performing this command every time I restart my ubuntu:
> sudo depmod
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper

After that, I used Firestarter and dhcp3-server to share my internet connection. 
To configure my DHCP server, I edited my  /etc/default/dhcp3-server file to 
> INTERFACES="wlan0" 

and let my Firestarter edited my  /etc/dhcp3/dhcpd.conf file to
> 
 # DHCP configuration generated by Firestarter
ddns-update-style interim;
ignore client-updates;

subnet 192.168.0.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
        option routers 192.168.0.1;
        option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
        option domain-name-servers 155.69.5.225, 155.69.5.7;
        option ip-forwarding on;
        range dynamic-bootp 192.168.0.100 192.168.0.254;
        default-lease-time 21600;
        max-lease-time 43200;
}

I also added new rule in iptables by
> iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth1 -j MASQUERADE

enabled ip forwarding by
> echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward

after that I set the ip of my wireless interface (wlan0) as well as the essid and mode by using
> ifconfig wlan0 192.168.0.1
iwconfig wlan0 essid motowifi
iwconfig wlan0 mode ad-hoc

Then I restart the network service by
> /etc/init.d/networking restart

Finally, my laptop can detect the wireless ad hoc network performed by my edgy eft desktop. BUT, THEY CAN'T PING EACH OTHER and my laptop can't get IP address from my edgy eft desktop DHCP server. 

Here is my "iwlist scan" output
> root@moto:~# iwlist scan
lo        Interface doesn't support scanning.

eth0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

sit0      Interface doesn't support scanning.

wlan0     Scan completed :
          Cell 01 - Address: 02:13:02:00:00:B7
                    ESSID:"arinto"
                    Protocol:IEEE 802.11g
                    Mode:Ad-Hoc
                    Frequency:2.462 GHz (Channel 11)
                    Quality:0/100  Signal level:-12 dBm  Noise level:-256 dBm
                    Encryption key:off
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s
                              9 Mb/s; 12 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s; 24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s
                              48 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s
                    Extra:bcn_int=100
                    Extra:atim=0

and here is my "ndiswrapper -l" output

> root@moto:~# ndiswrapper -l
Installed ndis drivers:
rt2500usb               driver present, hardware present 

anyone has idea to solve this? I applied the same method to share internet connection using my laptop. (It works nicely on my laptop, but when I use my desktop as the internet gateway, it doesn't work as I stated above)

Thank you, 

Regards, 
arinto

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-15
First of all, you are on the right track... Your network card has been recognized. Well done!

Second, please uninstall "firestarter" and any other networking tool (e.g. "network-manager") that could interfere at this stage:
> sudo apt-get remove wifi-radar network-manager firestarter
Then restart the network:
> /etc/init.d/networking restart
And type:
> route
If your gateway does not show, please restart the computer and type "route" again. If this does not help, please post your interfaces file:
> sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
Have you got DHCP enabled & MAC filtering disabled?

---

### Post by arinto on 2006-12-15
Here is the output of route -n

> root@moto:~# route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 wlan0
172.20.104.0    0.0.0.0         255.255.252.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         172.20.107.254  0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0

And here is the output of interface file..
> auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp

auto eth2
iface eth2 inet dhcp

auto ath0
iface ath0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet static
address 192.168.0.1
netmask 255.255.255.0
wireless-essid motowifi

auto rausb0
iface rausb0 inet dhcp

by the way, which one I should configure? the rausb0 or wlan0?

I enabled the dhcp by starting the dhcp3-server from terminal.
sudo /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server restart

How to detect whether the MAC filtering is enabled or disabled? I never touch the configuration for MAC.

Thank you
arinto

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-15
The correct interface is "wlan0"...  "rausb0" refers to the old Linux driver so you don't need it. It appears that you have set your network device to use Static IP rather than DHCP. Please update "/etc/network/interfaces" so that it looks exactly like this:
> auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wireless-essid motowifi
Please turn off wireless security (e.g. WEP) if it is running, however, I believe it is off anyway ("iwlist scan" says so). Then restart your network or computer.

Have you enabled DHCP on the router?

---

### Post by arinto on 2006-12-15
By the way, the one that act as the gateway and router is my own desktop. That's why I set the IP address into static 192.168.0.1 and the mask is 255.255.255.0

And I enabled the DHCP by starting dhcp3-server module.

Here is the configuration that I want to achieve

Internet ---------->> My Desktop (as gateway to my own wireless ad hoc network) <<----laptop1
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]192.168.0.1 [/INDENT]   [/INDENT]            [/INDENT]                         

Thank you

Arinto

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-16
So if that's the case, please post "/etc/network/interfaces" of your laptop, not the server. The server seems to be alright as far as I can tell. You laptop appears to recognize the network when scanning for it. Please post "route", "interfaces", etc. while you are at your laptop.

---

### Post by arinto on 2006-12-16
Finally, it works!!!

Here is my /etc/network/interfaces in client side
> root@cemnet-laptop:/home/cemnet# more /etc/network/interfaces
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto eth2
iface eth2 inet dhcp

auto ath0
iface ath0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
wireless-essid motowifi

and here is the output of route in client side
> root@cemnet-laptop:/home/cemnet# route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth1
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth1

by the way, how do I enable the password for entering my wireless ad hoc network? I want something like what XP does, the client should enter the network key before using the wireless ad hoc network

Is it similar to enabling the WEP key?

thank you

Arinto

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-12-16
Excellent!

I have not set up an ad-hoc network myself, so I don't really know how you would secure it. Connecting to a secured network is easy, but I am not quite sure how you would tell your desktop server to encrypt your network traffic.

---

### Post by fugative on 2007-01-02
I'm using a netgear wg311v3 in a similar way ie using the desktop as a gateway to the net with no router (i'm plugged inteo the net with a sagem usb modem). I can get the desktop to ping the laptop and vice versa BUT every time i plug another network in the internet drops, the same happened when i setup the wireless ](*,) 
I used to use this setup when i was windowing but i can't get it to go in ubuntu. I don't want to be buying new hardware as i'm sure it'll work with what i've got but i need help.

cheers

---

