---
title: "Sony Ericsson K750i as modem"
date: 2006-09-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by AZzKikR on 2006-09-08
Been searching on the net for this issue, but couldn't find a damn thing.

I have a Sony Ericsson K750i mobile phone, which has a built-in modem. When I connect this baby using the USB cable on a WinXP box, I can talk to it using one of the COM ports.

However, when connecting it within Dapper, I can't seem to communicate with the modem. Anyone in luck with making USB modems work? Or specifically, the K750i modem?

---

### Post by arsya on 2006-10-19
I have a K600i series and I could use it as a modem properly, except that the mobile phone hang/freeze after I disconnect the ppp dialup connection.

So, right after you plug the usb phone cable to your computer, execute:

```

# dmesg

```

you should see something like this:

```

... ttyACM0: USB ACM device
... ttyACM1: USB ACM device

```

You could use the ttyACM* as your modem, in your dialup configuration.

---

### Post by AZzKikR on 2007-03-08
Okay, using GtkTerm I could indeed connect to the modem. Actually, want I wanted to do is converse with the phone using the COM port using the RXTX project (Java). However, that library doesn't seem to want to connect to /dev/ttyACM0. If anyone has a way to connect to it using this library, please notify me.

---

### Post by Psychoscorpic on 2007-03-22
Hi AZzKikR

I fiddled last night and managed to get the K750i semi-functional as a USB Modem.
I failed, I think, due to my ISP's really odd notion of using the dial-up number as a help-desk number too!
The modem is automatically seen by Ubuntu 6.10 as K750 USB modem on ttyACM0 and ttyACM1.
I used both PPPD directly and WvDial as as sort of PPPD wizard, to try dial out. Both happily activated the phone & dialed the number.
The problem came in, as far as I can see, in that the ISP did not present a Carrier Signal to handshake with. Instead it broadcasts an out-of-office message.
The phone modem just sat & waited for a carrier signal. Stale-mate.
A "normal" dial-up modem just sends it's signal regardless of what comes from the other side.

If anyone knows how to get WvDial and/or PPPD to just broadcast without waiting for a carrier tone, PLEASE let me know!

Here are the wvdial.conf settings (most auto-generated by running "wvdialconf"

WVDIAL.CONF
[Dialer Defaults]
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Modem = /dev/ttyACM0
Phone = 0860777249
Modem Type = USB Modem
Baud = 460800
New PPPD = no
Dial Attempts = 2
ISDN = 0
Username = *****
Carrier Check = no
Password = *****


FROM TERMINAL:
... wvdial
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATDT0860777249
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATDT0860777249
NO CARRIER
--> No Carrier!  Trying again.
--> Sending: ATDT0860777249
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATDT0860777249
NO CARRIER
--> No Carrier!  Trying again.
--> Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
--> Disconnecting at Wed Mar 21 20:59:42 2007

---

### Post by riki_58 on 2007-03-22
Try this [http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/ModemCellulareUmtsUsb](http://wiki.ubuntu-it.org/ModemCellulareUmtsUsb)

---

### Post by chadlongstaff on 2007-04-18
I've had success with this guide [http://nix.fulhack.nu/z600/](http://nix.fulhack.nu/z600/) using the k750i as a modem over bluetooth. The only thing I would say is that using it for a short weekend trip I burnt out a cheapie mikomi dongle.

---

