---
title: "[10.04] No wireless OR WIRED connection upon fresh install"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by shuknjive on 2010-05-05
Well, I decided to do a fresh install of 10.04LTS on a Dell Latitude D600 Laptop and one word.  Disaster.  I have no wireless or WIRED internet connection.  After viewing another post I've provided the output of "sudo lshw -C network" command below (I've blocked out my MAC address on purpose).  It appears that the lan card is not even being recognized.  The card is enabled in bios (I've checked twice).  I don't get it, the wireless worked fine before I did a fresh install of 10.04LTS.  I can't use wireless because I have the b43 driver firmware issue that I can't resolve unless I get my wired connection working.  Please, someone help!

*-network
     description:  Network controller
     product:  BCM4309 802.11a/b/g
     vendor:  Broadcom Corporation
     physical id:  3
     bus info:  pci@0000:02:03.0
     version:  03
     width: 32 bits
     clock:  33MHz
     compatibilities:  bus_master
     configuration:  driver=b43-pci-bridge latency=32
     resources:  irq:5 memory:faffe000-fafffff
*-network DISABLED
     description:  Wireless interface
     physical id: 2
     logical name: wlan0
     serial:  XXXXXXXXXXXX
     capabilities:  ethernet physical wireless
     configuration:  broadcast=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg

Addendum:

I've attempted to install bcmwl-kernel-source from the CD Rom but it gives an error that claims that unbuntu cannot download the files.  Also, attempting to add the CD Rom to the repository results in an error that the CD Rom cannot be mounted.  I'm at my wits end.  This computer was working (not great, but working) with 8.04LTS now its a paper weight.

---

### Post by shuknjive on 2010-05-05
Can anyone help me?  Anyone at all?

---

### Post by bobbybiceps on 2010-05-06
I have a Dell Lattitude D620 that I just installed 10.04 on.  I went to "System-Administration-Hardware Drivers" and got a list of available drivers.  I chose the Broadcom B43 wireless driver and it has been working perfectly for me.  Hope this helps you.

---

### Post by Spacerman on 2010-05-08
I have exactly the same problem. Have you found a solution to this problem?

---

### Post by shuknjive on 2010-05-08
Nope.  At this point I have resigned myself to believe that the NIC is toast.

---

### Post by suryaccnamcse on 2010-05-08
Have you tried some other release of ubuntu or have you tried installing windows?
Check with some other release before concluding that NIC is toast.

---

### Post by Megaptera on 2010-05-09
I  know this talks about Dell Minis but I've used it on my Dell laptop with 9.10 and 10.04 with no probs a simple effective solution on my system.
Don't forget to reboot afterwards though

[http://www.ubuntumini.com/2009/11/broadcom-wireless-driver-fix-in-karmic.html](http://www.ubuntumini.com/2009/11/broadcom-wireless-driver-fix-in-karmic.html)

hope this is of some help?

---

### Post by rpz79 on 2010-05-09
Same problem was here.
Connected through my wired adapter (realtek) and installed broadcom wireless adapter through Hardware Drivers.
Installed the drivers. problem solved.
Though I get red notification mark on the network icon...wonder why  :confused:

---

### Post by shuknjive on 2010-05-11
I've resolved the wireless issue by transferring the firmware on a a USB drive.  However, my wired connection is still not working, and the OS still doesn't recognize the card using either the "lspci" or "lshw -C Network" commands.  I've hit a wall that I can't seem to get over at this point.

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2010-10-24
Same problem on install of 10.10 Dell Inspiron 9300 Laptop no eth or wireless connection. Wireless and wired worked fine in 10.04 is there a way to undo an upgrade? This is nuts.

---

