---
title: "12.04: WLAN does not work on first boot (rt61)"
date: 2012-06-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Tyler_Durden on 2012-06-15
Hi folks,
I have been searching for a long time to find a solution to this rather weird issue. About a month ago I installed a new Workstation with the Ubuntu 12.04 release (previously I have been using 8.04). Everything works nicely except for one thing:


Upon the first boot of the system (first means booting after having the system shut off over the night), the WLAN device won't show up.


lspci reports:

04:01.0 Network controller: Device bfff:bfff



The weird thing is that after a reboot of the system, the WLAN works and lspci reports:

04:01.0 Network controller: Ralink corp. RT2561/RT61 802.11g PCI


With the old 8.04 the wireless stuff worked right out of the box. So why should'nt it with the recent Ubuntue release?


I guess this issue is kinda related to [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1568223](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1568223), where no solution was proposed yet.


Does anyone have a clue why this happens and how to solve that?


Thanks in advance,
Tyler

---

### Post by lrcaballero on 2012-06-15
Go to system settings and go to additional drivers that you may have pending to install for you WLAN card.

lrcaballero

---

### Post by Tyler_Durden on 2012-06-15
> **lrcaballero said:**
> Go to system settings and go to additional drivers that you may have pending to install for you WLAN card.

lrcaballero

There is no such additional driver to install. In fact, if that were the case, the WLAN wouldn't work after the second boot of the system, would it?

---

### Post by Tyler_Durden on 2012-06-19
Doesn't anybody have a clue how to solve this issue?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-06-19
Hi, I do not know the exact answer but I can tell you it is not the driver, the fact that it does not show up with the command you posted means it is not being picked up by the bios, either the card is loose or going bad, or the slot is going bad, or the bios is failing but if the latter were the case I am sure you would experience other issues as well.

You might reset the bios and cmos and see if that helps.

If this is desktop reseat the card or move it to another pci slot.
Thanks

---

### Post by Tyler_Durden on 2012-06-25
I have tried what you suggested (namely pluggin the card in and out, switching PCI slots) with no success unfortunately. It just appears that the Gigabyte PCI WLAN Adapter does not like the Gigabyte motherboard.

So, I replaced it by an ASUS PCI WLAN Adaptder and "tadaaaa": it works! Same Chipset but different vendors.

No clue, why the Gigabyte card won't work properly, but at least I do no longer need to reboot for internet access :).

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-06-25
Hi, that is great, please use thread tools at the to of the page to mark the thread solved.
Thanks

---

