---
title: "Another NetworkManager, DHCP, resolv.conf"
date: 2010-11-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dr3 on 2010-11-22
> **superprash2003 said:**
> well it shouldnt be a problem if your router is listed 3rd or 4th in position.. as only the first or at the most 2nd DNS servers would be used..

Unfortunately that's a big IF, superprash, if I am to look at my own /etc/resolv.conf (first line: 192.168.2.1, TADAA!) and forum posts I see all over the net. Some routers just love to report themselves as DNS server, although they can clearly not fulfill that function. 

That leaves me to wait for the DNS timeout every time I connect to the web - or edit my resolv.conf manually. :roll:

I've tried making a /etc/dhcp3/dhclient-exit-hooks script with some sed action but that does not seem to get called on connecting to my router in my kubuntu derived from ubuntu 10.10 maverick.

On the other hand, there is a subdirectory dhclient-exit-hooks.d/ in /etc/dhcp3/ with some scripts in it:
```
debug  ntpdate  rfc3442-classless-routes  zzz_avahi-autoipd
```I can tell only for the second what it might do but I have no idea when and under which conditions they are called and how I can add my own.

I am loath to edit /sbin/dhclient-script as I don't feel that's the right way to do it that would hold up to the next system upgrade. ](*,)

So to all ubuntu experts, how DO I set up a script that automatically edits resolv.conf AFTER it has been generated by the NetworkManager? I feel up to the task of writing a script to edit resolv.conf only when I am connecting to a particular router (not when I am connecting my laptop elsewhere).

This just to prevent posters from answering that I should use ```
prepend domain-name-servers DNS.41.location.only
``` in /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf - that is not an option, as I will be using different DNS servers depending on the location where I am signing in my laptop (work, home, business trip, travel).

But I am at a loss as to how to make my edit script be launched automatically when I connect to a router.

Your help will be much appreciated, thanks in advance for your replies,
Drew

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-11-22
Moved to new thread from [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6210935]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6210935")

That thread is two years old.
 From Code of Conduct:
> If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.

---

