---
title: "802.11n on Hardy Heron?"
date: 2008-05-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kmand on 2008-05-22
I've been trying to use ndiswrapper with an Airlink AWLL6080 which is USB 802.11n adapter based on the Ralink 2870. I'm using ndiswrapper since I know of no native Linux driver.

It does work with ndiswrapper in 11g mode, but I get nowhere with 11n.

I can boot my laptop under Windows XP or Linux.

Under XP the airlink usb 11n nic works very well. About 80mbits against an Airlink 802.11n access point. The Lan side of the access point is only 100mbits. It maintains this speed at distances where I never do better than 10mbits will 11g.

I then boot under Linux and use the same driver (and hardware) with ndiswrapper. If the access point is set to B/G/N it associates at G. If the access point is set to N only, it doesn't associate.

Has anyone gotten any combination of N nics and access points to work on Linux?

---

### Post by kmand on 2008-05-28
No reply in 5 days. Is there really no info on whether any draft N hardware works on 8.04?

---

### Post by yasha on 2008-05-28
Fairly well screwed with N for the time being. Unless you come up with a card that has native drivers.

Using Ndiswrapper for the driver seems to get the job done in situations where you simply wish to get connected. But if your looking for usage of the full potential of your card your still SOL in linux having to use this rather archaic method to get your card to function.

I "think" mine was functioning in N, however it was only seeing the 2.4ghz band using Ndiswrapper, so it would only do 130 rate max. It didn't see the 5ghz broadcast SSID from my router at all.

This was my post on a similar matter: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=805182](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=805182)  More specifically regarding wpa_supplicant issues, but I did note it wouldn't connect at anything faster or see the 5ghz network at all.

---

### Post by kmand on 2008-05-30
While my wireless router is a draft N it only supports 2.4ghz. Still I would be thrilled to get an N connection with that limitation. The 80mbits of throughput XP is seeing would be fine for me. I need about 25mbits of throughput for video and a room away G doesn't cut it.

Any pointers to where the Linux wireless developers hang out?

---

### Post by tjwilli on 2008-07-03
I'd also like to get a 802.11n adapter for my machine. I have an old (but still usable) PC I've put XP and Hardy Heron on. When my wired router died, I got a 802.11 router (Linksys WRT150N). There are a couple of PCs wired to this router, but the Ubuntu  one is upstairs in the loft currently isolated. 

From what I've been reading through this forum, 802.11n and linux just doesn't seem to be there yet, even with ndiswrapper. Is this true?  I'd be willing to fallback to 802.11g on a 11n adapter while ndiswapper and linux drivers catch up, but with the router being in the basement, and the potential wireless adapter 3 stories up in my loft (I have a 3 level townhouse), does 11g have the range to get a decent signal? I guess a range extender would help, but I don't want to put a lot of money into getting an old machine on the network. If it costs too much, I'll just stay with sneakernet.

Any suggestions on a good adapter to match with a Linksys WRT150N router?  PCI or USB?


Thanks.

---

### Post by kmand on 2008-07-03
As it turns out I lucked out on this. Ralink does support Linux

    [http://www.ralinktech.com/ralink/Home/Support/Linux.html](http://www.ralinktech.com/ralink/Home/Support/Linux.html)

and released a native Linux driver on 5/28 for the RT2870 including the USB version in the Airlink 101 300N I had. It works fine for me against the Airlink 101 300N router, which is the only 11N access point I have to test against.

I did have to use their webui management application rather than straight iwconfig/ifconfig or the automated wireless support in Hardy Heron. If anyone gets it working without webui, I would like to hear about it.

The good news is these are sold at Fry's and periodically come on sale for very little. $20 for the nic and about $40 for the router as I recall.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-07-03
wireless repeater or repeater/bridge with the ddwrt firmware on a linksys wrt54gl as one option for a range extender.  It works great -- I think some folks have used this option with many routers to expand the LAN like some 3 miles away.

---

