---
title: "Weird issue - can't connect to server IP from my ubuntu box"
date: 2011-06-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kenny99 on 2011-06-02
Weird issue - can't connect to server IP from my ubuntu box
Hi, I've been struggling badly with this issue and still haven't worked out what's going on, so any help would be greatly appreciated in case there's something I've missed...

I am the only person in my office running Linux and am the only person who can't connect to our new web server IP, even though I use the same gateway and network IP as the other machines in the office. From any other machine, I can access the server using HTTP, SSH, FTP, all of which are open via the normal ports. I can ping the server by IP or name, however any attempts to connect always end up with a timed out error. If i look at the server logs, there is no record of any refused connection from my IP (which is probably to be expected). Nothing has changed in our office in terms of the networking set up and I've not changed anything locally on my machine. All that has happened is that we have transferred our remote web server to a different IP. At the moment, this means I have no access to email and to the sites hosted on our server.

The traceroute output is the same on my machine as on windows machines in my office. There's nothing listed on the firewall rules under chain INPUT, FORWARD and OUTPUT.

Some output below if it helps:

/etc/resolv.conf file

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.0.1
```

/etc/hosts

```
127.0.0.1	localhost.localdomain	localhost
::1	nicky-desktop	localhost6.localdomain6	localhost6
127.0.1.1	nicky-desktop

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1 localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts
```

---

