---
title: "16.04 broadcom issues?  should i upgrade to a different card?"
date: 2016-08-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by oddballmotorsports on 2016-08-25
i have an hp laptop with a broadcom wireless card (id from lspci) Broadcom Corporation BCM43142 802.11b/g/n (rev 01)  and it seems i have the same issues everyone else does from disabling secure boot and running 3rd party drivers the signal drops out, wireless fails to work etc,  after the occasional reboot it works just fine.  my question is should i upgrade to a different card that has open source drivers?  and if so which one should i look for?  or might my issue be stemming from something else?   the computer was originally equipped with windows 10 and is set up dual boot through grub..

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-08-25
I would look for Intel wifi cards like the 7260, 3165, and others if the card will fit in the PCI(e) slot you have.  Qualcomm Atheros wifi cards are pretty good also as I have a few of them

---

### Post by oddballmotorsports on 2016-08-26
have you run any of the intels?  or just the qualcomms?  just curious as  to why you recommend intel but are running qualcomm..  the intel is  inexpensive enough,  and worth a shot, just want to make sure I'm making  the right decision beforehand...

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-08-27
I have both Intel and Qualcomm wifi.  My Lenovo came with a Qualcomm AR9485 and it works good as that laptop has a BIOS that will only work if certain wifi cards are used.  The rest of my laptops had Intel wifi from the factory and I switched my Dell to an Intel 7260 with bluetooth so I didn't need a USB dongle.  Some of the newest Qualcomm QCA wifi cards aren't supported out of the box yet in Ubuntu as they need an updatedlinux-firmware package

---

### Post by oddballmotorsports on 2016-08-27
so pretty much either or..   now as for the bios,,   i did not know that  could happen..   is it just lenovos with that issue?  or other laptops  as well?  and how do i confirm thats not going to happen to me if i run  the intel?  sorry for all the q's  i know enough to get myself in  trouble..  still got much to learn...

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-08-27
Just search for your computer model and whitelist as Lenovo isn't the only one anymore.  If it does have a whitelist you may have to use a USB wifi device or order a different card from the computer manufacturer so that you get one that will keep the BIOS happy

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2016-08-27
Re whitelisted wifi cards. If HP publishes a maintenance & repair manual for your machine, there should be a list of wifi card models that work in that machine. That's one good thing about Thinkpads, the models I have/had all have manuals online. Of course there's that whitelisted wifi BIOS thing :frown:.

---

### Post by oddballmotorsports on 2016-08-27
So I've searched for a while,  can't seem to find a whitelist for my model (hp 15z-af100)  talk over the intwerweb is yes there is a bios whitelist,  but I cannot find anything that specifically lists my model. nor did i find a list of "approved hardware"  on hp's site. In my searching,  I keep reading that secure boot does (mostly) the same thing?  is it just a different kind of security key check?  or is that hardware check built into the secure boot?  mine is disabled in the bios already.

---

### Post by oddballmotorsports on 2016-08-27
found some more info.  it looks like hp has removed the whitelist in the last 24 months or so.  however,  they say that the intel cards will not work with the amd chips...  something to do with competing processor manufacturers and they won't play well with each other?  that would be a funny answer seeing as you can get an amd or intel chip in your hp laptop...

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-08-27
I don't know whether the info is correct about AMD CPU's and Intel wifi cards
I did find a part number for HP rtl8723be wifi card 792610-005  Part number came from the maintenance manual I found [http://h10032.www1.hp.com/ctg/Manual/c04653881](http://h10032.www1.hp.com/ctg/Manual/c04653881) so I take it that this is a HP 255 G4?
Do a search on the part number and you will find some around.  Usually the only thing needed with the rtl8723be is ```
echo "options rtl8723be fwlps=N" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/rtl8723be.conf
``` and they work well after disabling fwlps

---

### Post by oddballmotorsports on 2016-08-28
I talked to hp,  no whitelist anymore..  so i ordered a qualcomm..  for a  paltry sum of $5 lol  as far as the info on intel,  it might not be but  if the qualcomm works well...   then thats okay..  i would have liked  intel's widi but oh well..  as long as the drivers work and dont require  a reboot twice a day...   im cool..  thanks for the help folks!

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-08-28
I hope you checked what type of slot your laptop has as there are a few different ones now

---

### Post by oddballmotorsports on 2016-09-20
interesting turn of events,  I ordered a qualcomm,  and they shipped an azurewave. aw-nb037h  I have the option for a refund.  has anyone had any experience with this particular card?  I would like to stick to common used things, case I have a problem, you fine folks can help me out.  As far as the intel card, has anyone run one on a hp with amd chipset?  I really like the idea of WIDI and with my home theater going in soon, this could be quite helpful.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-09-20
I am sure that card has a qualcomm AR9285 chipset in it and likely has bluetooth.  It might be the same as the card in my toshiba, I know it was azurewave but it also had an Atheros ID of AR5B195 if I recall correctly

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2016-09-20
In my opinion if it is the qualcomm AR9285 I would send it back we do not see this card very often any more but I use to work with it almost on a daily basis and it has the worst signal strength and connection of all the qualcomm cards in the past.

I have a 9485 and it works great for the last four years.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-09-20
Mine seems to work well, I haven't done a apples to apples test against the AR9485 that I have but with the AR9285 in the Toshiba in the same spot, the AR9285 reported better signal strength than the AR9485 in the Lenovo but when I moved the AR9285 five more feet away from the access point the level was the same.  There is a chance that the antennas in the Toshiba are better than what is in the Lenovo

---

### Post by oddballmotorsports on 2016-10-10
so two wrong cards later, (one was my fault) I found I have a NGFF slot not pcie in my HP.  so now I ask?  huh?  didn't even know there was anything other than pci-e  is this something I should be concerned about? as no one seems to be talking about this style of card..   I guess the short answer is no, as I'm not going to sell my laptop just to get another one..    is the atheros available in that footprint?  I've found a few on ebay.  but now I'm reluctant to buy anything as it seems I have no idea what I'm doing haha....

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-10-10
You may want to search for "ngff wifi" on the internet to see pictures of the different versions as there are at least two pin versions, pin A and pin E and those are not interchangeable
Considering NGFF, I would get an Intel with the correct pin type

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2016-10-10
> **oddballmotorsports said:**
> so two wrong cards later, (one was my fault) I found I have a NGFF slot not pcie in my HP.  so now I ask?  huh?  didn't even know there was anything other than pci-e  is this something I should be concerned about? as no one seems to be talking about this style of card..   I guess the short answer is no, as I'm not going to sell my laptop just to get another one..    is the atheros available in that footprint?  I've found a few on ebay.  but now I'm reluctant to buy anything as it seems I have no idea what I'm doing haha....

NGFF sent me scurrying to my favorite search engine, I'd never seen that term.
> [INDENT]**M.2** (pronounced *M dot two*), formerly known as the **Next Generation Form Factor** (**NGFF**), is a specification for internally mounted computer [expansion cards]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expansion_card") and associated connectors. It replaces the [mSATA]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MSATA") standard, which uses the [PCI Express Mini Card]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PCI_Express_Mini_Card") physical card layout and connectors. 
[/INDENT]

[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M.2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M.2)
I'd never heard of M.2 being used for anything other than SSDs

---

### Post by oddballmotorsports on 2016-10-10
see I'm a trend setter...   I meant to do that just to see if your paying attention (mmhmm yup thats it :/ )  thanks for the heads up again Jeremy..   see the problem is,  I can't ask you folks questions when I'm looking at the inside bits of my laptop lol..   so,  in my searching,  I also found little USB wifi "nubs"   as an alternative, are those any good?  or should I just stick with looking for an intel?  and can anyone confirm that it actually works with my hp with an amd chip?  because so far, no one has actually confirmed or denied this potentially pesky problem...

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-10-10
You could always see if HP offers an Intel wifi card for your laptop, then it should be guaranteed to work.  I have bad signal strength issues with the very small USB wifi devices but my TP-LInk TL-WM722n 150Mbps has an external antenna and reports a higher signal strength than my internal cards.  IIRC chili555 also uses one

---

### Post by oddballmotorsports on 2016-11-09
I went with a broadcom,  the difference in which it accesses the web is AWESOME! I was expecting to have to load drivers, but it was plug and play!  its only been about 5 minutes of running, but there's no lag, before there was tons.  especially when trying to scroll while the page was still loading..  we shall see if the other "device not ready" issue causing no connection is gone too..  I'm guessing it is,  but ill report in a week or so if its still stable.  Thanks for all your help Jeremy!

---

