---
title: "3.5G hsdpa usb modem problem"
date: 2009-02-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by shamsul on 2009-02-11
Hi all. I'm new in this linux world. And i have a problem with my usb modem.
I cannot work with, because the system see this usb as a mass storage. So i cannot access my internet network. How to solve this? How to get vendor id and product id for this hardware? I hope anyone can help me. So i can work with ubuntu.

---

### Post by ieee488 on 2009-02-11
model?

---

### Post by azwar on 2009-02-11
You can try
```
sudo lsusb
```
then the result should be like this

[PHP]azwar@azwar-laptop:~$ lsusb
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 5986:0100 Bison Acer OrbiCam
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 0000:0000
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 0000:0000
Bus 001 Device 005: ID 12d1:1003 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. E220 HSDPA Modem
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 0000:0000
azwar@azwar-laptop:~$[/PHP]

It show my HSDPA Modem together with vendor id and product id. What Ubuntu version do you use? I thought that Intrepid may auto-detected your usb modem.

---

### Post by shamsul on 2009-02-12
I'm using a model named CSL.

---

### Post by azwar on 2009-02-13
> **shamsul said:**
> I'm using a model named CSL.

Hi Shamsul,

Go to Application -> Accessories -> Terminal. Then type this code

```
sudo lsusb
```

Then you paste the output here.

---

### Post by shamsul on 2009-02-13
This is the output when I run the lsusb:

```
shamsul@shamsul-laptop:~$ lsusb
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 004 Device 002: ID 1c9e:1001  
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 003: ID 03eb:0902 Atmel Corp. 
Bus 005 Device 002: ID 15d9:0a37  
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
```

---

### Post by azwar on 2009-02-13
From the output, I think the USB Modem are detected at

```
Bus 005 Device 003: ID 03eb:0902 Atmel Corp.
```

Then type in this code in terminal
```
sudo modprobe usbserial vendor=0x03eb product=0x0902
```

Then install Gnome PPP
```
sudo apt-get install gnome-ppp
```

On gnome ppp, click setup and set like this. Then configure your phone no, username, password and connect

---

### Post by azwar on 2009-02-13
Hi Shamsul,

Is the step I give you work. If not just don't give up. Keep on posting on any error massages. There's a lot of people in this forum who are willing help you.

Anyway, what ubuntu version do you use. I think INTREPID will auto-detected your 3.5G usb modem

---

### Post by shamsul on 2009-02-14
Hi, Azwar.

I'm trying to follow your step by doing the sudo modprobe and installing gnome ppp. When i run gnome ppp and i click to the "detect" button, the popup said, "No modem was found on your system". So... what else. I don't know how. What brand is good and easy to setup with linux? I'm using CSL.

---

### Post by solitaire on 2009-02-14
Hi

Just a quick question. when you plug in the USB dongle left click on the "network" icon next to the time.
what entries can you see there?

I've a similar dongle (from 3 Mobile UK) and it's automatically detected and puts a connection button when i click on the "Network icon".

---

### Post by azwar on 2009-02-14
> **shamsul said:**
> Hi, Azwar.

I'm trying to follow your step by doing the sudo modprobe and installing gnome ppp. When i run gnome ppp and i click to the "detect" button, the popup said, "No modem was found on your system". So... what else. I don't know how. What brand is good and easy to setup with linux? I'm using CSL.

Hi Shamsul,

I think you should edit the configuration, like my attachment before. You should manually change the modem at /dev/tty/USB0.

> Hi

Just a quick question. when you plug in the USB dongle left click on the "network" icon next to the time.
what entries can you see there?

I've a similar dongle (from 3 Mobile UK) and it's automatically detected and puts a connection button when i click on the "Network icon".


He said at the 1st posting, his USB modem was detected as USB mass storage.

---

### Post by shamsul on 2009-02-15
Hi... azwar

I dont know what is the problem with my usb modem, but when I plug in the Huawei usb modem it's automatically detected.

---

### Post by solitaire on 2009-02-15
quick question, do you have a microSD card in the Huawei?

---

### Post by shamsul on 2009-02-16
I'm sorry, i dont know about microSD card in the Huawei.

---

### Post by pnqiu on 2009-08-16
so, any solution for this?i also got the same modem

---

### Post by inder_kumar on 2009-08-16
**Hi **[B]shamsul

U say ur modem is not getting recognised but I think when u run lsusb it shows some modem at usb is attached. Have u been able to properly configure ur modem. Are u able to ping ur modem with its IP.[/B]

---

### Post by pnqiu on 2009-08-17
i tried the same method but failed..
> 
hyundai@hyundai-laptop:~$ sudo lsusb
[sudo] password for hyundai: 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 2020:f00e  
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
hyundai@hyundai-laptop:~$ sudo modprobe usbserial vendor=0x2020 product=0xf00e
FATAL: Module usbserial not found.


im on ubuntu 9.04

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-08-17
Hi **pnqiu**,
in your case you have Ubuntu 9.04 initial version which has the **usbserial** encapsulated into kernel. Later updated version of kernel has usbserial as an external driver. I do not know if this is the only problem with your modem, but you can pass the usbserial problem with one of two options:
a. update your 9.04 using ethernet/wifi and try again 'sudo modprobe usbserial ...'
b. edit grub (boot loader) to handle the usbserial, try to connect and update later

For **b** read: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7691132&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7691132&postcount=2)

You have to 'extend' the line with all parameters ending to '...quiet splash'
and make it '...quiet splash usbserial.vendor=0x2020 usbserial.product=0xf00e'


Regards,
George

---

### Post by pnqiu on 2009-08-18
thnx george,
i did as what u told but still didnt work out.

i cannot update as still cant connect to the net.

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-08-18
Hi **pnqiu**, can you give more info about your modem?

manufacturer, model, provider etc (look at the sticker, bottom side)

Also test **lsusb** before and 15 seconds after attaching the modem to determine the actual vendorID and productID.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by pnqiu on 2009-08-19
my modem is CSL U2-TF..same model as the thread starter..
after a couple of trial and error..i believe my laptop detected the modem 
> hyundai@hyundai-laptop:~$ lsusb
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 2020:f00e  
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
hyundai@hyundai-laptop:~$ ls -la /dev/ttyU*
crw-rw---- 1 root dialout 188, 0 2009-08-19 22:23 /dev/ttyUSB0


but the problem is, i cannot connect to the net because my isp doesnt require login name and password. at first i used wvdial

> hyundai@hyundai-laptop:~$ wvdial
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATE0V1
ATE0V1
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Configuration does not specify a valid phone number.
--> Configuration does not specify a valid login name.
--> Configuration does not specify a valid password.


then gnome-ppp
> hyundai@hyundai-laptop:~$ gnome-ppp
WVCONF: /home/hyundai/.wvdial.conf
GNOME PPP: STDOUT: Editing `/dev/null'.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: WvModem<*1>: Cannot set information for serial port.
GNOME PPP: STDOUT: 
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
GNOME PPP: STDOUT: Scanning your serial ports for a modem.
GNOME PPP: STDOUT: 
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 115200 baud
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttyS0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: Modem Port Scan<*1>: S1   S2   S3   
GNOME PPP: STDERR: WvModem<*1>: Cannot get information for serial port.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 Z -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: Modem Identifier: ATI -- SmartLink Soft Modem
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: Speed 4800: AT -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: Speed 9600: AT -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: Speed 19200: AT -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: Speed 38400: AT -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: Speed 57600: AT -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: Speed 115200: AT -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: Speed 230400: AT -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: Speed 460800: AT -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: Max speed is 460800; that should be safe.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0 -- OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: WvModem<*1>: Cannot get information for serial port.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttyUSB0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 2400 baud, next try: 9600 baud
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttyUSB0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- failed with 9600 baud, next try: 9600 baud
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttyUSB0<*1>: ATQ0 V1 E1 -- and failed too at 115200, giving up.
GNOME PPP: STDOUT: 
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ttySL0<Info>: Speed 460800; init "ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0"
GNOME PPP: STDOUT: Found a modem on /dev/ttySL0.
GNOME PPP: STDOUT: Modem configuration written to /dev/null.
GNOME PPP: Connecting...
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Cannot get information for serial port.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Initializing modem.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Modem initialized.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Please enter password (or empty password to stop):
GNOME PPP: STDERR: Caught signal 2:  Attempting to exit gracefully...


---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-08-19
Hi, again. Please try a better /etc/wvdial.conf
```
sudo gedit /etc/wvdial.conf
```
```
[Dialer Defaults]
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
ISDN = 0
Baud = 460800
Dial Attempts = 1
Username = user
Password = pass
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Init3 = AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","internet"
Phone = *99***1#
Stupid Mode = 1
```

You have to check APN ("internet" above). I think that any username/password may work. Ask your provider post here info to check.

To connect: **sudo wvdial** 

Your SIM PIN check must be removed.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by mydiamond on 2009-09-22
> **GeorgeVita said:**
> Hi, again. Please try a better /etc/wvdial.conf
```
sudo gedit /etc/wvdial.conf
``````
[Dialer Defaults]
Modem = /dev/ttyUSB0
Modem Type = Analog Modem
ISDN = 0
Baud = 460800
Dial Attempts = 1
Username = user
Password = pass
Init1 = ATZ
Init2 = ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
Init3 = AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","internet"
Phone = *99***1#
Stupid Mode = 1
```You have to check APN ("internet" above). I think that any username/password may work. Ask your provider post here info to check.

To connect: **sudo wvdial** 

Your SIM PIN check must be removed.

Regards,
George


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

i also face the same problem....
tried various way already....but still the modem still cannot work

modem= CSL 3.5G modem.....with microSD card slot....

1st method(failed)=wvdial as shared in this forum

2nd method(failed)=gnome ppp, from tis forum too

3rd method(failed)=

Hi
To solve this in ubuntu 904 I found the following work around:

in a terminal type the following
sudo nautilus (This will bring up the admin file manger)

the go to file system / boot /grub
under grub you will find "menu.lst" (I advise that you make a copy of
this file ;- to do this just copy and past it in the same directory)
then open this file and add the line "usbserial vendor=0x12d1
product=0x1411" to the end of the line that looks like the following
 "kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic
root=UUID=7a427095-4b6f-4d3c-a486-65d5b6d27491 ro xforcevesa quiet
splash" and reboot

this will active the usb device at boot up (you might have to unplug the
modem once ubuntu has started ) once you have rebooted ubuntu should
pick up your modem under the network connection and you will be able to
set it there

Sould you have any problems please mail me and I will gladly help you

Kind Regards
Frans Gabriel
TEL 073 861 4383
HOME 011 021 2011
E-Mail <email address hidden>


**********************************************************************************************************

lsusb result(with USB modem only) =

ming@ming-laptop:~$ lsusb
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 1c9e:f000  
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

Anyone can provide solution to solve this problem.....

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-09-22
> **mydiamond said:**
> ...Anyone can provide solution to solve this problem...
Hi **mydiamond**, searching ubuntuforums we can find a lot of threads trying to connect a 3G modem (some of them succeeded, some other no). I searched and did not find a 'solution', so I am posting some ideas and notes.

Some 3G modems respond by default as an autorun virtual CD drive (ZeroCD) and need a 'switch' to the actual modem using various methods as '**eject**ing ZeroCD', use of **usb_modeswitch** program, or newer '**udev-extras**'. Each method has advantages and problems, requiring more or less user knowledge. More 'problems' occur when the modem is a new product and there are few users to try/use it with Ubuntu.

The typical but long way is to report a bug and help developers to fix it. Other way is to get ideas from other users and try them. More at: **[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NetworkManager/Hardware/3G](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/NetworkManager/Hardware/3G)**

From my point of view the following steps must be done to 'try and solve' a 3G modem connection problem:

- Find vendorID : productID of your modem
>>> your modem must be **1c9e:f000**

- search ubuntuforums & internet to find any helpful idea

- if above vendorID : productID refers to a ZeroCD, try some methods to switch it succesfully
>>> the result will be a NEW vendorID : **productID** showing the modem

- check if  the system creates communication ports for your device now 'switched to real modem'
>>> use: **dmesg** and **ls /dev/ttyU*** (some drivers use other port name as /dev/ttyHS0 or /dev/ttyACM0)

- if ports are not created by the system, try to create them
>>> first find your kernel version: **uname -a**
>>> Ubuntu 9.04 with kernel up to 2.6.28-12 you must **edit grub** at boot
>>> kernel from 2.6.28-13 use **sudo modprobe usbserial vendor=0x1c93 product=0xABCD** (ABCD is the new productID after switching to modem state)

- check creation of ports: **dmesg** and **ls /dev/...** (as above)

- finally try to use a connection method: network manager, wvdial, pppconfig, gnome-ppp

Post any progress to follow up.

Regards,
George

---

### Post by mydiamond on 2009-09-23
> **GeorgeVita said:**
> Hi **mydiamond**, searching ubuntuforums we can find a lot of threads trying to connect a 3G modem (some of them succeeded, some other no). I searched and did not find a 'solution', so I am posting some ideas and notes.

Some 3G modems respond by default as an autorun virtual CD drive (ZeroCD) and need a 'switch' to the actual modem using various methods as '**eject**ing ZeroCD', use of **usb_modeswitch** program, or newer '**udev-extras**'. Each method has advantages and problems, requiring more or less user knowledge. More 'problems' occur when the modem is a new product and there are few users to try/use it with Ubuntu.


thanx 4 reply....
since i am a newbie in linux....i still cannot make it....

  	 	 	 	 	 	  ming@ming-laptop:~$ uname -a 
 Linux ming-laptop 2.6.28-15-generic #52-Ubuntu SMP Wed Sep 9 10:49:34 UTC 2009 i686 GNU/Linux 



   	 	 	 	 	 	  root@ming-laptop:/home/ming# apt-get install udev-extras 
 Reading package lists... Done 
 Building dependency tree        
 Reading state information... Done 
 The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required: 
   linux-headers-2.6.28-11 linux-headers-2.6.28-11-generic flashplugin-installer 
 Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them. 
 The following NEW packages will be installed: 
   udev-extras 
 0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded. 
 Need to get 15.9kB of archives. 
 After this operation, 119kB of additional disk space will be used. 
 Get:1 [http://my.archive.ubuntu.com](http://my.archive.ubuntu.com) jaunty/universe udev-extras 0~-2~gite5fb9bd-1 [15.9kB] 
 Fetched 15.9kB in 1s (9364B/s)                          
 Selecting previously deselected package udev-extras. 
 (Reading database ... 151607 files and directories currently installed.) 
 Unpacking udev-extras (from .../udev-extras_0~-2~gite5fb9bd-1_i386.deb) ... 
 Processing triggers for man-db ... 



install udev-extras already, but dont know how to switch to modem state.....


my usb modem always detect as installation disk (but installer is for Window and Mac)....

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-09-23
Hi **mydiamond**, as you are first trying **udev-extras**, according to post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7622263&postcount=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7622263&postcount=3)

you must 'run' a command that creates a udev rule:
```
echo 'SUBSYSTEM=="usb", SYSFS{idProduct}=="f000", SYSFS{idVendor}=="1c9e", RUN+="/lib/udev/modem-modeswitch --vendor 0x1c9e --product 0xf000 --type option-zerocd"' | sudo tee  /etc/udev/rules.d/45-3gmodem.rules
```

Reboot and try setup network manager.

If this did not work try usb_modeswitch (search internet for 1c9e:f000 )

Regards,
George

---

### Post by mydiamond on 2009-10-11
tried usbmodeswitch d

also cant work......

anyone(especially those with experience installing this modem) can teach me step by step from the beginning?

i cant make it even i follow the tutorial frm other site(may be tat is for other modem)

please

thanx in advance

---

### Post by piju on 2009-10-11
any progress ?

try this solution 

[http://www.sifoo.net/v2/?p=146](http://www.sifoo.net/v2/?p=146)

---

### Post by mydiamond on 2009-12-16
> **piju said:**
> any progress ?

try this solution 

[http://www.sifoo.net/v2/?p=146](http://www.sifoo.net/v2/?p=146)

finally did it.....woth the reference on sifoo.net

i write down the step by step iin my blog....:)

_[http://justfigureout.blogspot.com/](http://justfigureout.blogspot.com/)_:popcorn:

---

### Post by ylluigl on 2010-06-01
i got csl u1-tf with 2020:f00e too.

what's the id to make it recognized as modem???

---

### Post by ylluigl on 2010-06-01
i've found the product ID for the modem mode - 1005 

running the code sudo /usr/sbin/initmodem.sh by method somewhere i've seen is worked. 
but after it said message successfully sent, running lsusb return me 2020:f00e. which the mode change didn't persist. 

How? :(:(:(:(:(:(:(:(

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-06-01
why don't you start a new thread?

You might get more notice;

so tell us which country, what device and type

> lsusb

so folks can work out what you are saying

---

### Post by lindevox on 2010-08-06
Try this link, perhaps it may help : [http://www.sifoo.net/v2/?p=146](http://www.sifoo.net/v2/?p=146)

---

### Post by pdc on 2010-08-07
you may well recommend the link

> Try this link, perhaps it may help : [http://www.sifoo.net/v2/?p=146](http://www.sifoo.net/v2/?p=146)

and it advocates using usb_modeswitch;

usb_modeswitch keeps getting better and better;

the latest version should auto-configure; 

so you shouldn't need to edit files .............

and you may well not need to use wvdial these days either ..

---

