---
title: "8.10 - How do I change MTU for eth0?"
date: 2008-11-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Athiril on 2008-11-08
I've located my problem to the MTU size being reported back by ifconfig for eth0 - it's 64 bytes.

Therefore cant really send any broadcast packets I suspect.. which is why I cant connect to my network I think.

I'm aware of the Network Configuration un System->Preferences.

I've tried changing it there, but when I go back to ifconfig in the terminal, it is still reporting a MTU of 64 bytes.

How do I *actually* change the MTU size?

---

### Post by golusweet on 2008-11-08
sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces 

in the interfaces file you should find a line like this



iface eth0 inet dhcp or iface eth0 inet static


add mtu "value here"

for e.g
iface eth0 inet dhcp

mtu 1492

I hope,this helps.

---

### Post by Athiril on 2008-11-08
thanks i already sudo gedit'ed that file looking for any problems... eth0 wasn't even listed in that when i had a look the first time.

Do I need to restart for it to take affect? because I am running the live fs off the CD, and I want to confirm I can get everything working before going ahead with an install.

I'll copy and paste your instructions in a txt file and lets hope i can get it working this time.

---

### Post by golusweet on 2008-11-08
Just save it,and have a go.

---

### Post by Athiril on 2008-11-08
It took a couple of goes and disabling and re-enabling the networking interface to get it working.

But thanks, ended up getting it working, posting from Ubuntu now.

Now I just need to figure out how to get my wireless keyboard from stopping repeating the last character press when the signal drops out momentarily (I remember this was in the last distro agesss ago I tried out too).

Gotta get that and my RAID0 working.

---

### Post by neel148 on 2011-03-11
For me application like Evolution mail, youtube-dl, PUBKEY etc. dont work and I checked the MTU to be 1472. At my work environment the MTU is 1500 and there all these applications work. Is the problem just with the MTU? and would changing that make all of them work for me?

I am just being a bit cautious so that changing it doesn’t disrupt my present scenario!

Also I haven’t understood how to change the MTU permanently. at /etc/network/interfaces the following two lines are written:

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

What do I change now?

---

