---
title: "broadcom card issues"
date: 2007-06-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by foso on 2007-06-23
hey guys, i had everything working good, but then reinstalled to give ubuntu a bigger partition, and now wifi doesnt work, tried fwcutter and ndiswrapper  but cant get them to work, dont know what i did before that worked, tried researching stuff online, but cant figure it out, i have a couple of inf files on the cd that came with my laptop and copied them to a file, installed the gui for ndiswrapper too, but it doesnt do anything when i select the inf files, i got rid of fwcutter to try ndiswrapper again, it seems that last time fwcutter worked and ndiswrapper didnt, i have a compaq r3230 with a broadcom 43xx card, ati mobility card and 2.8 intel, ive havent been running ubuntu real long, so i need things to be fairly detailed, i know how to open a terminal, but dont know what to do once i get there generally, thanks guys

edit: whatever i had before had an option that allowed me to click on the network icon and 'enable wireless' and things like that, thats gone now for some reason...

---

### Post by quickshade on 2007-06-23
[lazy link](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=405990) run that program and see if it works. did for me and most people.

---

### Post by Drate on 2007-06-24
It would help to know what card specifically you have... I run a Linksys WMP54GS (Speedbooster).  This is what fixed all my wireless networking problems IN EDGY.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=381770](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=381770)

---

### Post by foso on 2007-06-24
i specified which card i have to the best of my knowledge, im a recent convert, im trying to learn stuff, but dont know that much yet, this did fix it, thanks!

---

### Post by rezabek on 2007-06-26
Thank You...I spent hours tying various things in other posts. I have the WMP54GS also and after I used this package it worked for me.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=381770](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=381770)

The only problem now is the the card seems to be at 11MB and I do not know how to get it to 54MB like other devices on my network. Any thoughts? Is there a setting I am missing.;);););)

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-06-26
foso
Please post 
lspci 
lspci -n

This will give us a starting point

Rezabak
Did you use ndiswrapper of bcm43xx to install your card?? What kind of card do you have?

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2007-06-26
also you can insert the card and post the output of "dmesg |tail" usually you need to move the firmware generated by fwcutter into the /lib/firmware directory.

---

### Post by NullHead on 2007-06-26
I would try ```
sudo modprobe ndiswrapper
```

---

### Post by stchman on 2007-06-26
> **foso said:**
> hey guys, i had everything working good, but then reinstalled to give ubuntu a bigger partition, and now wifi doesnt work, tried fwcutter and ndiswrapper  but cant get them to work, dont know what i did before that worked, tried researching stuff online, but cant figure it out, i have a couple of inf files on the cd that came with my laptop and copied them to a file, installed the gui for ndiswrapper too, but it doesnt do anything when i select the inf files, i got rid of fwcutter to try ndiswrapper again, it seems that last time fwcutter worked and ndiswrapper didnt, i have a compaq r3230 with a broadcom 43xx card, ati mobility card and 2.8 intel, ive havent been running ubuntu real long, so i need things to be fairly detailed, i know how to open a terminal, but dont know what to do once i get there generally, thanks guys

edit: whatever i had before had an option that allowed me to click on the network icon and 'enable wireless' and things like that, thats gone now for some reason...

You can use the Broadcom 43xx driver:

[http://www.stchman.com/install_ndis_broadcom.html](http://www.stchman.com/install_ndis_broadcom.html)

This worked for a friend of mine.

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2007-06-26
That also worked for my bcm4306? card. Its really easy to do, all you need is the windows driver to extract firmware from, and the fwcutter tool.(as well as a functional build environment)

---

