---
title: "16.04 machine vanished from network"
date: 2016-12-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by 4thVariety on 2016-12-21
Disclaimer:
No, I cannot go to the physical location for the next week. 

The system is a Ubuntu 16.04 64bit desktop version.
Hardware is a MSI B75MA-P45, i3 3250, 8GB Ram, nVidia 730 (open source drivers). System runs off a PCIe card holding a 256GB msata drive. 

The problem:
after 8 days of uptime, the system just vanished from the network. VPN to the firewall tells me the PC is gone. The switch tells me there is something connected physically, but that's it; no IP, no MAC address. Trying to cheat a lack of physical address with arp -s lead to nothing, even when done on the switch. No DHCP issues, static mapping is in effect, no double IP addresses. The PC is not off, courtesy of the power meter. I did have the error once before, but when I looked onto the machine, everything was fine the moment I looked. No kernel panic, no nic crash. Back then, I used the firewall to shutdown the connection between the internal network and the internet when the error occurred, so no, there is no phantom hacker either. Technically the system is configured to respond to "wake on LAN", which I successfully tried. But the system is not sleeping, rendering my attempts to wake it on LAN futile. All cables are fine, they cannot be pulled out and they have a healthy click sound when plugging them it.


If anybody has a suggestion how to reach that system, I am all ears.
I am also open to suggestion which log file might be the right one to comb through for errors such as this one. More than to immediately fix this problem, I want to know what is causing it.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2016-12-21
If there isn't any network access and you don't have remote console access then I don't see how you can do anything to the system.  Looking through all the log files isn't a big deal. Use grep to search for warnings and errors in all of them.

Do you have IPMI setup or a remote serial console?

Is remote logging enabled and is the log server available? Without ssh or console access, not much can be done, however.

If connectivity is very critical, then having multiple network paths into the machine would be normal operating procedure, especially a remote console connection. They sell devices for that. Data centers use them. 8, 16, 14, 32-way console servers.

---

