---
title: "hostname and DNS"
date: 2009-06-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by smyrna112 on 2009-06-02
Okay im going nuts here!!!


When i type "hostname" at a prompt it comes back "ubuntu64" thats ok but when i type "hostname -f" it comes back the same way without "casa.local" the domain is set fine in my DHCP Server scope options.

015 DNS Domain Name: casa.local

I also can not ping *.casa.local unless i stop avahi i know there is a .local bug with avahi but im not using my ISP's DNS i have 2 DNS servers internally on AD. How can i turn off avahi permanatly?

What do I have wrong? If you need other info let me know!

/etc/hostname

ubuntu64

/etc/resolv.conf

#Generated by NetworkManager
domain casa.local
search casa.local
nameserver 10.0.0.177
nameserver 10.0.0.179

---

### Post by smyrna112 on 2009-06-05
BUMP!

Nothing?

---

### Post by UBSec on 2009-06-05
Hi,

First if you wanna setup your default domain name , you've to edit the file :
/etc/hosts

here is a sample 
# IP addresss               canonical name                            alias1     ...          aliasN

127.0.0.1                  myhost.mydomain.com                   myhost                   myhostN

Now hostname should work :
    > hostname -f
    > mydomain.com


Second you can set the same default conf with avahi . You need to edit /etc/avahi/avahi-deamon.conf . But if you wanna  disable it, edit the file /etc/default/avahi and replace :
                  AVAHI_DAEMON_DETECT_LOCAL=1 
                                   by
                  AVAHI_DAEMON_DETECT_LOCAL=0

UBSec

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-06-05
*Might* need to change **hostname** at the same time to keep **sudo** from having problems.

---

### Post by smyrna112 on 2009-06-06
Thanks to both! Seem to have got it working now! Any news on the avahi bug?

---

