---
title: "static ip configuration failed"
date: 2013-09-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by hunter3 on 2013-09-16
hello all. n00b here. i attempted to assign my server a static ip address, but something seems to have failed. from googling around i got that maybe my network was partly configured elsewhere, but i have no idea where that would be or when it might have happened. 

a nmap network scan results in both 192.168.1.110 and 192.168.1.200 being online with the same mac adddress, but both time out when pinged. .110 is the dchp assigned ip, and .200 is the static ip

please help!

here are my results 

cat@wizard:/etc/cups$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).


auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
	address 192.168.1.200
	netmask 255.255.255.0
	gateway 192.168.1.1
	network 192.168.1.0
	broadcast 192.168.1.255

cat@wizard:~$ netstat -rn
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth1
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U         0 0          0 eth1
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U         0 0          0 eth0

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-09-16
The package "resolvconf" is installed? If yes, add this line to the interfaces:
```

echo "dns-nameservers 192.168.1.1" | sudo tee -a /etc/network/interfaces
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```
You can add other nameservers, too in that line as described. Check afterwards:
```

ifconfig eth0
cat /etc/resolv.conf
route -n
```
Did you install a GUI? If yes, show additionally:```

cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-09-16
> **praseodym said:**
> Did you install a GUI?
This is important because Network Manager would overthrow your config files.

In order to see if Network Manager is installed you can run:
```
apt-cache policy network-manager
```
Regards.

---

### Post by hunter3 on 2013-09-16
I do have a gui installed 
 cat /etc/networkmanager/networkmanager.conf returns

[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile

no-auto-default=00:16:35:9F:4B:3C

[ifupdown]
managed=false

cat /etc/resolv.conf returns:
# Generated by NetworkManager


if i reinstall my gui would that wipe the changes Network Manager has made?

thanks for the help :)

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-09-16
> **hunter3 said:**
> I do have a gui installed 
Then you could easily setup a static IP using the GUI tools. Here's a [tutorial]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP/StaticIP").

Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by hunter3 on 2013-09-16
Okay, I fixed it. I uninstalled gnome (thinking it would uninstall network manager, which it didn't) than uninstalled network manager restart then restarted and then ran /etc/init.d/networking and then set a static ip in /etc/network/interfaces

i think i'll just not install a gui this time ;)

thanks for the help!

---

