---
title: "DNS Chaos + VPN problems 17.10"
date: 2017-11-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by witizer on 2017-11-22
Fresh installation of Ubuntu 17.10. After 1 day of use, I couldn't get access to webpages. It was a DNS problem. Every time I restart Ubuntu I get this /etc/resolv.conf:

```
# Generated by Connection Managernameserver ::1
nameserver 127.0.0.1
```

After writing manually the resolv.conf file indicating a DNS server (google) each time I reboot, I get access to internet.

```
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4
```

However, when I connect to a corporate VPN, I experience the same problem again, I cannot access web pages. If I disconnect the VPN, the DNS appears to work again.

Thank you.

[URL="http://paste.ubuntu.com/26024991/"]System information
[/URL]

---

### Post by photonxp on 2017-11-24
**[How to ensure OpenVPN connection uses specific DNS?]("https://serverfault.com/questions/416708/how-to-ensure-openvpn-connection-uses-specific-dns")**

Some vpn clients such as OpenVpn would try to change the dns settings in "/etc/resolv.conf" by default via the "resolvconf" command when the vpn client starts/stops its service.

---

### Post by witizer on 2017-11-25
Thanks for your answer @photonxp. I need to configure the VPN using a Cisco Compatible VPN (vpnc). Even without connection to the VPN I don't have internet (DNS error) each time I reboot.

---

### Post by witizer on 2017-11-27
I don't have internet at all. DNS problem. The configuration is [here]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/26024991/").

---

### Post by Scott Deagan on 2018-01-11
Don't change anything in /etc/resolv.conf - it's not used anymore. Instead, modify:

     ```
/etc/systemd/resolved.conf
```

Uncomment the line

     ```
#DNS=
```

to something like

     ```
DNS=8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4
```

(or whatever DNS you want to use).

If it doesn't work after you take down and bring up your OpenVPN connection, or if you lose your DNS after you disconnect from your DNS, then do a:

     ```
sudo systemctl restart systemd-resolved
```

---

