---
title: "Trying to set up a static IP, but I don't know all my information"
date: 2009-02-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Amablue on 2009-02-08
I'm following [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=974382") on how to set up a static IP, but I don't know where to find the information that he asks to put in. Specifically, 

> address xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx(enter your ip here)
netmask xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
gateway xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx(enter gateway ip here) 

and 

> # Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx(enter your dns server ip)
nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx(enter your alt dns server ip) 

The IP Address is the one I want to use, right? I think the netmask is 255.255.255.0, but for the rest I'm not sure what to put.

---

### Post by madverb on 2009-02-08
Yes, IP address is the one you want to use. It needs to be on the same network as your router i.e. 10.0.0.1 with netmask 255.255.255.0 would mean you would need an IP address that is 10.0.0.***. Your gateway IP address is your router's IP address. You can set your nameserver to your router's IP too. This will just use your ISP's nameservers.

---

### Post by Amablue on 2009-02-08
I tried setting the following settings and it didn't work:

address 192.168.1.100
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1

nameserver 192.168.1.1

Any ideas what I did wrong?

---

### Post by Amablue on 2009-02-08
I seem to have made the problem worse. I was looking at other posts for suggestions on how to set it up, and I found [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6623406&postcount=10"). After removing Network Manager though, I can't connect to the internet at all, and I can't reinstall it because I'm not on the internet. 

:(

---

### Post by jimv on 2009-02-08
Here's what the entry in your /etc/network/interfaces file should look like:

```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.100
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
```

Or you can put this in there to get DHCP to work again:

```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```

Then your /etc/resolv.conf should look like this:

```
nameserver 192.168.1.1
```

---

### Post by ForMar on 2009-02-08
If above does not work, you first need to determine if its the nameserver that does not work or if you really just dont have any connectivity. This can simple be done by first pinging google.com
and then pinging the exact ip address of google.com(74.125.45.100) being one of the many. If the ladder works then your just have a nameserver problem if it does not and above does not work then truthfully you probable are mistaken  about the ips. (assuming DHCP works)

---

### Post by Amablue on 2009-02-08
I tried following exactly what you posted, but neither dhcp nor the static ip version of interfaces file worked. 

If it matters, I'm trying to connect wirelessly to a linksys router.

Eidt: 
attempting to ping google.com doesn't work. It say unknown host google.com
Attempting to ping the address causes it to try and send data to the address, but it just hangs.

---

### Post by ForMar on 2009-02-08
If you dont get any internet when using dhcp then the problem is a bit more "difficult". First is your router configured to use dhcp. Secondly when you do set linux to use dhcp (reboot always good) what is the output of "ifconfig" in terminal?

well after reading the below I think that the command is the same just wlan0 instead of eth0 but I could be completely wrong so dont take my word for it.

I'm assuming you have your wireless network card all in working order?

---

### Post by jimv on 2009-02-08
OH, that's the problem, the code I gave you won't work for a wireless connection, that takes some additional stuff.  unfortunately, I have never actually done a wireless connection from the command line, so I can't help you there.

But, you could put your CD in, go into /etc/apt/sources.list and make sure that the line near the top for the cdrom is not commented out, then run this command:

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install network-manager

---

### Post by Amablue on 2009-02-08
I figured out how to undo the change I made a few posts ago, so at least I have internet back, but still no static IP like I'm aiming for. 

> **ForMar said:**
> If you dont get any internet when using dhcp then the problem is a bit more "difficult". First is your router configured to use dhcp. Secondly when you do set linux to use dhcp (reboot always good) what is the output of "ifconfig" in terminal?

well after reading the below I think that the command is the same just wlan0 instead of eth0 but I could be completely wrong so dont take my word for it.

I'm assuming you have your wireless network card all in working order?

I've got this computer dual booting windows XP, and I've never had a problem setting up a static IP there. I open up the control panel, go to network settings, find the right place and enter the numbers (I can't remember the exact steps without having XP open in front of me, but it worked fine).

```
$ ifconfig
ath0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1b:2f:c0:e0:6b  
          inet addr:192.168.1.103  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::21b:2fff:fec0:e06b/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:32970 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:30505 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:33515771 (33.5 MB)  TX bytes:4601464 (4.6 MB)

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1f:c6:67:f8:26  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:1
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:252 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:1 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:88 (88.0 B)  TX bytes:88 (88.0 B)

wifi0     Link encap:UNSPEC  HWaddr 00-1B-2F-C0-E0-6B-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00  
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:103549 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:17127
          TX packets:31334 errors:54 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:199 
          RX bytes:44491265 (44.4 MB)  TX bytes:5313034 (5.3 MB)
          Interrupt:16 

```

---

### Post by boof1988 on 2009-02-08
> **jimv said:**
> Here's what the entry in your /etc/network/interfaces file should look like:

```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.100
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
```

Or you can put this in there to get DHCP to work again:

```
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```

Then your /etc/resolv.conf should look like this:

```
nameserver 192.168.1.1
```

Thanks for posting this info... it's helpful (clear/concise) to me.

---

### Post by punx45 on 2009-02-08
from the looks of your ifconfig output, replace eth0 with ath0 in the instructions and you should be set.

i believe after you make changes, you need to reset the interface (faster than rebooting)

do 
```

sudo ifdown ath0
sudo ifup ath0

```

or more properly, disable, edit, enable.

---

### Post by Amablue on 2009-02-08
We're almost there =D

I replaced eth0 with ath0, and it still didn't work. While poking around I noticed that in the connection information for network manager it says what my DNS is. I used those numbers for the nameservers. So this is what my files look like now:
```
auto ath0
iface ath0 inet static
address 192.168.1.100
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
```

```
nameserver 68.87.76.178
nameserver 68.87.78.130
```

And this setup works, for about 15 seconds. I can stat browsing the internet fine, but after a few seconds, it just stops working. Any other ideas?

---

### Post by punx45 on 2009-02-08
hmm. it seemed like when you had it working ath0 was the right interface.   try wifi0 then.

also, is your router using DHCP for other computers?   what is the range of the ips it is assigning?   you may want to change that, or choose a lower number for your static ip as it may be conflicting with the router.

e.g.

my router assigns IPs via DHCP from xxx.100 up.   i have two machines with static IPs on my network,  xxx.5 and xxx.10

failing that, DHCP does have the capability to assign a static IP.   configuring that, however, will depend on your router hardware.

---

### Post by Amablue on 2009-02-10
Ok, so here's where I'm at:

It seems that some of my problem was that NetworkManager was still running. Merely disabling nm-applet wasn't enough to stop it from starting up at boot, which is why I had to follow that post in another thread. So I've disabled it again, and now I'm back to being able to access the internet for only a few seconds at a time. This is what I'm currently using:

/etc/networking/interfaces

```
auto ath0
iface ath0 inet static
address 192.168.1.50
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
wireless-essid TheHatch
```

/etc/resolv.conf

```
domain hsd1.ca.comcast.net.
search hsd1.ca.comcast.net.
nameserver 68.87.76.178
nameserver 68.87.78.130
nameserver 68.87.69.146
```

My router starts assigning IP's at 192.168.1.100 and up. I thought that since I Was using 192.168.1.100 earlier that might have been the problem, so I switched it to 192.168.1.50, but it doesn't seem to make a difference.

> **punx45 said:**
> failing that, DHCP does have the capability to assign a static IP.   configuring that, however, will depend on your router hardware.

There's a few reasons I'm setting up a static IP. I want to be able to use Bittorrent effectively (it complains if I don't have a static IP. Or, at least uTorrent does under windows). Another reason is I'm trying to learn how to set up an apache server so I can use SVN across the 2 or 3 computers I use regularly. Will I be able to do all that if I set the IP from the router instead of setting a static IP on the computer?

Edit:

Nevermind!
After resetting it seems to be working reliably now. I wonder what made the difference? =D

---

### Post by punx45 on 2009-02-10
> **punx45 said:**
> 

i believe after you make changes, you need to reset the interface (faster than rebooting)

do 
```

sudo ifdown ath0
sudo ifup ath0

```

or more properly, disable, edit, enable.

typically with services and devices, a conf is read into memory at start up and then not again.
:biggrin:

---

### Post by Hobgoblin on 2009-02-10
> **Amablue said:**
> 
I've got this computer dual booting windows XP, and I've never had a problem setting up a static IP there. I open up the control panel, go to network settings, find the right place and enter the numbers (I can't remember the exact steps without having XP open in front of me, but it worked fine).


You can do it through network manager just like you do in Windows.

Right click network manager, select edit connections, find the one you use, edit, click the IPv4 tab.

The instructions you are trying to follow are mainly for the (non-GUI) server edition.

---

