---
title: "10.10 + eee pc 1000 after sleep"
date: 2010-10-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ttremeth on 2010-10-31
I use ubuntu netbook for an eee pc 1000h because windows is underpowered. I got it working perfectly in 10.04. I upgraded to 10.10 thinking, if they got it right with 10.04 then surely 10.10 should be fine.

All function keys except wireless work.

1. After sleep, wireless turns off. Have to restart and re-enable in bios.
2. If I disable and the re-enable wireless networking it tries to connect but never does resulting in a reboot needed. Checking bios wireless is enabled and connects perfectly on reboot.

Just don't close the lid and sleep because you need a restart.

Why would 10.04 be easy and the new version fail? I am  windows user and linux does not do this kind of thing normally. MS screws things up with upgrades not linux surely.

---

### Post by MASEngr on 2010-11-09
It's not just the eee pc.  I've got the same problem on a Samsung Netbook (the NF210) and from my searches this happens on a wide variety of books.  Altering the config files to shutdown wireless on sleep doesn't help.

I think they just plain messed up this release.

---

### Post by EricDP on 2010-11-19
> **ttremeth said:**
> Why would 10.04 be easy and the new version fail? I am  windows user and linux does not do this kind of thing normally. MS screws things up with upgrades not linux surely.

Keep in mind that 10.10 is not a patched 10.04. 10.04 is an LTS release, which means it has much more rigorous testing (and slower patch releases). 10.10 is a bleeding edge release, and will tend to have more problems. If you want stability, stay with 10.04, which is still being maintained and patched, and will be for years to come.

---

### Post by EricDP on 2010-11-19
> **MASEngr said:**
> It's not just the eee pc.  I've got the same problem on a Samsung Netbook (the NF210) and from my searches this happens on a wide variety of books.  Altering the config files to shutdown wireless on sleep doesn't help.

I think they just plain messed up this release.
Did you read [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10105497&postcount=34") thread? The poster of the linked post seems to say the sleep *button* is working, which I had assumed means the sleep *function* is also working. I'm interested to know if it works properly or not on the NF210 because I'm thinking of buying one.

---

### Post by tlaurent on 2010-12-19
I had the same problem and followed the steps given here ([http://www.twentyways.com/2010/11/19/fixing-wireless-issues-with-asus-eeepc-1000he-running-ubuntu-10-10/](http://www.twentyways.com/2010/11/19/fixing-wireless-issues-with-asus-eeepc-1000he-running-ubuntu-10-10/)) and that solved it.
For information, I'm running Ubuntu 10.10 on eeePC 901.

---

### Post by EricDP on 2011-01-07
> **EricDP said:**
> I'm interested to know if it works properly or not on the NF210 because I'm thinking of buying one.

For others in the same boat, I went ahead and bought one, and sleep mode works fine using 10.10 netbook version.

Using fixes in other threads, I also have screen brightness and function keys working. The only challenge is the touchpad, which functions as a basic mouse, which is a little tedious because it keeps detecting my palm as a mouse click. That issue is already reporting in [this]("https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/681904") bug.

---

