---
title: "Acer 5920, Intel 4965, 11.04, wi-fi horrible"
date: 2011-12-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Bartender on 2011-12-28
Good morning!
I wiped 10.04 off an Acer 5920 laptop.  Running Xubuntu 11.04 right now, and the wi-fi is incredibly slow.  

We have an old but reliable Linksys WRT54G router.  

There are several bug reports describing problems with the Intel wi-fi chips, but I can't figure out if anyone has solved the issue?  Or at least provided a work-around that a non-guru such as myself can handle.

EDIT:
In case anyone else is rummaging around for this;

Excerpted from [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859558&page=3")

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hi,
To disable 802.11n on this card create /edit your /etc/modprobe.d/options.conf file like this.
Code:
Code:

[COLOR="Navy"]gksu gedit /etc/modprobe.d/options.conf[/COLOR]

And add the following to it:
Code:

[COLOR="Navy"]options iwl4965 11n_disable=1[/COLOR]

proof read then save and exit.
Thank you

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

That seems to have made a huge difference.  I rebooted and the improvement seems to be hanging in there...

Turning off "n" is a pretty crummy "fix".  Not an issue here at home with a G router but still..

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-12-28
Hi, at this time the driver for intel cards do not do well with N speeds so I think this is your only option.
Thanks

---

### Post by Bartender on 2011-12-29
Hey, wildmanne, I recognize your avatar from the post that I linked to!

For a few years now I've counted on Intel cards to "just work" in Linux.  I pulled the Broadcom/Atheros chips out of two laptops and bought Intel cards to replace them.  Kinda unnerving when the ground shifts under your feet.

This has got to be turning off people who give Linux a try and find they don't have a signal.

I sure hope this is straightened out before the next LTS!

---

### Post by Bartender on 2012-01-05
Is everyone with Intel wi-fi chips having this problem?  Or is it with only certain routers?  I can't believe there isn't rioting in the streets.  And does anybody know when this went sideways?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-01-05
Hi, this effects most intel products as far as I know, I am not sure how long it has been this way, I know since at least 11.04 the intels cards using the iwlagn driver have been effected and the 4965 at least since 11.10 if not before.
Thanks

---

### Post by Bartender on 2012-03-10
I was really, really hoping that this problem would go away in 12.04.  I downloaded the Beta, installed to the Acer 5920 laptop, wi-fi horrible again.  Edited the modprobe file as described above and wi-fi seems to be OK.  That's after 320+ MB of downloads to get it updated.

Unity and Gnome3 have been very controversial, and rightly so.  AFAIC, a regression like this that affects the laptop's basic functionality is much more of a deal-breaker!!  

Anyone else having Intel chipset problems, please make some comments on launchpad.  Here's the [one]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/875780") to which I added comments.  There are other bug reports for the older 3965 chipset, and for the newer Intel chipsets too.  You just have to hunt around for them a little bit.

---

### Post by Bartender on 2012-04-25
Hey, I wanted to update this thread with some new info.  Our old Linksys WRT54G was acting oddly, dropping wi-fi every few minutes then working again after pulling the power for a few seconds.

So I got a Netgear WNDR3800.  

Just this morning I went back to modprobe file 

Changed

```
options iwl4965 11n_disable=1
```

to 

```
## options iwl4965 11n_disable=1
```

that tells the OS to ignore the line of code, right?

I rebooted, and the Intel wi-fi chipset seems to be working fine.  So this is not a problem with all Intel wi-fi chipsets, it's a problem that arises with some combinations of Intel chip and router.  Some folks had mentioned that, but I wanted to confirm.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-04-25
Hi, yes it is called commenting out by using the # sign but you really only need it once.

It effects most intel devices, it depends on the driver and it may depend on the router some routers work better with linux then others.
Thanks

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-04-25
Thinkpad X61 w/ Intel 4965 chip.  I've only tried it on the ActionTec router that Verizon supplies to their  FiOS customers.  No issues with 11.10.

---

