---
title: "16.04 bugs -resolution settings now it's rt2500 chipset issues"
date: 2016-09-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Handssolow on 2016-09-14
One 14.04 to 16.04 desktop upgrade results in me not being able to save my chosen screen resolution settings and Tweek Tool "no animation" settings in Gnome Metacity isn't saved after a reboot. There's a bug report in launchpad about this.

Hardware stack issues mean I have to upgrade another of our desktop PCs which has a wifi pci card with a rt2500 chipset. After about 3 minutes connection to our router is lost. Nothing I've found worked ....a failed to flush error appears in the log. It's another bug reported in launchpad. Having been here before I have another pci wifi card chez nous, a Micronet card with a RTL8185 chipset which works.

I've one remaining desktop running 14.04 with a similar rt2500 wifi card, any suggestions around this bug? I have an excuse to buy a couple of new wireless n pci cards anyway, having recently upgraded to another ISP service, but should a 14.04 to 16.04 upgrade needed to have all this bother?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-09-15
If you are talking about an online upgrade then yes, they are risky.

Better to begin with a fresh install of 16.04.1 using wired internet access for applying updates. Post again if the wifi card still does not behave well here.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2016-09-15
There is a bug in the driver and kernel for that card, and some other models closely related,  I am currently trying to help another user install a new driver I am not sure it will help but it can not hurt to try here is the link.
Post 34 here:
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2336854&page=4](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2336854&page=4)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-09-16
Thanks for contributing Wild Man, I didn't know that.

Is there a chance that it's solved in 16.10?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2016-09-16
>  Is there a chance that it's solved in 16.10? Not likely the bug has been popping up for years now.

---

### Post by Handssolow on 2016-09-24
Having looked on the web and finding no obvious solution, I wasted no time and bought two TP-LinkTL-WDN4800 PCIe cards (wireless n) which fits with the FTTC service I've just moved up to. They work. Ubuntu is mostly OK but it's a bit disappointing when the 14.04 to 16.04 upgrade results in previous hardware becoming unusable.

I still have an issue with my chosen screen resolution setting not being saved in 16.04 but then so do many others.

---

