---
title: "12.04 LTS Change &quot;Connect Automatically&quot; default/template"
date: 2013-07-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by NvrBst on 2013-07-05
Is there a way to change the default/template setting used for new "Wired Connections" in relation to the "Connect Automatically" setting?


My issue is I have my main "Ethernet Port" "Wired connection 1" which is good (I want it to connect automatically), but, then I have a constant flow of devices I connect via "usb0 / RNDIS / CDC Ethernet". Each of these devices (when connected) create a new "Wired connection x" and try to connect automatically the moment they are plugged in, which conflict with the "auto usb0" settings I use in /etc/network/interfaces.

Here are my possible solutions I believe (happy with whichever is possible/easiest):

1. I don't mind seeing so many stale "Wired connections #" in my network manager if I can just have it not "connect automatically" for new connections; aka change the default/template setting for "Connect Automatically".

2. Turn off Ubuntu Network Manager networking logic for all new connections (aka so "Wired connections #" doesn't even show up). But still keep the logic enabled for "Wired Connection 1".

3. Some how create a Ubuntu Network Manager rule that can target "usb0" (not MAC addresses as they change). Something similar to the /etc/network/interfaces logic below (with the NAT forwarding); this way I can just let the Ubuntu network manager handler the connection (and it can connect automatically) instead of using the lower linux logic.
```
auto usb0
iface usb0 inet static
	address 192.168.x.xx
	netmask 255.255.255.0
	up iptables -A POSTROUTING -t nat -s 192.168.x.xx/32 -j MASQUERADE
	up echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
	down iptables -D POSTROUTING -t nat -s 192.168.x.xx/32 -j MASQUERADE
	down echo 0 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
```

Thanks for any help, this has been annoying me for a while now ;).

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-07-05
Hmm that's odd - unless they changed it for 12.10 I thought the default behavior was for network manager to ignore any interfaces that you have defined via /etc/networking/interfaces - do you have

```

[main]
plugins=[COLOR=#0000ff]**ifupdown**[/COLOR],keyfile
dns=dnsmasq

[ifupdown]
[COLOR=#0000ff]**managed=false**[/COLOR]

```

in your /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf file?

---

### Post by NvrBst on 2013-07-05
Yes, my Ubuntu 12.04 LTS file looks like this:
```
[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile
dns=dnsmasq

no-auto-default=22:C9:FD:F2:B3:CD,3A:00:48:80:F1:E3,00:0C:29:D9:C4:BC,32:B4:B2:87:42:A8,EA:D7:C2:A6:8F:20,

[ifupdown]
managed=false
```

If it helps, the Network manager shows "**Wired Network (Linux 2.6.28 with udc RNDIS/Ethernet Gadget)**" in the dropdown description and in the (manually disabled) "Wired connection #" it says "**Device MAC address: EA: D7:C2:A6:8F:20 (usb0)**" (but of course the mac address changes all the time).

Is there something special I need to do in the /etc/network/interface files to tell Ubuntu NetworkManager to ignore the "usb0" items?

---

