---
title: "8.10's kppp quitting after &quot;connect&quot;"
date: 2009-01-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by xxxxme on 2009-01-16
I did a clean install of Ubuntu 8.10 and installed kppp.  When trying to dial to my ISP, kppp restarts the process after the point where the log window says "CONNECT 45333/<whatever>".  This did not happen with the version of kppp that I installed in Ubuntu 8.04.
  I installed a version of kppp from another distro that uses KDE 3.5 and copied over the libraries that it asked for.  This works.  The problem, though, is that on the account that's used to connect to the Internet the most often, this copy of kppp takes a very long time to start.  Also, whenever I start it, I'm given an error that asks me to make sure "dcopserver" is running.

1) How do I get the version of kppp that can be installed from Ubuntu 8.10's repos, which uses KDE 4, to work?
2) Alternately, how do I get the version of kppp that I'm currently using, which uses libraries from KDE 3.5, to start up almost instantly on every account (as it does on the others)?

I don't care about the dcopserver error if kppp works otherwise: it doesn't seem to affect the program.

---

### Post by xxxxme on 2009-01-19
Or, could someone suggest an alternate ppp frontend with a nice gui?  I've looked at gnome-ppp, but that only allows five numbers per account.  (I know that's really enough for use, but I like to have my ISP's alternate numbers written down -somewhere.-)

---

### Post by ieee488 on 2009-01-19
There is a possibility that dialup may be broken in 8.10.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6578848#post6578848](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6578848#post6578848)

---

