---
title: "802.11-b vs 802.11-ds"
date: 2007-03-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by reticulate on 2007-03-29
I can't seem to get a second laptop up on the network under 6.10. It's a Cisco 340 card and during installation it gets a DHCP addy. Upon reboot, I associate with the WAP but not DHCP. IWCONFIG report differs from working system on in protocol 802.11-ds vs 802.11-b on working system. Are these protocols compatible?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2007-03-29
I am not sure -ds versus -b have anything to do with connecting or not. Is your real issue that, on boot, the machine doesn't automaticcally ask for and get an IP address? If you do: *sudo dhclient eth1* do you get an IP address or otherwise? If so, we need to automate the process. *sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces* to add:```
auto eth1
```Add it above all the other eth1 stuff. Save and close gedit.

Substitute your wireless interface if it's not eth1.

Reboot and post back to tell us if it works now.

---

### Post by reticulate on 2007-03-29
Thanks for the reply and sorry for the delay. Something broke so I'm re-installing. Seems on this T20 the GUI fails to load after the Unbunt Splash screen, flashing cursor and then the system freezes. It's getting a fresh install. During the install, I observed that install recognized the adapter enough to load the driver, request and get an IP address. I can ping the system and see it from my DHCP manager. I'll report what happens after I complete installation.

---

### Post by reticulate on 2007-03-29
Upon completion of installation, I had the dreaded blinking cursor and nothing else after the splash screen and grub. I found:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=386259&highlight=fresh+install+%3D+blinking+cursor](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=386259&highlight=fresh+install+%3D+blinking+cursor)

and some kind soul had posted "it may be your xorg, you can try rebooting in recovery mode, then sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and go through the steps there, since it's a fresh install, you can choose the nv driver or even the vesa driver (don't kill me if i'm wrong) then type sudo \etc\init.d\gdm start
__________________
Ubuntu User #10812
GrubEd
Envy " Well I took a chance and ran gdm start. GUI came up and the wireless interface works fine.

Sometimes brute force wins in the end.

Thanks to All...btw: It IS running 802.11 -ds

---

### Post by chili555 on 2007-03-29
Perfectly reasonable. I've had to do it myself......this week.......twice. If it ain't broke, I'm certain I can fix it!

I'd probably reverse the slashes: sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start. Good luck and post back.

---

