---
title: "8.10 on Acer Aspire One: wifi problems"
date: 2008-12-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sveard on 2008-12-30
Hi there,

I've installed 8.10 on my Acer Aspire One. Wifi did not work out of the box.
Then I installed linux-backports-modules-intrepid. Wifi worked. It allowed me to connect to my secured (WPA2 "personal") home network (with a manual IP configuration).

Everything seemed fine.

The problems arose when I tried to connect to another network. This network is unsecured and the IP is assigned by the DHCP server. When I tried to connect to it, the process took ages. I then cancelled the process, and tried to reconnect to my secured network. Now, for some reason, this also took ages.

After I rebooted my network manager shows no hotspots under "Wireless networks". The wireless seems completely dead.

I have since reformatted and was able to reproduce the problem. It's always the same. First it works, when I try to connect to the other unsecured network, it stops working.

Has anyone got any idea what the problem might be?

---

### Post by Mintux on 2008-12-30
You did not mention if you have previously had another Ubuntu version on that netbook, and if so what configuration you used.

In my experience the most recent MadWifi snapshot is the driver that works best with Ubuntu. Older drivers (like the stable MadWifi versions that are in the Ubuntu repos) do not support the Wifi chip in the Aspire One properly.

I use MadWifi 0.10.5.6 with my Hardy installation on the Aspire One, and it has never caused me any trouble.

Take a look at the network section in this guide: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AspireOne)

---

### Post by neu2buntu on 2008-12-30
im using intrepid on my aspire one, and can switch between wep and unsecured with no hitches.... have you done all the driver fixes and blacklisting etc

---

### Post by neu2buntu on 2008-12-30
this is the setup im using here
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1012973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1012973)

hope this helps!\\:D/

---

### Post by sveard on 2008-12-30
I have only used 8.10 on this netbook.

I will try both your suggestions and report back.

Thanks!

---

### Post by neu2buntu on 2008-12-30
if i remember right an update broke the wifi in 8.10 and that is why we have to use the ath5k drivers now!!!

---

### Post by carml on 2008-12-30
[FONT="Times New Roman"]What is the wireless lancard installed?[/FONT]

---

### Post by sveard on 2008-12-30
> **neu2buntu said:**
> if i remember right an update broke the wifi in 8.10 and that is why we have to use the ath5k drivers now!!!

I remember that the problems started after an update. I'll look into your suggestions as soon as I have the time to. Right now I'm studying and preparing for new years eve.

Thanks

> **carml said:**
> [FONT="Times New Roman"]What is the wireless lancard installed?[/FONT]

lspci -nn returns
03:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Atheros Communications Inc. AR242x 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter [168c:001c] (rev 01)



Also I've tried ndiswrapper with the driver I'm using under Windows (XP SP3) on this netbook. Doesn't work, not even after blacklisting ath5k_pci.
Also, when I do sudo rmmod ndiswrapper it says segfault (well, actually it says "segmentatiefout" which is dutch for segfault)

---

### Post by sveard on 2008-12-30
re: neu2buntu: I've tried the following steps:

linux-backports-modules-intrepid-generic I had installed previously
Also previously I had activated the 5xxx series and disabled the other one (the default one) in System -> Management (? is that what it's called in English? ;)) -> Hardware drivers

Then I took the steps that you suggested in the other thread:
I installed madwifi-tools moments ago

Then I went to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist and added
blacklist ath_pci

In /etc/modprobe.d/madwifi I added
blacklist ath_hal
blacklist ath_pci

In /etc/rc.local , before the exit 0 I added
modprobe ath5k

In /etc/modules I added
ath5k

Rebooted but no luck :( When I click on the network manager applet it won't even show the "Wireless networks" text it usually shows if it detects a wifi card.

---

### Post by neu2buntu on 2008-12-31
add modprobe ath5k after exit0 just incase,... this is where i put it... you have done everything right so far, this setup seems to work for every1,... not every1 connects to wap it is usually wep but i dont think this would be the problem as it is more or less just a passphrase in wap as apposed to a combination of numbers and letters in wep, but i think the principal is the same(could be wrong here ,no expert) and also try your wireless switch once to the right before reboot incase its off...ok

---

### Post by sveard on 2009-01-01
neu2buntu: I think the hardware switch did it, because I flipped that, then rebooted but forgot to check it and went on to celebrate the new year. When I got back this morning everything was working fine, to my surprise.

So thanks! And a happy new year!

---

### Post by eks on 2009-01-01
Another thing you can try, if you have a USB stick bigger than 1gb, is Ubuntu Netbook Remix image:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UNR](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UNR)

I have not tried it yet, but I'm also quite happy with using Xubuntu on the AAO.

And happy new year! :D

---

