---
title: "8.10 Network Manager Issue"
date: 2008-10-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by etherealeclipse on 2008-10-23
First of all i dunno most of the right terminology, my current internet situation is that i im current at university in one of their accommodations with provided internet service called/by 'masterpoint' now to connect to the ethernet you just connect via Ethernet port go into a browser and a login page comes on, enter your details login the you seem to be movednto a direct internet connection, i.e. i notice the connection to lost and regained' but every week or twice a week you need to redo this (really annoying setup). 

Now i decided to move to 8.10 beta after ati released the drivers for it internet worked fine till it was time to once again to 'login' dunno if its becuase its not a direct internet connection but ubuntu 8.10's connection manager dosent let you view that (absolute guesses start here) it seems that the connection manager only tries to make you connect to the internet only not t what ever connecting brings up that page (guesses end) help have an essay to do which i cant without the internet also erased 8.04 live cd (to put 8.10) cant download cause of no connection.

---

### Post by etherealeclipse on 2008-10-23
bump + made more readable

---

### Post by ibizatunes on 2008-10-23
Hello, maybe you should post this in devlopment forum 
run > ifconfig   and post the results

I asume your network runs on DHCP?

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2008-10-23
So you are trying to say that you are connected via wire to their system but cannot get to their webpage?

Have you tried going to another website to see if it will redirect you to their page?  Also, have you asked what the webpage is?  You might be able to connect to it that way.

---

### Post by etherealeclipse on 2008-10-23
i actually got it to work using one of the threads in this forum, i used
sudo ifconfig eth0 up
then
sudo dhclient eth0
and i think thats what made it work anyway. Irony is the network manager may have caused me trouble but it allowed me to connect to the internet via my phone which made looking for a solution easier than my phones browser. wonder if this is a fix or if ill have to do this everytime either way saved to Tomboy Notes.

---

