---
title: "11.10 NAT Issues"
date: 2011-11-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mrosack on 2011-11-06
I've been running Ubuntu as my home server/router (it's directly connected to the internet) for a couple releases now, but after the recent upgrade to 11.10 I've been noticing intermittent issues surfing the internet on Vista/Windows 7 boxes on the LAN.  Most internet sites work fine, but there are certain sites that are problematic - they'll work for a couple of pages, then hang and die with "The connection was reset" in Firefox or "Internet Explorer cannot display the webpage" in IE.  The weird thing is that I have one computer that dual-boots Windows 7/XP, and when it's in XP things work perfectly fine.  It's definitely not a virus issue in Windows 7, as I did a fresh install this morning and things are still behaving poorly.

Any thoughts on how I can debug this?  Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by shai-tan on 2012-01-21
I have had the same issue since upgrading from 11.04 to 11.10. Some pages load fine via NAT but others won't load at all yet I can get to them from the server without the NAT

the only two rules in my iptables are:

/sbin/iptables -P FORWARD ACCEPT
/sbin/iptables --table nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth1 -j MASQUERADE


I also looked into it being a problem with the realtek driver such as in this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1908889](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1908889)

but the problems remains even with a different driver directly from Realtek

odd thing is some pages will load sometimes but very slow, however I click on a sub page and it fails to connect (e.g. click rottentomatoes and it loads after some time then click on a movie and it fails to connect)

---

### Post by shai-tan on 2012-01-22
Anyone have any idea what could be causing this? Has something changed in iptables since 11.04 to 11.10? Or something that went wrong in the upgrade?

I have replaced the use of NAT with Squid for now but anything utilizing the NAT will have the connection problems on specific destinations while others seem to work fine.

It seems like it's the same sites that it fails to connect every time for whatever reason (some others are intermitent) but the weird thing is some of the sites will load exactly once

I would be doing a fresh reinstall now to see if it makes a difference however it took me like 10 hours to get postfix+dovecot+sasl up and running and I'm not confident I can set it up again without having email down all day :/

---

### Post by shai-tan on 2012-01-22
I got ahold of a an ancient XP laptop to establish a commonality and it seems like it's possible to access those inaccessible sites.

I have no idea what's going on, however I did get the idea that disabling ipv6 might help so I disabled it on all the Windows 7 systems but it didn't solve the problem. Is there an easy way to disable all ipv6 on Ubuntu? Not that I know it's in any way related.

edit: did what ubuntu faq said to disable ipv6 and also deleted the ipv6 addresses then reboot all machines on the network and it's somehow working now! on the sites I have tried so far anyway. I also put the mtu on the cable modem side to 1500 (from the automatic 576) but I also did that yesterday to no effect. I don't know if any of those changes made a difference or it's some other random thing I changed while i tried to fix some of the other issues with upgrading from 11.04 to 11.10. I was thinking maybe the PC devices only needed a reboot for whatever reason but the ipad devices seem to be working now as well when they weren't before

---

### Post by mrosack on 2012-01-23
Glad it's working for you!  I also tried disabling IPV6 without much luck, but I didn't reboot all the machines on my network, so maybe that was the problem.

Anyway, I ended up abandoning using Ubuntu as my router and switched to using a tomato-based firmware on my wireless router.

---

