---
title: "6.06LTS Squid+iptables intercepting proxy problem"
date: 2007-05-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by witalie on 2007-05-26
Hello!
I can't make my squid+iptables proxy work as expected. The matter is, it will intercept http connections and redirect them to proxy as intended. But no https or ftp traffic. When I manually set proxy in the browser's settings page it works fine (http, ftp and https pass through without a glitch).

The box has two interfaces: eth0 which is part of the corporate network (and connects to wan through the corporate https and socks proxies) and eth1 which listens  to our minilan (kind of gateway).

The goal is to make all computers which connect to the minilan able to work with the Internet, I mean, make them "transparent-proxied".

I use squid-2.5 for http/https and ftp proxying
I use dnsmasq for DNS forwarding and DHCP
I use iptables for redirecting incoming packets to port 3128 (proxy).

```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Fri May 18 13:21:40 2007
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [3980:624488]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [2159:484040]
-A FORWARD -p tcp -j LOG --log-level 7 
-A FORWARD -p udp -j LOG --log-level 7 
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri May 18 13:21:40 2007
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Fri May 18 13:21:40 2007
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [484:65693]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [17:953]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [17:953]
-A PREROUTING -i eth1 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128 
-A PREROUTING -p tcp -m tcp --dport 21 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128 
-A PREROUTING -p tcp -m tcp --dport 20 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128 
-A PREROUTING -p tcp -m tcp --dport 443 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128 
-A PREROUTING -p tcp -m tcp --dport 53 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128 
-A PREROUTING -i eth1 -p udp -m udp --dport 53 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 3128 
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri May 18 13:21:40 2007
```

Anyone have any ideas? :-(

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-05-27
Hi there and welcome,

> **witalie said:**
> The matter is, it will intercept http connections and redirect them to proxy as intended. But no https or ftp traffic.

An alternative way of describing transparently proxying HTTPS would be to use the term "man in the middle attack". The very idea is self-contradictory ... and even if it *were* possible, it would be pointless, since proxies don't like to cache secure pages.

There are two things worth keeping in mind about proxies:

[LIST]
[*]Their use significantly affects how connections should be handled. Expecting to be able to use a proxy without letting either party to a connection know about it is demanding a lot!
[*]It's important to consider how the protocol you're trying to proxy actually works. In the case of HTTP, it is possible in many (but certainly not all) scenarios to detect and accommodate transparent proxying ... the same cannot be said for virtually any other protocol.
[/LIST]

So, if you consider FTP for a moment, you'll see that proxying the protocol *at all* is complicated enough ... let alone doing so transparently.

Can I ask why you need to use transparent proxying? (Perhaps there is a better alternative?)

---

### Post by witalie on 2007-05-28
> **kidders said:**
> 
An alternative way of describing transparently proxying HTTPS would be to use the term "man in the middle attack". The very idea is self-contradictory ... and even if it *were* possible, it would be pointless, since proxies don't like to cache secure pages.

Thank you for answering!
I don't want them to be cached, I just want them to be proxied transparently. :-)
> 
[*]It's important to consider how the protocol you're trying to proxy actually works. In the case of HTTP, it is possible in many (but certainly not all) scenarios to detect and accommodate transparent proxying ... the same cannot be said for virtually any other protocol.
[/LIST]
It is unimportant if one of the parties finds out that transparent proxying is involved. I want to set it up just for convenience.

> 
So, if you consider FTP for a moment, you'll see that proxying the protocol *at all* is complicated enough ... let alone doing so transparently.
But if it can be proxied in general, so it can be proxied transparently?

> 
Can I ask why you need to use transparent proxying? (Perhaps there is a better alternative?)
[/quote]
Because I have our employees come and connect to the wan via my "gateway", which connects in its turn to the parent proxy of our corporate network. I want to make it transparent just for convenience so that they don't have to go through boring and time-consuming routine of setting up proxy's settings in their browsers each time they connect their notebooks. (I have squid running on my mini-gateway, and it proxies https and ftp perfectly when not in transparent mode!).

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-05-28
Hey again,

> **witalie said:**
> I want to make it transparent just for convenience so that they don't have to go through boring and time-consuming routine of setting up proxy's settings in their browsers each time they connect their notebooks.Convenience is not a good reason to use a transparent proxy. In fact, far from being convenient, their use limits functionality, and is not well handled by some software. Most modern web browsers support automatic proxy configuration in some form, so in practice, there is nothing time-consuming about setting clients up to use conventional proxies.

> **witalie said:**
> I don't want them to be cachedI'm confused. :-( What's the point in using a proxy, if it's not going to cache anything?!

> **witalie said:**
> It is unimportant if one of the parties finds out that transparent proxying is involved.This is more important than you might think. Both client and server software behave differently when they know their connections are being proxied.

Just to reiterate:

[LIST]
[*]HTTPS is specifically designed to make the use of transparent proxies impossible. Think about it ... it would be ridiculous for HTTPS to allow a third party covertly intercept communications, and successfully impersonate *both* parties to a connection!!
[*]Transparent proxying is not the same as conventional proxying. It makes operating protocols like FTP very much more complicated. Having said that, software does exist that allows you to do so, but imo you'd want a pretty good reason for using it!
[*]In the case of HTTP, transparent proxies generally work quite well, although not all browsers are smart enough to handle it flawlessly. In addition, requests to sites not operating on port 80 couldn't be intercepted.
[*]Additionally, I've never tried it, but I can't imagine trying to transparently proxy things like streaming media would go well.
[/LIST]

Essentially, using a transparent proxy is a major headache, and creates a large number of unnecessary problems, which is why I was curious about why you need one. Tbh, I would strongly recommend not using a proxy at all, since it sounds like your clients' connection would end up being proxied twice, as a result!

---

### Post by witalie on 2007-05-28
> Most modern web browsers support automatic proxy configuration in some form
Thank you, It didn't come to my mind. I remember I saw something like "automatic proxy configuration script" in Firefox, so I'll google it out and maybe it'll come in handy!

> I'm confused.  What's the point in using a proxy, if it's not going to cache anything?!
Just to make this chain work:
Client -> My Ubuntu Box (squid) -> coprorate network -> corporate conventional proxy -> WAN
Just for "gatewayting" :D I'm not interested in cacheing anything since I don't care neither about bandwidth nor traffic.

> This is more important than you might think. Both client and server software behave differently when they know their connections are being proxied.
Sorry, I didn't catch the exact meaning of what you said. I meant, that would be of no problem if the employees find out that they're being proxied. :-)

> HTTPS is specifically designed to make the use of transparent proxies impossible. Think about it ... 
Yes, I understand now. For some reason I thought it'd be perfectly ok, but now having dug into the very basics of SSL I understand how ridiculous it is.

BTW, I installed "frox" (a transparent ftp proxy), and although it doesn't seem to work for me, I'm not going to give up :-) Right now I'm trying to set it up and it's giving me headache.. 

Danke schön!
Thank you for your help!

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-05-28
No problem. :-)

If you're not interested in using any of the functionality a proxy provides, perhaps you should consider not using one. Your **Client -> Ubuntu Box -> coprorate network -> corporate conventional proxy -> WAN** route to the internet should work perfectly (and slightly faster) without the extra redundant proxy.

Having said that, I'm happy to help with whatever configuration you choose, whether you want a proxy or not ... despite what I think is a good idea, it's still _your_ computer hehe! :-)

[SIZE=1][COLOR=Silver][*UAResolved*]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=377083")[/COLOR][/SIZE]

---

