---
title: "Can't get eth0 to work... Worked fine before..."
date: 2008-07-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by chazdraves on 2008-07-11
Hey, all!

I ran into a minor snag tonight. I purchased a new monitor, PSU, and graphics card a couple weeks ago and had been running Windows for the last few weeks to play games. I've decided I'm over that now and am back into Linux, but with one problem - eth0 won't connect. I'm typing this now using lo in the Network Manager. Also, I tried to get some downloads from the Update Manager (Evolution related) and they fail every time. I don't know if these are related or not. The other downloads downloaded fine.

I'm using onboard Ethernet on my MSI Sli-Fi.

Any help appreciated. Thanks for your time!
- Chaz

---

### Post by rogier.de.groot on 2008-07-11
Wait a minute, you're typing this using "lo" ????

EDIT:
You can't be connected using "lo", it isn't called the local loopback interface for nothing...
Could you post the output generated by the command "ifconfig" (possibly with "sudo " in front)?
Does the update manager give a reason the packages fail to install?

---

### Post by chazdraves on 2008-07-11
Well... here's a better description.

When I boot Ubuntu, I cannot access the internet even though the Update Manager can still download (some) updates. If I go to my top panel and add the Network Manager it shows the properties for the connection eth0. If I change the selection to lo, I suddenly have internet. If I set it back to eth0, I have no internet. When I reboot, it's set back to eth0 and I need only change it to lo to get my 'net working.

The Update Manager yields 14 errors similar to this:

W: Failed to fetch [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/r/rhythmbox/rhythmbox_0.11.5-0ubuntu7_amd64.deb](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/r/rhythmbox/rhythmbox_0.11.5-0ubuntu7_amd64.deb)
  404 Not Found [IP: 91.189.88.46 80]

Thanks!
- Chaz

---

### Post by chazdraves on 2008-07-11
I forgot!

ifconfig yields this!

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:19:db:f7:e6:60  
          inet addr:66.228.243.239  Bcast:66.228.243.255  Mask:255.255.254.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::219:dbff:fef7:e660/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:434947 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:256500 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:651507063 (621.3 MB)  TX bytes:18776129 (17.9 MB)
          Interrupt:23 Base address:0x4000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:2158 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:2158 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:107900 (105.3 KB)  TX bytes:107900 (105.3 KB)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:16:b6:5d:0e:9c  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

wmaster0  Link encap:UNSPEC  HWaddr 00-16-B6-5D-0E-9C-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00  
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

Thanks,
- Chaz

---

### Post by rogier.de.groot on 2008-07-12
Your eth0 seems to have an IP adres - from DHCP or static?
Could you also post the output of the command "route" (prints your routing table) and the contents of /etc/resolv.conf (nameserver config file). Looks like everything's good on IP level - could you ping your router or something from eth0?

---

### Post by chazdraves on 2008-07-12
Well... now I'm baffled...

Last night I was trying to figure some things out again as it's been a month or two since I was last using Ubuntu. I was playing around with apt-get as I remembered that was a fairly important command. I ran apt-get auto-remove and apt-get auto-clean which both found a number of things to clean up. I then ran apt-get update and finally apt-get upgrade which found a list that was substantially longer than what Update Manager retrieved... I had it run and install everything and now my network seems to work again...

I find it bizzare, however, that it found many (many, many) things to update that the Update Manager did not. Ironically, I got the computer up-to-date with everything but 9 entries that it said were being "held back". I then ran Update Manager which (to no surprise) had 9 upgrades to recommend... Why are these two programs functioning so differently?

Anyhow, all that remains now is to find a way to adjust the fan speed on my 9600GT (which I could just as well remove for what I'll be doing) and find a way to get my volume functioning again. All the levels are where they were before, but now I have to have the volume on my speakers well over half (which means a lot of white noise is leaking out) to get any kind of sound from them...

Thanks for all your time. I'm not sure what did it, but it works now!
- Chaz

---

