---
title: "Wired connection that doesn't connect?"
date: 2011-03-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by colio on 2011-03-19
Using 10.10 and have a wired connection that according to the system is connected, but when I open a browser I can't connect to any sites.  What am I missing here?  I can't for the life of me figure this out.

---

### Post by debd on 2011-03-19
check out if your /etc/resolv.conf is empty.

it should not be.

---

### Post by colio on 2011-03-19
Newbie here, how do I check /etc/resolve.conf?  And what do I do if it is empty?

---

### Post by colio on 2011-03-19
I figured out how to open it and the only thing in the file is

# Generated by NetworkManager

and apparently it's a read only file.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-03-19
When you connect, "DHCP" from the device you are connected to should provide DNS server addresses. You might try setting up a static IP address and manually specifying DNS servers, as per your ISP's instructions. Use Preferences/Network Connections.

---

### Post by colio on 2011-03-19
Linux is a great OS but there are two areas where Windows has it licked:  software installation and networking.  What I wouldn't give for a simple Repair button.

---

### Post by colio on 2011-03-22
I eventually found the issue.  The MAC address was missing from the connection setup.  I pulled this from ifconfig (eth0 heading), entered it in the setup and it worked fine.  Anyone having a similar problem might want to check that MAC field in the wired connection setup to see what's in there and make sure it matches the readout when you run ifconfig from the terminal command.

---

