---
title: "DNS does not resolve"
date: 2010-07-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-07-22
I've had this problem forever, but now it's become a work issue and not just personal.

I cannot ping any hostnames on our LAN

/etc/resolv.conf has both name servers configured correctly. I can ping the IP, but can't ping the hostname. I know it's something really simple, just can't put my finger on it.

I can ping [www.google.com](www.google.com) and external addresses...those resolve.

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-09-16
bump?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-09-16
I use DNSMasq for my network DHCP/DNS server. It will let me ping other DHCP clients by name... IF they've sent their hostname via the "send host-name" line in */etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf*

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-09-17
shouldn't this work by default though if the resolv.conf is right?

---

### Post by e79 on 2010-09-17
What/Which internal DNS are you using ? Can't you set it up and enter static IPs resolving to your machine's names ? If its a simple router, does it have a DNS service for your LAN or is it just an external DNS resolver (using forwarders obviously) ?
Or are you using your ISP DNS ?

---

### Post by crokett on 2010-09-17
If the host names are not registered with the DNS server, you won't be able to ping them.   resolv.conf stores your DNS server info, not hostname/IP info.  The /etc/hosts file stores that.  At work until I requested a static IP address and registered a hostname for it, I could not ping my Ubuntu desktop machine without editing the hosts file on my laptop.  This is because the desktop was not registering its hostname with the DHCP server.

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-09-17
> **crokett said:**
> If the host names are not registered with the DNS server, you won't be able to ping them.   resolv.conf stores your DNS server info, not hostname/IP info.  The /etc/hosts file stores that.  At work until I requested a static IP address and registered a hostname for it, I could not ping my Ubuntu desktop machine without editing the hosts file on my laptop.  This is because the desktop was not registering its hostname with the DHCP server.

From my Ubuntu machine I cannot resolve any internal hostnames at all. I am using my basic router's DNS.

When I had my windows machines running, they will resolve names. 

Between two Ubuntu machines, the names will not resolve. I can ping the IP, but not the name.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2010-09-17
Can you resolve "host.yourdomain.com" but not just "host"?  If so, your DHCP server isn't passing along the "domain-name" parameter.  You can check this easily by examining /etc/resolv.conf.  If you don't see a line like:

domain yourdomain.com

or 

search yourdomain.com

the DHCP server needs to be configured to pass along yourdomain.com. The DNS client appends the entries in the domain or search fields to any "unqualified" hostname. 

Alternatively, if you're on an office network where the DNS server(s) are going to remain static for a goodly period of time, just create your own resolv.conf with the appropriate "nameserver" and "search" parameters and make it read-only (chmod 0444 /etc/resolv.conf) so it won't be overwritten the next time you reboot.

In fact, if your desktop IP address doesn't ever change, I'd suggest switching to a static IP configuration rather than relying on DHCP.  If you're stuck using DHCP, you can force the domain-name parameter by editing /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf and adding "yourdomain.com" to the "supercede domain-name" field.

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-09-20
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> Can you resolve "host.yourdomain.com" but not just "host"?  If so, your DHCP server isn't passing along the "domain-name" parameter.  You can check this easily by examining /etc/resolv.conf.  If you don't see a line like:

domain yourdomain.com

or 

search yourdomain.com

the DHCP server needs to be configured to pass along yourdomain.com. The DNS client appends the entries in the domain or search fields to any "unqualified" hostname. 

Alternatively, if you're on an office network where the DNS server(s) are going to remain static for a goodly period of time, just create your own resolv.conf with the appropriate "nameserver" and "search" parameters and make it read-only (chmod 0444 /etc/resolv.conf) so it won't be overwritten the next time you reboot.

In fact, if your desktop IP address doesn't ever change, I'd suggest switching to a static IP configuration rather than relying on DHCP.  If you're stuck using DHCP, you can force the domain-name parameter by editing /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf and adding "yourdomain.com" to the "supercede domain-name" field.

nope, only thing in my /etc/resolv.conf is

```

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver **CorrectIP**
nameserver **CorrectIP**

```

so I put the name of my domain in there and it works...until I reboot :? How do I make it static?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2010-09-20
> **98cwitr said:**
> so I put the name of my domain in there and it works...until I reboot :? How do I make it static?

> **SeijiSensei said:**
> If you're stuck using DHCP, you can force the domain-name parameter by editing /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf and adding "yourdomain.com" to the "supercede domain-name" field.

You'll see the "supercede domain-name" parameter in that file is commented out with a hash mark ("#") at the beginning of the line.  Just enter another line right below it that reads

supercede domain-name mydomain.com

A much better solution, though, is to ask your network administrator at work to have the DHCP server pass along the domain name when the computers on the network ask for an address.  This is best practice since it will fix the problem for everyone.

---

