---
title: "Route certain traffic to second NIC with unclear gateway"
date: 2016-06-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kaweka on 2016-06-24
There are two Ubuntu Desktop 15.10 machines. Both run on virtual machines based on VmWare Fusion.
Each of these two virt. machines uses a network card of Fusion's NAT type.
The network traffic generated by regular work goes to LAN and Internet through such card and all are happy - users and administrator.

Nowadays one change in setup is sough - it is about downloading package updates / do installation of new packages through
a proxy - apt-cacher-ng is going to play the proxy role and is going to be installed and operate on one of these two virt. machines.
Whole package management traffic (update/installation/...) should run through apt-cacher-ng, inclusively the OS' hosting apt-cacher-ng.
In further future more clients will join (some of them are also virt. machines on same physical host but
possibly housed by VirtualBox, others are physical clients emerging in same physical LAN the physical host of mentioned
2 virt. machines is present in). But now let's limit this discussion to these two virt. machines mentioned in the beginnning.

**Problem**: apt-get update on client virt. machine can't connect to apt-cacher-ng -- it fails in the DNS dialog.
Clients apt-get is configured such a way to speak to apt-cacher on another virt. machine instead of public repository
```
cat /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/01proxy 
Acquire::http::Proxy "http://ip6-<servers-ipv6-address>:3142";
```
For some reason client's apt-get treats the server's ip set in apt-get config directory/file as domain name
 - according to wireshark - instead of treating it as ip address. DNS resolution fails cause local DNS does not know such domain.
`apt-get` should treat this entry as ip address instead.

What is the proper format of ipv6-address (nic number and port number included) for apt-get configuration Acquire::http::Proxy?

---

