---
title: "Domain names not resolving"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Civil_777 on 2011-10-18
I upgraded my Ubuntu Server 10.04 LTS and domain names stopped resolving.  A ping to the domain name returns "unknown host."  I can still access websites through their IP addresses in both the browser and by pinging them.  I suspect this might be an IPV6 problem.  How do I start debugging this?  Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2011-10-18
> **Civil_777 said:**
> I upgraded my Ubuntu Server 10.04 LTS and domain names stopped resolving.  A ping to the domain name returns "unknown host."  I can still access websites through their IP addresses in both the browser and by pinging them.  I suspect this might be an IPV6 problem.  How do I start debugging this?  Thanks for any help.

How did you configure your *Internet *connectivity?  Is this really a Ubuntu Server OS; or maybe an Ubuntu Desktop that you are using as a server?

Post the output of ```

cat /etc/network/interfaces

cat /etc/resolv.conf

/etc/hosts 
```

---

### Post by Civil_777 on 2011-10-18
I configured the router to assign a static DHCP IP address to the server.

Here is the information you requested.  I think it is the Ubuntu server edition with the Ubuntu gui.

civil@ubuntuserver:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
civil@ubuntuserver:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

civil@ubuntuserver:~$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1    localhost
127.0.1.1    ubuntuserver mydomain.webhop.org

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

civil@ubuntuserver:~$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS
Release:    10.04
Codename:    lucid

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2011-10-18
> **Civil_777 said:**
> I configured the router to assign a static DHCP IP address to the server.

I think this is where you have gone wrong.  You have configured the router to dynamically (via dhcp) to assign you an immutable (non-changing) IP addresses.  Static refers to how you configure the addressing, not that the address never changes; although that is a byproduct  of  configuring statically (via the /etc/network/interface file).  This is an important distinction that I will comment in red below. > 

Here is the information you requested.  I think it is the Ubuntu server edition with the Ubuntu gui.

You can check the comments in the */etc/apt/sources.list* to be sure.

In the future please bracket the code in ```
 blocks.  It makes it easier to read.  like below 

[CODE]civil@ubuntuserver:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp [COLOR="Red"]<-- this indicates that this interface is configured by DHCP 
# via the router.  If it was truly static you would configure the settings here[/COLOR]

```

```
civil@ubuntuserver:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
[COLOR="Red"]## This also is a result of using DHCP to configure the IP address.[/COLOR]
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

```

```
civil@ubuntuserver:~$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1    localhost
127.0.1.1    ubuntuserver mydomain.webhop.org
[COLOR="Red"]## Mapping the faux hostname to the loopback address makes
# it appear to respond to the hostname in a correct manner

# The hostname should be mapped to the real interface (i.e eth0)[/COLOR]

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
[COLOR="Red"]## This won't bother you unless your ISP has messed up.[/COLOR]
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

```
I think I would check the /etc/apt/sources.list for the answer rather than the release listed below.

```
civil@ubuntuserver:~$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS
Release:    10.04
Codename:    lucid
```

I'll bet when you updated the dhcp settings were rendered useless.  See the man page for resolvconf (note: resolv.conf is not needed when you configure statically )```
man resolvconf
```

in particular this section```
**PUBLICATION**

       Normally  resolvconf  *is  run  only by hook scripts* attached to network
       interface configurers such as pppd(8) (for  ppp  interfaces),  [B][COLOR="Red"]to  DHCP
       clients  such  as dhclient(8)[/COLOR][/B], to ifup(8) and ifdown, and to DNS caches
       such as dnsmasq(8) (for the loopback interface).  [B] These  hook  scripts
       furnish  resolvconf  with  information about nameservers.  For example,
       dhclient  receives  one  or  more  nameserver  addresses   during   its
       negotiation  with the DHCP server;[/B] its hook script /etc/dhcp3/dhclient-
       enter-hooks.d/resolvconf publishes this information to resolvconf.

```

I would remove resolvconf and configure the interfaces statically:  No DHCP at all.
Note: **[COLOR="Red"]resolvconf[/COLOR]** is not the configuration file [COLOR="Blue"]resolv.conf[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Civil_777 on 2011-10-19
Thanks for the help.  I am still having problems though.  I did the following:

1) Removed the static lease from the router so the router is no longer assigning the IP address to the server.

2) Created a static IP address on the server in /etc/network/interfaces as shown below:


```
civil@ubuntuserver:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces 
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.170
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
```
3) Removed resolvconf:

```
civil@ubuntuserver:~$ sudo aptitude remove resolvconf 

```4) Deleted /etc/resolv.conf since it is no longer needed.

After this, I rebooted the router and the server and I am getting the same results as before.  I ping google.com and get "unknown host google.com".  I am now getting the following error when I restart the network service:

```
civil@ubuntuserver:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
 * Reconfiguring network interfaces...                                          grep: /etc/resolv.conf: No such file or directory
grep: /etc/resolv.conf: No such file or directory
ssh stop/waiting
ssh start/running, process 1983

```

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2011-10-20
> **Civil_777 said:**
> Thanks for the help.  I am still having problems though.  I did the following:

1) Removed the static lease from the router so the router is no longer assigning the IP address to the server.

Is the dhcp server still running?  Is it available to hand out addresses if asked?> 

2) Created a static IP address on the server in /etc/network/interfaces as shown below:
If the dhcp server is still running (see above) then the static IP address must not be in the dhcp server's IP address pool.  Was this notion followed? > 


```
civil@ubuntuserver:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces 
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.170
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.1.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255
gateway 192.168.1.1
```

3) Removed resolvconf:

```
civil@ubuntuserver:~$ sudo aptitude remove resolvconf 

```4) Deleted /etc/resolv.conf since it is no longer needed.

After this, I rebooted the router and the server and I am getting the same results as before.  I ping google.com and get "unknown host google.com".  I am now getting the following error when I restart the network service:

```
civil@ubuntuserver:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
 * Reconfiguring network interfaces...                                          grep: /etc/resolv.conf: No such file or directory
grep: /etc/resolv.conf: No such file or directory
ssh stop/waiting
ssh start/running, process 1983

```

You need a [COLOR="Green"]/etc/resolv.conf[/COLOR] file.  You do not need a [COLOR="Red"]/etc/resovconf/[/COLOR].  The file [COLOR="Green"]/etc/resolv.conf[/COLOR] must be manually configured.  Here is mine```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
# search <domain suffix> 
# if you have a domain use that (i.e example.com)
nameserver 192.168.1.1
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4

```

My router is also a DNS server that's why I have it listed first.  You can get by with just the last 2 nameservers.  They are maintained by Google.

Add this back as root (sudo)  the permissions should be like this```
ls -l /etc/resolv.conf
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 80 2011-07-15 07:46 /etc/resolv.conf

```

Let me know if this works.

---

### Post by Civil_777 on 2011-10-20
Nice -- it's working now.  Much thanks for helping me fix the problem!

I understand how it is working now, but I still don't understand why it was broken in the first place.  What is wrong with assigning a static lease in the router?  Shouldn't the router provide the correct IP address for the DNS?

What do you mean by the following statement:

"I'll bet when you updated the dhcp settings were rendered useless.  See the man page for resolvconf."

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2011-10-20
> **Civil_777 said:**
> Nice -- it's working now.  Much thanks for helping me fix the problem!

I understand how it is working now, but I still don't understand why it was broken in the first place.  What is wrong with assigning a static lease in the router?  Shouldn't the router provide the correct IP address for the DNS?
There is no reason that you can't use a DHCP reserved IP address (what you are calling a static lease).  It requires you to configure the DHCP client and the resolvconf application. > 

What do you mean by the following statement:

"I'll bet when you updated the dhcp settings, *[COLOR="Red"]the dns settings[/COLOR]* were rendered useless.  See the man page for resolvconf."  First there is a piece left out (my fault) See my fix above.

What I meant was that when you used resolvconf it messed with the dhcp settings.  DHCP sets more than just the IP address of the interface.  It can set the DNS settings too.

Glad to hear you have it working now and gained some insight as to how it all works.

---

### Post by smurphy_it on 2011-10-20
As was pointed out your currently configured "static IP address" of  192.168.1.170 should NOT be in your DHCP pool of addresses.

This depends on your router, and how you configure it.  Most routers start the DHCP pool at .100.  If you want to use 192.168.1.170 you have to ensure (in your router) that the ending IP address is less that 170.

Typically a router starts giving out IPs at .100, so any STATIC IPs I required I just set less than 100.  ex. 192.168.1.40

---

### Post by Civil_777 on 2011-10-20
Yes, I checked that.  I have the IP address pool set to start at 192.168.1.100 and max DHCP users set to 50.  The highest IP address assigned is 192.168.1.149.

---

### Post by Fedupera on 2012-07-17
I did experience a similar problem and an error resolving the address.

When I upgraded from Lubuntu 11.10 to Lubuntu 12.04, the network was re-established but it was not possible to browse the web. The browser could not find the DNS servers at my I.S.P. and hence could not resolve the address. This was so even though D.H.C.P. was enabled in the network preferences.

I resolved the issue by adding an extra line to the file /etc/network/interfaces for the gateway address. My gateway router had the i.p. address 192.168.0.1 and it connected to the ISP gateway address of 77.101.xx.xx. Oddly, it was this address I had to use.

interfaces file entries

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
Gateway 77.101.xx.xx

Maybe this will work for you.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-07-17
Old thread, so closed

---

