---
title: "9.10 drops/resets secure wireless connection"
date: 2009-12-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by haribol707 on 2009-12-15
I have been using 9.10 since yesterday. Everytime I connect to my local wireless network (WEP enabled), it authenticates and  connects to the network but very soon (<2mins?) disconnects and tries to connect again. Luckily my apartmnt provides free unsecure wireless and I am using that as default currently (of course, low bandwidth and lesser security). I would like to know if anyone else has the same problem. I should also mention that due to problems reported with 9.10 upgrade, I retained my 9.04 installation and have installed 9.10 on another partition just to evaluate proper functioning with all drivers. So, the point is that I have no problems connecting to and staying connected to my pvt wireless n.w using 9.04 but am facing the problem only with 9.10. Cant be a problem with my wireless router setting correct? Anyone with similar experience or with any insight on this problem, please help.

---

### Post by haribol707 on 2009-12-15
I have Intel PRO 3954ABG wireless card on my laptop.

---

### Post by tedf99 on 2009-12-23
I just installed 9.10 on an MSI netbookand I am having similar problems. I am trying to connect to my wireless router using WEP and 128 encryption. I am also using the MAC address filter on the router. The connection manager is very temptermental.. it drops the connection and then when I try to re-establish it asks me for the encryption key multiple times without suceeding.. I have to reboot to get the wireless connection to be eestablished.. I am currently on a google quest to find a solution...not easy..

---

### Post by haribol707 on 2009-12-23
There are some workarounds posted on the forum under this same section. Though I havent tried any (switched back to 9.04), I recommend you to go through the threads and try some of those workarounds. ATB! And do let me know if you are able solve the issue :)

---

