---
title: "10.04 Wireless WPA"
date: 2010-05-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Firebat451 on 2010-05-08
This problem isn't new to 10.04, it is identical to what I've been having since at least 8.10, I've just been lazy in fixing it, hoping a new version would fix it for me.  Well, so far no change.

As far as I can tell, Ubuntu doesn't natively support WPA, at least, that's what the 'Wireless Network Authentication Required' pop-up tells me.  The only options I have ever seen for wireless security there are three different WEP options and LEAP.  When I go to the 'Edit Connections' option by right clicking on the network icon in my notification area I can edit the network and theoretically set up a WPA password, but as far as I can tell, Ubuntu never uses that as when I try to connect to the network it still prompts me for a password and does not give WPA as an option for connecting.

So basically, how do I connect to a wireless network with WPA security?

---

### Post by bkratz on 2010-05-08
> **Firebat451 said:**
> This problem isn't new to 10.04, it is identical to what I've been having since at least 8.10, I've just been lazy in fixing it, hoping a new version would fix it for me.  Well, so far no change.

As far as I can tell, Ubuntu doesn't natively support WPA, at least, that's what the 'Wireless Network Authentication Required' pop-up tells me.  The only options I have ever seen for wireless security there are three different WEP options and LEAP.  When I go to the 'Edit Connections' option by right clicking on the network icon in my notification area I can edit the network and theoretically set up a WPA password, but as far as I can tell, Ubuntu never uses that as when I try to connect to the network it still prompts me for a password and does not give WPA as an option for connecting.

So basically, how do I connect to a wireless network with WPA security?



does you wireless card allow WPA?  You could check with

```
sudo iwlist wlan0 auth
```

substituting your wireless name for the wlan0 ( mine). Ubuntu does support wpa and wpa2 (which is what I use). This is how mine looks.

```

wlan0     Authentication capabilities :
		WPA
		WPA2
		CIPHER-TKIP
		CIPHER-CCMP
          Current WPA version :
		disabled
          Current Key management :
          Current Pairwise cipher :
		none
          Current Pairwise cipher :
		none
          Current Authentication algorithm :
		open

```

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-05-08
> Ubuntu doesn't natively support WPADon't tell my two wireless cards; they think it does and naively connect without issues.

Does your wireless card and driver support WPA? Please open a terminal and do:```
sudo iwlist wlan0 auth
```Do you see this?```
wlan0     Authentication capabilities :
		WPA
		WPA2
		CIPHER-TKIP
		CIPHER-CCMP
```Substitute your wireless interface if it is not wlan0. Learn with:```
iwconfig
```

Is the access point WPA protected? If not, I doubt that WPA options are shown.

---

