---
title: "8.10 Will not work with a static address"
date: 2009-01-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-25
Here's my interface file: 

[PHP]
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
	address 192.168.100.3
	netmask 255.255.255.0
	network 192.168.100.0
	broadcast 192.168.100.255
	gateway 192.168.100.1
[/PHP]


When I comment out the static stuff, my computer will connect to the network fine, talk to other computers, and the net.  But when I put the static stuff in, it will not talk to anything at all.  

Anyone know what the problem is?  All I've changed on my other computers is the interface file and they are happy with their static IP address.  

And no other computer has the 192.168.100.3 address

---

### Post by callan79 on 2009-01-25
> **Arukas said:**
> When I comment out the static stuff, my computer will connect to the network fine, talk to other computers, and the net.  But when I put the static stuff in, it will not talk to anything at all.



Hello,

So just confirming, all other computers have 192.168.100.something, right? And they all have the same netmask?

So let's say you have THIS computer 192.168.100.3. The OTHER computer 192.168.100.4. And you have a broadband router 192.168.100.1.

If you go to the computer with the fault (192.168..100.3), what happens if you :

```

ping localhost
ping 127.0.0.1
ping 192.168.100.3
ping 192.168.100.4
ping 192.168.100.1

```

Let us know and we'll see if we can guess :)

Cheers
CD

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-25
What do you mean go to the computer with the fault?


My network is fine.  Everything works.  But when 8.10 goes into Static mode, it don't see anything.

I also notice, that the hosts file does not work when its in dynamic mode.  I read something about there's a bug in the gnome-netowrk gui that does this.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-25
*Probably* the Network Mamager bug - NM ignores /etc/network/interfaces file, and the "admin" program isn't installed by default. 
 [Here]("http://www.prash-babu.com/2008/11/how-to-setup-static-ip-address-in-linux.html") is a How-To for setting up static address via NM.  There's also a static address workaround.

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-25
you only have the how to for a static address, which is the way I do it already.  Can you post the NM one? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-25
I did some playing around.  

Everything I read about setting up networking, was done through command line.  I never used the GUI.  

Now, I have uninstalled the network manager, because I don't want if its bugged and could be causing problems.  

But when I manually configure the interfaces file and restart the network, I can't see anything on the network.  I know, this should work because I have done it on my other computer.  But my other computer is  8.04 not 8.10

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-25
Here's something I wasn't for sure off.  When I restart the network with the static ip this is an error i get.  I do not get this error on my other computer.  

[PHP]$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
 * Reconfiguring network interfaces...                                          postconf: fatal: open /etc/postfix/main.cf: No such file or directory
postconf: fatal: open /etc/postfix/main.cf: No such file or directory
[/PHP]

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-25
[Here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1024127&p=6513580")  is a link - with a link - on gnome-network-admin and disabling Network Manager.

Can't say I've ever seen that error message before - anything else change in your /etc/network/interfaces file?

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-25
I posted my interfaces file.  I've only appened the information.  And its I've done it on other computers, so I know what I did should work.  I just don't understand why Ubuntu is not liking it.

I am think I may have to revert back to 8.04, because 8.10 is causing lots of problems with simple networking so far.

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-25
Also is there any reason, why my /etc/hosts file don't work?  I've entererd the aliases directly and the ip addresses are correct.

And I can't type ping <alias>, i have to type out the acutal ip address?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-25
A li'l off-topic, but what does your /etc/hosts file look like?

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-25
Never mind, I transposed the name and ips, been staring at this for far to long.

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-25
Saying I just finished installing Ubuntu Ibex, and I want it to access my network with a static IP address and use the internet.

All I have to modify is just the /etc/network/interfaces files?

Because I just reinstalled 8.04 and that's all I did.  And the same process does not accomplish anything in 8.10.

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-26
[PHP]
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
[/PHP]

I deleted those lines from my interface files and my computer say the network perfectly.  Now, I've done lots of reading and from what I understand those two lines shouldn't make the difference.  Infact, they are perfectly okay in Hardy, so what's wrong with Ibex?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-01-26
> **Arukas said:**
> Infact, they are perfectly okay in Hardy, so what's wrong with Ibex? Did I mention the Network Manager bug?  Hardy used a "different" Network Manager. The new Network Manager can manage ONE interface and ignores interfaces contained in /etc/network/interfaces. (with possible exception of **lo**).  To set up a static address, try the previously mentioned [link]("http://www.prash-babu.com/2009/01/how-to-setup-static-ip-in-ubuntu.html") or remove NM and re-install the old manager as mentioned in the [second]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1024127&p=6513580") link.

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-26
Yes you mentioned the network manager bug, but I had it uninstalled for a little while.  And it didn't work until I took out those two lines.

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-27
When I removed the network manager, I still had the error with the loopback?  Why is that?

---

### Post by normanp on 2009-01-28
Please see my post in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1050965&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1050965&page=2) for a solution to allow use of NM.

---

### Post by Arukas on 2009-01-28
I will, but still, the behavor of my computer should be different, It should be allowed the loopback with the NM uninstalled, but it isn't, is this a different bug?

---

