---
title: "ubuntu wired connection can't browse Internet sites?"
date: 2009-08-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by uiuiui172 on 2009-08-21
my ubuntu wired connection can't browse Internet sites but i can ping them just fine. All my windows computers are working and so now i can't connect to my website but can ping and other computers can't connect. I can't use synaptic or anything that connects to the Web except ping. My ISP said it was a DNS issue and told me to flush and reregister DNS but i don't know how without using Synaptic. Can someone help me?

---

### Post by jamest09 on 2009-08-21
Post the contents of your /etc/resolv.conf please

---

### Post by uiuiui172 on 2009-08-21
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain hsd1.or.comcast.net.
search hsd1.or.comcast.net.
nameserver 68.87.69.150
nameserver 68.87.85.102

``` 
Nameservers are correct and same as Windows.

---

### Post by icedemon428 on 2009-09-10
I'm having the exact same problem. My roommate can connect his computer, which is running Windows 7, but I can't connect using Hardy Heron. I can ping the IP given in the troubleshooting documentation, but send 0% packets, and I can't ping ubuntu.com at all (I get the error message that indicates that I'm not connected). I have connected myself both directly to the modem and to the router with no change. My connection worked fine not 3 weeks ago connected to a similar modem from the same company, T.W.C., but for some reason there is nothing now. 

I did what jamest09 asked and got this:
search nc.rr.com
nameserver 209.18.47.61
nameserver 209.18.47.62

If there's anything anyone can do to help me solve this, I'd be eternally grateful.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-09-10
Probably not a gateway problem, but check **route -n** to verify that your router/modem is the gateway.

---

