---
title: "opendns ddclient WARNING:  unable to determine IP address"
date: 2009-04-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by darthpenguin on 2009-04-22
Ok. I have a home network of Apple laptops and a Ubuntu desktop. I use OpenDNS for speed and parental control. My stupid ISP gives me a dynamic ip address. My stupid router (Apple Time Capsule) will not send ip updates to opendns.com. I can't run the update client on the laptops because they are not always on or always in the house so they would not always update. My ubuntu desktop is always on (it is the home file server) so it should update opendns.com.

I installed ddclient and configured it as per instructions on opendns.com

-----------------------------------------------
/etc/ddclient.conf
----------------------------------------------
# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

use=web, web=whatismyip.com
server=updates.opendns.com
protocol=dyndns2
login=*******
password=********
mydns.opendns.com
--------------------------------------

I've blocked my UN and PW for security reasons.

when I run "sudo ddclient" I get "WARNING:  unable to determine IP address"

I think it is because the last line is suppose to be "opendns_network_label" and I really have no idea what that means.

once I get it working (with the help of the community) how do I get it to update automatically (daily for ex.)? I don't want to manually run it in the terminal. That would defeat the purpose.

Also how could I get it to notify me that it is updating?

thanks for any help

---

### Post by shane2peru on 2009-04-27
Sorry to hear about the frustration.  You are only missing the network label.  Here is the ddclient configuration: (located at: /etc/ddclient.conf)

```

##
## OpenDNS.com account-configuration
##
use=web, web=whatismyip.com
server=updates.opendns.com
protocol=dyndns2          
login=[COLOR="Red"]opendns_username[/COLOR]    
password=[COLOR="Red"]opendns_password [/COLOR]
[COLOR="Red"]opendns_network_label[/COLOR]

```

I marked in red the only things you should have to change.  The opendns_network_label is what you named your network in the opendns account that you set up.  Once that is setup you can set it to run via a root cron job or put a link into the /etc/cron.hourly/ and have it run every hour.  Hope that helps.

Shane

---

### Post by darthpenguin on 2009-04-28
So if I called my network "Home" or "Office" that is what I would put in place of opendns_network_lablel? ok I'll try that and let you know. Thanks.

---

### Post by shane2peru on 2009-04-28
That will work for you.  You need to type it exactly as it is typed as it probably is case sensitive.  Hopefully that will help.  Let us know if not.

Shane

---

### Post by ramontayag on 2009-08-06
Hi! I put my network label, but I still get that "WARNING:  unable to determine IP address" message. What should I do?

---

### Post by chandru155 on 2009-08-27
I too facing the same problem. 
```
sudo ddclient
WARNING:  unable to determine IP address
```
My ddclient.conf file is

```
# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf
#pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
use=web, web=whatismyip.com
server=updates.opendns.com
protocol=dyndns2          
login=xxxxxx  
password=yyyyy
Home
```

Help me.

---

### Post by markosjal on 2009-08-27
If this is a client for something like DYNDNS which I believe it is, it can not determine the IP address most probably because it has a private LAN address. many of these clients will only work when they have the public IP directly, and not a NATed LAN IP.


Try connecting the Ubuntu server directly to the Public IP and see if it can then determine the IP. If so, I recommend you make the ubuntu server the router. 


Mark

---

### Post by p-dh on 2009-09-02
Hi,

I looked over your setup (for opendns) and you may need to add two lines
ssl=yes
daemon=600

The first sets up ddclient to use ssl, the second sets the frequency to update (in seconds) and may be set to whatever value you wish.

I had some problems setting up and it seems to work now. Here is what I did:
1. sudo /etc/init.d/ddclient status
    This checks to see whether it is running as a daemon.
2. sudo /etc/init.d/ddclient stop
    Stops the daemon.
3. sudo ddclient -use=ip -ip=1.2.3.4 -daemon=0 
    Runs ddclient manually and sets the IP. This also flushes the cache. You should see your current IP address in the status message. Mine was:SUCCESS:  updating mynetworknamecreatedbyme: good: IP address set to xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. (I've edited out my info.)
4. sudo /etc/init.d/ddclient start 
    Restarts the daemon.

You can read more @ [http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/ddclient/wiki/Faq](http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/ddclient/wiki/Faq)

I hope this helps.

Paul

---

### Post by tedrogers on 2009-12-21
Here's my ddclient.conf:

```
# Configuration file for ddclient
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf
#

# use ssl-support.
ssl=yes
use=web, web=whatismyip.org
server=updates.opendns.com
protocol=dyndns2
login=MYUSER
password=[COLOR="Red"]**'**[/COLOR]MYPASS[COLOR="Red"]**'**[/COLOR]
Home

```

Note that the MYPASS section is in single quotes, show in red and emboldened. From what I can gather, yours isn't.

Like this, mine works fine - even without the daemon=600 line and I didn't need to do any of the extra stuff in steps 1 to 4 above.

It's probably worth mentioning that I used the debconf in the installer to most of the work, and then just edited the conf file after.

Hope this helps buddy.

---

### Post by tedrogers on 2009-12-21
Just one thing...how can I make ddclient start automatically when I log in?

---

