---
title: "Network manager and pppoe  conflict?"
date: 2010-03-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by newthingstotry on 2010-03-25
Hello everyone !
For a long time I could not use any Linux distro because I did not have a good internet connection at home, I finally have one and hate MS to the very gut.
I installed Ubuntu 9.10 and fell in love with the freedom available at hand, but the truth remains true and that is I am a noob, an infant.:oops:
I ran into problem to get my wireless up in my Compaq CQ40-601 TU, after googling a LOT finally got it to work, and has been working for the last few weeks. with that there was the added satisfaction that I "got it working" and cajoled myself saying you are a would be "geek" !!! :mrgreen:
But no I am not one. As much as I hate MS I still have XP on my laptop because I use Netgear VPN client and Nortel ip softphone 2050 for work purposes and I have not yet been able to make them/alternatives work in Ubuntu. I played around with shrewsoft VPN client, but the thing is I am a literature student who likes computers, so my knowledge can only get me thus far. ;_;
Yesterday I downloaded Virtualbox and ran XP and was happy at the insult to MS, look here chap, your lap dog being ran inside Linux as a second string OS....yeah, serves you right you egotistical Market hogging maniac ! :twisted:
I got it ALL working, almost all (sigh).
All of a sudden my internet vanished.

I should mention that I used "sudo pppoeconf" to configure pppoe over wireless and connected with "sudo pon dsl-provider". Now it does not work. I think....I just think that it ran into a conflict with network manager. Wireless gets connected with the ADSL modem/router as usual, but cant get internet to work.
I tried following the instructions given here downwards from "Step2" ;
[http://ubuntuguide.net/fix-dsl-pppoe-connection-problem-with-network-manager-in-ubuntu-9-10](http://ubuntuguide.net/fix-dsl-pppoe-connection-problem-with-network-manager-in-ubuntu-9-10)

From step 2 because I could not get internet to work even with a wired connection now, so not possible for me to update network manager. Probably like a fool i tried to disable pppoeconf :icon_frown:#-o
when it did not work I reversed the changes. But things have remained as it is.
I WANT MY INTERNET BACK ! XD

I am a noob, and have no idea how to proceed. I would consider a fresh install, but I have installed softwares and things in this one, and unfortunately I am on limited bandwidth. So a fresh install is the last option. Before that I would like to try any advises you people may have. I babbled on a lot, and probably have left out the important technical details, sorry if I have.
I am coming to LOVE Ubuntu and am not about to give up, so help me out please ! :KS
Thanks !

---

### Post by newthingstotry on 2010-03-26
One more info which I thought will help to troubleshoot.

Instead of connecting using my username and password for the ISP, I tried putting them in directly in the modem itself so that I get an "always on" connection, still NO internet.
Both way of connecting works with Windows XP however, so there is no problem with the modem or ISP.

Waiting for some helpful answer 

Obrigado (well, thats thanks in Portuguese! :D)

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-03-26
> **newthingstotry said:**
> 
Instead of connecting using my username and password for the ISP, I tried putting them in directly in the modem itself so that I get an "always on" connection, still NO internet.

This means you can access modem.Then I think the problem is with DNS.Pl post the output of
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
Mine is 
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4

```
I suggest to use always on configuration

---

### Post by newthingstotry on 2010-03-29
Sorry that I could not provide an update earlier, been busy over the weekend.

Thanks for replying.

I got impatient and did a fresh install of Ubuntu, and then instead of using the broadcom driver or bcmwl-kernel-source I tried ndiswrapper....looked around a bit wrote a start up script and dumped NM for WICD.

Finally have a stable wireless now, lets hope it stays that way.

Thanks !

---

