---
title: "802.11b/g question"
date: 2007-09-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jason6g on 2007-09-16
this is probably a dumb post, i've searched but have not found a definite answer, my concern is as follows from this post:

> product: Dell Wireless 1390 WLAN Mini-PCI Card
vendor: Broadcom Corporation
configuration: broadcast=yes driver=bcm43xx driverversion=2.6.20-16-generic latency=0 link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11**b/g**
product: BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX
vendor: Broadcom Corporation
configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=b44 driverversion=1.01 duplex=full latency=64 link=yes multicast=yes port=twisted pair speed=100MB/s

also just got linksys wusb54gc usb adapter, so i have either a wired connection, the internal card which i believe only connects to 802.11b and then the linksys which when i plug in and use that connection, i get an additional 100-120feet over the internal card, however when i run the command it does not give feed back for that, so i do not know if there is a way to get the internal one to use g for the added signal or not.

my networkmanager applet reports internal card's signal strength at 55-65% but connect is horrible, pages dont load, etc with the linksys networkmanager applet reports signal strength at <30% and pages still load effortlessly.

as you can see what i made bold, the card in my laptop can supposedly connect to 802.11g networks and as described, when connecting with the dell card connection is horrible, then i switch to the usb adapter and connection is much much better. now i don't know for sure if the dell card can in fact connect to G signals, but if it is at all possible, is there anyway i can get such performance that the usb adapter gets from my internal card?

if it is possible could someone please explain how

if not then oh well, guess i have to deal with having the usb thing hang out there when going wireless for any distance.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-09-16
It's possible that the open-source bcm43xx driver only  supports b speeds (11 mbits/sec).  I think you need to blacklist the bcm43xx driver and load the ndiswrapper driver to get 54 mbits/sec speed.  That's what I use for a Linksys card (Broadcom 4318 Air Force One chipset) and it works fine.

---

