---
title: "802.11g antenna question"
date: 2010-06-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ubuntu1sttimer on 2010-06-27
I have two Belkin F5D7230-4 wireless 2.4 Ghz. 802.11G routers. I am interested in establishing a link over a somewhat greater distance than normal. These routers have two antennas on each. 

I have a Laptop that is a little too far away for the standard link to work. I do have one good gain 2.4 Ghz antenna that could be wired to replace one of the standard short whip antennas. 

My question is, will 802.11G wireless talk and work using only one antenna for the link? If so, how much will it effect link speed if any?

This may not be the best place to ask this type of technical question. If there is a wireless technical board somewhere else that would be better, let us know where

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2010-06-27
May I suggest that you test it out and let us know?

regards

---

### Post by ubuntu1sttimer on 2010-06-27
It will be a bit of a project due to the physical limits of the location. Expect that I will have to try it out but thought I might find someone that had some knowledge of if it might work.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2010-06-28
I have been thinking some more about this. I am not an expert but sometimes a conversation will get us thinking about a solution. I do not know why the Belkin modem has two antennas. Does this give it twice the range? I do not think so. Surely range is a function of transmitter power. Is one antenna used to transmit and the other one used to receive? I do not know. I think that you may need to change the antenna in the laptop to do what you want. That I guess will be difficult if not impossible. I do think that it is the reception and transmission at the laptop end that will need to be improved. Think of the problems that people are having with the Apple ipad when they hold it by the bottom left corner. The antenna in the case some how gets shorted. Think also of how reception on a portable radio can be improved by holding the antenna.  Can you resite the Belkin modem? 

regards.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2010-06-29
Hi. It is me again. I am good at taking things apart but not so good at putting them back together. So I am not about to take my broadband modem apart as I have just got broadband. I have noticed a few things. 1) the antenna tilts & swivels. So it is not one piece. 2) there is a small pin that passes through the antenna at the bottom, near where it connects to the base unit. 

This pin seems to pass through the bright metal rod that is the antenna. Pushing this pin out might release the antenna and doing so might allow you to make some connection to the bright metal rod coming out of the base unit. Alternatively, Attach a wire to the bottom of the alternative antenna and touch that wire against the bright metal rod that is the modem antenna and see if reception improves.

Regards.

---

### Post by ubuntu1sttimer on 2010-06-30
Thank you for your replies. I can explain some of the antenna questions. I have been working with radio and television communications for many years. Unfortunately, I don't know anything about the technical operation of the 802.11g system. 

Grahammechanical, like you, I also am not too good at putting what I have taken apart back together. The routers that I have appear to have some screws concealed under labels. They are very good routers for my usual purposes. Thus, I don't want to risk turning them into junk.

Now to the antennas. First, I should say that I am in the U.S. with our inches and feet measures. I will try to do part of this in meters but it is not my native measurement.

The length of a basic antenna is dependent on the frequency that it is designed for. First, there are two common antenna types. A dipole antenna which is .5 of one wavelength at the frequency it is designed for. Whip antennas are usually .25 of a wavelength. 

In the US our FM radio band includes 100 mhz or megahertz. A dipole antenna for that frequency would be 465/100  resulting in a length of 4.65 feet with a connection in the middle. Since that is too long for your desktop radio they use half of that or a 1/4 wavelength or 2.3 ft. or about .7 meter antenna with the radio connected on one end. 

Ok, you are asking why I am explaining all that. We have just described the antenna on our routers and many external wireless adapters. They are connected to on the end like you described on your router. Also, they are for 2.4 ghz or 2400 mhz. When we take our 465 and divide it by 2400 we get about 2.325 inches or 59 mm when converted to metric.

Now if you grab your trusty ruler and measure your router's antennas you should discover that is about the length of them. That is not all that hard but you have two antennas on your router. At least mine do have two. And to muddy the brain a little more, they are made so you can turn them in many different directions. I expect the first company did that to make it seem more powerful but depending on how they are positioned and how the router sets compared to the laptop the results can very over a wide range. Then other router companies followed the two antenna model so as to not loose sales.

Now the obvious question is, if I know so much about this, why am I asking the question! Well, it is the two antennas that concern me. 

My goal is to increase the range of my wireless signal. So does the 802.11g system transmit a different signal on each antenna  or are the two antennas just a way of making a router look better to a possible purchaser. For me, installing two powerful antennas would be not just costly, it would be a problem to do at the locations that they would have to be.

My hope is to find someone that works with 802.11g system design and knows if the two antennas are part of the system or just for show.

Hope this is not too long and tiring. Just thought it might be of interest to tell the part I know about.

---

### Post by benmoran on 2010-06-30
They are both functional. The idea is that one might pick up a packet if the other one doesn't.  Removing one might not effect the operation, but you might burn out the transceiver due to not having a load on it. 
That said, you CAN replace one of them. Those high-gain antennas are bigger, but they are still signal matched. (the element inside should be either a 1/4, 1/2 or 3/4 wave). 


The cheapest thing to try for a simple point to point connection is something like the "Windsurfer".
[http://windsurf.mediaforte.com/wifi/wifi_antenna.html](http://windsurf.mediaforte.com/wifi/wifi_antenna.html)

---

### Post by ubuntu1sttimer on 2010-07-01
That is the info I am looking for. The existing vertical should be around 50 ohms. Am thinking of using one of the common 2400 mhz parabolic dishes. They are 50 ohm feed. My concern was that the data and maybe frequency could be split between the two antennas. This would result in only part of the data transmission reaching the distant receiver. 

I don't need to go too far and a dish will allow me to keep the signal from spreading and being received by others. The plan is to restrict the signal to just where it is needed.

I would leave the remaining antenna on the router as it would be more bother to terminate it.

Thanks for the replies.

---

