---
title: "VPNC Cisco VPN"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sowelie on 2008-11-07
Hey Guys,

I'm using the network-manager-vpnc plugin.  I can get connected to the VPN but as soon as I do I can no longer ping any outside address. This includes addresses on the VPN.  Interestingly enough on my laptop I can connect (using the cisco client) and everything works fine.  My laptop is running Ubuntu Intrepid as well.

Any help is much appreciated.

---

### Post by sforces on 2008-11-10
Edit your VPN connection in network manager, go to IPv4 settings and click on "Routes..." button.

Then add a route the local route of that VPN, i.e.:
Address=192.168.1.0
Prefix=24
Gateway=0.0.0.0
Metric=0

So that VPN will only communicate with all 192.168.1.x traffic.

---

### Post by Muflon on 2008-11-12
Hi

I am having exactly the same problem.  This worked under Hardy but I can't get it working under Intrepid.  The VPN connects successfully using VPNC but then I can't ping anything on the virtual network or connect using 'Terminal Services Client'.

I have tried sforces suggestion without success.

Muflon

---

### Post by Muflon on 2008-11-13
I have a work around for the failure to connect using 'Terminal Services Client' after establishing a VPN connection via VPNC in 8.10.

Have a look at /etc/resolv.conf

Mine looks like this.  It holds the DNS servers lookups.

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.1.254
search home

```

After I connect to my VPN it looks like this.

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.1.254
nameserver 10.66.5.40
nameserver 172.26.128.23
search home central.luton

```

If I try to ping a server on the VPN I get the following error.

```
ping: unknown host jewel

```

I then edit the file to comment out the original DNS entry.

```
sudo vi /etc/resolv.conf

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
#nameserver 192.168.1.254
nameserver 10.66.5.40
nameserver 172.26.128.23
search home central.luton
```

I can now ping the server on the VPN.

```
PING jewel.central.luton (10.66.9.50) 56(84) bytes of data.

```

Now I can also get a 'Terminal Services Client' session to connect.

I don't know if this is a bug and needs fixing but this works for now.

Muflon

---

### Post by sforces on 2008-11-13
Have you tried editing the routes in the vpn settings in the network manager applet? I have it configured for both Cisco VPNC and OpenVPN for several VPNs I use and it works just fine. I'm able to ping and work with areas outside of the vpn and anything specific to the vpn still works. See steps in my previous post.

---

### Post by Muflon on 2008-11-13
Hi sforce

> **sforces said:**
> Have you tried editing the routes in the vpn settings in the network manager applet? I have it configured for both Cisco VPNC and OpenVPN for several VPNs I use and it works just fine. I'm able to ping and work with areas outside of the vpn and anything specific to the vpn still works. See steps in my previous post.

I am not trying to get my home network and VPN working at the same time.  My fix is just about getting the VPN connection to work at all.

Networking is not something that I am an expert in so I am skating on thin ice here :)

Muflon

---

### Post by Muflon on 2008-11-14
I have raised this as a bug in Launchpad

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vpnc/+bug/297796](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vpnc/+bug/297796)

Muflon

---

### Post by halful01 on 2008-11-20
I have the same problem and when I went to try Muflon's fix the two files didn't have any repeated nameservers.
Before I connected the vpn /ect/resolv.conf looked like this:
> search rh.psu.edu
nameserver 146.186.163.66
nameserver 128.118.141.32
nameserver 128.118.25.3
nameserver 130.203.1.4

and after I connected my vpn /etc/resolv.conf looked like this:
> #@VPNC_GENERATED@ -- this file is generated by vpnc
# and will be overwritten by vpnc
# as long as the above mark is intact
search rh.psu.edu engr.psu.edu
nameserver 130.203.201.18
nameserver 130.203.197.7

I don't know if these files are the problem or if something else. I can't ping any server except the vpn server i connect to and only then when i use it's ip address.
A little help would be appreciated a lot.

---

### Post by sowelie on 2008-12-03
Sorry I totally forgot I posted this.  I actually got the vpnc connection working.  It turns out I wasn't waiting long enough after connecting.  If I wait like 15 seconds after connecting everything works fine.  The only issue is DNS doesn't work, but that I can deal with.

---

### Post by metpage on 2008-12-03
> **sowelie said:**
> Sorry I totally forgot I posted this.  I actually got the vpnc connection working.  It turns out I wasn't waiting long enough after connecting.  If I wait like 15 seconds after connecting everything works fine.  The only issue is DNS doesn't work, but that I can deal with.

I actually ran into the same thing. I've been working for over a week with my Network Engineer trying to troubleshoot my VPN connection. Reason i thought it wasn't working was because i wasn't able to reach any of the resources after i connected. It turns out i was not waiting log enough. As for DNS not pinging, try pinging just the hostname after you connect. It could be that the domain is automatically being appened if you try doing 'ping hostname.domain.com'. It might be acting like 'ping hostname.domain.com.domain.com' instead. When i only ping the hostname it works successfully.

---

### Post by sowelie on 2008-12-11
I do have one problem...I cannot get DNS to work on the VPN side.  IE pinging google.com works fine, but pinging a resource inside of my company's network does not (by name).  I have the IP of our DNS server, how can I make DNS work over the VPN?

---

