---
title: "10.04 to windows 7 through ethernet cable"
date: 2010-09-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-09-30
um...i think the title says it all for itself, really. 

i have no idea how to do this.... i.m very 'do-able' with computers, it.s just been a long week, and i would rather not end the day with my sister yelling at me insanely because her laptop will not boot, and displays a lovely bsod.

so yes, if anyone can give me a step-by-step, it would be greatly appreciated.

thanks,

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-10-01
> **owners4life5 said:**
> um...i think the title says it all for itself, really.  Maybe...
Depends a bit on what you want/need to do. Gigabit adapters might be able to use straight cable, but my older 10/100 adapters need a crossover cable to connect two computers directly (without a hub/switch/router in between). 
Next, both machines will need an IP address in the same subnet. You *should* be able to configure a manual address via Network Manager (the Windows box will also need configured).
Finally, what are you hoping to do - share files? The Samba client is already in Ubuntu, so you can (*should* be able to) see files on the Windows machine. To share FROM Ubuntu TO Windows will take a li'l more work. :)

---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-10-01
thanks for replying (:

yeah all i need to do is set up the "network" so my sister can plug in her laptop (windows 7) to my desktop (10.04) through an Ethernet cable, and i can print files off of her computer (word, notepad, whatever) through mine. i just think it would be easier to do that rather than plug-and-unplug the usb to the printer.

so can you give me a little instruction? (i.ve never had experience with samba, so yeah)

thanks again

---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-10-03
*bump*

---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-10-06
*stámp*

---

### Post by d1zzy on 2010-10-06
As Iowan says above, it all depends on how your machines are connected to the network. The easiest way might not be to connect them directly at all, in fact you might be able to do it already without any additional cabling. Try the following:

* On the Windows box, go to the Start menu then enter "cmd" (without the quotes) in the search box at the bottom left and hit return. In the command window that opens type "ipconfig". Note any values you see next to "IPv4 Address".

* On your Ubuntu box, open a terminal (Applications menu > Accessories > Terminal) and enter "ifconfig" (note - i*f*config, not i*p*config as on Windows). Note any values next to "inet addr".

Now with luck the values from Windows will be similar to those from Ubuntu. They'll typically be in the range 192.168.<something>.<something>.

From the terminal on Ubuntu, try pinging the addresses on the Windows box, e.g. enter "ping 192.168.1.1" (replace 192.168.1.1 with the address from the Windows machine). If they can talk to one another, you'll get "64 bytes from xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx" or somesuch.

Try this out first and tell us how you get on.

Cheers

---

### Post by d1zzy on 2010-10-06
> i will try that later on today. i.ll get to it after school. thanks.

No problem. It's just the first step to see if you can talk between the computers already.

The next step is to use Samba to transfer files. If you want to access your Windows 7 drives from your Ubuntu PC, that can be done without installing any new packages (in Lucid, at any rate). To do this, just open a file browser window (Places menu > Home). Then from that window's Go menu choose "Network". After a while a "Windows Network" icon should appear. Open that to try to discover your Windows PC. If your Windows PC can't be found, hit Ctrl-L then enter "smb://<address of windows PC>" - e.g. "smb://192.168.0.1" (the Windows PC address from before) - in the text field that appears.

If you want to *serve* files from your Ubuntu machine, you will have to install extra packages.

---

### Post by st_nick5 on 2010-10-30
> **d1zzy said:**
> > i will try that later on today. i.ll get to it after school. thanks.

No problem. It's just the first step to see if you can talk between the computers already.

The next step is to use Samba to transfer files. If you want to access your Windows 7 drives from your Ubuntu PC, that can be done without installing any new packages (in Lucid, at any rate). To do this, just open a file browser window (Places menu > Home). Then from that window's Go menu choose "Network". After a while a "Windows Network" icon should appear. Open that to try to discover your Windows PC. If your Windows PC can't be found, hit Ctrl-L then enter "smb://<address of windows PC>" - e.g. "smb://192.168.0.1" (the Windows PC address from before) - in the text field that appears.

If you want to *serve* files from your Ubuntu machine, you will have to install extra packages.

I'm also trying to network two laptops together, one running Ubuntu 10.04 and the other running Windows 7. They are both connected to a single ethernet port through a switch, and they can both ping each other. However, When I try to connect to the Windows 7 laptop through Ubuntu doing what you said, once I enter the username and password for the Windows laptop, it just keeps asking for the password repeatedly. No error message or anything. 
The Windows 7 laptop doesn't even see the Ubuntu laptop in the network window, however it can ping it. Do you have any idea what's up with this? Been trying to fix this for a couple of days now. 

[http://www.amazon.co.uk/GetNet-GS-115P-100Mbps-Ethernet-Switch/dp/B002TADTP2/ref=sr_1_4?ie=UTF8&qid=1288442535&sr=8-4](http://www.amazon.co.uk/GetNet-GS-115P-100Mbps-Ethernet-Switch/dp/B002TADTP2/ref=sr_1_4?ie=UTF8&qid=1288442535&sr=8-4)
That's what I'm using.

---

### Post by elico on 2010-10-30
make sure you uninstalled WINDOWS LIVE sing in assistant
and also make sure that you setup windows 7 sharing settings to user and password and not homegorup.

---

