---
title: "BCM4313 [14e4:4727] on Wily 15.10 - how to initiallize my Wifi PCI Card"
date: 2016-01-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by doudou2 on 2016-01-24
Hi,
After installing Wily 15.10 on my old laptop (HP G72) with a Broadcom BCM4313 Wifi Card inside, everything works except the wifi connection.
You can find my wireless-info.txt generated by  the script proposed here.
I tried all different methods, nothing works ...
Under Windows, I was possible to start or stop wireless card with an hardware button (fn+F12 including a led light, orange or white color).
Nothing in the BIOS too to change parameters after the boot.
My Xubuntu doesn't accept my wireless card.
Please some help

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2016-01-24
Hi please open a terminal and do..
*Ignore any file not found or minor error, copy and paste
one line at a time for all lines.
```
sudo modprobe -rfv ndiswrapper
sudo apt-get remove --purge ndisgtk ndiswrapper*
sudo rm /etc/modprobe.d/ndis*
sudo rm -r /etc/ndiswrapper/*

```
then do..
```
sudo iw reg set FR
sudo sed -i 's/^REG.*=$/&FR/' /etc/default/crda
```
Then..
```
sudo ufw disable
rfkill unblock all
```
boot
and do..
```
rfkill list all
```
thanks.

---

### Post by doudou2 on 2016-01-24
Hi Hadaka,  thanks for your support but It seems to be the same situation :(  As if the system couldn't ignore the hardware switch (fn+F12 on windows7 but without change on Ubuntu)    code : josette@josette-HP-G72-Notebook-PC:~$ sudo rfkill list all 0: hp-wifi: Wireless LAN 	Soft blocked: no 	Hard blocked: yes 1: phy0: Wireless LAN 	Soft blocked: no 	Hard blocked: no 2: brcmwl-0: Wireless LAN 	Soft blocked: no 	Hard blocked: no

---

### Post by doudou2 on 2016-01-24
Sorry, with the right view !
```

josette@josette-HP-G72-Notebook-PC:~$ sudo rfkill list all
0: hp-wifi: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: yes
1: phy0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
2: brcmwl-0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no


```

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2016-01-24
Hi, have you tried this method and the power down?
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/670356/wifi-disabled-by-hardware-switch](http://askubuntu.com/questions/670356/wifi-disabled-by-hardware-switch)

---

### Post by doudou2 on 2016-01-25
Nothing different after applying your suggestion ... it seems to be only for Toshiba Satellite

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2016-01-25
This method is for your HP G72
[http://h30434.www3.hp.com/t5/Notebook-Wireless-and-Networking/can-t-enable-wireless-on-my-hp-g72/td-p/1241583](http://h30434.www3.hp.com/t5/Notebook-Wireless-and-Networking/can-t-enable-wireless-on-my-hp-g72/td-p/1241583)
You also should be able to reset BIOS to default, or enable/disable wireless in BIOS
Untill you find a way to clear your hard block there is no way to configure your wireless access settings.
You also have the option of reloading Ubuntu, with that older model i would suggest 14.04 if you decide to do that.
I have no further suggestios untill you find a way to clear the hard block.
thanks.

---

