---
title: "8.10 Switching on wireless through the command line"
date: 2009-02-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by agazzard on 2009-02-18
Hi

I have an Acer 7720 with built in wireless that has one of those buttons above the keyboard. I have switched the wireless on and off before with no problems.

I was having problem connecting a while ago though so decided to reset the wireless connection using this button. The laptop allowed me to switch the wireless off, but will no longer allow me to switch it back on.

My questions are:

Has anyone had this before? AND

Does anyone know a way I can switch the wireless card on via the command line or by some other way?

Thanks in advance

Ade

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-02-18
what does **iwconfig** show?

---

### Post by agazzard on 2009-02-19
No idea what happenned but I've just booted the laptop up and it's working again. I must have re-booted the thing 2 dozen times yesterday and nothing.

Cheers

---

### Post by xtreme35967 on 2009-02-19
I am having this same problem on my HP nc2400. I am not dual booting so I am not able to boot into Windows to turn the wireless adapter back on. I used the Ultimate Boot CD to boot up and turn the wireless back on. Then I restarted and everything was ok again. I have not turned the wireless back off yet out of fear that I would have to use the Ultimate Boot CD again.

---

### Post by yther on 2009-02-19
I think I've heard about this problem before, in a general sense.  With some devices, things that are stored in memory (like "soft" settings such as this) don't get cleared on a reboot, also known as "warm start."  If you haven't tried it already, instead of just rebooting, do a shutdown and let it sit for 30 seconds or more, then start back up.  This can clear "residual" data left in the memory, that may not get cleared otherwise.

Good luck!

---

