---
title: "9.10 Karmic broke my wireless settings"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by artiee on 2009-11-02
Hi! I had configured my wireless card (Broadcom BCM4318 ) following this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1180170]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1180170") and it was working fine in Jaunty. After upgrading to Karmic it is no longer working. Those settings are still there but it doesn't turn the wireless card on.

There are two versions in my boot-menu now:

2.6.31.14
2.6.28.16

Interestingly in the first one (2.6.31.14) this problem appears, ie. not turning wireless card on. In the second (2.6.28.16) the wireless card is started normally but the touch pad doesn't work. 

My computer is Amilo (Fujitsu siemens computers).

lshw -C network

*-network:0             
       description: Wireless interface
       product: BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 5
       bus info: pci@0000:02:05.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:14:a5:34:00:74
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ndiswrapper+bcmwl5a driverversion=1.55+Broadcom,12/22/2004, 3.100. latency=64 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11g
       resources: irq:20 memory:c0204000-c0205fff


Any ideas (except back to Jaunty)? Thanks!

--Artiee

---

### Post by soldar79 on 2009-11-02
I've always had a LOT of issues "upgrading" ubuntu. Any release.

Why don't you try booting a karmic live cd / usb  and checking out if your wifi works?

If it does, I think you'd consider a karmic fresh installation.

Good Luck,
Juan.

---

### Post by hal10000 on 2009-11-02
> I've always had a LOT of issues "upgrading" ubuntu. Any release.

I never had problems (at least no major problems) when i upgrade in the past four years.


@artiee:
maybe you can get help here: [http://sampbar.com/2009/04/broadcom-bcm4318-ubuntu-intrepid/](http://sampbar.com/2009/04/broadcom-bcm4318-ubuntu-intrepid/)

---

### Post by IainPurdie on 2009-11-03
I'm having very similar problems on my Acer TravelMate 2410. The wireless card is coming on in that it detects a load of networks, but it won't let me connect to the one I usually use. Again, I used to have the old kernel installed (wifi connectivity fine, graphics/sound/touchpad all failed to work) alongside the new one. I ditched the old one and everything else is now lovely. But I can't connect wifi-ly.

As I said, the network detects but refuses to accept the WEP key. In the dropbox to select the network encryption type I'm offered WPA2 and nothing else. I've tried creating a new network using WEP... no use. The system tries to connect (the little circle thing goes round) but it keeps returning to the prompt for the key again regardless of what I try.

---

### Post by Aenari on 2009-11-07
Same deal here.

After going through heck just to get it to recognize the card, now hitting this stopblock.

---

### Post by GandalfTheNerd on 2009-11-11
I had the "won't accept my WEP key after upgrading to Karmic" problem as well. Worse, it wouldn't let me connect by wire either - network manager said the wired network was "not managed". Fiddling with the ifconfig command did enable me to establish a wired connection, though.

Strangely, editing /etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf to set (ifupdown) "managed=false" to "managed=true" fixed both the wired and wireless connections! Odd, but it's working so I'm happy.

---

### Post by bcpaes on 2009-11-12
> **IainPurdie said:**
> I'm having very similar problems on my Acer TravelMate 2410. The wireless card is coming on in that it detects a load of networks, but it won't let me connect to the one I usually use. Again, I used to have the old kernel installed (wifi connectivity fine, graphics/sound/touchpad all failed to work) alongside the new one. I ditched the old one and everything else is now lovely. But I can't connect wifi-ly.

As I said, the network detects but refuses to accept the WEP key. In the dropbox to select the network encryption type I'm offered WPA2 and nothing else. I've tried creating a new network using WEP... no use. The system tries to connect (the little circle thing goes round) but it keeps returning to the prompt for the key again regardless of what I try. 


> I had the "won't accept my WEP key after upgrading to Karmic" problem as well. Worse, it wouldn't let me connect by wire either - network manager said the wired network was "not managed". Fiddling with the ifconfig command did enable me to establish a wired connection, though.

Strangely, editing /etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf to set (ifupdown) "managed=false" to "managed=true" fixed both the wired and wireless connections! Odd, but it's working so I'm happy.  Not worked to me


Same deal here. Thus i`m using an asus netbook 1008ha. Dont have the old kernel. Who guess what is take a :KS A+ to show to your mom!

---

### Post by IainPurdie on 2009-11-12
The "NetworkManager" hack won't work on mine, either - I don't use Network Manager as I switched to WICD in a bid to get things working.

Even more annoyingly, up to a point I could connect using an external Aztech wifi dongle. That's not failing as well :(

---

### Post by euriconeto on 2010-03-22
Hi All,

I have a similar problem. And a few others too... After completely installing karmic on a HP dv6 2120tx I noticed a few bugs.

1- Wireless doesn't work (the network manager only displays "enable networking" but not "enable wireless). I get no signal at all.
2- My mobile key (a Huawei 3 mobilebroadband from Australia) is recognised, but the appled does not allow me to connect to it.
3- The speakers do not stop working when I plug my headphones.
4- Speakers are doing a weird noise when I turn off the laptop
5- The screen gets buggered when turning off as well (comes back nicely though)

If you know how to help me or need more information in order to help, please give me a step by step on how to get the info you need from the terminal, as I don't know yet how to run these things.

Thanks!
Eurico

---

