---
title: "16.04: Issues with wireless connection"
date: 2016-08-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dashie23 on 2016-08-04
Hi. Today I made a fresh installation (no update) of Ubuntu 16.04 on another computer. I have two issues related to wi-fi connection:

  
[LIST=1]
[*]When I turn on (or restart) the computer it appears a message  that confirm that I'm connected to the wi-fi connection. But it seems  that the connection last about 30 seconds (I can start a google search  but then I not able to access any other page or refresh the search  page). In few words, it seems that I have wi-fi connection but no  internet connection.

[*]I have tried a solution that stated that restarting the network manager (e.g. sudo service network-manager restart) would work. When I try this, Ubuntu is not able to restablish the wi-fi connection at all.
[/LIST]
  The output for lspci -knn | grep Net -A2 is the following:
   07:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8192E/RTL8192SE Wireless LAN Controller [10ec:8192] (rev 01)
 Subsystem: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8192E/RTL8192SE Wireless LAN Controller [10ec:8182]
    Kernel driver in use: rtl819xE
 Thanks in advance for any ideas to fix this. Have a good day.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-08-04
Personally, I owuld not restart network manager. I would pull down the menu from the network manager icon and (a) disconnect and connected the wireless access point that I am using. (b) disable and enable Networking. (c) disable and enable WiFi. Doing this should force network manager to reconnect.

We can also go to System Settings>Network and switch wireless off and on. And also switch the connection to the wireless access point off and on. We will also get information about the connection at this place. We can get the Link speed as well as the signal strength.

With 16.04 we can run these commands to get information about a network devices.

```
nmcli general status
nmcli connection
ncli device

```

Generally speaking if the results show connected, then everything is working as it should as regards Ubuntu. The issue may lie between the router and the Internet Service provider.

Regards.

---

### Post by dashie23 on 2016-08-04
Hi, thanks for the reply.

1. (a) I tried to disconnect and connect to the wi-fi network from the menu you mention, but Ubuntu is not able to reconnect. I have to restart the computer in order to be connected to the network.

2. (b) Same issue as above.

3. (c) Same issue.

4. The issue also happens through the 'switch' procedure from Settings>Network. In other words, once my Ubuntu disconnects from the network is unable to reconnect to it, unless I restart the computer.

5. Using 'nmcli general status' indeed give me positive results (for instance: STATE = connected, CONNECTIVITY = full, etc). I'm using the wi-fi network from a Windows computer right now withou any problem.

Thanks for any further sugggestions/ideas.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-08-05
I've seen issues in 16.04 & 14.04 with xenial lts kernel where wireless gets dropped & my network is no longer shown. What works here is to disable Wi-Fi in the menu & then re-enable it. 
This machine (3 year old lenovo, Intel Wireless 7260) never had any issues before. 
From my perspective newer is not always better.

---

### Post by dashie23 on 2016-08-05
Thanks for the reply. Disabling/re-enabling wi-fi from the menu fails: once I get disconnected from the network Ubuntu is unable to reconnect to it (although the network still display as an available network). Do you recommend to install a previous version of Ubuntu?

Thanks for any further sugggestions/ideas.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2016-08-05
*Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless**.*

---

