---
title: "6.10 edgy wireless issue SOLVED"
date: 2006-10-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jshein on 2006-10-15
I ran into this issue the other day, and spent quite a while getting the wireless to work. The card was detected, and it did not matter if I used DHCP or a static IP.

The network card would not associate with the access point. I could ping my own IP ( when using static ) but not the AP.

The network config tool adds the following example format for the wep key, and it does not work. 

Edit /etc/network/interfaces and change the following line :

wireless-key s:aabbccdd112233445566778899

change it to the following format, and it should work fine

wireless-key aa:bb:cc:dd:11:22:33:44:55:66:77:88:99

---

### Post by paechan on 2006-10-18
Im using an Intel PRO Wireless 3945ABG network adapter in my laptop and i just recently updated to edgy from dapper. I didnt have any problems connecting to open wireless networks like the one at my university in dapper, but as soon as i booted my computer with edgy, there was just no way for me to connect. I tried the solution you posted, but it didnt do anything for me.

It seems that in edgy,you need to specify the name of the network you want to connect to. This severely handicaps ubuntu as you might not always know the exact name of the network in the building. 

I used my windows installation to solve this problem actually. Windows automatically connects to whatever network is close. I found the exact name and just typed it in where ubuntu wants it. It seems that a wireless connection in edgy must have a name. (??)

So anyway, the way to connect to a wireless network in edgy is to simply boot up windows, get the name of the network, boot up ubuntu and type it in. (System > Administration > Networking > Wireless whatever)

---

### Post by sawjew on 2006-10-19
Try using wifi-radar ```
sudo apt-get install wifi-radar
```

It will detect any available networks and give you a gui to connect to it.

---

### Post by effoff on 2006-10-20
Oh goody goody!!!! Maybe a Vista CD will be included with the Edgy CD so that laptop users will be able to connect.

---

### Post by ryness on 2006-10-28
i just fell in love with wifi-radar after the edgy gui fell short of the dapper one on my laptop. thanks!

---

### Post by TechFreep on 2006-11-04
Hey there, guys -- there's a much easier way to check for existing Wifi networks than to go into windows.  Open up a console and type:

```
iwlist eth1 scan
```

That will give you a full list of all available wireless networks with complete information on each one.  Hope that helps!

---

### Post by tdamocles on 2006-11-04
That is 128bit  key...is that the same with 64bit key?  aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff:gg:hh:ii  ?

---

### Post by FrodoB on 2006-11-04
The wifi-radar package does not seem to exist in 6.10.

---

### Post by Peterkawa on 2006-11-04
add a universe repository

---

### Post by FrodoB on 2006-11-04
uncomment the following in /etc/apt/sources.list:

deb [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) edgy universe
deb-src [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) edgy universe

then you can install wifi-radar using apt-get.

---

