---
title: "Can't access public WIFI network"
date: 2018-07-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by daryl9 on 2018-07-30
I just did a fresh install v18.04.01 on my laptop.  I went to my public library and attempted to access the public WIFI network.  I'm able to access the network and get an IP address, but when I pull up chrome, I can't get access.  I have to "Accept" the library's terms, then I should be allowed to the network, however, I get an error not being able the network.  I wish that I had saved the error, but unfortunately, I didn't. 

Something is blocking access.  I'm guessing that the firewall might be the culprit, but from that information that I've found, the firewall is disabled on my laptop.  I ran "ufw status verbose" and it said "inactive".  Is there something else that I can look at?

Thanks

Daryl

---

### Post by daryl9 on 2018-07-30
I have a little more to add to this puzzle.   

This is the error that I received:

> [COLOR=#ff0000]This site can’t be reached[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#ff0000]captiveportal-login.dotcomm.org’s server IP address could not be found.[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#ff0000]Try:[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#ff0000]
[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#ff0000]Checking the connection[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#ff0000]Checking the proxy, firewall, and DNS configuration[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#ff0000]ERR_NAME_NOT_RESOLVED[/COLOR]

When I initially was attempting to access this network, I didn't have network tools installed and I wasn't able to perform any type of nslookup, ifconfig, or netstat etc...  I went to a "friendly" network and installed network tools.  Also while I was on the friendly network I installed GUFW.  Looking at GUFW I thought that I found what was keeping me from getting out the network.  I see there are Home, Office and Public firewall settings.   Even though Home was disabled, Public and Office were both still enabled.  I disabled Public and Office and went back for further testing.

Disabling public and office did not resolve this issue.  I still can't get out on the wifi.  I can nslookup google.com and any number of domains.  However, I can't nslookup dotcomm.org's domain.  Why?  What could be blocking my ability to get out?

Thanks

Daryl

---

### Post by daryl9 on 2018-08-01
I have an update for this posting.   I hope that someone will be able to help me figure out how to resolve this issues.

When I first posting this issue I was thinking that something was blocking my ability to get out, but I've come to realize that is not the issue.  The issue is a redirect once I accept the login agreement.

When I first bring up my browser and try to go to a website, e.g. ubuntuforums.org, I get a login page, and all I have to do is click the "Accept" button and I should then have access to the internet. (at least that is how it works on windows platforms) The URL for that page is:

> dotcclps01.dotcomm.org

but I immediately get:

> This site can’t be reached
captiveportal-login.dotcomm.org’s server IP address could not be found.


So the issue is when I get redirected to captiveportal-login.dotcomm.org.

The default nameserver is set by dhcp.  With the default nameserver, I can resolve dotcomm.org, but I can't resolve captiveportal-login.dotcomm.org.  However, if I change the default nameserver to 8.8.8.8 I can resolve captiveportal-login.dotcomm.org, but I can't resolve dotcclps01.dotcomm.org.

NetworkManager is a pain and its been a challenge getting this to work, but I was finally able to temporarily get nameserver 8.8.8.8 and the default nameserver in /etc/resolv.conf.   Once I was able to do that I was able to get the redirect to work.

> cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Generated by NetworkManager
search dotcomm.org
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 192.168.234.58


I see this as a temporary fix.  I need something that will provide a permanent redirect.   I don't want to have to manually edit the /etc/resolv.conf file every time I fire up my  laptop.  

If anyone has a suggestion on how I can make this redirect permanent I would appreciate it.

Thanks

Daryl

---

### Post by daryl9 on 2018-08-03
I finally figured out what was going on.  apparmor.   

I was looking at systemctl searching for something else that was running when I noticed appamor installed and running.  I shut it down and disabled it.  I ran back to the library just to confirm that was the issue, and sure enough.   I'm writing this from the library now.

For future reference, if anyone has similar issues, check for apparmor.

Daryl

---

