---
title: "18.04 Wireless connected but no internet access"
date: 2019-10-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by fizsics on 2019-10-30
I am using ubuntu 18.04 and I've been trying to connect to wifi (on RT5572 wireless adapter (which works on windows(dual boot))) by using the threads posted here but the problem still persists. The wireless icon shows up (indicating its signal strength) but when I get into browser, it doesn't get me to any websites (currently I am in China, so google.com won't work here so I tried some websites that work in China). I have ran wireless-info on my system and I attached it here. I can't use ethernet because apparently my office's router is 100MB network and the ethernet adapter I'm having has 10GB network (I don't really understand this but that's what some technician told me - ethernet doesn't work in windows too (dual boot)). Please have a look at my attached file and hopefully get my wireless to work. Thank you!

---

### Post by praseodym on 2019-10-30
Lets try
```

echo "options rt2800usb nohwcrypt=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/rt2800usb.conf
sudo modprobe -rfv rt2800usb
sudo modprobe -v rt2800usb
```

---

### Post by fizsics on 2019-10-30
I can't get internet access still. I've attached an updated wireless-info. // I've just realized I don't have file or directory of resolv.conf.. This is probably because of my previous attempts on fixing the internet access. Could this be one of the reasons for the internet access trouble?

_**Update**_
When I run: 
```
ping 8.8.8.8
```
I get this: 
```
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_seq=1 ttl=44 time=276ms
```
but internet access is still not there through the firefox browser.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2019-10-30
> I've just realized I don't have file or directory of resolv.conf.. This is probably because of my previous attempts on fixing the internet access. Could this be one of the reasons for the internet access trouble?Yes, indeed. Let's fix it.

```
sudo rm /etc/resolv.conf
```If it complains that there is no such file, as we expect, just continue:
```
ln -s /run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf
```
Reboot and let us hear the result. Do you connect and reach the internet?

---

### Post by fizsics on 2019-10-30
I get this:
```
ln: failed to create symbolic link '/etc/resolv.conf': Permission denied
```

My gut is saying I should go sudo, but my brain is telling me to ask first so I don't mess this up more

[U][B]Update (I never attempted this for the fix)
[/B][/U]Should I try using this (source: [https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/218557/how-to-change-ownership-from-symbolic-links](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/218557/how-to-change-ownership-from-symbolic-links))?:
```
[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Consolas]sudo chown -h askar.admin /etc/resolv.conf/[/FONT][/COLOR]
```

---

### Post by fizsics on 2019-10-31
apparently going sudo was the right move. wifi access finally! thanks chilli!

```
sudo ln -s /run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf
```

(I can't find any like button for a reply here, but I did chilli's suggestion and it worked!)

---

