---
title: "resolv.conf &amp; dhclient.conf driving me nuts!"
date: 2008-05-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Moso on 2008-05-25
Hi!

These two files are driving me nuts: resolv.conf & dhclient.conf.

I installed a Ubuntu 8.04 from zero, using the alternate CD.  After install I configured a PPPoE conection to access the internet.

I am running a local domain name server (bind9) and wish to use a resolv.conf file like this:

```
search localdomain
nameserver 127.0.0.1
nameserver 200.175.5.139
nameserver 200.175.182.139
```

The original resolv.conf was:

```
search localdomain
nameserver 127.0.0.1
```

The original dhclient.conf was:

```
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers, domain-name,    domain-name-servers, host-name, ntp-servers;
```

I just added **prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;** to the file that now contains:

```
prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers, domain-name, domain-name-servers, host-name, ntp-servers;
```

But the crazy thing is that sometimes resolv.conf is:

```
nameserver 200.175.5.139
nameserver 200.175.182.139
search localdomain
```

And sometimes is:

```
search localdomain
nameserver 127.0.0.1
```

Bellow is the content of **dsl-provider** generated by **pppoeconf**:

```
# Minimalistic default options file for DSL/PPPoE connections

noipdefault
defaultroute
replacedefaultroute
hide-password
#lcp-echo-interval 30
#lcp-echo-failure 4
noauth
persist
#mtu 1492
#persist
#maxfail 0
#holdoff 20
plugin rp-pppoe.so eth0
user "turbonet@turbonet"
usepeerdns
```

/etc/network/interfaces
```
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.254
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        network 192.168.1.0
        broadcast 192.168.1.255
        # dns-* options are implemented by the resolvconf package, if installed
        dns-nameservers 127.0.0.1
        dns-search localdomain

auto dsl-provider
iface dsl-provider inet ppp
pre-up /sbin/ifconfig eth0 up # line maintained by pppoeconf
provider dsl-provider
```

I don't understand what is going here...  At least I expected a constant result: only my local dns server or only DSL provider dns servers.

It's a bug with Ubuntu 8.04?  What is causing this random behavior?

Any help is apreciated!

:lolflag:

---

### Post by Moso on 2008-05-26
bump! :(

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-05-29
> **Moso said:**
> 

```
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers, domain-name,    [color=red]domain-name-servers[/color], host-name, ntp-servers;
```

I just added **prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;** to the file that now contains:

```
prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers, domain-name, [color=red]domain-name-servers[/color], host-name, ntp-servers;
```


My guess is that sometimes, your router is still negotiating the adsl link and therefore has not received the DNS servers yet; that when you get the 127.0.0.1 as the nameserver. At other times, it has the DNS server addresses ready when your machine requests it along with DHCP settings.

I'd suggest getting rid of domain-name-servers in your request line, and adding 192.168.1.1 to the pre-pend list; most routers act as DNS also. That's how I do it. Just a suggestion.

---

### Post by Moso on 2008-05-29
Hi prshah!  :)

My ADSL modem is in bridge mode.  Is my Ubuntu that makes the PPPoE connection.

So I think that the prepend option must always work no matter how long the provider takes to respond.  This way I think that the 127.0.0.1 address should be in resolv.conf every time.

I want to use my local domain name server but I wish to take the provider DNS servers in resolv.conf as a "backup".

The strange thing is this doesn't happen in previous versions of Ubuntu...  :confused:

Anyway thanks for your time!  :popcorn:

I'm still researching.  When (and if) I find a solution or why this happen I will post here.

---

### Post by Moso on 2008-06-03
bump! :popcorn:

---

### Post by chmac on 2008-08-18
I'm having this same problem with pppoe and ppp. If I connect to a wired / wireless network, the dns servers are prepended correctly. However, if I connect to a pppoe or ppp (gsm modem) then the servers are not prepended.

This is definitely a bug I think. But I'm not sure what to file it against. Is it a bug in dhclient? Should I file it there to start with anyway? Any feedback would be appreciated.

---

### Post by sl1mshadyx on 2008-08-19
Have you trying removing the 'usepeerdns' line in dsl-provider?

---

### Post by chmac on 2008-08-19
> **sl1mshadyx said:**
> Have you trying removing the 'usepeerdns' line in dsl-provider?

I'm using NetworkManager 0.7 to manage connections, so the settings in /etc/ppp/peers/dsl-provider are ignored. However, if I connect with `pon dsl-provider` without 'usepeerdns', I get no DNS servers in /etc/resolv.conf. So I get no dns resolution at all.

I don't think that's the solution. It seems like there's a bug in dhclient where it ignores the prepend dns-servers option for ppp connections. Or maybe it's called differently by ppp, I'm not sure.

---

### Post by aplveiga on 2008-08-19
Hi Moso!

why are you using dhclient?
> /etc/network/interfaces
Code:

# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.254
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        network 192.168.1.0
        broadcast 192.168.1.255
        # dns-* options are implemented by the resolvconf package, if installed
        dns-nameservers 127.0.0.1
        dns-search localdomain

auto dsl-provider
iface dsl-provider inet ppp
pre-up /sbin/ifconfig eth0 up # line maintained by pppoeconf
provider dsl-provider



In your interfaces file you are using static IP.
The pppd don't need dhclient and generate a resolv.conf file in /etc/ppp/resolv.conf
Check if you have a symbolic link to /etc/resolv.conf , check also the configuration files in /etc/resolvconf , maybe you can find your answer there.

Please tell me if you can fix your problem because I'm having a similar problem configuring a computer with 2 connections, pppoe - ADSL (eth0) and dhcp (eth1). 
dhclient is taking care of all configurations to resolv.conf and route.:confused: It seems the same problem as **chmac** 
My solution was to configure eth1 to static and for now is working, when the dhcp lease time expires then will have a problem for now I'm searching for solutions.

---

### Post by pellgarlic on 2008-08-21
in dhclient.conf, when you are specifying a domain-name-server (the "prepend" statement), try removing "domain-name-servers" from the "request" line.

you currently have:

```
prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers, domain-name, domain-name-servers, host-name, ntp-servers;
```

make it like this:

```
prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers, domain-name,  host-name, ntp-servers;
```

that might help.

---

### Post by chmac on 2008-08-21
> **pellgarlic said:**
> in dhclient.conf, when you are specifying a domain-name-server (the "prepend" statement), try removing "domain-name-servers" from the "request" line.

I'm pretty sure that means that dhclient will no longer pick up any nameservers by DHCP. That's no use, because then dhclient (or another local dns server) don't know which servers to query.

---

### Post by aplveiga on 2008-08-21
Pellgarlic your reply as opened my eyes. In my case I can remove the "routers, domain-name," from request and I think it will have the behaviour that I want.

I'll reply my success or failure.

---

### Post by pellgarlic on 2008-08-21
> **chmac said:**
> I'm pretty sure that means that dhclient will no longer pick up any nameservers by DHCP. That's no use, because then dhclient (or another local dns server) don't know which servers to query.

correct - removing "domain-name-servers" from the "request" line will prevent nameservers being picked up by dhcp. my comment was addressing the OP's problem - to try and ensure the servers that were desired were the only ones to show - i didn't realise your problem was slightly different :)

in your case, if you are seeing different behaviour for ppp connections than ethernet or wireless connections (domain-name-servers not being prepended for ppp connections) then my solution will likely not help you.

what about noting the domain-name-servers that you get for ppp normally, and adding them to the "prepend" statement, then disabling the domain-name-server request? (obviously this would only be of use if you are getting the same DNS every time - no use if you are on a laptop, moving about).


@ aplveiga - hope i've been able to help in a small way :)

---

### Post by chmac on 2008-08-21
> **pellgarlic said:**
> in your case, if you are seeing different behaviour for ppp connections than ethernet or wireless connections (domain-name-servers not being prepended for ppp connections) then my solution will likely not help you.

I am on a laptop. Usually I connect via wireless, so it works ok. I can always manually add 127.0.0.1 to /etc/resolv.conf when I notice it's not there. I use it only for a couple of dev virtual machines, so it's not that big a deal.

You're right though, the original post was a different problem to mine, although I've somewhat hijacked the thread! :)

---

### Post by pellgarlic on 2008-08-21
> **chmac said:**
> I am on a laptop. Usually I connect via wireless, so it works ok. I can always manually add 127.0.0.1 to /etc/resolv.conf when I notice it's not there. I use it only for a couple of dev virtual machines, so it's not that big a deal.

You're right though, the original post was a different problem to mine, although I've somewhat hijacked the thread! :)

no worries - i know i'm a late-comer to this thread - i was actually looking for an answer for something else connected to persistence in resolv.conf, but when i saw this thread, i thought i might be able to offer a little help...

i'm not sure if the "prepend" statement and the "request" line in dhclient.conf are exclusive of each other, or if they can co-exist - it may be that if you have the "domain-name-server" entry in the "request" line, that it overrides any "prepend" entries... not really sure to be honest - i just know that for my own purposes (and by the sounds of the OP) using the "prepend" line and removing the "request" does the job. :)

as i said earlier though - could you maybe reference 127.0.0.1 along with the DNS entries you usually get from DHCP, and remove the "request" entry? if you are getting the same domain-name-servers regularly, it might work out ok...

---

### Post by chmac on 2008-08-21
> **pellgarlic said:**
> i'm not sure if the "prepend" statement and the "request" line in dhclient.conf are exclusive of each other, or if they can co-exist - it may be that if you have the "domain-name-server" entry in the "request" line, that it overrides any "prepend" entries... not really sure to be honest - i just know that for my own purposes (and by the sounds of the OP) using the "prepend" line and removing the "request" does the job. :)

They're not. The prepend line works fine for me on wlan0 or eth0, just not on ppp0. I get 127.0.0.1 as the first name server, then whatever DHCP supplied are listed afterwards.

> **pellgarlic said:**
> as i said earlier though - could you maybe reference 127.0.0.1 along with the DNS entries you usually get from DHCP, and remove the "request" entry? if you are getting the same domain-name-servers regularly, it might work out ok...

That might work for me because I typically only connect to 1 ppp connection (gsm modem) or many wireless lans. Another option I've considered is to use NetworkManager dispatcher.d and write a little script to overwrite resolv.conf, I had that running a while back for a similar problem. Honestly, it's not a major issue for me. It is a bug though, I should file it somewhere...

---

### Post by pellgarlic on 2008-08-21
> **chmac said:**
> It is a bug though, I should file it somewhere...

i guess maybe here:

[http://www.isc.org/index.pl?/sw/dhcp/](http://www.isc.org/index.pl?/sw/dhcp/)


also, as another possible workaround, (if you ever feel so inclined), maybe look into resolv.conf.tail

cheers :)

---

### Post by chmac on 2008-08-21
Posted [the bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dhcp3/+bug/260060") at last. :)

---

