---
title: "9.10 on Lenovo s20 netbook network stall"
date: 2010-02-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by peng123 on 2010-02-06
dear forum,

i have searched the forum but can't find the solution for stalling network in the middle of something. i have to restart the computer. i cannot rely ubuntu  for 24 hours non-stop small server.

the stalling problem occurs when I start pulling/downloading via samba or sftp (smb:// or sftp://) from another computers/device (like wdtv). when i check the lenovo, all internet connecetion is dead. ifconfig shows the ip but it just dead. restarting the computer is only solution.

thanks for the helps,

peng

---

### Post by peng123 on 2010-02-06
I thought I solved the problem, but it is better than previous, I can watch a movie for 1-2 minutes before it stall again.

I enable sharing on the Download directory. before I only enable sharing from samba config. I will restart again.

Still need help.

peng

---

### Post by TheJaff on 2010-03-02
I too am new to Linux and am getting a similar error. I recently changed to the 64-bit version of karmic and I can d/l torrents but as soon as I do anything else I lose my internet connectivity and have to reboot to get it going again. The only way I can d/l anything big is to start the torrent program and nothing else. I have been searching the forums for days and yours is the only error that seems similar. I'm on a wired connection using  an an AMD Athlon Laptop. I just wanted you to know you aren't alone with your reinstalling windows worries.

---

