---
title: "8.10, Gateway M-1634u, Realtek RTL8187SE, HELP"
date: 2009-03-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mattshurtleff on 2009-03-09
I'm not entirely new to Ubuntu, I've been onboard since Hoary and have never had any issues that were too hard to fix or figure out with info on this great forum......Until now.

I recently purchased my first laptop, opened the box, booted to Vista just to see what a gateway Vista distro looked like then rebooted with ubuntu 8.10 n the drive and got on with my life.

Since my install I'm tethered to this D@#N Cat5 cable if i wanna use the internets on my new laptop as the driver for my pci wireless card isn't included with this kernal. (2.6.27-11-generic)

I have gone through every tutorial, fix, hack and crack i can find on this forum and the wiki to no avail.

This network card is the same one that came out with the MSI Wind and is listed in lspci as follows:
Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8187SE Wireless LAN Controller (rev 22)

The closest I've came to having a wireless Internet connection is with the ndiswrapper tool using a win2000 driver from Realtek.  It recognizes my card but it will not connect to my network.  I've tried it with WPA, WAP, and no security at all and still cannot connect.

Furthermore, I'm missing something in the ndiswrapper setup cause it only works after i reboot if i uninstall the driver and re-install after a reboot.

I would prefer to use the linux driver thats referenced in a hand full of threads and tutorials instead of the windows driver but i cant get it to work.

Please, i need to have a question and answer thread here to help me walk through this issue.

If anyone is willing to help me i would greatly appreciate it.

---

### Post by mattshurtleff on 2009-04-30
Great news...RTL8187SE works "out of the box" with 9.04!!!!!

---

### Post by kudjotwum on 2009-08-23
I have to disagree that 9.0.4 works out of the box supporting Realtek RTL8187SE.

I have spent the last 72 hours trying all different distros of Ubuntu 8.0.4, 8.10, 9.0.4,
and Kubuntu 9.0.4 and none of them supports the Realtek RTL8187SE. 

Here is a log of what I am experiencing:
-----
dmesg
----
[   96.942336] r8169: eth0: link down
[   96.942571] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth0: link is not ready
[   96.943271] rtl8180: Bringing up iface
[   97.141775] rtl8180: Card successfully reset
[   97.875441] rtl8180: WIRELESS_MODE_G
[   97.875442] 
[   97.891905] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): wlan0: link is not ready
[  163.036054] Clocksource tsc unstable (delta = -216248693 ns)
[  431.410580] usb 1-7: USB disconnect, address 4

--
d
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

wlan0     802.11b/g  Mode:Managed  Frequency=2.422 GHz  
          Access Point: Not-Associated   Bit Rate:11 Mb/s   
          Retry:on   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=0/100  Signal level=0 dBm  Noise level=0 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0

pan0      no wireless extensions.

-----

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (Internal gfx)
00:05.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (PCI Express Port 1)
00:06.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (PCI Express Port 2)
00:07.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (PCI Express Port 3)
00:12.0 SATA controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 Non-Raid-5 SATA
00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB (OHCI0)
00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB (OHCI1)
00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB (OHCI2)
00:13.3 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB (OHCI3)
00:13.4 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB (OHCI4)
00:13.5 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 USB Controller (EHCI)
00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 SMBus Controller (rev 14)
00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 IDE
00:14.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA)
00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc SB600 PCI to LPC Bridge
00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 PCI to PCI Bridge
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RS690M [Radeon X1200 Series]
01:05.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon X1200 Series Audio Controller
08:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8187SE Wireless LAN Controller (rev 22)
0e:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 01)

---

Any help will be greatly appreciated.

Thanks.
--Kudjo

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-11-26
I'd like to add that my  RTL8187SE does work out of the box with 9.04 and 9.10.....for about 10 minutes and then it craps out.

I've got nowhere here with it so i've emailed realtek to see if they can help.

i'll post anything i get back here

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-11-27
i got a response from realtek

Dear Sir/Madam,
 
Thanks for your e-mail.
Please find the latest RTL8187SE Linux driver source in the attachment and try it again.
If you still have problem, please send kernel log message and dmesg to us.
 
 
Best sregards,
Jason

link to driver
[http://www.mediafire.com/?2mzoimqvjxr](http://www.mediafire.com/?2mzoimqvjxr)

Edit: it wont 'make' on my box :(

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-12-01
RealTek sent me a new driver, it works very well so far.

Compiles with no issues on the current 9.10.  

it's too big to post here, a whopping 2MB so message me if you want a copy.

---

### Post by confused_user on 2009-12-01
Just a quick update, the new driver they sent me is excellent.  Not a singe drop out so far.

rtl8187se_linux_26.1030.1201.2009.release - is the one they sent me.  if anyone wants it email realtek support or send me a message and i'll post it somewhere for you.

now, how do i try and get this included in the Ubuntu kernel seeing as the one that is shipped in the stock kernel is broken?

---

### Post by Zatioichi on 2010-02-24
I'm having the same issue at the moment. I was pointed in the direction of this thread. I see that you've got the driver but sadly your download link is either dead or deleted. I was hoping that you could please upload it again. :)

---

### Post by confused_user on 2010-03-09
Hi, i've been getting a few PM's about this and just realised that i have not posted a solution.

The driver in the stock kernel is fine to use.  To be honest the drivers i got from realtek were not much better once i used them for a while.

The problem is that for reasons i do not understand the RATE defaults to 1Mbps - you have probably noticed this by now.

All you need to do is set it to 54Mpbs manually, every 3 seconds on my system.

A guy on the bugzilla thread gave me this script to use and it works - it really works.

ok, sorry i have not logged in for a while but to be honest the problem si that the rate defaults to 1Mbps with all of the drivers.

I have a script that i run which will set the rate to 54 every 3 seconds.  That works pretty well and i can use me wifi with no problems now

Just paste this into a text file, rename it fixwifi.sh and make it executable.  

Make it run at start up and get on with life :D

p.s I have played around with how often it runs, 3 seconds gives me the best results but might be an idea to start at 10 and see how that works for you.

##########################################################################
while [ 1 ]; do
    VALUE=`iwconfig wlan0 | grep -o "Bit Rate=54 Mb/s" | wc -l`
        if [ "$VALUE" -ne "1" ]; then
                echo "iwconfig wlan0 rate 54M"
                        iwconfig wlan0 rate 54M
                                sleep 3
                                    fi
                                    done

##########################################################################

---

### Post by confused_user on 2010-04-25
been getting a few pm's about this, this should clarify it i hope

hey man, you have to make it into a script and then set it to run at startup, then you dont have to worry about it again.

copy the following into a text file using gedit

press *alt+F2* and type *gedit* into the box then click *run*

paste this into gedit

```
while [ 1 ]; do
    VALUE=`iwconfig wlan0 | grep -o "Bit Rate=54 Mb/s" | wc -l`
        if [ "$VALUE" -ne "1" ]; then
                echo "iwconfig wlan0 rate 54M"
                       iwconfig wlan0 rate 54M
                                sleep 2
                                    fi
                                    done
```


Then save it to your home directory as fixwifi.sh

then you need to make it executable

```
chmod +x ~fixwifi.sh
```

got to *system > preferences > startup applications*

click on *add*, browse to the script you just made and ok it.

you can just run it manually if you want, but getting it to run at start up will mean you can forget that this mess ever occurred and get on with using your computer

there is another solution to this problem that i was told about but i prefer this one, have had less bother with it.

the other way is to install ndiswrapper and use the windows driver, which is actually a lot easier than it used to be since there is a gui now.

[http://pablogubuntu.blogspot.com/2010/04/rtl8187se-y-realtek.html](http://pablogubuntu.blogspot.com/2010/04/rtl8187se-y-realtek.html)

either will work, my way works a little better.

---

