---
title: "Broadcom 4313 listed as 4727 and doesn't connect (WPA_CLI RESULT IS ASSOCIATING)"
date: 2013-04-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by stilllife on 2013-04-06
Hi all, I am trying since a few days ago to make my Broadcom 4313 wifi card working with Ubuntu 12.04 and the Broadcom STA driver (wl) from the official Ubuntu "additiona drivers" source. I read a lot of information about this topic but every source I found seems address a different problem. I also would like to keep the LTS version and the official drivers if its possible.

Here all the relevant information:

1) The wireless card connects on some networks but not on my home network
2) The firmware of my home router is updated
3) I tried with different levels of encryption (WEP, WPA, WPA2 TKIP and/or AES) with no differences
4) The problem is the same with NetworkManager and WiCd
5) Other devices and operating systems can connect to my home router
6) Is some case the error seems to be also related with the DHCP (the validation pass but I get no IP). So I tried changing dhclient with dhcpcd3 but without improvement (still not sure if the connection manager used the wrong dhcp client though)
7) I think is not a problem of drivers conflict since I followed the guides to blacklist all the non-wl kernel modules related to Broadcom

Here some errors
1) /var/log/wicd/wicd.log
```

....
2013/04/06 08:03:50 :: WPA_CLI RESULT IS ASSOCIATING
2013/04/06 08:03:51 :: WPA_CLI RESULT IS ASSOCIATING
2013/04/06 08:03:52 :: WPA_CLI RESULT IS ASSOCIATING
2013/04/06 08:03:53 :: wpa_supplicant authentication may have failed.
2013/04/06 08:03:53 :: connect result is failed
2013/04/06 08:03:53 :: exiting connection thread
2013/04/06 08:03:53 :: Sending connection attempt result bad_pass

```

Sometimes instead of "ASSOCIATING" i see INACTIVE. That line is repeated many times until the failed message.


2) dmesg | grep eth1
```
[   14.431106] eth1: Broadcom BCM4727 802.11 Hybrid Wireless Controller 6.20.155.1 (r326264) 
```
My card is a BCM4313 but here I see BCM4727. Is this a bug?

```
[ 1706.325506] ERROR @wl_notify_scan_status : eth1 Scan_results error (-22) 
```

3) lspci -k
```
02:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller (rev 01)
    Subsystem: Askey Computer Corp. Device 7179
    Kernel driver in use: wl
    Kernel modules: wl, bcma, brcmsmac
```


Thanks a lot to who can address me to the right troubleshooting actions

---

### Post by stilllife on 2013-04-06
I solved but I don't know how. Here the list of all the things I have done (not in order)

1) uninstalling network-manager-gnome
2) using AES+TKIP on the router instead of only AES
3) using a static ip and static dns on WICD configuration
4) using dhcpcd5 (but it still timeouts so probably is not useful)
5) edit /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf in this way

```

ctrl_interface=DIR=/var/run/wpa_supplicant GROUP=netdev
update_config=1

network={
        ssid="myssid"
        psk="mypassword"
        key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
        group=CCMP TKIP
}

network={
        ssid="myssid"
        psk="mypassword"
        proto=RSN
        key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
        pairwise=CCMP
        auth_alg=OPEN
}

```

I know that is duplicated but was generated by wpa_gui I guess so I prefer to keep both as long as it works

Finally I guess that the wpa_cli error was related with a misconfiration of wpa_supplicant.conf, than the dhcp problem is solved by using static ip on wicd, and maybe there was also a conflict with network manager 

However I think that the dhcp should work instead of timeout and force me to use a static IP. 
Anyone can help me investigate this issue?

---

