---
title: "10.04 Lucid Lynx internet connectivity issue."
date: 2010-05-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Splork on 2010-05-11
Hello all,

Just wanted to say hi and great work with the forums, don't want to rant so I'll get on.

Searched the forums and viewed many topics that seem remotely related to my issue but I can't find my problem here.

Ex-XP user, converted to Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx 2 days ago.
Tried live CD, fell in love with it after 20 minutes, using the default Firefox which I have been using on other OS for years, but with Ubuntu will only load 2 websites: google.com and immortalnight.com

Any other site it times out. Pinged microsoft.com, and other random sites and the ping looks normal, the browser won't actually load any other site, nor can I install apps through the panel, times out all the time.

I seem to be the only person with this issue, does anybody have some insight as to what the problem is?

XP works fine. Used Red Hat over a decade ago and never had any issues with Linux before either.

Using a Motorola SB5101E SURFboard Cable Modem through a SiS190 100/10 network card with no third-party software.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-11
IPv6 is a potential trouble source - I'll need to look around for a recent "How-To disable IPv6". 
I'm losing confidence in MTU as a villain, but buried in [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1376506") thread is a way to check.

---

### Post by Splork on 2010-05-11
> **Iowan said:**
> IPv6 is a potential trouble source - I'll need to look around for a recent "How-To disable IPv6". 
I'm losing confidence in MTU as a villain, but buried in [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1376506") thread is a way to check.

the about:config this is perma or temp fix?

Anyway, I tried this and nothing changed, regardless of how many boots I performed.

I'm not giving up despite of all the nagging from my wife :P

---

### Post by Splork on 2010-05-11
I don't know how relevant this is but here goes:

If I google anything whatsoever and the result yields a 'View cached version' and I click on it and when that header on the web page loads and I click 'View text version', I can pretty much view any site that has what I can assume 'No tables/no flash/no java' code or maybe just 'text only browser'. Other then this, I cannot check any other site, can't even log into this forums.

This is a collection of intel that I've gathered after you sugested the IPv6 issue:

```
cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/all/disable_ipv6

0 means it's enabled and 1 - disabled.


This tweak is thanks to an old comment from Stonecut (this way you don't have to edit the GRUB). Basically, to disable IPv6 in Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx, you have to add the following lines to /etc/sysctl.conf:

    #disable ipv6
    net.ipv6.conf.all.disable_ipv6 = 1
    net.ipv6.conf.default.disable_ipv6 = 1
    net.ipv6.conf.lo.disable_ipv6 = 1

To do it from the command line, paste this in a terminal:

echo "#disable ipv6" | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "net.ipv6.conf.all.disable_ipv6 = 1" | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "net.ipv6.conf.default.disable_ipv6 = 1" | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
echo "net.ipv6.conf.lo.disable_ipv6 = 1" | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf

Then reboot and check if IPv6 has been disabled with the command in the beginning of the post.


If for some reason IPv6 still shows up as enabled in Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx, you can use the method described in THIS post.


This tweak (and others) will go into Ubuntu 10.04 Start script (I don't know why I didn't think of this before).


You need to edit the aliases file using the following command

gksudo gedit  /etc/modprobe.d/aliases

Find the line: alias net-pf-10 ipv6

change to

    alias net-pf-10 off

If the above change is not working you need to change the following one

    alias net-pf-10 off ipv6

Save the file and reboot

Method2

Disable IPv6 in Firefox. Type about:config and search for:

    network.dns.disableIPv6

and set it to TRUE

Method 3

Edit /etc/default/grub file

    gksudo gedit  /etc/default/grub

Change

    GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=”quiet splash”

to

    GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=”ipv6.disable=1 quiet splash”

Save and exit the file

Update the grub from the command line

    sudo update-grub
```

I tried everything here and the issue remains the same.

:lolflag:

I don't hate Ubuntu... I just wanna get online with it already! :P

---

### Post by flopwich on 2010-05-11
I've had similar troubles on an Aspire One netbook with Atheros communications.  Everything worked fine in v8, then I installed v9.10 and couldn't connect to the internet at all by wireless, but would connect by Ethernet cable to the router.  I fixed that by setting the IPv6 Setting to "ignore" (right-click the connection icon at the top right of your screen, Edit Connections, Wireless, click your connection, then Edit, IPv6 Settings).  Everything worked fine, then I installed v10 and now I can also only connect to two web sites, but it won't connect to Google and to others, and when I try to use Thunderbird, I get "connection refused by server.   I can ping Google.com and my mail server, and the System Test connects to the ISP just fine.  You're not alone.

Hah!  I used the hint from Splork about how to disable IPv6 in Firefox and Firefox is now working just fine.  Thank you Splork!  Now if somebody could come up with something similar for Thunderbird I'd be in hog heaven.

---

### Post by Splork on 2010-05-11
> **flopwich said:**
> I've had similar troubles on an Aspire One netbook with Atheros communications.  Everything worked fine in v8, then I installed v9.10 and couldn't connect to the internet at all by wireless, but would connect by Ethernet cable to the router.  I fixed that by setting the IPv6 Setting to "ignore" (right-click the connection icon at the top right of your screen, Edit Connections, Wireless, click your connection, then Edit, IPv6 Settings).  Everything worked fine, then I installed v10 and now I can also only connect to two web sites, but it won't connect to Google and to others, and when I try to use Thunderbird, I get "connection refused by server.   I can ping Google.com and my mail server, and the System Test connects to the ISP just fine.  You're not alone.

Hah!  I used the hint from Splork about how to disable IPv6 in Firefox and Firefox is now working just fine.  Thank you Splork!  Now if somebody could come up with something similar for Thunderbird I'd be in hog heaven.

HAHAHAHA
Great I could help somebody so soon, now I want to get online :P

---

### Post by Splork on 2010-05-11
New development, well, observation rather:

<TITLE><TITLE/> tag loads, which is located within <HEAD><HEAD/>, I can only assume that it hangs from <BODY><BODY/> onwards... I see the titlebar named on every site, just non-loading pages... /facepalm

I guess all these observations *might* help :D

---

### Post by flopwich on 2010-05-11
That's how these problems are solved.:P

---

### Post by Splork on 2010-05-12
I've tried another 2 clean installs, Mephis 8.5, Debin based and Mint 8 based on Ubuntu, I tried other vars also, Peppermint and SimplyMepis, all to no avail, exactly same issue as previously. So I can safely say that it's an OS issue.

I'm wondering what is so different from Linux to Windows, how does it work so differently?

Is it some new code, some new protocol or what?

The wife is still trying to discourage me but she knows I'm not giving up. Linux runs faster off of a CD then windows does fully installed :P

---

### Post by Splork on 2010-05-14
I still have no clue at what the issue is with all distros I've tried installing on my computer. I have gone through all search engines I know of to see how other people have coped with it, however, I cannot come up with a solution myself.

The IPv6 issue seems to be a nuissance to hundreds of people, but generally they get it sorted or some to a compromise and bare running even a slow internet connection just for the sake of having an internet connection.

I cannot browse outside of google.com at all, so for me, this is a HUGE blow below the belt.

I thought I was at the right place to get this issue sorted, but I guess others are just as puzzled as I am.

Linux 0 - Microsoft 1.

---

### Post by Splork on 2010-05-15
Solved!

MS Windows XP is disabling the NIC during shutdown and Ubuntu can't interact with it afterwards.

Figured this out when the power cord got ripped out of the wall while I was browsing in Windows, went to plug it into the socket again, as I did this the PC turned on and booted into Ubuntu as I went to the bathroom, when I got back, 'whaddayaknow' INTERNET!!!

Went into Windows, disabled the power setting in network configuration for the network card and works a charm ever since...

Now all I need is some some plastic explosives, a long fuse and a wide open space to 'adequately' dispose of my Windows CDs.

Thanks folks for your sugestions, for helping me troubleshoot my own issues and getting to know the OS a little bit more, once again!

---

