---
title: "802.11, Network Manager, wpa_supplicant, oh my!"
date: 2007-09-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by davidsiegel on 2007-09-05
Ok, so my school's wireless network uses 802.11x authentication. Mac OS X requires a plug-in for Internet Connect, and Windows needs who knows how many applications to connect. With a lot of trouble I know I can connect to the network using wpa_supplicant, but this involves entering commands and manually editing config files every time I want to switch from using Network Manager (which I use at home, at the coffee shop, everywhere else) to using wpa_supplicant. Can wpa_supplicant functionality be used from within Network Manager? Can someone explain this mess to me? I have to jump through so many hoops to get Ubuntu onto my school wireless network that I just end up using Mac OS X all day because it just works. Can I look forward to any progress on this front in Gutsy?

---

### Post by jimrz on 2007-09-05
> **davidsiegel said:**
> Ok, so my school's wireless network uses 802.11x authentication. Mac OS X requires a plug-in for Internet Connect, and Windows needs who knows how many applications to connect. With a lot of trouble I know I can connect to the network using wpa_supplicant, but this involves entering commands and manually editing config files every time I want to switch from using Network Manager (which I use at home, at the coffee shop, everywhere else) to using wpa_supplicant. Can wpa_supplicant functionality be used from within Network Manager? Can someone explain this mess to me? I have to jump through so many hoops to get Ubuntu onto my school wireless network that I just end up using Mac OS X all day because it just works. Can I look forward to any progress on this front in Gutsy?

what happens when you try to connect using network-manager? does it see the AP? does it offer you the option to enter your wpa passkey? what wifi card/chipset are you using? is it's firmware up to date?

i have 2 laptops that connect regularly to 4 or 5 different 802.11x wpa-psk networks using feisty + network-manager/network-manager-gnome with no problems.

---

### Post by davidsiegel on 2007-09-05
Everything is up to date, and I've tried with intel wireless and madwifi on atheros. There's something special about the network - it's "real WEP" or it sends the key over the network to the client or something. Usually I am asked for a network key by NM when I need to enter a username and password. Then I get taken to a confusing array of options, none of which have been able to authenticate me (at least in the configurations I have tried).

Some info on connecting to the network in question: [http://www.upenn.edu/computing/wireless/air-pennnet/faq.html](http://www.upenn.edu/computing/wireless/air-pennnet/faq.html)

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-09-05
Just a side comment,

I really like WICD rather than NetworkManager would work better for you.

If you want to keep with NetworkManager, I guess I dont really understand your problem.  NWM uses wpa_supplicant to complete the wpa authentication.  If all you want to do is use your computer on multiple networks with dhcp (and some possibly using WPA):
1. comment out (put # in the beginning of the line) everyline in the /etc/network/interfaces file except the two lines with "lo" entries
2. sudo touch /etc/default/wpasupplicant
3. echo "ENABLED=0" | sudo tee -a /etc/default/wpasupplicant
4. sudo /etc/init.d/dbus restart

Make sure NWM is in roaming mode.

If you need to remember various passwords and have different configuations for different networks, you could then add these to /etc/network/interfaces file with use of various aliases, or use WICD which makes management of multiple profiles a lot easier.

---

