---
title: "AR9281 802.11N wireless performance hostapd"
date: 2009-12-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by redstain on 2009-12-29
Im running a Minimal install of Ubuntu 9.04 Server with an Atheros AR9281 miniPCIe wireless card using hostapd to act as an access point for my network.
 
Server is a Zotac ION 330 (AR9281) BGN Ubuntu 9.04
Laptop is a HP DV5 1004ax (AR5009) ABGN Win7
 
The laptop connects to the access point no problem and gets its dhcp address. Win7 reports that the link is N and 300Mbps however performance is less than expected.
 
SCP'ing files over the wireless connection results in throughput of 2100KBps or 16.8Mbps well below even 54Mbps 802.11g speed.
 
What is the best speed I should expect out of a 802.11n wireless link running on the G band (2.4GHz) i would expect it to be above not below g speeds as a minimum.
 
Relevant information below.
 
hostapd.conf #N related settings
ieee80211n=1
ht_capab=[HT40+][SHORT-GI-40][DSSS_CCK-40]
 
 
lspci -v
04:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR928X Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)
Subsystem: Device 1a3b:1067
Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 19
Memory at febf0000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64K]
Capabilities: [40] Power Management version 2
Capabilities: [50] Message Signalled Interrupts: Mask- 64bit- Queue=0/0 Enable-
Capabilities: [60] Express Legacy Endpoint, MSI 00
Capabilities: [90] MSI-X: Enable- Mask- TabSize=1
Capabilities: [100] Advanced Error Reporting <?>
Capabilities: [140] Virtual Channel <?>
Capabilities: [160] Device Serial Number 00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00
Kernel driver in use: ath9k
Kernel modules: ath9k
 
iwconfig
wlan0 IEEE 802.11bgn Mode:Master Frequency:2.427 GHz Tx-Power=20 dBm
Retry min limit:7 RTS thr=2347 B Fragment thr=2346 B
Power Management:off
Link Quality:0 Signal level:0 Noise level:0
Rx invalid nwid:0 Rx invalid crypt:0 Rx invalid frag:0
Tx excessive retries:0 Invalid misc:0 Missed beacon:0
 
lsmod
lbm_cw_mac80211 227492 1 ath9k
led_class 12036 1 ath9k
lbm_cw_cfg80211 73888 2 ath9k,lbm_cw_mac80211
 
sudo lshw -C network
*-network
description: Wireless interface
product: AR928X Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express)
vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
physical id: 0
bus info: pci@0000:04:00.0
logical name: wmaster0
version: 01
serial: 00:24:23:09:1e:17
width: 64 bits
clock: 33MHz
capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical wireless
configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath9k ip=192.168.2.254 latency=0 module=ath9k multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn
 
uname -mr
2.6.28-17-generic i686
With backports installed.

---

### Post by rossmoore on 2010-03-16
Hey, I have similar problems with the ath9k driver and in AP mode. I get a max of 20-30Mbps in iperf tests. No solution to report yet I'm afraid, but you haven't had any replies so I thought I'd let you know you weren't alone... for what it's worth.

---

### Post by jpl888 on 2010-08-28
+1

I have the same issue. Lucid AR5008x. Max I can get is circa 20Mbps.

---

### Post by oranagra on 2010-09-16
me too.
Ubuntu 10.4
Asrock ION 330HT (ar9285)
hostapd v0.6.9 / dnsmasq / iptables

hostapd.conf:
driver=nl80211
hw_mode=g
channel=6
auth_algs=1
wpa=3
wpa_pairwise=TKIP CCMP
ieee80211n=1
ht_capab=[HT40-][HT40+][SHORT-GI-40][DSSS_CCK-40]


btw, i think that 2.2MBps (20Mbps) is the limit for 54Mbps 802.11g after reducing tcp and wlan overheads.

---

### Post by jhorck on 2010-10-19
I had the same problem; iperf only reports a bandwidth of max. 20Mbps. After many hours of tweaking I managed to get a HUGE bandwidth improvement of over 100Mbps, in iperf. 

My configuration:
Zotac IONITX-P-E
AR9285 miniPCIe
Ubuntu 10.10 64bit desktop
hostapd + dnsmasq
client: HP HDX18 notebook with Intel 5100 AGN

I only installed and configured hostapd and dnsmasq. I didn't compile anything.

There are many good online tutorials that show you how to configure hostapd.conf, but they forget to tell you to set 'wmm_enabled=1'.

To configure ht_capab, I used 'iw list' to find out what HT capabilities my hardware supports. Restart hostapd (make sure it restarts when you issue '/etc/init.d/networking restart') to check if your configuration is correct; if it doesn't start, you did something wrong.

I used 'wifi-radar' to check what channels other, nearby APs use. The most where in the lower channels. On channel 1 was a strong AP nearby, so my performance was terrible on this channel. I tried every channel (1-7 for 802.11n) and had the best results on channel 7.

Here's my hostapd.conf:
interface=wlan0
bridge=br0
driver=nl80211
ssid=htpc
channel=7
hw_mode=g
ieee80211n=1
wmm_enabled=1
ht_capab=[HT40-][HT40+][SHORT-GI-40][TX-STBC][RX-STBC1][DSSS_CCK-40]
macaddr_acl=0
auth_algs=1
ignore_broadcast_ssid=0
wpa=2
wpa_passphrase=xxxxx
wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
wpa_pairwise=TKIP
rsn_pairwise=CCMP

I use my AP a few days now for browsing and did some performance tests, but had no issues so far. When copying large files over NFS, I get transfer rates over 25MBytes/s

---

### Post by rossmoore on 2010-10-25
I'm not at home right now so I can't check this out, but google hints that enabling wmm will stop .11g clients from being able to connnect. Is this true - can you check? I, like most people, have a variety of clients connecting to the AP, some of which are .11n, some of which are only .11g.

Thanks - when I get home (in a week) I'll check myself and post back.

---

### Post by jhorck on 2010-10-25
I just checked it again. I get good connections on my new notebook (HP with Intel 5100AGN and Ubuntu 10.10 32 bit) and old notebook (Toshiba Satellite, with Intel 3945ABG and Windows XP), at the same time. 

iperf reports at the new notebook over 100Mbps bandwidth and at the old notebook over 20Mbps. It's only 20Mbps because it's 802.11g of course.

---

### Post by internegz on 2010-12-05
I'm slowly moving from a busted old Gentoo box running 802.11g via hostapd with madwifi drivers to a shiny new Ubuntu 10.04 Server box running 802.11n via hostapd v0.7.3 (courtesy of a Debian experimental package) with ath9k drivers. Like the other posters here, I'm a little underwhelmed by the speed and would appreciate any advice to get things running faster.

My kernel (backported from Maverick):
```

Linux rood 2.6.35-22-server #34~lucid1-Ubuntu SMP Mon Oct 11 14:51:09 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

```

My hardware:
```

07:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR5008 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)

```

My hardware's capabilities:
```

		Capabilities: 0x104e
			HT20/HT40
			SM Power Save disabled
			RX HT40 SGI
			No RX STBC
			Max AMSDU length: 7935 bytes
			DSSS/CCK HT40

```

And finally my hostapd config:
```

interface=wlan1
driver=nl80211
logger_syslog=-1
logger_syslog_level=2
logger_stdout=-1
logger_stdout_level=2
dump_file=/tmp/hostapd.dump
ctrl_interface=/var/run/hostapd
ctrl_interface_group=0
ssid=monkey
hw_mode=g
channel=6
ieee80211n=1
ht_capab=[HT40-][SHORT-GI-40][DSSS_CKK-40]
wme_enabled=1
wme_ac_bk_cwmin=4
wme_ac_bk_cwmax=10
wme_ac_bk_aifs=7
wme_ac_bk_txop_limit=0
wme_ac_bk_acm=0
wme_ac_be_aifs=3
wme_ac_be_cwmin=4
wme_ac_be_cwmax=10
wme_ac_be_txop_limit=0
wme_ac_be_acm=0
wme_ac_vi_aifs=2
wme_ac_vi_cwmin=3
wme_ac_vi_cwmax=4
wme_ac_vi_txop_limit=94
wme_ac_vi_acm=0
wme_ac_vo_aifs=2
wme_ac_vo_cwmin=2
wme_ac_vo_cwmax=3
wme_ac_vo_txop_limit=47
wme_ac_vo_acm=0
macaddr_acl=0
deny_mac_file=/etc/hostapd/hostapd.deny
auth_algs=3
eap_server=0
eapol_key_index_workaround=1
wpa=3
wpa_key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
wpa_passphrase=redacted
wpa_pairwise=TKIP CCMP
wpa_group_rekey=300
wpa_strict_rekey=1
wpa_gmk_rekey=640

```

I'm seeing around the same speeds I did with 802.11g, according to iperf. This is a sample of speed tests run anywhere from right next to the AP to a few meters away.
```

[  4] local 192.168.0.254 port 5001 connected with 192.168.1.10 port 54571
[  4]  0.0-10.1 sec  11.7 MBytes  9.72 Mbits/sec
[  5] local 192.168.0.254 port 5001 connected with 192.168.1.10 port 54573
[  5]  0.0-10.0 sec  8.41 MBytes  7.04 Mbits/sec
[  4] local 192.168.0.254 port 5001 connected with 192.168.1.10 port 54575
[  4]  0.0-10.2 sec  6.79 MBytes  5.57 Mbits/sec
[  5] local 192.168.0.254 port 5001 connected with 192.168.1.10 port 54576
[  5]  0.0-10.1 sec  14.3 MBytes  11.9 Mbits/sec
[  4] local 192.168.0.254 port 5001 connected with 192.168.1.10 port 54577
[  4]  0.0-10.1 sec  12.4 MBytes  10.4 Mbits/sec
[  5] local 192.168.0.254 port 5001 connected with 192.168.1.10 port 54592
[  5]  0.0-10.0 sec  14.1 MBytes  11.8 Mbits/sec
[  4] local 192.168.0.254 port 5001 connected with 192.168.1.10 port 54593
[  4]  0.0-10.0 sec  11.7 MBytes  9.80 Mbits/sec
[  5] local 192.168.0.254 port 5001 connected with 192.168.1.10 port 54980
[  5]  0.0-10.0 sec  15.1 MBytes  12.7 Mbits/sec

```

---

### Post by jhorck on 2010-12-05
Hi internegz,
You have to set wmm_enabled=1 to enable N-mode. Check your neighbors channels and pick a free channel. Stock hostapd from 10.10 worked best for me. I think hostapd 0.7.3 has a bug, I reported it here: [http://w1.fi/bugz/show_bug.cgi?id=382](http://w1.fi/bugz/show_bug.cgi?id=382)

---

### Post by internegz on 2010-12-06
> **jhorck said:**
> Hi internegz,
You have to set wmm_enabled=1 to enable N-mode. Check your neighbors channels and pick a free channel. Stock hostapd from 10.10 worked best for me. I think hostapd 0.7.3 has a bug, I reported it here: [http://w1.fi/bugz/show_bug.cgi?id=382](http://w1.fi/bugz/show_bug.cgi?id=382)

I believe wmm_enabled is synonymous to wme_enabled. I've changed all my wme_* entries to wmm_* with no discernible speed increase. Things are a little faster on channel 11, bursting to around 2.5MB/s. Unfortunately this is a fairly noisy area for the entire 2.4GHz range, and I need to maintain compatibility with 802.11g devices.

So, I'm still seeing around 802.11g speeds. I'll try the Maverick hostapd deb and see if that helps.

---

### Post by jhorck on 2010-12-06
> **internegz said:**
> I believe wmm_enabled is synonymous to wme_enabled. I've changed all my wme_* entries to wmm_* with no discernible speed increase. Things are a little faster on channel 11, bursting to around 2.5MB/s. Unfortunately this is a fairly noisy area for the entire 2.4GHz range, and I need to maintain compatibility with 802.11g devices.

So, I'm still seeing around 802.11g speeds. I'll try the Maverick hostapd deb and see if that helps.
No, wme_* is not wmm_*. Leave the wme_* settings, defaults are fine. Just add wmm_enabled = 1, check logging and pick a good channel. For N-mode choose a channel between 1-7. You can start hostapd in a terminal to test if it has errors or warnings.

---

### Post by internegz on 2010-12-06
> **jhorck said:**
> No, wme_* is not wmm_*. Leave the wme_* settings, defaults are fine. Just add wmm_enabled = 1, check logging and pick a good channel. For N-mode choose a channel between 1-7. You can start hostapd in a terminal to test if it has errors or warnings.
 
According to [the config file source](http://www.google.com/codesearch/p?hl=en#wZuuyuB8jKQ/src/third_party/wpa_supplicant/hostapd/config_file.c&q=conf-%3Esecondary_channel&d=3&l=1815) they're the same setting. I believe the channel 1-7 requirement is only if you're using HT40+ (according to the config file HT40+ is 1-7 while HT40- is 5-13). I'm not sure if there's any advantage to using HT40- over HT40+?

---

### Post by internegz on 2010-12-06
> **internegz said:**
> According to [the config file source](http://www.google.com/codesearch/p?hl=en#wZuuyuB8jKQ/src/third_party/wpa_supplicant/hostapd/config_file.c&q=conf-%3Esecondary_channel&d=3&l=1815) they're the same setting. I believe the channel 1-7 requirement is only if you're using HT40+ (according to the config file HT40+ is 1-7 while HT40- is 5-13). I'm not sure if there's any advantage to using HT40- over HT40+?

Alright, I'm bursting up to 3.2MB/s, so at least my speeds are now faster than my old 802.11g setup. I'm beginning to suspect that that's the best I can hope for given the swamped 2.4GHz spectrum around here. I've definitely got improved range over the 802.11g setup. Here's what's new in my config:

```

ssid=monkey
hw_mode=g
channel=13
ieee80211n=1
ht_capab=[HT40-][SHORT-GI-40][DSSS_CKK-40][MAX-AMSDU-7935][TX-STBC][RX-STBC123]
wmm_enabled=1

```

Of course any further optimisation tips are appreciated!

---

