---
title: "17.04 wi-fi connection problems continue"
date: 2017-04-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by tajreed on 2017-04-15
Not solved here on fresh install of Ubuntu 17.04. Same problems that I've had all along. I can connect to my password protected home network but not at my favorite coffee shop which also requires a password. Nor can I connect to the city network which requires no password. Never had this problem with other Ubuntu versions. I've tried the edits to /etc Networkmanager conf. as shown in a previous thread but to no avail. My machine is dual boot with W10 and W10 connects-no problem

The error message is something to the effect that 'cannot find the dns server you are looking for'.

Any thoughts? This has to be a bug some where in 17.04.

Thanks to all who are trying to fix this.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-15
*Thread moved to **Networking & Wireless**.*

Click on the wireless script in my signature and follow the directions for running it and posting the link created to pastebin here, which is where the file will be posted.

Edit:

From a network you are having trouble connecting too.

---

### Post by hako1 on 2017-04-16
At fresh installation of 17.04 64bit on a Dell Inspiron 1420, I was able to connect to wifi. After a couple of updates and installations, and restart, however, it did not connect IPv4 anymore. Since IPv6 is connected, it shows connected, but is not usable. 
Same problem with wifi and BT tether. Attached the response of the wireless-info script.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-16
I see a couple of things but we will change just one for now, please do:
```
echo "options iwl3945 disable_hw_scan=1 swcrypto=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwl3945 .conf
sudo modprobe -rfv iwl3945
sudo modprobe -v  iwl3945
```

---

### Post by hako1 on 2017-04-16
Thank you for the fast response. I tried.
This time, wifi did not connect at turn-on.
I issued the commands you suggested, and wifi connected via IPv6, not IPv4, just as before.
Please see the response and some kern.log entries attached.
Strangely, there seems to be a crash after auth.

Btw., the last thing I installed before the problems occured was Nemo with extensions from noobslab repo. The extensions do not seem to work.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-04-16
It look like this at least is one of the issues:
> Apr 17 00:56:21 hartwigs-Dell-1420 ubuntu-geoip-pr[1708]: Unable to connect to geoip service, status: 2
Apr 17 00:56:22 hartwigs-Dell-1420 kernel: [  841.935702] audit: type=1400 audit(1492361782.280:47): apparmor="DENIED" operation="open" profile="/usr/sbin/cupsd" name="/proc/2435/cmdline" pid=2435 comm="cupsd" requested_mask="r" denied_mask="r" fsuid=0 ouid=0
I recommend disabling apparmor and see if you can connect,  if not run the wireless script again please.
Thanks

---

### Post by hako1 on 2017-04-17
did the following:

stop apparmor: 
```
sudo /etc/init.d/apparmor stop
```
[ ok ] Stopping apparmor (via systemctl): apparmor.service.

trying to connect wifi --> timeout at auth, no connection

```
echo "options iwl3945 disable_hw_scan=1 swcrypto=1" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/iwl3945 .conf
```
options iwl3945 disable_hw_scan=1 swcrypto=1

```
sudo modprobe -rfv iwl3945
```
rmmod iwl3945
rmmod iwlegacy
rmmod mac80211
rmmod cfg80211

```
sudo modprobe -v  iwl3945
```
insmod /lib/modules/4.10.0-19-generic/kernel/net/wireless/cfg80211.ko 
insmod /lib/modules/4.10.0-19-generic/kernel/net/mac80211/mac80211.ko 
insmod /lib/modules/4.10.0-19-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/intel/iwlegacy/iwlegacy.ko 
insmod /lib/modules/4.10.0-19-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/intel/iwlegacy/iwl3945.ko 
--> connected, but IPv6 only, and system problems show up
(syslog_entries_after_commands.txt)

script wireless-info --> wireless-info-2.tar.gz

things are not getting better, can the installation of Nemo have screwed things up?

---

### Post by hako1 on 2017-04-17
I gave up. Doing a fresh install of 17.04 Gnome. Probably finding out at what step/update wifi will cease to work.

---

