---
title: "16.04 Intel 7260 wifi stops responding after random amount of time"
date: 2016-07-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2016-07-06
My laptop is a year and a half old and from the start I ran Xubuntu 14.04 with no wifi problems.  I installed Xubuntu 16.04 recently and the wifi is giving me problems under it.  It will connect and work correctly for a while, anywhere from a couple of minutes to, say, a half hour, but eventually it stops responding.  Network manager shows it's still connected to the SSID and there are no error messages in syslog, but requests do not get through to the internet.  I let it sit for 20 minutes one time and it never came back to life.  If I click on the SSID again in the network manager applet, it reconnects and starts working again.

I have my system set to dual boot between 14.04 and 16.04.  I went back to the 14.04 system, just to see that the network adapter wasn't going bad or something, and the wifi under 14.04 still works fine.  I used it for a couple of hours with no freezes.

So far, I've tried using the iwlwifi 11n_disable=8 option, but that had no effect.

---

### Post by him610 on 2016-07-06
Try this temporary fix...
```
 sudo iw reg set US 
```

Make it permanent...
```
sudo nano /etc/default/crda
```
change the last line to read,
```
REGDOMAIN=US
```
Review, save, and exit

The next time you reboot, check your wireless for persistence.

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2016-07-07
Setting a country code did not work.

---

### Post by souradeep100 on 2016-07-10
I am facing the same problem in ubuntu 16.04 and I have tried all the solutions mentioned here in ubuntu forum and none had solved it.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-07-10
This one has power management enabled for wifi.  Please try ```
sudo iwconfig wlp3s0 power off
```  See if wireless behaves

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2016-07-11
That seemed to help.  At least it went a long time before it stopped responding - something like 3 or 4 hours this time.  However it eventually did have the problem again.  As usual, no errors in the log and all the network status stuff seems to think it's still connected.  I click on the SSID I'm supposedly connected too and it reconnects and immediately starts working again.

I was wondering about this:
```
wlp3s0    IEEE 802.11abgn  ESSID:"khmifi"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:5.745 GHz  Access Point: E8:3A:12:F1:91:62   
          Bit Rate=650 Mb/s   Tx-Power=22 dBm   
          Retry short limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=66/70  Signal level=-44 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:42  Invalid misc:15   Missed beacon:0

```

Do the counts for "Retry short limit", "Tx excessive retries", and "Invalid misc" indicate a problem?

Is there any way to debug this problem?  Maybe by turning on some additional logging or tracing?  As it stands, I don't see any messages that give a clue what's going on.

---

### Post by Keith_Helms on 2016-07-13
As it turned out, turning off power saving did not help.  Sometimes I get the "internet traffic stops" problem multiple times in an hour and other times it will run an hour or two before hitting the problem.  I plugged in an external USB wifi adapter and that runs fine.   So, internal adapter works with no problems on 14.04, external adapter works with no problems on 16.04, internal adapter has problems on 16.04.  That would seem to rule out both hardware and a good deal of the networking software that is common to whatever wifi adapter is being used.  I would think it points towards the driver and/or firmware as being at fault.

---

