---
title: "17.10 /etc/resolv.conf not symbolic link"
date: 2017-11-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dwater on 2017-11-15
I had a problem with dns not working while using wifi in a coffee shop, and eventually managed to fix it by recreating the /etc/resolv.conf -> /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf symbolic link.

I thought that was the end of the matter, but I just found that, again, /etc/resolv.conf was a regular file (this time using a wired connection, at home). Something seems to be changing it into a regular file.

Any idea what might be causing this, and how to stop it?

I did just install gimp, and also libwebp. Perhaps it is something related to that?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-11-15
Reconfigure resolvconf if needed:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf
```
Say yes to "prepare /etc/resolve.conf for dynamic updates?" and reboot.

---

### Post by dwater on 2017-11-15
I think I mentioned that I did that...well, I did that to fix it the first time, but the second time I just manually did it.

...but it still changes back to a regular file for some reason. Something is changing it. I don't want to keep having to do this, and it really shouldn't be necessary, right?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-11-15
Are you running Network Manager? May we see:```
cat /etc/netplan/01-network-manager-all.yaml 
ls /etc/netplan
```

---

### Post by dwater on 2017-11-16
> **chili555 said:**
> Are you running Network Manager? May we see:```
cat /etc/netplan/01-network-manager-all.yaml 
ls /etc/netplan
```

I don't know exactly (I may have tried many things to get the captive portal working in Starbucks). However, while /etc/netplan/ exists, it is empty. I guess that means I'm not using it?

---

### Post by dwater on 2017-11-16
It seems like it is 'expressvpn disconnect' that causes this. I guess it is restoring the original dns servers by overwriting /etc/resolv.conf, rather than opening it and replacing the content (the latter, I guess, would retain the symbolic link).

---

### Post by chili555 on 2017-11-16
I am sorry to say that I know nothing whatever about VPN.

In a default 17.10 installation, /etc/netplan/01-network-manager-all.yaml  contains:```
# Let NetworkManager manage all devices on this system
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: NetworkManager

```I suggest that you recreate it, in case it is any part of the problem. Then reconfigure resolvconf as above and reboot.

---

### Post by dwater on 2017-11-16
OK, thanks. I've done as you suggest. I'm not sure there's been any change in behaviour (though I did notice that all my apps started up again, despite me manually quitting them all before I rebooted - not sure if that's related or not).

I retested `expressvpn disconnect` and it again writes the old resolv.conf to /etc/resolv.conf, leaving /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf with the dns that needs the vpn.

So, to fix that, I do:

sudo mv /etc/resolv.conf /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf 
sudo ln -s /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf

Anyway, I'll perhaps report this issue to ExpressVPN, since it wasn't an issue on the previous version of Ubuntu I was using (I think that was 17.04) and I guess I'm the first to run into this problem.

---

### Post by dwater on 2017-11-16
upgrading expressvpn (from 1.2) to 1.3 seems to fix this problem.

---

### Post by dwater on 2017-11-17
Thanks, @chili555, for your help.

---

