---
title: "How can I forward traffic between a vtun 'tun0' interface and eth0?"
date: 2007-11-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wideback on 2007-11-09
This is my scenario:

I have 2 computer running feisty; computer 1 is a server install and computer 2 is a desktop install. What I am doing is tunneling IP traffic over ICMP using the tun/tap driver. Computer 1 is acting as the server (un-encapsulating the traffic and sending out to the internet) and computer 2 is the client generating traffic (all traffic is encapsulated with ICMP headers and sent to computer 2).

My issue is at computer 1. I have 2 network interfaces (that we are interested in for this problem) tun0 and eth0. tun0 is a software network interface and acts as the output of my network traffic from computer 2. and eth0 is a real network interface that speaks to the internet. I have confirmed that packets are being pushed out of tun0 (with tcpdump) and are the packets generated by computer 2 destined for the internet. However this is where the tunnel ends. Packets from tun0 are not forwarded to eth0, they disappear (are dropped).  

How can I forward packets from tun0 to eth0 on computer 1?

---

### Post by wideback on 2007-11-09
bump

---

### Post by wideback on 2007-11-09
It would seem that I have answered my own question. 'iptables' can be used to route traffic between the interfaces. This is how I have done it:

Step 1: Enable forwarding 

```
sudo echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
```


Step 2: Make the following rules with the 'iptables' command

```
iptables -t filter -A FORWARD -i tun0 -j ACCEPT
iptables -t filter -A FORWARD -i eth0 -j ACCEPT
iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -s 192.168.3.2 -j MASQUERADE
```

All of the above commands are temp setting changes and will be changed back to their defaults when you reboot. Aside from this a few other specific routes where added for my purpose and it was done. Works like a charm.

---

### Post by LRT on 2007-11-27
how would i do this in this scenario:

i need to know how i can forward all internet traffic from eth0 to eth1 (two nics on the same machine) using iptables. eth0 is connected to my router (internet connection) and eth1 is connected to a switch. eth1 will act as a gateway for my dhcp clients.

i'm not very familiar with iptables, but i know this can be done fairly easily. could someone show me how? thanks

---

