---
title: "BCM4312 on Maverick Minimal"
date: 2011-03-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ThatOne on 2011-03-08
I know there are tons of threads regarding this issue, and I have read them all.

I have not been able to get past this same issue on every response.



I have followed the guide posted here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)

I stuck am at "Under the desktop menu System > Administration > Hardware/Additional Drivers, the STA drivers can be activated for use"

I can not navigate to this menu because it does not exist in my build. Is there a way to circumnavigate this?



Thanks.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2011-03-08
Instead of trying to go the GUI method, can you just install build-essential and bcmwl-kernel-source and see if the dependencies come with them for a full install? I have never tried to install in that manner and it's different on Debian and other distros, so it will have to be Ubuntu-specific for how you do it. And in case you hadn't caught it, the wiki for bcm43xx does show how to get the files you need right off the install disk even though they are proprietary.
 
Edit: You may then have to manually add the wl driver to /etc/modules and blacklist the b43, b43legacy, ssb and bcm80211 in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf or /etc/modprobe.d/broadcom-sta-common.conf. The last file location is a Debian thing, not sure if present in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by ThatOne on 2011-03-08
Thanks for the help.

I have a few blacklist files that seem to be doing this:

blacklist-bcm43.conf
```

# Autogenerated by bcmwl
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist bcm43xx

```

blacklist.conf
```

# Replaced by b43 and ssb
blacklist bcm43xx

```

broadcom-sta-common.conf
```

# wl module from Broadcom conflicts with ssb
blacklist b44
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist b43
blacklist ssb
install wl /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install wl $CMDLINE_OPTS

```

So it seems it's being blacklisted several times by all the different packages I installed.

When I rebooted this morning, I finally got a wireless icon in my notification area. Upon right-clicking, it states that wireless is disabled.

Just some more information:

/etc/network/interfaces
```

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wpa-essid myessid
wpa-psk mypassword

```

ifconfig wlan0
```

wlan0: error fetching interface information: Device not found

```


Thanks.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-03-08
Can you post the output of 'ifconfig'. Sometimes the wireless interface can be called eth1 instead of wlan0, so make sure to modify your config files accordingly.

---

### Post by ThatOne on 2011-03-08
ifconfig only shows lo and eth0, which has to be the ethernet I'm using right now :(

Thanks.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-03-08
That means the interface is probably down. How about the output of the following:
```
sudo lshw -C network
```

---

### Post by ThatOne on 2011-03-08
sudo lshw -C network
```

  *-network DISABLED      
       description: Wireless interface
       product: BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       logical name: eth1
       version: 01
       serial: 00:24:2c:0b:5e:b2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=wl0 driverversion=5.60.48.36 latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg
       resources: irq:16 memory:feafc000-feafffff

```

Also, ifconfig -a produces this?
```

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:24:2c:0b:5e:b2  
          BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:16 Base address:0xc000 


```

Did as you said before and renamed the interface in /etc/network/interfaces.

Thanks a lot, it's connected via wifi now.

But, if I could ask, why is my wireless or wired connection still not showing in the nm-applet part of the notification area?

Edit: I'm actually going to mark this thread as solved as the original issue is solved.

Many thanks to everyone that helped!

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-03-09
> **ThatOne said:**
>  ...
But, if I could ask, why is my wireless or wired connection still not showing in the nm-applet part of the notification area?
... 

I think it's because you are using /etc/network/interfaces to configure the network.

---

