---
title: "(9.04) Internet was working perfectly until a few days ago"
date: 2009-09-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Hobbsilla on 2009-09-14
Wait so I've been reading up that there have been a bunch of different problems with people getting updates for the Ndiswrapper and their internet just suddenly stopped working even though it shows its connected. It finally happened to me and now I'm amongst the people that are frustrated that a recent update is preventing me from using wireless internet. I attempted uninstalling the ndiswrapper and its depencies, I installed WICD and uninstall the network manager. I read both of the stickies on network configuration, my wireless care is clearly supported (seeing as how it was working up until three days ago and my computer is 2.5 years old). Since then I have reinstalled my wireless settings and apps to how it initially was set up (with gnome network manager and ndiswrapper updates). 
Can someone please offer me help? I know one other person that has the same problem as me and people have yet to be able to help him, he and I have tried a number of different options. 
An important note to add is my wifi does work in other networks but my home and luckily the ethernet cable works for me. I've tried restarting the router and it didn't work. I haven't tried pinging yet but if someone could possibly explain that to me I would try that.

---

### Post by JakP on 2009-09-14
To ping:
open system>admin>network tool  select ping and enter an ip address (i normally ping open dns server 208.67.222.222 but any will do) and hit ping.  If you recieve packets back then there is a connection, if no packets come back then there isn't.  This will atleast let you know if a connection to the internet exists.

---

### Post by Hobbsilla on 2009-09-14
Okay so now I have a new problem. I don't have an interface that lets me see what network I'm connected to. Can I get help on that. The ping failed but thats because I can't see if I'm connected to the network or not. The ping was successful with a ethernet chord but I already know the internet works when plugged in. I have a photo attached of what my network manager interface looks like now. Says its not not "managed."

---

