---
title: "DHCP server help"
date: 2007-07-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by louis_nichols on 2007-07-15
Hi everybody!

I have a problem with my ISP, in that it doesn't like the fact that my DHCP server listens to their connection too. I have 2 network cards on my machine, one connected to the internet via pppoe and the other I use to share my connection with my other PC.

I use firestarter to configure my firewall and I checked the option "enable DHCP for the local network". I thought this would make the DHCP server invisible to the outside connection, but that seems not to be the case. Unless the server becomes visible when I deactivate firestarter, which I do sometimes.

So I really would appreciate some advice on how to make sure the DHCP server listens only to the internal network, even when firestarter is stopped.

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-15
Place a **subnet** statement in your dhcpd.conf file.

**man dhcpd.conf** for more details.

MrC

---

### Post by louis_nichols on 2007-07-20
> **Mr. C. said:**
> Place a **subnet** statement in your dhcpd.conf file.

**man dhcpd.conf** for more details.

MrC

Thanks for your response!. The thing is that I do use that and apparently it doesn't work. Here is the content of my file:

```
# DHCP configuration generated by Firestarter
ddns-update-style interim;
ignore client-updates;

subnet 192.168.0.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
	option routers 192.168.0.1;
	option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
	option domain-name-servers 80.96.184.17, 80.96.184.18;
	option ip-forwarding off;
	range dynamic-bootp 192.168.0.100 192.168.0.254;
	default-lease-time 21600;
	max-lease-time 43200;
}
```

and my ISP could still see it.

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-20
Change the interface in /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server to be the interface on your LAN side, and restart the DHCP server:

$ sudo /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server restart

The DHCP server must be configured to listen on an ethernet interface.  Look in your /var/log/syslog log file to see the DHCP messages.

MrC

---

### Post by stealth17 on 2007-07-20
You may also have to run

```
dpkg-reconfigure dhcp3-server
```

and specify the correct interface for it to listen on.

Another thing that will cause you trouble is if the interface does not have an IP signed to it when you run ifconfig. Configure one for it in /etc/network/interfaces (I use 192.168.0.1).

---

### Post by louis_nichols on 2007-07-22
> **stealth17 said:**
> You may also have to run

```
dpkg-reconfigure dhcp3-server
```

and specify the correct interface for it to listen on.

Another thing that will cause you trouble is if the interface does not have an IP signed to it when you run ifconfig. Configure one for it in /etc/network/interfaces (I use 192.168.0.1).

Thanks for the suggestion. I did this. Hope it works

The strange thing is I didn't see any change in dhcpd.conf after running the setup...

---

### Post by louis_nichols on 2007-07-22
> **Mr. C. said:**
> Change the interface in /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server to be the interface on your LAN side, and restart the DHCP server:

$ sudo /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server restart

The DHCP server must be configured to listen on an ethernet interface.  Look in your /var/log/syslog log file to see the DHCP messages.

MrC

I tried to do this, but I'm afraid I couldn't find how it can be done in the file... Can you give some details?

---

