---
title: "12.04 - Broadcom BCM4331 stopped detecting networks"
date: 2013-01-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-01-26
Dear all,

For some months I was able to use the wireless network with the card bcm4311. About 3 weeks ago it stopped working. The card seems to work, but does not detect wireless networks.  I have tried all solutions I have seen in Internet, to no avail. I would be extremely grateful for some help on this.

Thanks so much,

LibertoX



=================================================cat /etc/lsb-release; uname -a

DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=12.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=precise
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS"
Linux McU 3.2.0-36-generic #57-Ubuntu SMP Tue Jan 8 21:44:52 UTC 2013 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

=================================================lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net

01:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM57765 Gigabit Ethernet PCIe [14e4:16b4] (rev 10)
    Subsystem: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM57765 Gigabit Ethernet PCIe [14e4:16b4]
    Kernel driver in use: tg3
    Kernel modules: tg3
01:00.1 SD Host controller [0805]: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM57765 Memory Card Reader [14e4:16bc] (rev 10)
    Subsystem: Broadcom Corporation Device [14e4:0000]
    Kernel driver in use: sdhci-pci
--
02:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4331 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:4331] (rev 02)
    Subsystem: Broadcom Corporation BCM4331 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:4331]
    Kernel driver in use: bcma-pci-bridge

=================================================lsusb

Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0003 Linux Foundation 3.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 8087:0024 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 8087:0024 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 05ac:8509 Apple, Inc. FaceTime HD Camera
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 0424:2513 Standard Microsystems Corp.
Bus 002 Device 004: ID 0a5c:4500 Broadcom Corp. BCM2046B1 USB 2.0 Hub (part of BCM2046 Bluetooth)
Bus 002 Device 005: ID 05ac:8242 Apple, Inc. IR Receiver [built-in]
Bus 002 Device 006: ID 05ac:0252 Apple, Inc. Internal Keyboard/Trackpad (ANSI)
Bus 002 Device 007: ID 05ac:820a Apple, Inc.
Bus 002 Device 008: ID 05ac:820b Apple, Inc.
Bus 002 Device 009: ID 05ac:821d Apple, Inc.

=================================================iwconfig

lo        no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:off/any 
          Mode:Managed  Access Point: Not-Associated   Tx-Power=20 dBm  
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
         
eth0      no wireless extensions.

=================================================rfkill list all

0: phy0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no

=================================================lsmod
Module                  Size  Used by
dm_crypt               23125  1
pci_stub               12622  1
vboxpci                23237  0
vboxnetadp             13382  0
vboxnetflt             23478  0
vboxdrv               287082  3 vboxpci,vboxnetadp,vboxnetflt
bnep                   18139  2
rfcomm                 46621  0
parport_pc             32866  0
bluetooth             185622  10 bnep,rfcomm
ppdev                  17113  0
binfmt_misc            17540  1
snd_hda_codec_hdmi     32474  1
snd_hda_codec_cirrus    28098  1
arc4                   12529  2
b43                   365687  0
mac80211              514621  1 b43
cfg80211              209821  2 b43,mac80211
ssb                    61596  1 b43
pcmcia                 49353  2 b43,ssb
pcmcia_core            22614  1 pcmcia
joydev                 17693  0
input_polldev          13896  0
ip6t_LOG               16974  4
xt_hl                  12521  6
ip6t_rt                12558  3
nf_conntrack_ipv6      13906  7
nf_defrag_ipv6         13412  1 nf_conntrack_ipv6
uvcvideo               72627  0
ipt_REJECT             12576  1
videodev               98259  1 uvcvideo
bcm5974                17399  0
v4l2_compat_ioctl32    17128  1 videodev
snd_hda_intel          33773  3
snd_hda_codec         127706  3 snd_hda_codec_hdmi,snd_hda_codec_cirrus,snd_hda_intel
snd_hwdep              17764  1 snd_hda_codec
ipt_LOG                12919  5
snd_pcm                97275  3 snd_hda_codec_hdmi,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec
xt_limit               12711  12
snd_seq_midi           13324  0
xt_tcpudp              12603  18
snd_rawmidi            30748  1 snd_seq_midi
xt_addrtype            12713  4
xt_state               12578  14
ip6table_filter        12815  1
ip6_tables             27864  3 ip6t_LOG,ip6t_rt,ip6table_filter
snd_seq_midi_event     14899  1 snd_seq_midi
nf_conntrack_netbios_ns    12665  0
nf_conntrack_broadcast    12589  1 nf_conntrack_netbios_ns
nf_nat_ftp             12704  0
nf_nat                 25891  1 nf_nat_ftp
nf_conntrack_ipv4      19716  9 nf_nat
nf_defrag_ipv4         12729  1 nf_conntrack_ipv4
nf_conntrack_ftp       13452  1 nf_nat_ftp
snd_seq                61929  2 snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event
nf_conntrack           81926  8 nf_conntrack_ipv6,xt_state,nf_conntrack_netbios_ns,nf_conntrack_broadcast,nf_nat_ftp,nf_nat,nf_conntrack_ipv4,nf_conntrack_ftp
snd_timer              29990  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq
iptable_filter         12810  1
snd_seq_device         14540  3 snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq
ip_tables              27473  1 iptable_filter
snd                    79041  16 snd_hda_codec_hdmi,snd_hda_codec_cirrus,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_hwdep,snd_pcm,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
x_tables               29891  13 ip6t_LOG,xt_hl,ip6t_rt,ipt_REJECT,ipt_LOG,xt_limit,xt_tcpudp,xt_addrtype,xt_state,ip6table_filter,ip6_tables,iptable_filter,ip_tables
soundcore              15091  1 snd
snd_page_alloc         18529  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm
bcma                   30720  1 b43
mei                    41616  0
apple_gmux             12751  0
mac_hid                13253  0
apple_bl               13673  0
lp                     17799  0
parport                46562  3 parport_pc,ppdev,lp
hid_apple              13375  0
usbhid                 47238  0
hid                    99636  2 hid_apple,usbhid
sdhci_pci              18826  0
sdhci                  33205  1 sdhci_pci
firewire_ohci          41000  0
firewire_core          63600  1 firewire_ohci
crc_itu_t              12707  1 firewire_core
tg3                   152032  0
i915                  477602  4
drm_kms_helper         46978  1 i915
drm                   241971  5 i915,drm_kms_helper
i2c_algo_bit           13423  1 i915
video                  19596  2 apple_gmux,i915

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-01-26
What does this tell us?```
dmesg | grep -e b43 -e bcma
```

---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-01-28
> **chili555 said:**
> What does this tell us?```
dmesg | grep -e b43 -e bcma
```
Dear Chili555,

Thank you for being there !

The output of the command is:

=========================== dmesg | grep -e b43 -e bcma

[   10.219202] bcma-pci-bridge 0000:02:00.0: PCI INT A -> Link[LNKB] -> GSI 11 (level, low) -> IRQ 11
[   10.219212] bcma-pci-bridge 0000:02:00.0: setting latency timer to 64
[   10.451283] b43-phy0: Broadcom 4331 WLAN found (core revision 29)

Thanks so much!

---

### Post by TOMBSTONEV2 on 2013-01-28
Please try this:
```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic
sudo apt-get install --reinstall bcmwl-kernel-source
sudo modprobe wl
```If that does not work please visit this webpage and install b43 drivers and the b43-fwcutter firmware

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)

---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-01-29
Dear Chili,

This is the output for the commands

=================== sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
linux-headers-generic is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  diffstat quilt module-assistant
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 11 not upgraded.

======================sudo apt-get install --reinstall bcmwl-kernel-source

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  diffstat quilt module-assistant
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  bcmwl-kernel-source
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 11 not upgraded.
Need to get 0 B/1,344 kB of archives.
After this operation, 4,274 kB of additional disk space will be used.
Selecting previously unselected package bcmwl-kernel-source.
(Reading database ... 299693 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking bcmwl-kernel-source (from .../bcmwl-kernel-source_6.20.155.1+bdcom-0ubuntu0.0.1_amd64.deb) ...
Setting up bcmwl-kernel-source (6.20.155.1+bdcom-0ubuntu0.0.1) ...
Loading new bcmwl-6.20.155.1+bdcom DKMS files...
First Installation: checking all kernels...
Building only for 3.2.0-36-generic
Building for architecture x86_64
Building initial module for 3.2.0-36-generic
Done.

wl:
Running module version sanity check.
 - Original module
   - No original module exists within this kernel
 - Installation
   - Installing to /lib/modules/3.2.0-36-generic/updates/dkms/

depmod....

DKMS: install completed.
FATAL: Error inserting wl (/lib/modules/3.2.0-36-generic/updates/dkms/wl.ko): Invalid argument
update-initramfs: deferring update (trigger activated)
Processing triggers for initramfs-tools ...
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-3.2.0-36-generic

==============================sudo modprobe wl

FATAL: Error inserting wl (/lib/modules/3.2.0-36-generic/updates/dkms/wl.ko): Invalid argument

===============================sudo apt-get install firmware-b43-installer
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
firmware-b43-installer is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  diffstat quilt module-assistant
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 16 not upgraded.

================================sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
b43-fwcutter is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  diffstat quilt module-assistant
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 16 not upgraded.


I also tried to check the blacklist

=================================cat /etc/modprobe.d/* | egrep 'bcm'
# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist bcma
blacklist bcm43xx
# blacklist bcm43xx

==================================cat /etc/modprobe.d/* | egrep 'b43'
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
# replaced by b43 and ssb.
# replaced by b43 and ssb.

Then I tried to identify the file where the b43 is blacklisted.


==================================/etc/modprobe.d$ find . | xargs grep 'b43' -sl
./blacklist-bcm43.conf
./blacklist.conf
./blacklist.conf~


===================================sudo gedit blacklist.conf
But when I try to see the line where the b43 is blacklisted, I cannot see it anywhere

Then I tried 

===================================sudo gedit blacklist-bcm43.conf
# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
blacklist b43
blacklist b43legacy
blacklist ssb
blacklist bcm43xx
blacklist brcm80211
blacklist brcmfmac
blacklist brcmsmac
blacklist bcma


So I am still a bit lost. Thanks again,

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-01-29
> Broadcom Corporation BCM4331 802.11a/b/g/n [[COLOR="Red"]14e4:4331[/COLOR]] There is considerable doubt about the exact best way...if any...to get this relatively rare device going. Thank you for generously agreeing to be our test pilot!

What does this tell us:```
sudo modprobe b43
dmesg | grep b43
```Thanks.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-01-29
> **chili555 said:**
> There is considerable doubt about the exact best way...if any...to get this relatively rare device going. Thank you for generously agreeing to be our test pilot!

What does this tell us:```
sudo modprobe b43
dmesg | grep b43
```Thanks.

Ndiswrapper?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-01-29
> **gordintoronto said:**
> Ndiswrapper?That's a possibility, but not my first or second choice. Let's see how it goes.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2013-01-29
Maybe??

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966236](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966236)

---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-01-30
Hi guys,  Most grateful for your help. And I am glad to be a test pilot for the 4331. Having said this, I think that you will have more and more former long-term apple fanboys who move to Ubuntu. I had started trying Linux in my laptops already in the late 90's. But there was always something missing. A driver, a resolution ... So I settled then on OSX, which I thought was "the Linux I always wanted". However, in recent years I have seen Apple drifting and becoming more like the Microsoft they used to criticise. I read more and more about Ubuntu, Mint, etc and decided to have a go. Now Ubuntu is in all my 3 computers + transformer. Other than the card issue I am EXTREMELY happy and grateful for your work. So, yes I am more than willing to be a test pilot.  OK. Enough for the rant.  The outputs are:  ==================================:~$ sudo modprobe b43 No visible output  ==================================:~$ dmesg | grep b43 [  155.662738] b43-phy0: Broadcom 4331 WLAN found (core revision 29)    Gordintoronto:  Thanks for pitching in.  On ndiswrapper ...  Initially (December) I set up my WiFi card following these instructions:  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro8-2/Oneiric#Wireless](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro8-2/Oneiric#Wireless)  One of the steps is to:       "Edit the /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf and add the line:         blacklist ndiswrapper        Create or edit the file /etc/pm/config.d/modules and make sure the wireless modules (b43 and bcma) are blacklisted:        SUSPEND_MODULES="b43 bcma"  But when the card stopped working, then I sought other potential solutions, but none of them mentioned the blacklisting ndiswrapper. So I disabled it in the blacklist.conf by prefixing the blacklist ndiswrapper and SUSPEND_MODULES="b43 bcma with #.   Hadaka:  Thank you too for pitching in.  The link you mention refers to the solution I tried for the first time, which made the card work in the first place.  I am fairly certain that I have also tried the second solution they propose downloading the broadcom driver (I have been going at it for quite some time before asking for help).  The thing that worries me is that by trying several different solutions, I may be compounding the problem by potentially conflicting settings.  In any event, I try again. Installing the driver goes well (no complaints)  ========================================= sudo lshw (...)     *-network DISABLED        description: Wireless interface        physical id: 2        logical name: wlan0        serial: 5c:96:9d:77:c0:a3        capabilities: ethernet physical wireless        configuration: broadcast=yes driver=b43 driverversion=3.2.0-36-generic firmware=N/A link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg   Then I proceeded to the second solution offered at the link provided by Hadaka, to note:

	tar xf broadcom-wl-5.100.138.tar.bz2         sudo b43-fwcutter -w "/lib/firmware" broadcom-wl-5.100.138/linux/wl_apsta.o
        # cp /etc/pm/config.d/default /etc/pm/config.d/default.old         # echo 'SUSPEND_MODULES="b43 bcma"' >> /etc/pm/config.d/default

And, at this stage the WiFi got to work !!! I could see other networks and connect to them.

However, after implementing the last step

         sudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/default and then include 
         SUSPEND_MODULES="b43 bcma" 

Then I restarted the computer, as instructed and the WiFi had disappeared. Now it does not show next to the Ethernet.

Best regards to all

---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-01-30
Apologies. The formatting above crapped out.
Hi guys,  Most grateful for your help. And I am glad to be a test pilot 
for the 4331. Having said this, I think that you will have more 
and more former long-term apple fanboys who move to Ubuntu. 
I had started trying Linux in my laptops already in the late 
90's. But there was always something missing. A driver, 
a resolution ... So I settled then on OSX, which I thought 
was "the Linux I always wanted". However, in recent years 
I have seen Apple drifting and becoming more like the Microsoft 
they used to criticise. I read more and more about Ubuntu, 
Mint, etc and decided to have a go. Now Ubuntu is in all my 
3 computers + transformer. Other than the card issue 
I am EXTREMELY happy and grateful for your work. 

So, yes I am more than willing to be a test pilot.  

OK. Enough for the rant.  

The outputs are:  

==================================:~$ sudo modprobe b43 

No visible output  

==================================:~$ dmesg | grep b43 

[  155.662738] b43-phy0: Broadcom 4331 WLAN found (core revision 29) 
 Gordintoronto:  Thanks for pitching in.  On ndiswrapper ...  Initially (December) I set up my WiFi card following these 
instructions:  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro8-2/Oneiric#Wireless](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro8-2/Oneiric#Wireless)  

One of the steps is to:       

"Edit the /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf and add the line:         blacklist ndiswrapper        

Create or edit the file /etc/pm/config.d/modules and make sure the wireless modules (b43 and bcma) are blacklisted:        SUSPEND_MODULES="b43 bcma"  

But when the card stopped working, then I sought other potential solutions, but none of them mentioned the blacklisting ndiswrapper. So I disabled it in the blacklist.conf 
by prefixing the blacklist ndiswrapper and SUSPEND_MODULES="b43 bcma with #.   

Hadaka:  Thank you too for pitching in.  

The link you mention refers to the solution I tried for the 
first time, which made the card work in the first place.  I am fairly certain that I have also tried the second solution they propose downloading the broadcom driver (I have been going at it for quite some time before asking for help).  The thing that worries me is that by trying several different solutions, I may be compounding the problem by potentially conflicting settings. 

In any event, I try again. 

Installing the driver goes well (no complaints)  

========================================= sudo lshw (...) 

*-network DISABLED        description: Wireless interface        physical id: 2        logical name: wlan0        serial: 5c:96:9d:77:c0:a3        capabilities: ethernet physical wireless        configuration: broadcast=yes driver=b43 driverversion=3.2.0-36-generic firmware=N/A link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg  



Then I proceeded to the second solution offered at the link 
provided by Hadaka, to note:

   tar xf broadcom-wl-5.100.138.tar.bz2         
   sudo b43-fwcutter -w "/lib/firmware" broadcom-wl-5.100.138/linux/wl_apsta.o
   # cp /etc/pm/config.d/default /etc/pm/config.d/default.old      
   # echo 'SUSPEND_MODULES="b43 bcma"' >> /etc/pm/config.d/default

And, at this stage the WiFi got to work !!! I could see other networks and connect to them.

However, after implementing the last step

         sudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/default and then include SUSPEND_MODULES="b43 bcma" 

Then I restarted the computer, as instructed and the WiFi had disappeared. Now it does not show next to the Ethernet. 

Best regards to all!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-01-30
>  sudo lshw (...) *-network [COLOR="Red"]DISABLED[/COLOR] description: Wireless interface physical id: 2 logical name: wlan0 serial: 5c:96:9d:77:c0:a3 capabilities: ethernet physical wireless configuration: broadcast=yes driver=b43 driverversion=3.2.0-36-generic firmware=N/A link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg Why disabled? Usually that indicates the wireless switch is turned off. May we see:```
rfkill list all
```I am also suspicious about 'firmware=N/A.'

---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-01-30
============================rfkill list all
No visible output

============================ sudo rfkill list all
No visible output

As noted, now the WiFi does not show up in the Network Prefernces. Only the Ethernet does.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-01-30
> And, at this stage the WiFi got to work !!! I could see other networks and connect to them.

However, after implementing the last step

sudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/default and then include SUSPEND_MODULES="b43 bcma"

Then I restarted the computer, as instructed and the WiFi had disappeared. Now it does not show next to the Ethernet.
Let's reverse that step:```
gksudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/default
```Remove the line you added:```
SUSPEND_MODULES="b43 bcma"
```Proofread, save and close gedit. Reboot and show us:```
ls /lib/firmware/b43 | grep -e ucode -e mimo
```Weird!

---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-01-30
========================== ls /lib/firmware/b43 | grep -e ucode -e mimo
ls: cannot open directory /lib/firmware/b43: Permission denied

==========================sudo ls /lib/firmware/b43 | grep -e ucode -e mimo
ucode11.fw
ucode13.fw
ucode14.fw
ucode15.fw
ucode16_lp.fw
ucode16_mimo.fw
ucode16_sslpn.fw
ucode16_sslpn_nobt.fw
ucode17_mimo.fw
ucode19_sslpn.fw
ucode19_sslpn_nobt.fw
ucode20_sslpn.fw
ucode20_sslpn_nobt.fw
ucode21_sslpn.fw
ucode21_sslpn_nobt.fw
ucode22_mimo.fw
ucode22_sslpn.fw
ucode24_lcn.fw
ucode24_mimo.fw
ucode25_lcn.fw
ucode25_mimo.fw
ucode26_mimo.fw
ucode27_sslpn.fw
ucode29_mimo.fw
ucode30_mimo.fw
ucode32_mimo.fw
ucode33_lcn40.fw
ucode5.fw
ucode9.fw

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-01-30
> ls: cannot open directory /lib/firmware/b43: Permission deniedThat doesn't seem correct. Let's make the folder and the contents readable by the system. Please do:```
sudo chmod +rw /lib/firmware/b43
sudo chmod +r /lib/firmware/b43/*
```Now check:```
ls -al /lib/firmware
```Hopefully, the b43 directory will read:> drwxr-xr-x  2 root root   12288 Jan 30 09:55 b43And check the contents:```
ls -al /lib/firmware/b43
```The permissions pats should read like:> $ ls -al /lib/firmware/b43
total 1076
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 12288 Jan 30 09:55 .
drwxr-xr-x 56 root root 12288 Jan 30 09:55 ..
-[COLOR="Red"]r[/COLOR]w-[COLOR="Red"]r[/COLOR]--[COLOR="Red"]r[/COLOR]--  1 root root   178 Sep 16  2011 a0g0bsinitvals5.fw
-rw-r--r--  1 root root   178 Sep 16  2011 a0g0bsinitvals9.fw
-rw-r--r--  1 root root  1836 Sep 16  2011 a0g0initvals5.fw
-rw-r--r--  1 root root  1992 Sep 16  2011 a0g0initvals9.fw
-rw-r--r--  1 root root   178 Sep 16  2011 a0g1bsinitvals13.fw
-rw-r--r--  1 root root   178 Sep 16  2011 a0g1bsinitvals5.fw...that is, [COLOR="Red"]r[/COLOR]eadable by everyone. Now unload and reload the driver:```
sudo modprobe -r b43 && sudo modprobe b43
```Any improvement?```
iwconfig
sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
```

---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-01-31
Dear Chili,

=====================================================ls -al /lib/firmware

the entry for b43 reads:

drwxr-xr--  2 root root    4096 Jan 26 16:47 b43

It looks like there is a problem with the permissions, as seen below.

===================================ls -al /lib/firmware/b43

ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode27_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2bsinitvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g0bsinitvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0bsinitvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn4bsinitvals22.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n1bsinitvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0bsinitvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2bsinitvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ht0initvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1initvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode21_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n16initvals30.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals11.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp1bsinitvals22.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1bsinitvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1bsinitvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode16_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/..: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode30_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0bsinitvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode19_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode15.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn1initvals27.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0initvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn2initvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp1initvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1initvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1bsinitvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1initvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp1initvals22.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn2bsinitvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode24_lcn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0bsinitvals14.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n18bsinitvals32.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2initvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0bsinitvals15.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0initvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals11.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0initvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g0bsinitvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g0initvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/pcm5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals17.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0initvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/.: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0absinitvals11.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ht0bsinitvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1initvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1initvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0initvals14.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode25_lcn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode22_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1bsinitvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n1initvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0initvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0bsinitvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode25_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ht0initvals29.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals17.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn400bsinitvals33.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp2bsinitvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2initvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode21_sslpn_nobt.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0initvals15.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2initvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode11.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode22_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode20_sslpn_nobt.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode19_sslpn_nobt.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn1bsinitvals27.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1initvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode24_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0initvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals22.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn1initvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n18initvals32.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0initvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ht0bsinitvals29.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g0initvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn0bsinitvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn0initvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode32_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp1bsinitvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn3initvals21.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0bsinitvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2bsinitvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1bsinitvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0bsinitvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode14.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n16bsinitvals30.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode16_sslpn_nobt.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0bsinitvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn1bsinitvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n2bsinitvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode26_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0initvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode33_lcn40.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1bsinitvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals22.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode17_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode29_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn3bsinitvals21.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0bsinitvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode16_lp.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn400initvals33.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode16_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp2initvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode20_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n2initvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn4initvals22.fw: Permission denied
total 0
d????????? ? ? ? ?            ? .
d????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ..
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g0bsinitvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g0bsinitvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g0initvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g0initvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1bsinitvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1bsinitvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1bsinitvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1initvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1initvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1initvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0bsinitvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0bsinitvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0bsinitvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0initvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0initvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0initvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ht0bsinitvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ht0bsinitvals29.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ht0initvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ht0initvals29.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0bsinitvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0bsinitvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0bsinitvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0initvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0initvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0initvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1bsinitvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1bsinitvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1bsinitvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1initvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1initvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1initvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2bsinitvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2bsinitvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2bsinitvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2initvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2initvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2initvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn400bsinitvals33.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn400initvals33.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0bsinitvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0bsinitvals14.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0bsinitvals15.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0bsinitvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0initvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0initvals14.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0initvals15.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0initvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp1bsinitvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp1bsinitvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp1initvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp1initvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp2bsinitvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp2initvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0absinitvals11.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals11.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals17.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals11.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals17.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n16bsinitvals30.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n16initvals30.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n18bsinitvals32.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n18initvals32.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n1bsinitvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n1initvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n2bsinitvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n2initvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? pcm5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn0bsinitvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn0initvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn1bsinitvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn1bsinitvals27.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn1initvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn1initvals27.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn2bsinitvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn2initvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn3bsinitvals21.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn3initvals21.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn4bsinitvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn4initvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode11.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode14.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode15.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode16_lp.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode16_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode16_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode16_sslpn_nobt.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode17_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode19_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode19_sslpn_nobt.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode20_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode20_sslpn_nobt.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode21_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode21_sslpn_nobt.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode22_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode22_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode24_lcn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode24_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode25_lcn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode25_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode26_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode27_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode29_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode30_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode32_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode33_lcn40.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode9.fw

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-01-31
Yikes! That looks ugly! Can you get a temporary wired ethernet connection and do:```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-firmware-nonfree
```It looks like something went horribly wrong during the original firmware installation.

---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-02-01
Dear Chili,

I was convinced my reply had gone through OK. It seems it hasn't. I will re-send when I go back to the computer in question.

In short, I tried your suggestion of reinstalling the driver. It went well, without reported errors. After this I rebooted and run the two ls commands. The result of the b43 folder's permissions were the same as before. The ls of the driver's folder was the same as before (no access and ??????).

I tried a second time, on this occasion without rebooting. The results were the same.

I will post a reply with the output when I go home, but this is the conclusion.

Best,

LX

---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-02-01
Here we go:

=========================sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-firmware-nonfree

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  diffstat quilt module-assistant
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 reinstalled, 0 to remove and 2 not upgraded.
Need to get 0 B/3,947 kB of archives.
After this operation, 0 B of additional disk space will be used.
(Reading database ... 326387 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to replace linux-firmware-nonfree 1.11ubuntu1 (using .../linux-firmware-nonfree_1.11ubuntu1_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement linux-firmware-nonfree ...
Setting up linux-firmware-nonfree (1.11ubuntu1) ...


=============================================ls -al /lib/firmware

drwxr-xr--  2 root root   20480 Feb  2 11:50 b43


=========================================ls -al /lib/firmware/b43

ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/.: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/..: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode27_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2bsinitvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g0bsinitvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0bsinitvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn4bsinitvals22.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n1bsinitvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0bsinitvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2bsinitvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ht0initvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1initvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode21_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n16initvals30.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals11.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp1bsinitvals22.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1bsinitvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1bsinitvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode16_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode30_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0bsinitvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode19_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode15.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn1initvals27.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0initvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn2initvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp1initvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1initvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1bsinitvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1initvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp1initvals22.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn2bsinitvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode24_lcn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0bsinitvals14.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n18bsinitvals32.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2initvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0bsinitvals15.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0initvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals11.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0initvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g0bsinitvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g0initvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/pcm5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals17.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0initvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0absinitvals11.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ht0bsinitvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1initvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn1initvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0initvals14.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode25_lcn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode22_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1bsinitvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n1initvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0initvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0bsinitvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode25_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ht0initvals29.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals17.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn400bsinitvals33.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp2bsinitvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2initvals26.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode21_sslpn_nobt.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0initvals15.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2initvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode11.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode22_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode20_sslpn_nobt.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode19_sslpn_nobt.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn1bsinitvals27.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1initvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode24_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0initvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals22.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn1initvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n18initvals32.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0initvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ht0bsinitvals29.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g0initvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn0bsinitvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn0initvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode32_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp1bsinitvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn3initvals21.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0bsinitvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn2bsinitvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1bsinitvals5.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn0bsinitvals25.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode14.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n16bsinitvals30.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode16_sslpn_nobt.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0initvals24.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp0bsinitvals16.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn1bsinitvals20.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n2bsinitvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode26_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0initvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode33_lcn40.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/a0g1bsinitvals13.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n0bsinitvals22.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode17_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode29_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn3bsinitvals21.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/b0g0bsinitvals9.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode16_lp.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lcn400initvals33.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode16_mimo.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/lp2initvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/ucode20_sslpn.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/n2initvals19.fw: Permission denied
ls: cannot access /lib/firmware/b43/sslpn4initvals22.fw: Permission denied
total 0
d????????? ? ? ? ?            ? .
d????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ..
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g0bsinitvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g0bsinitvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g0initvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g0initvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1bsinitvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1bsinitvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1bsinitvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1initvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1initvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? a0g1initvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0bsinitvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0bsinitvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0bsinitvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0initvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0initvals5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? b0g0initvals9.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ht0bsinitvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ht0bsinitvals29.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ht0initvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ht0initvals29.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0bsinitvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0bsinitvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0bsinitvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0initvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0initvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn0initvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1bsinitvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1bsinitvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1bsinitvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1initvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1initvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn1initvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2bsinitvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2bsinitvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2bsinitvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2initvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2initvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn2initvals26.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn400bsinitvals33.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lcn400initvals33.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0bsinitvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0bsinitvals14.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0bsinitvals15.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0bsinitvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0initvals13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0initvals14.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0initvals15.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp0initvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp1bsinitvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp1bsinitvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp1initvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp1initvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp2bsinitvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? lp2initvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0absinitvals11.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals11.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals17.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0bsinitvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals11.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals17.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals24.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n0initvals25.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n16bsinitvals30.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n16initvals30.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n18bsinitvals32.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n18initvals32.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n1bsinitvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n1initvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n2bsinitvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? n2initvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? pcm5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn0bsinitvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn0initvals16.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn1bsinitvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn1bsinitvals27.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn1initvals20.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn1initvals27.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn2bsinitvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn2initvals19.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn3bsinitvals21.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn3initvals21.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn4bsinitvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? sslpn4initvals22.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode11.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode13.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode14.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode15.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode16_lp.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode16_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode16_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode16_sslpn_nobt.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode17_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode19_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode19_sslpn_nobt.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode20_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode20_sslpn_nobt.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode21_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode21_sslpn_nobt.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode22_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode22_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode24_lcn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode24_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode25_lcn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode25_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode26_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode27_sslpn.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode29_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode30_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode32_mimo.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode33_lcn40.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode5.fw
-????????? ? ? ? ?            ? ucode9.fw

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2013-02-02
Hi, please post the output of.

```
cat  /etc/pm/config.d/default
```

and

[CODE]cat /etc/pm/config.d/default.old [CODE]

---

### Post by libertoX on 2013-02-03
=========================== cat /etc/pm/config.d/default

No visible output

=========================== cat /etc/pm/config.d/default.old

cat: /etc/pm/config.d/default.old: No such file or directory

---

