---
title: "14.04 no network access after install error"
date: 2015-01-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wolf6 on 2015-01-23
First, let me say I am a relatively new Ubuntu user, and not yet conversant with regard to all the relevant terminology, so my apologies if I don't always know what you're asking for.

My situation: a couple of nights ago, Software Updater was installing several system updates when my laptop rebooted for no known reason, interrupting the installation. After rebooting, a number of the drivers seem to have been deleted/corrupted. I no longer have any network access (Ethernet, WiFI, Bluetooth), some of my USB devices no longer function, and my display was reset to an almost unusable resolution.

My priority is getting at least wired network access up and running, as I assume having internet access will allow Ubuntu to run a system update/correction to fix the other issues. I've looked around the forums and Googled for answers elsewhere, with no success.

First, since it seems to be the first question anyone asks, a printout of my lspci:

> 00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation ValleyView SSA-CUnit (rev 0c)00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation ValleyView Gen7 (rev 0c)
00:13.0 SATA controller: Intel Corporation ValleyView 6-Port SATA AHCI Controller (rev 0c)
00:14.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation ValleyView USB xHCI Host Controller (rev 0c)
00:1a.0 Encryption controller: Intel Corporation ValleyView SEC (rev 0c)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation ValleyView High Definition Audio Controller (rev 0c)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation ValleyView PCI Express Root Port (rev 0c)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation ValleyView PCI Express Root Port (rev 0c)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation ValleyView PCI Express Root Port (rev 0c)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ValleyView Power Control Unit (rev 0c)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation ValleyView SMBus Controller (rev 0c)
02:00.0 Network controller: Qualcomm Atheros AR9485 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
03:00.0 Unassigned class [ff00]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Device 5286 (rev 01)
03:00.2 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 06)

Per another thread, I've downloaded the current Linux driver from Realtek's website, saved to my Desktop, extracted the archive, and attempted
```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]sudo sh ./autorun.sh[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
but received
> Check old driver and unload it.
Build the module and install
make: *** /lib/modules/3.13.0-44-generic/build: No such file or directory.  Stop.
make[1]: *** [clean] Error 2
make: *** [clean] Error 2

Per a different thread, I attempted
```
make -C src modules
```
but received
> Entering directory '/home/wolf/Desktop/r8101-1.026.00/src'
make -C /lib/modules/3.13.0-44-generic/build SUBDIRS=/home/wolf/Desktop/r8101-1.026.00/src modules
make: Entering an unknown directory
make: *** /lib/modules/3.13.0-44-generic/build: No such file or directory.  Stop.
make: Leaving an unknown directory
make: *** [modules] Error 2
make: Leaving directory '/home/wolf/Desktop/r8101-1.026.00/src'

The rest of the threads I've read devolved into long discussions of technobabble I simply couldn't make heads or tails of, although a couple pointed to this gist patch (and, honestly, I have no idea what that means or what to do with it):
[https://gist.github.com/NeMO84/7106119#file-r8101_n-c-patch](https://gist.github.com/NeMO84/7106119#file-r8101_n-c-patch)

My sincerest thanks and appreciation for any help you can provide!

---

