---
title: "DNS-problem in 10.04"
date: 2010-07-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Bigfoot73 on 2010-07-29
I have just installed 10.04 and have problems with internet access. Probably relatead to DNS because I can access e.g. [http://123.123.123.123](http://123.123.123.123), but not [http://somedomain.com](http://somedomain.com).

If I run "sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart" it starts working until the next reboot. What might be the problem here?

(Manual network configuration - no DHCP.)

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-07-30
Check contents of */etc/resolv.conf* before and after restarting networking. Where did you configure the network - Network Manager or */etc/netowrk/interfaces*?

---

### Post by Bigfoot73 on 2010-07-31
Before:
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

After:
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.0.254
search ROHENET

The dns server etc. is specified in /etc/network/interfaces. I have not added it manually, so I'm not sure where it comes from. I have tried to find a way to get it working, so I'm not sure which configuration ways I have tried.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-08-01
Interesting... 
Is 192.168.0.254 your router? 
(Is ROHENET your network?)

---

### Post by Bigfoot73 on 2010-08-03
Yes, 192.168.0.254 is the router.
I specified ROHENET as network name during the installation, but I'm not sure how it is used. (ROHENET is also specified as domain name in my routers dns configuration.)

---

### Post by gnfrnc on 2010-08-03
sorry,
As I can't found the way to delete my post, as I found it's unrelated,
I suggest, [COLOR=#000000]on my limited experience[/COLOR],not to use command line if using network manager or not to use network manages for simple static configuration

---

