---
title: "Dial up problems in Dapper 6.06rc"
date: 2006-06-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by zxee on 2006-06-04
I have an external modem that works fine in slack & breezy. However getting connected is hit & miss in dapper (testing) I know that there are not as many dial up users as there used to be but if anyone has experiance with dial up in the LTS version I would appreciate knowing about that and specifically whether or not the final release improved any. Presently I can't use gnome-ppp. Gnome-ppp dials out but breaks the connection. Heres the shell output:
GNOME PPP: Connecting...
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.55
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Cannot set information for serial port.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Initializing modem.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATZ
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
GNOME PPP: STDERR: OK
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Modem initialized.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATM0L0DT4500227
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Waiting for carrier.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATM0L0DT4500227
GNOME PPP: STDERR: CONNECT 115200
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Connected, but carrier signal lost!  Retrying...
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Sending: ATM0L0DT4500227
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Waiting for carrier.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: NO CARRIER
GNOME PPP: STDERR: ATM0L0DT4500227
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> No Carrier!  Trying again.
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Maximum Attempts Exceeded..Aborting!!
GNOME PPP: STDERR: --> Disconnecting at Sat Jun  3 23:59:14 200

I have used modem monitor to get connected and that's how I did connect just now but sometimes it doesn't even dial i.e I click connect but nothing happens.
Everything works fine in breezy. Perhaps dial up modem users can't use dapper?
Ok pon and poff work too, but why can't I have gnome-ppp? Also the line about the malformed line in the output above is a mystery because I've only used pppconfig to set up ppp. :???:

---

### Post by woodtw on 2006-06-04
I have the same problem with the newest releases.  I was able to get a connection with beta but after that, it was hit or miss.  I have gone back to Fedora until this is resolved.
I have tried pon, wvdial. kppp(kubuntu), nothing works.
By the way, breezy, Mepis, fedora,suse all worked fine with my modem.

And please no "why don't you get DSL or a Cable modem" replies.

I would if I could.  Where I live, dial-up is my only option.

---

### Post by zxee on 2006-06-04
Dial up is my only option too.  I have some experiance with ppp and troubleshooting dial up, but haven't completely resolved this problem in dapper. I was hoping that I might get a reply from someone who has experiance with the final release as I'm using testing. However dial up is becoming less frequent a method of connecting-unfortunately for those of us that have to use it.
One other thing on this; I've found that although gnome-ppp is DOA modem monitor does work but you have to completely set up the connection using pppconfig. That means adding your user to the users allowed to access the modem (in the advanced section of pppconfig). Why gnome-ppp doesn't work is a mystery.

---

### Post by zxee on 2006-07-22
Just an update. I'm using edgy eft now and although it doesn't come with much for dial up, it does work. No problems compared to dapper. I haven't been using eft long but setting up dial up was uneventful. I then used apt-get to install gnome-ppp. I'll report more if anyone is interested.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2006-07-22
I've been using dial-up from Hoary forward--It was dodgy at first in Dapper (I had a Zoom USB external modem), but then I got a PCI modem on eBay that advertised that it was "really" Linux compatable--and it really was!!

If anyone is interested, I'll get the link for the eBay seller--cost me $9.95 + shipping to get it & it worked after installing a easy download available from the repositories.

I use GnomePPP--am really out from town & can only use dialup in a cost-effective way--this modem connects almost all the time at 44,000........

The WVDial "error" has been around from the 1.55 update--it's not hurting anything, so I disreguard it.

---

### Post by Matchless on 2006-07-23
Hi,
    Some hints that may help.
Modem hints & tips

1.My modem wasn't noticing the carrier,
Adding Carrier Check = no and Stupid Mode = yes to wvdial.conf solved problem 
2.Firefox takes a while before it opens a site? Change the order of you DNS addresses in your setup. Put ISP DNS before your gateway.
3.If you are using KPPP go to file /etc/ppp/peers/kppp-options and remove the comment # from the #noauth and change it to noauth.
4.If you are using Smartlink modem and sl-modem-daemon, go to /etc/defaults/sl-modem-daemon and change the line SLMODEMD-COUNTRY=USA to SOUTHAFRICA or your own country.
5.By typing lspci in a terminal may help you identify your modem.
6.Some people report a speed change if you disable or turn off IPv6 in ubuntu. 
This can be done by disabling ipv6 is in the firefox browser via about:config in the url box.
7.You can also load the Fasterfox extension to speed up Firefox.
8.If using wvdial then the following helps:
Edit the /etc/wvdial.conf
Add X3 to init2 (allows dialling without waiting for dialtone or busy tone)
Add carrier Check = no  (as a new line, is required for Smartlink modems)
Add Stupid mode = on   (as a new line, it will start pppd immediately, some ISPs need this)
If your connection drops away after ½ to 3 minutes then edit /etc/ppp/options then and find line lcp-echo-interval30 and lcp-echo-failure4 comment out by adding a # at beginning of line.
If you connect but have problems, such as cannot load webpages, add a new line in the /etc/ppp/options file called defaultroute

---

### Post by zxee on 2006-07-23
Matchless, Thanks for the modem hints. I've copied them and will refer to them in case of trouble. Edgy is much, much better for me. I had to almost recreate ppp, resolv.conf and etc/chatscripts in dapper. Mostly I had copied files over from my slack install. In edgy as I said everything just works.

---

### Post by Ptero-4 on 2006-07-26
Hi. I just upgraded my sisters PowerMac to Dapper and noticed that when I use pon to connect to the internet, it says (through the plog command) that it cannot set the terminal parameters to connect and closes the pppd daemon. Have any of you seems this error yet? and how can it be fixed? (I downgraded the PowerMac to breezy again.

---

