---
title: "10.04 will not authenticate secure wireless network"
date: 2010-06-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mtmjr90 on 2010-06-06
Hi,

I'm a brand new Linux (Ubuntu 10.04) user and so far I'm loving it!  ...however, until this morning I had only been using my wired connection with no problems but when I tried to connect to my home's WPA secured wireless network, it just would not connect.  The network manager sees the network and when I click on it, a window pops up asking for authentication. I enter the passphrase, but still it will not connect.  I'm using a Lenovo X61 LAPTOP (not tablet).  Please help! I DON'T WANT TO GO BACK TO WINDOWS!!! Thanks:)

-Mike

Edit: issue resolved...can't figure out how to delete thread.

---

### Post by 666f6f on 2010-06-06
I don't think you can delete the thread. A better idea would be to share your solution :popcorn:

---

### Post by Ichido on 2010-06-06
> **mtmjr90 said:**
> Hi,

Edit: issue resolved...can't figure out how to delete thread.

My Dell 1525 is having the same issues.
What was your solution, if you would be so kind.
Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by gkleman on 2010-07-10
I am having a similar problem with connecting to my wireless router with authentication.  After searching through the forums, I haven't found a solution yet.  Here are my particulars:
 
Computer is a Dell Inspiron 1012 with a Broadcom wireless adapter.  It is a new install of Xubuntu 10.04.  I have followed the procedures to install the broadcom driver with success.  I can see the various networks around my location, including my wireless router.  I can connect to an unsecured network in the area.
 
However, when I try to connect to my own router (using WPA & WPA2 personal and password), it does not connect. It seems with other posts on the forum that there was a problem when using WEP.  (I have checked many times that I am using the correct passphrase). I have tried using WICD instead of network manager with no luck. (WICD tells me that: Connection Failed: Bad password).  Network Manager keeps coming back and asking me for the password.
 
My wireless is working well on other computers and on the same comptuer when using windows (dual boot).
 
Any ideas are appreciated.

---

### Post by kzinjuwadia on 2010-07-10
gkleman,
My condition is even worse. I can't even connect to unsecured networks. Can you help me find out what's wrong in my case? Did you have problem related to "wlan0: link is not ready" or Access-point showing Not-associated in iwconfig? If so, can you tell me how it got resolved.

Thanks

---

### Post by gkleman on 2010-07-12
After reading some more on other topics (search wireless 10.04), it seems that there are a lot of people with a similar problem.  It appears to be an issue with the newer kernel.  Since I have set up a dual boot system set up, when turning on the computer I am asked if I want Xubuntu with kernel X.X.X.23, Xubuntu with kernel X.X.X.21, and windows.  (Sorry, I don't have the exact numbers, but I don't have the machine in front of me right now).  If I select the .23 kernel, I have the problems I outlined above.  If I select the .21 kernel, then everything works fine.  
 
I'm using Xubuntu 9.10 (I had it wrong in the earlier post).
 
Hopefully, whatever the problem is, will be fixed in the next kernel release.

---

