---
title: "unable to connect"
date: 2010-01-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sunshyne on 2010-01-14
I'm a relative newbie and I am running Karmic on an acer aspire 4810TZ. I was able to connect to the internet (home wireless, home wired connection, or work wireless) without issue with Jaunty, but after I ran the upgrade (with update manager app, not a fresh install), I can't connect to any of these. I can ping Ubuntu.com and my update manager still seems to work in downloading packages. I tried firefox and google chrome. I tried disabling IPv6 on firefox after reading some of these posts, but it didn't work. I can connect with windows 7 to any of these networks. Don't know what other info would be useful. Please ask (and give pretty specific instructions).

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-01-14
Sounds like you have IP address, but post results of **ifconfig -a**, **route -n**, and contents of */etc/resolv.conf*.

---

### Post by sunshyne on 2010-01-15
ifconfig -a
```
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1f:16:9e:d0:bd  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:28 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:8 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:8 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:440 (440.0 B)  TX bytes:440 (440.0 B)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:24:2c:38:0a:ce  
          inet addr:192.168.0.102  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::224:2cff:fe38:ace/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:184 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:40 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:57956 (57.9 KB)  TX bytes:6423 (6.4 KB)

wmaster0  Link encap:UNSPEC  HWaddr 00-24-2C-38-0A-CE-33-38-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00  
          UP RUNNING  MTU:0  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
```

route -n
```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     2      0        0 wlan0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 wlan0
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 wlan0
```

/etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.0.1

I've also added the lines nameserver 8.8.8.8 and nameserver 8.8.4.4 based on other posts in this forum and the changes don't seem to stick.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2010-01-15
your able to ping ubuntu.com but firefox doesnt open any pages?? if so , make sure that firefox is not in OFFLINE MODE

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-01-15
If you're using DHCP, you can add your preferred nameservers to the "prepend" line in */etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf*.

---

### Post by sunshyne on 2010-01-16
Firefox is not in offline mode.

I'm not sure if I'm using DHCP.  How would I tell?  If I am, how exactly to I add nameservers (and which ones would I add)?  Is there a reason this didn't work correctly "out of the box"?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-01-17
If you haven't configured a static address - you're probably using DHCP.
Open the file - system files probably require sudo:
Code:

sudo nano /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf

or for graphical editor
Code:

gksudo gedit /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf
Find the line:```
#prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;

```the line to read ```
prepend domain-name-servers 208.67.222.222,208.67.220.220;
```
This will use OpenDNS servers - to use Google's:```
prepend domain-name-servers 8.8.8.8,8.8.4.4;
``` [This ]("http://code.google.com/speed/public-dns/docs/using.html")page offers another way to adjust DNS settings in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by MarkC502 on 2010-01-17
From what I can see in your command outputs + what you have said, I see the following things.

1. Your using DHCP, one because you asked about how to tell and two because this PC is pulling a 192.168.0.102 address which most DHCP start serving up IP's at .100 which means you have another 1-2 PC's on the router with you. 

2. You are currently pulling an IP for your wifi connection and not your wired connection, I would try to get the wired working first and then troubleshoot wifi as with wifi it could be allot of things wrong and with wired it is strait down to networking issues. To do this you could try several things, I will list 2 in order of complexity.

First you could hover the mouse over the network manager icon in the notification tray and when over the "wireless" check box clilck it to turn off wireless networking, then plug in your Ethernet cable and see if you can get online.

Second would be to use the command line to disable the wifi interface and see if the wired one works then. Here is a command to disable your wireless connection, this is not permanent and will be reset when you reboot.

sudo ifconfig wlan0 down

In general I would work the wired as you might be experiencing some wifi glitch with your router that will be harder to troubleshoot. And to see what your networks interfaces are setup to use ( as in DHCP or STATIC ) you could print the contents of your network configurations file, here is a command to print it in a terminal

cat /etc/network/interfaces

You should post the output of your interfaces file as it may shed some light on your problem as well.

---

### Post by sunshyne on 2010-01-17
output of cat /etc/network/interfaces

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

Changing to open DNS didn't help.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-01-17
**sudo lshw -C network** should reveal more details about your interfaces.

---

### Post by MarkC502 on 2010-01-17
OK sunshine I think I see the solution, your /etc/network/interfaces only contains the loopback address but not your wired one. If you add the following to that file you might just have wired interface that works.


auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

Just add it after 1 blank line past the 2 loopback lines. Heres a command to open the file for editing with the gedit text editor.

sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces

Add that and reboot and see if ifconfig then shows an IP address for your eth0 connection.

---

### Post by sunshyne on 2010-01-18
sudo lshw -C network

  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: Attansic Technology Corp.
       vendor: Attansic Technology Corp.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: c0
       serial: 00:1f:16:9e:d0:bd
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vpd bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=atl1c driverversion=1.0.0.1-NAPI firmware=N/A latency=0 link=no multicast=yes port=twisted pair
       resources: irq:28 memory:d3400000-d343ffff ioport:3000(size=128)
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: AR928X Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express)
       vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: wmaster0
       version: 01
       serial: 00:24:2c:38:0a:ce
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath9k ip=10.16.102.204 latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn
       resources: irq:17 memory:d2400000-d240ffff

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-01-18
Hmmm... Curious that **wlan0** doesn't appear, and **wmaster0** shows IP address 10.16.102.204 - I presume **ifconfig -a** still shows same results... (wmaster0 occasionally means something else isn't working quite right)

You could try  **sudo dhclient eth0**.

**_If_** you opt to bypass Network Manager and edit /etc/network/interfaces, use ```
 sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
``` or, if you prefer a graphical editor ```
 gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```

---

### Post by MarkC502 on 2010-01-18
I see from your output of sudo lshw -C network that your wired interface is 1GB per second and not 100MB a second , Is your router 1GB per second capable ? maybe if you set the eth0 to 100MB/s it might make a difference.

---

