---
title: "2wire 811.2g HELP ME"
date: 2007-10-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rseldner on 2007-10-11
i've been battling with ubuntu for the past couple of days trying to get my 2wire 802.11g pcmcia wirless card to work.  I've tried using the official driver using ndiswrapper with no luck. when the driver is installed, it says hardware is not available.   ive read some people have been able to use the orinoco driver, but it does no support g cards...only b.  Also, interface eth1 doesnt even come up.  just eth0 (wired connection),  I used to have Debian and eth1 was detected automaticaly.  never tried configuring the card then, but i do remember the interface being available.  why wont it come up now?? pleease help.  im going crazy over this.!!

ps... im pretty newbish

---

### Post by Lambert on 2007-10-11
post the output of the following

```

sudo cardctl ident

sudo lshw 


```

on the lshw command, you can narrow your post to just the section pertaining to the pcmcia card.

---

### Post by rseldner on 2007-10-12
here's the output for those two commands...

```

sudo cardctl ident

Socket 0:
  no product info available

sudo lshw 

     *-network UNCLAIMED
          description: Network controller
          product: ISL3886 [Prism Javelin/Prism Xbow]
          vendor: Intersil Corporation
          physical id: 1
          bus info: pci@03:00.0
          version: 01
          width: 32 bits
          clock: 33MHz
          capabilities: cap_list
          configuration: latency=0 maxlatency=28 mingnt=10
          resources: iomemory:f8000000-f8001fff irq:11



```

---

### Post by Lambert on 2007-10-12
You can get this card running but it will take a little work. Basically the kernel can not read the memory on the chipset of the device, this is why you get hardware not present.

Need to figure out the exact model and numbers assigned to this device and edit a config file. 

Anything and everything on this card is needed, model #, manufacture, etc.. If it works in in windows, it's possible to get the information from there. Just need to plug in the card, go to device manager and see if it lists manid and prodid.

Basically in the file /etc/pcmcia/config.opts we need to add a section similar to this but with your devices information.

card ""Atheros Communications, Inc.", "AR5001-0000-0000", "Wireless LAN"
  manfid 0x0271, 0x0012
  function: 6 (network)
  bind "ath_pci"

The line that says manfid is what needs to be found for your device and the line bind will state what driver needs to be used for this card. the first line is just a description of the device.

There is a driver called islsm for this device but I believe we need to get a firmware file also. You can try to use this driver or ndiswrapper.

Not sure your thoughts on going through this process but buying a newer card with a better supported chipset is also an option.

---

### Post by rseldner on 2007-10-13
the card does work in windows, however i am unable to find the manfid.  before using ubuntu, i was trying out different distros... (damn small linux, debian, mandriva and a few others).  i remember on those particular three, the hardware was detected as i could see a wireless interface available.  (eth1).  i never tried getting the card to work on those since i had problems running the distros.  (random lock ups and such).  if i were to pop in the disc and run one of thos distros on livecd, is there a command i could use to see if i can get the hardware specs?

---

### Post by rseldner on 2007-10-14
i loaded up mandriva live.  A wireless interface was available so in terminal i ran pccardctl -info and it returned some bogus merchant id. 0000x0000  or something to that effect :-( not sure where to go from here

---

