---
title: "11.04 DNS errors"
date: 2011-05-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by yaw546 on 2011-05-12
I have recently upgraded to the new ubuntu 11.04 but am having problems with the internet.

Often When I try to access a website it takes a long time (5-10 minutes) to load even google, and sometimes I just get the following error message:

> 
This web page is not available
The server at google.com can't be found because the DNS lookup failed. DNS is the web service that translates a website's name to its Internet address. This error is most often caused by having no connection to the Internet or a misconfigured network. It can also be caused by an unresponsive DNS server or a firewall preventing Chromium from accessing the network.
Here are some suggestions:
Reload this web page later.
Check your Internet connection. Reboot any routers, modems or other network devices that you may be using.
Check your DNS settings. Contact your network administrator if you're not sure what this means.
Try disabling DNS prefetching by following these steps: Go to Spanner menu > Preferences > Under the Bonnet and deselect "Use DNS pre-fetching to improve page load performance".
Try adding Chromium as a permitted programme in your firewall or antivirus software's settings. If it is already a permitted programme, try deleting it from the list of permitted programmes and adding it again.
If you use a proxy server, check your proxy settings or check with your network administrator to make sure that the proxy server is working.
If you don't believe that you should be using a proxy server, try the following steps: Go to Spanner menu > Options > Under the Hood > Change proxy settings and make sure that your configuration is set to "no proxy" or "direct".
Error 105 (net::ERR_NAME_NOT_RESOLVED): Unable to resolve the server's DNS address.


I have tried to access the internet using Chrome, Firefox, Konqueror, on the Untiy Desktop, and the Classic Desktop. 

Ive checked my Proxy settings in Chrome (My main browser) and its set to direct internet connection.

Ive Disabled the UFW

Ive edited the resolv.conf which initially showed:
```

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain HG532.com
search HG532.com
nameserver 10.0.0.1

```

and edited it to:
```

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain 10.0.0.1
search 10.0.0.1
nameserver 10.0.0.1

```

and even tried the Google DNS server:
```

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain 8.8.8.8
search 8.8.8.8
nameserver 10.0.0.1

```

But nothing works. It seems like When I initially log on to the internet it runs fine, but over the coarse of 10 minutes the page loading times go down then eventually I just get the above error message.

There are other computers here running windows which connect through the same wireless fine.

HELP!!!

---

### Post by dasche on 2011-06-08
i am having similar errors but not on all websites. e.g. talk.google.com does not work and some others also. but rest works just fine.

please note that when i try to use the Ip address instead of URL, it does NOT open and same error appears


HELP

---

### Post by w1ll1am on 2011-07-31
Someone needs to fix this I am having the same problem it is getting really annoying.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-08-01
yaw546,

Firstly, welcome to the forums :)

Next, let's get down to the business. Please post the outputs of:
```
ifconfig
```(after browsing for a couple of min., to see if packets are dropping)

```
sudo lshw -C network
```(to see if you have correct driver for your wifi adapter)

```
iwconfig
```(to see signal strength, and if you have power management on)



@dasche and w1ll1am,
For now, you should just follow the thread and if you feel that your problem may be even slightly different, I'd suggest to start your own thread and post its link here so that others looking at this one can follow. Wifi problems are mostly driver related, and you all may have different devices and accordingly different drivers for them.

[B]
EDIT:[/B]
Just noticed the date of the original post #-o
Nevertheless, w1ll1am, please do as I suggested. This one is now very less likely to get any support as OP doesn't seem to need it anymore. :)

---

### Post by giruzz on 2011-08-16
> **varunendra said:**
> yaw546,

Firstly, welcome to the forums :)



I've upgraded my parents' computer and this is one of the problems I am having....

I can open pages that have been opened in the past but I can't open new pages (for example, I can open google.com but I can't open disney.com)

```
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:50:8d:4f:a7:0f  
          indirizzo inet:192.168.0.2  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Maschera:255.255.255.0
          indirizzo inet6: fe80::250:8dff:fe4f:a70f/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:18771 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:16878 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisioni:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          Byte RX:2567941 (2.5 MB)  Byte TX:6176443 (6.1 MB)
          Interrupt:23 Indirizzo base:0x2000 

lo        Link encap:Loopback locale  
          indirizzo inet:127.0.0.1  Maschera:255.0.0.0
          indirizzo inet6: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:663 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:663 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisioni:0 txqueuelen:0 
          Byte RX:32782 (32.7 KB)  Byte TX:32782 (32.7 KB)

```

No dropped packets..but I can't figure out what to do to fix this problem...when I reboot in WinXp everything works, another two laptops work too...but not Ubuntu :-(

anyone that can help?

G.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-08-16
> **giruzz said:**
> 
I can open pages that have been opened in the past but I can't open new pages (for example, I can open google.com but I can't open disney.com)
There's a possibility that your browser has been switched to "Work Offline" mode. Check this in file menu of the browser. If not, I'd suggest to start a new thread posting all the command outputs I've asked for in my previous post.


**_Edit_:**
This thread is quite old now and the OP doesn't seem active, so starting a new thread is recommended instead of posting here.

---

