---
title: "10.04 Wireless Problems Bcm 4318"
date: 2010-07-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
Hello, I am new to the forums here and I just recently decided to try out Ubuntu 10.04. When I connected to the internet with an ethernet connection.. it works perfectly, yet when I try to connect using wireless.. a whole mess of things seems to happen. 1: it won't connect to the internet. 2: the wifi l.e.d. isn't on. 3: the driver seems to be corrupt or something. If the specs of my laptop mean anything.. here they are: Compaq Presario V5306US, AMD Turion 64 Mobile @ 1.79 GHz, ATI Radeon Xpress 200, 2 Gb's of RAM, 80 Gb HDD. I am currently on Windows XP(Dual Boot using WUBI) at the moment so if you need more information.. I will be glad to go plug into the router and log into Ubuntu.

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2010-07-03
Hi Please post the output of
```
iconfig
```

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:16:d4:41:d8:62  
          inet addr:192.168.1.100  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::216:d4ff:fe41:d862/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:7678 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:4142 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:11506210 (11.5 MB)  TX bytes:289980 (289.9 KB)
          Interrupt:22 Base address:0xa000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:12 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:12 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:720 (720.0 B)  TX bytes:720 (720.0 B)

Also.. should I use the update manager to install many updates?

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2010-07-03
With a wired connection go to System>Administration>Update Manager and install all updates then restart your computer. 
Then go to System>Administration>Hardware Drivers and the computer should do a search. Once the search is complete look for the Broadcom STA wireless driver. Install that and restart the computer.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
Ok... so now I have a new problem.. after installing the new updates, my system rebooted itself like normal except GRUB won't let me boot Ubuntu at all.

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2010-07-03
well are you getting any error messages or does the screen just stay black?

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
It gives one or two brief messages then it goes to a screen that says something like press TAB for options.

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2010-07-03
okay is one of your options recovery or you can choose the headers that were installed before today?

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
Ok, disregard the GRUB issue. I did a fresh install of Ubuntu and it worked again. But now back onto the wireless problem... is there anymore info that you all need?

---

### Post by roosh on 2010-07-03
Do you have any info on your wireless card?
Please open a terminal and paste the output of the following commands:
```
lsusb
``` ```
lspci
``` ```
lsmod
```

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
lsusb:
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

lspci: 
00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 Host Bridge (rev 01)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 PCI Bridge
00:05.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS480 PCI Bridge
00:13.0 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
00:13.1 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB Host Controller
00:13.2 USB Controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 USB2 Host Controller
00:14.0 SMBus: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 SMBus Controller (rev 11)
00:14.1 IDE interface: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 IDE Controller
00:14.3 ISA bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-ISA Bridge
00:14.4 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 PCI-PCI Bridge
00:14.5 Multimedia audio controller: ATI Technologies Inc IXP SB400 AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:14.6 Modem: ATI Technologies Inc SB400 AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 02)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)
06:02.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)
06:06.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)

lsmod: 
Module                  Size  Used by
binfmt_misc                7960  1 
ppdev                      6375  0 
fbcon                      39270  71 
tileblit                    2487  1 fbcon
font                        8053  1 fbcon
bitblit                     5811  1 fbcon
softcursor                  1565  1 bitblit
vga16fb                    12757  0 
vgastate                    9857  1 vga16fb
snd_atiixp                 15234  2 
snd_atiixp_modem          11031  0 
snd_ac97_codec        125394  2 snd_atiixp,snd_atiixp_modem
snd_pcm_oss            41394  0 
ac97_bus                1450  1 snd_ac97_codec
snd_mixer_oss          16299  1 snd_pcm_oss
snd_pcm                87882  4 snd_atiixp,snd_atiixp_modem,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss
snd_seq_dummy           1782  0 
snd_seq_oss            31219  0 
arc4                    1473  2 
snd_seq_midi            5829  0 
snd_rawmidi            23420  1 snd_seq_midi
snd_seq_midi_event      7267  2 snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi
radeon                740390  3 
b43                   182322  0 
snd_seq                57481  6 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event
ttm                    60847  1 radeon
snd_timer              23649  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq
joydev                 11072  0 
snd_seq_device          6888  5 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq
drm_kms_helper         30742  1 radeon
mac80211              238448  1 b43
drm                   199204  5 radeon,ttm,drm_kms_helper
snd                    71106  15 snd_atiixp,snd_atiixp_modem,snd_ac97_codec,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_seq_oss,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
cfg80211              148546  2 b43,mac80211
soundcore               8052  1 snd
i2c_algo_bit            6024  1 radeon
snd_page_alloc          8500  3 snd_atiixp,snd_atiixp_modem,snd_pcm
i2c_piix4               9639  0 
led_class               3764  1 b43
psmouse                64576  0 
shpchp                 33711  0 
k8temp                  3912  0 
edac_core              45423  0 
video                  20623  0 
edac_mce_amd            9278  0 
lp                      9336  0 
output                  2503  1 video
serio_raw               4918  0 
parport                37160  2 ppdev,lp
8139too                22245  0 
8139cp                 19541  0 
mii                     5237  2 8139too,8139cp
ssb                    45092  1 b43
pata_atiixp             4209  2

---

### Post by roosh on 2010-07-03
After some googling, I found this page here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)

Be connected to the internet and activate a proprietary driver by simply going to: System / Administration / Hardware Drivers

See if that works.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
Would that guide work even though I have a Broadcom 4318 Wireless card(BCM 4318 and not any of the following: BCM4311, BCM4312, BCM4313, BCM4321, BCM4322, BCM43224, BCM43225

---

### Post by roosh on 2010-07-03
It looks like the guide should work. But an easier fix is simply getting the proprietary driver, as I showed in the last post. If that doesn't work, there is a simple installer on the webpage.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
So just out of curiosity.. would installing any packages from the Synaptic Package Manager like after searching for broadcom, help any?

---

### Post by roosh on 2010-07-03
There is a package that will install the device, but it is first recommended to install the proprietary driver (System / Administration / Hardware Drivers).

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
I have installed the proprietary driver and I have no luck.. it just says is the "device not ready"

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2010-07-03
Check and make sure that you did not accidentally turn off your wireless. If its a laptop it should be a FN key or a switch on the side.

---

### Post by roosh on 2010-07-03
Ok then try:
First see if your output of:

lspci -vnn | grep 14e4

matches supported devices on this page: [http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43)


If it does, then run:


sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter

in a terminal. Install it and follow the set-up. It should work when its done. If it works, uninstall the proprietary driver under System / Administration / Hardware Drivers

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
Its a button next to the power button,but anyways, well the LED is off and when I press it, nothing happens so it couldn't be that I accidentally pressed it and turned it off.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
Sorry for the double post(if I was before someone else) but it seems that when I try the sudo command.. the system says the following: E: Could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (11: Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?

---

### Post by roosh on 2010-07-03
It looks like another process is using it. Try closing all other programs. If that doesn't work, reboot.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
The only processes that are running are Firefox(Internet Browser) and Terminal just in-case someone needed some more information. But I will try the reboot method.
Well there is some good news.. the wifi button's LED is on now.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-03
Sorry for being pushy... but does anyone have an idea of whats going on with my laptop?

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2010-07-04
Hi
What happened after trying the command```
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter

```

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2010-07-04
Hi try this too.
I was planning to make a .deb file
[http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9540645](http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9540645)

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-04
> **drpjkurian said:**
> Hi
What happened after trying the command```
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter

```

This is what happened in the terminal: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
b43-fwcutter is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  linux-headers-2.6.32-21-generic linux-headers-2.6.32-21
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-04
> **drpjkurian said:**
> Hi try this too.
I was planning to make a .deb file
[http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9540645](http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9540645)

Well I tried it and no luck with this either :icon_frown:

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2010-07-05
```
ifconfig
```
please try [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1368699](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1368699)

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
I tried everything in that forum post link and nothing has worked.. I think because the OP said nothing about my wireless card. But bad news... it completely removed my wireless activity. Before this, my wireless was trying to connect to the internet but it would just keep searching for signal even though I'm beside the router. Can someone help me get my wireless back?

---

### Post by Stewie2kill on 2010-07-05
I'm not 100% sure on whether or not this will help you on 10.04 but this particular method worked for me on 9.10 and 9.04. I've had the same card as you for about 4 years and until recently when I got a new laptop have also had to deal with that pesky AirForceOne card.

Here's what I managed to dig up a while back:

Sampbar's Blog link:
     [http://sampbar.com/2009/04/broadcom-bcm4318-ubuntu-intrepid/](http://sampbar.com/2009/04/broadcom-bcm4318-ubuntu-intrepid/)

Don't worry about it saying intrepid - it's worked for me on the past 3 flavors of ubuntu and my guess is that it'd work on this one as well. Also the downloads on that page for the files aren't working so i've put them in my dropbox for you (I knew archiving them might come in handy ;))

Sampbar's Downloads:
     [http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1784906/BCM4318-Ubuntu-Intrepid.zip](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1784906/BCM4318-Ubuntu-Intrepid.zip)

don't worry about it being to complicated. He provides all the .sh files and stuff in that zip. Just follow the steps word for word and it should work. It worked for me when I was having headaches and I vowed to pass it on to someone else who had headaches with this card later on.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
Ok, thank you for posting and giving me the links.. I will try them out right now (:

Ok there is a problem... the ndiswrapper is for the 32-bit and I am running a 64-bit :/

---

### Post by Stewie2kill on 2010-07-05
There should be a copy of ndiswrapper on your installation cd if you have one. It should be located under pool -> main -> n -> ndiswrapper .

I am however going off of the 32 bit cd because I find 32 bit to be less buggy than 64 bit. However, it should still be there provided you have a cd to insert and/or mount.

EDIT: There is a chance this may not work if you're running 64 bit because it utilizes 32 bit drivers - but if I remember correctly on the laptop that had this card I was running 64bit 9.10 and it still worked. There is a way to force 32bit into 64bit but I doubt it would be a good idea in this case considering you could wind up nuking your install.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
I do have a cd but it says wrong architecture even though I installed the 64 bit version on the cd. And I was basically "forced" to get the 64 bit version due to my CPU. So I don't know how well the 32 bit version works.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
> **Stewie2kill said:**
> There should be a copy of ndiswrapper on your installation cd if you have one. It should be located under pool -> main -> n -> ndiswrapper .

I am however going off of the 32 bit cd because I find 32 bit to be less buggy than 64 bit. However, it should still be there provided you have a cd to insert and/or mount.

EDIT: There is a chance this may not work if you're running 64 bit because it utilizes 32 bit drivers - but if I remember correctly on the laptop that had this card I was running 64bit 9.10 and it still worked. There is a way to force 32bit into 64bit but I doubt it would be a good idea in this case considering you could wind up nuking your install.

Well if worse comes to worse, I'll just do a clean install and try it again.

---

### Post by Stewie2kill on 2010-07-05
sounds like the silly folks over at cannonical have provided you with the 32bit ndiswrapper on the 64bit disc - which is annoying. 

I did some research into the workings of 64bit and Ndiswrapper and have found nothing but complaints and little success. 

Curiosity might have killed the cat but I am just wondering what CPU you have that forces you to use 64bit? I don't profess to be the biggest geek in the world but I've never heard of that - technically 32bit should work fine under all CPU's I believe - the problem would lie in whether or not you have more than 4GB of RAM as I believe 32 bit only recognizes up to 4GB whereas 64bit has a much higher cap.

I can see about researching the terminal command for forcing the architecture if you like - but it does run the risk of messing up your installation of ubuntu. I've forced the architecture on programs before but never any drivers so I wouldn't know how stable that would be.


EDIT: the force architecture command is as follows. make sure to your package is under your home directory and that you replace 'nameofpackage.deb' with the package name of what you're trying to install.
> sudo dpkg -i --force-architecture nameofpackage.deb

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
Well my CPU is a AMD Turion 64 Mobile @ 1.79 GHz. Wubi made me install the 64 bit but if it helps any or messes things up more.. I did an Install Inside Windows.

And about the terminal command, that part is up to you because I am very new to this and I am just wanting some help, but I don't want to be a hassle to anyone. Especially those like you who are trying to help me.

Where is the home directory just outta curiosity?

---

### Post by Stewie2kill on 2010-07-05
home directory should be listed under you places menu as 'home folder'.

While your in your file browser it will also show up as the folder with your username on it. Just like in windows it's the folder that contains all of your subfolders like 'Music', 'Pictures', 'Videos', etc.

by the way - did you download wubi or run it off of the cd? Because I think you can run a 32bit version of ubuntu under 64bit windows.

EDIT: I just uninstalled my desktop wubi installation (it's been giving me fits anyways) and am replacing it with a 32bit version. I'm running the 32bit installer under 64bit Windows 7 install. Will keep posted on how that turns out. As for the actualy problem at hand - This is why most people suggest using a 32bit version of ubuntu for a first time try-out. The 64bit versions of linux have traditionally been unstable and buggy and often have less support than 32bit. This is changing mind you but since we're at the turning point right now it hasn't yet finished turning over.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
I found the home directory but I can't copy the ndiswrapper-utils into it.. the error is something about splicing file:input/output error

Strangely enough, I downloaded Wubi as a 32 bit version but it installed the 64bit version I believe. But its also weird that I have to run 64 bit Ubuntu inside a 32 bit Windows Xp.

---

### Post by Stewie2kill on 2010-07-05
you downloaded wubi and used it instead of using the CD then or you ran wubi off of the Ubuntu CD?

I'm successfully installing ubuntu 10.04 32bit under 64bit Windows 7 as we speak. It sounds like you may have told wubi to donwload an iso for you if you didn't use the wubi installer on your cd.

as for your input/output error. I have run into that problem before myself and am unsure of the reason for it. I have never been able to get an accurate answer as to why it does that - in fact it's one of my many reasons i switched to 32bit for the duration of 9.04 -> 9.10.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
> **Stewie2kill said:**
> you downloaded wubi and used it instead of using the CD then or you ran wubi off of the Ubuntu CD?

I'm successfully installing ubuntu 10.04 32bit under 64bit Windows 7 as we speak. It sounds like you may have told wubi to donwload an iso for you if you didn't use the wubi installer on your cd.

as for your input/output error. I have run into that problem before myself and am unsure of the reason for it. I have never been able to get an accurate answer as to why it does that - in fact it's one of my many reasons i switched to 32bit for the duration of 9.04 -> 9.10.

I downloaded it and used it instead of using the cd. But when I burned a cd.. it was the 32 bit version. Do you think I should boot into Windows and re-install Ubuntu, but try to get the 32 bit version?

---

### Post by Stewie2kill on 2010-07-05
I think ultimately you will be much happier using the 32bit version since pretty much everything has a 32bit installer and works almost flawlessly. Under 64bit things are still a bit buggy and could give you the wrong impression of Ubuntu.

If you wouldn't mind trying to install the 32bit version you might find things working a lot easier. I've got this page on refresh so I'm here if you keep encountering errors.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
Ok, I am going to boot into Windows and re-install it. I will log back into here so if I encounter errors(and I hope not) I will be able to get some help. Thank you for everything you have helped me with so far :D

Edit: How big should the install size be? right now.. Wubi automatically has got it set to 17gb out of 33. Should it take up that much space?

---

### Post by Stewie2kill on 2010-07-05
Honestly it doesn't really matter - however big you want it to be.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
> **Stewie2kill said:**
> Honestly it doesn't really matter - however big you want it to be.

Does the size matter to what options are in Ubuntu or is it the same for every size?

---

### Post by Stewie2kill on 2010-07-05
Should be the same for every install. It's just asking you how much hard-drive space you want your ubuntu install to have.

I can show you how to link all your stuff to your windows folders later on if you want which helps keep your files in Ubuntu nice and tidy and keeps your personal content synced with windows.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
> **Stewie2kill said:**
> Should be the same for every install. It's just asking you how much hard-drive space you want your ubuntu install to have.

I can show you how to link all your stuff to your windows folders later on if you want which helps keep your files in Ubuntu nice and tidy and keeps your personal content synced with windows.

That would be nice, thank you for the offer :)

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
How do I go about checking if the version that I have is indeed a 32-bit or a 64-bit version of Ubuntu?

EDIT: I have found out which version it is and what do you know... its i686(64 bit). I don't see how I could have possibly gotten the 64 bit version when I downloaded the 32 bit version from the official Ubuntu site :/

---

### Post by Stewie2kill on 2010-07-05
1686 is 32bit, not 64 bit. 

in a terminal type 
> uname -m

if the output is i686 then you're running 32bit
if the output is x86_64 then you're running 64bit.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-05
Really? I thought i383 was 32-bit because I just read that i686 was 64 bit. But I guess where ever I just read it from was wrong lol.

---

### Post by Stewie2kill on 2010-07-06
sorry for the long delay in my response. What you have running right now is a 32bit version of Ubuntu. If you can try the easy way of fixing your wireless first, which is to plug it into an ethernet connection and then check for hardware drivers. It should show a broadcom driver. If this doesn't work then try the longer way around using the guide and files I've (or rather sampbar) given for Ndiswrapper (which is normally a headache for anyone outside of moderate - advanced users to attempt).

Let me know if it works or if its still giving you fits. Onc you get the wireless fixed I think you'll find that most of any other problems you encounter will be either nonexistent or easily fixable.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-06
Its ok and sorry for my late response too. Guess what... my wireless works but I can't surf the internet. It connects(I don't know how it did) but it won't let me go to websites it just says: Unable to connect...Firefox can't establish a connection to the server at start.ubuntu.com.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-11
Does someone have an idea of why I can connect to the internet, but not actually use it wirelessly.

---

### Post by Metaljaz on 2010-07-11
Try this:

With a wired connection go to System>Administration>Synaptic Package Manager and select wicd for install. After it is installed go back and do a search for network manager. Mark it for complete removal. Once it is removed restart your computer and you will see wicd in the top right hand corner instead of the pre-installed network manager. Left click on it and set it up to connect to your wireless.

Hope this helps

This is a different wireless manager that I use with my Dell laptops and all is good.

---

### Post by staind94 on 2010-07-19
Sorry for the late reply, I was on a trip. Anyways... I had tried what you had said to do Metaljaz but there was no luck in my attempt. The internet still isn't working but the wireless is connected. I'm still new to Ubuntu so I can't think of anything that it would be.

---

