---
title: "Won't connect to dns server"
date: 2009-03-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by aypapi on 2009-03-01
I have just recently installed Ubuntu 8.10 on my laptop and I was unable to connect to the internet. Using the wonderful help feature, I was able to find out there was a problem communicating with the DNS server. This sometimes happened to me on Vista, and I knew how to fix it. However, being new to Ubuntu, I am very unfamiliar with the system as a whole. On Vista I went control panel>network and internet>network and sharing center and clicked the connection between my network and internet. After it identified the problem(which is also not connecting with the DNS server)I use
Reset network adapter "Wireless Network Connection" and the problem is usually fixed. My question is what is the Ubuntu equivalent to this action or if there is anything I can do to permanently fix this problem.
[http://s199.photobucket.com/albums/aa163/tensor153147/?action=view&current=networkcenter.jpg](http://s199.photobucket.com/albums/aa163/tensor153147/?action=view&current=networkcenter.jpg)
[http://s199.photobucket.com/albums/aa163/tensor153147/?action=view&current=networkcenter2.jpg](http://s199.photobucket.com/albums/aa163/tensor153147/?action=view&current=networkcenter2.jpg)

---

### Post by aypapi on 2009-03-04
If I reset my network adapter would that solve the problem?

---

### Post by OKKARE on 2009-03-04
You can edit the nameservers by going to Applications > Accessories > Terminal > enter "cd .." press enter, and again "cd .." and hit enter, which puts you in the / directory > then enter "sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf"

You can also edit your gateway and ip and such by entering "sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces".

Hope that helps!

Oh, and you can restart the connection by entering "sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart".

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-03-04
Hey there aypapi! First I want to see the results of a couple of commands, so open up a Terminal and type the following:
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
Once you have that, copy and paste it here on the forums, then here's another one I want:
```
iptables -L
```
So post the results here on the forum.

---

### Post by aypapi on 2009-03-06
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
The result was ```
# generated by Network Manager
nameserver 192.168.15.1
``` 
And the other one said I couldn't access it unless I was root

---

