---
title: "10.04 a g1 and easytether"
date: 2010-07-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by aircav on 2010-07-13
[B]Here is the solution:

"  I did get my connection working though.  I had to boot my Laptop with  the USB cord connected to the g1 and usb sharing selected in easytether.   Then in one terminal type "connect easytether"  You will not have to  enter the serial number if you only have one device connected.  Next  open a new terminal without closing the previous one and enter the "sudo  dhclient easytether0".  Mine worked after that.   You should get a  reply in the terminal after each command.  If all you get is another  prompt, something is wrong."[/B] 




I have a T-mo G1 and and have downloaded easytether, both the phone app and the driver for ubuntu.  The install went well with no errors.  I launch Easytether on the phone and click enable usb tethering on the G1.

I open a terminal and enter "easytether enumerate" and the response is a number I assume is my G1 serial.

Then "easytether connect (the number from above)" and this time no message.  

I disable my wifi and then try to open a page (firefox 3.6.6) and all it says is I am in offline mode.  I open network connections and dont see anything there.  

Any thoughts?

Nate

---

### Post by TheBarbee on 2010-07-15
go here and i explain it. i just got it working [http://thebarbee.blogspot.com/2010/07/easytether-for-android-ububntu-style.html](http://thebarbee.blogspot.com/2010/07/easytether-for-android-ububntu-style.html)

---

### Post by TheBarbee on 2010-07-15
oh and also make sure firefox isnt in offline mode. File> offline mode

---

### Post by aircav on 2010-07-15
Thanks Barbee, I follow your instruction and when I open the second terminal (while leaving the first open) and enter "sudo dhclient easytether0" I get the following.>  Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.3 Copyright 2004-2009 Internet Systems Consortium. All rights reserved. For info, please visit [https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/](https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/)  SIOCSIFADDR: No such device easytethero: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device easytethero: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device Bind socket to interface: No such device    I feel like Im overlooking something simple.    Thanks for the help, Nate

---

### Post by aircav on 2010-07-18
bump

---

### Post by darraughbj on 2010-07-21
aircav,
I found this thread looking to do the same tethering with my Moto Droid. I think you are indeed over-looking a simple problem. The command line for the secondly opened terminal is > sudo dhclient easytether0 and according to your error message it looks like you entered > sudo dhclient easytethero by mistake. The difference is that the last character is a zero, not an 'O' (the vowel).
I hope that it is such a simple mistake, I'm going to attempt this when I get home and I'll post an update on how it went for me.

---

### Post by aircav on 2010-07-21
> **darraughbj said:**
> aircav,
I found this thread looking to do the same tethering with my Moto Droid. I think you are indeed over-looking a simple problem. The command line for the secondly opened terminal is  and according to your error message it looks like you entered  by mistake. The difference is that the last character is a zero, not an 'O' (the vowel).
I hope that it is such a simple mistake, I'm going to attempt this when I get home and I'll post an update on how it went for me.

Darraughbj,

Thanks, but it was a typo.  I did get my connection working though.  I had to boot my Laptop with the USB cord connected to the g1 and usb sharing selected in easytether.  Then in one terminal type "connect easytether"  You will not have to enter the serial number if you only have one device connected.  Next open a new terminal without closing the previous one and enter the "sudo dhclient easytether0".  Mine worked after that.   You should get a reply in the terminal after each command.  If all you get is another prompt, something is wrong.


AirCav

---

### Post by darraughbj on 2010-07-21
Glad it worked out, can't wait to give it a go once off work.
Thanks for the extra info too.

---

### Post by Jack-87 on 2010-07-24
Hi there,

I am a noob at linux and an even bigger noob at android. But I wanted to say thanks your guide explained the commands I needed to get EasyTether to work. I have created to small executable text files the first one runs the connect command and the other one runs the so dhclient command. All you do is put in your sudo password and thats it.

I added them to my zumo drive you can download them as you wish and include them for download on your site. (dunno how long this link will be up)

[http://www.zumodrive.com/share/6u5HNzMyMj](http://www.zumodrive.com/share/6u5HNzMyMj)

-Jack87

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2010-07-29
Hi,

I recently set this up for my computer-novice sister. Whenever I try to give her directions that involve typing into a terminal, she looks at me like I'm a martian.

So, i created two scrips (that i am declaring Public Domain) and placed them on her desktop:

android-connect.sh -
```

#!/bin/bash

#replace HTblablabla with what you see when you type 'easytether enumerate' - that is your specific phone's info, and I have no way of anticipating what it is.

gnome-terminal -x easytether connect HTblablabla

```

android-verify.sh -
```
#!/bin/bash
gnome-terminal -x sudo dhclient easytether0
```

after you replace 'HTblablabla' with your phone's serial number, you should be able to double click on android-connect, double click on android-verify, enter your password (only works for users that can sudo)... and be connected just like that.


if a shell script ninja wants to join them into one script, please do and share the results.

one more thing: 

i'm thinking of adding 'killall nm-applet' to the first script, so my sister doesn't have to manually disconnect to the various auto-connected unsecured wifi networks that her neighbors have. anyone see any potential problems with that, assuming the android is the only thing the user will ever use to connect to the internet with? 

an equally effective alternative is to uncheck "network manager" from system -> preferences -> startup applications. this will prevent firefox, empathy, etc, from being confused by the presence of two internet connection things going on at once.

---

### Post by wildman4god on 2010-09-11
I have made a rudimentary combined autorun script, it can be run as auto run software from the root directory of your android sd card so it connects automatically on dock, or can be run as a normal script manually from your desktop. Now I have had some problems with it, probably due to not being able to disconnect easytether correctly. If anyone wants to pick up the ball and improve this script with a simple zenity interface then by all means.

---

### Post by linwiz on 2010-11-17
while this thread is aged, i contacted easytether devs, and they "will be releasing the version that integrates into network-manager soon". i was hoping for a better solution than what i saw here until then.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2010-11-18
> **linwiz said:**
> while this thread is aged, i contacted easytether devs, and they "will be releasing the version that integrates into network-manager soon". i was hoping for a better solution than what i saw here until then.

They said the same thing to me in an e-mail about as old as this thread.

Clearly, "soon" may not mean the same thing to you and I as it does to the easytether developers.

---

