---
title: "Trouble setting up my network!"
date: 2011-04-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by slashwannabe94 on 2011-04-07
Hello all, 

I understand that my routers ip address is 192.168.1.1 and that, my router is configured to assign ip's using DHCP and a range of 192.168.1.2 - 192.168.1.4. I have also in network manager set it to manual. see screenshot. What i do not understand is why my machine is being given the ip address of 192.168.1.1, instead of the range i specified on the router. My main machine uses ethernet to connect.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-04-07
You asked for 192.168.1.1 for the IP address of the computer. That's wrong, as it's already the IP address of the router. Are you trying to set a static IP address? If not, change the method to DHCP and not manual. No further details need be set.

If you do want a static IP address, the address should be 192.168.1.5 or some other address outside the DHCP range in the router. The gateway should be 192.168.1.1.

---

### Post by slashwannabe94 on 2011-04-07
Here is the laydown. My two machines laptop and desktop are both running ubuntu 10.04. My only method of accessing the internet is through a GSM dongle (t-mobile). So i have to share this internet connection too all other machines that are wired and wirelessly connected. I use dhcp3 and firestarter to manage these connections. Now if i set my router to DHCP and have my dongle connected at the same time, i can then no longer browse the internet. But when the router is set to manual i can then browse. It's complicated and quite annoying as every time i successfully have this set up, something goes wrong. I know this is not much help and hardly worth i reply, but i believe it's important you understand what i'm trying to achieve.  Below is my dhcpd.conf file. 
      
# DHCP configuration generated by Firestarter
ddns-update-style interim;
ignore client-updates;

subnet 192.168.1.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
        option routers 192.168.1.1;
        option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
        option domain-name-servers 149.254.230.7, 149.254.192.126;
        option ip-forwarding off;
        range dynamic-bootp 192.168.1.2 192.168.1.4;
        default-lease-time 21600;
        max-lease-time 43200;
}

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-04-07
So, the computer in question **is** the router, correct? So the ethernet connection eth0 connects to the dongle. What is the other interface that serves the internet to other computers? If this is really an internet connection sharing issue, I am not your best source.

---

### Post by slashwannabe94 on 2011-04-07
1 laptop, 1 desktop, 1 router and 1 dongle. They make up my network. the laptop connects to the router via wlan, the desktop connects to the router via eth0 and the dongle which is a (pppo) device. 

so my dongle is connected to my main pc (server), and it is also connected to the router via ethernet. I want my router to share this internet connection to any machine connected on wlan and ethernet interfaces. 

Hope that cleared it up a little bit for you man :)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-04-07
Why not?

Internet --> Dongle --> Router --(wired or wireless)--> All Computers

In that way, all computers have internet access and file sharing.

---

### Post by smurphy_it on 2011-04-07
Can you provide any information from your router.  Sounds like your router and your server are running DHCP.  If your router is configured for DHCP and the server is as well, it can cause some problems.

You should provide some information from your router, and it's config.  Importantly, it's IP, subnet info, DNS info, and DHCP info.  If you changed the router to "static/manual" for dhcp, make sure you also provide the DNS info.

---

### Post by slashwannabe94 on 2011-04-08
> **chili555 said:**
> Why not?

Internet --> Dongle --> Router --(wired or wireless)--> All Computers

In that way, all computers have internet access and file sharing.

thats correct. 
My router is a D-Link DSL-2640R

I have decided that it would be more suitable for such a small network to use static ip's instead. I have disabled dhcp in the router. I hope i'm doing this right, but i have took a screenshot of the ethernet settings using network manager. I am still unable to have ethernet and my dongle running at the same time. I think this may have something to do with traffic not being forwarded properly. P.S i gained the dns information using the command "dig dns". 

Thanks for helping by the way, guys :) 

SlashWannabe94

---

