---
title: "DNS not resolving, Ubuntu 10.04 VmWare Player 4.0"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by PhoenixKsE on 2011-10-14
Hello,

I am new to Linux and these forums, but I like to think I'm fairly good with computers in general.  Anyway, I made an Ubuntu 10.04 VM using VMWare 4.0 (most recent version), and I can connect to the network just fine.

I am able to ping my windows box (which the vm is on) as well as the gateway from the VM, and visa-versa.  I am also able to ping ip addresses outside of my network (i.e. google's ip address, newegg's ip address, etc.).  I am unable to ping any server names, however, such as google.com or newegg.com.

Using NAT as the network interface for the VM works just fine, but that uses my windows IP to connect, rather than being a separate host altogether.  I would rather use bridged, which connects it directly to the physical network with its own IP and MAC and such.

I have tried editing the /etc/resolv.conf to include both the dns server in my windows' ipconfig /all as well as the two dns servers my router lists in its settings -- no go.

I've also tried using a static IP by editing /etc/network/interfaces -- no go.

Any help would be awesome with this.  It is a wired connection, the mac is set correctly, the IPs are set how I want them, just no DNS resolution.

~PhoenixKsE

---

### Post by PhoenixKsE on 2011-10-17
Bump.

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-10-17
If its not too confidential or exposing anything private on your network,
could you spot results for /etc/resolv.conf 

Could you try a trace also?
in a terminal 
```
sudo tcpdump -vvv -s 1600 -i any port 53
```

Then ping google.com in another window

---

### Post by PhoenixKsE on 2011-10-20
Sorry it's been so long.  I'm booting up my Linux VM right now.

Okay, I grabbed some results for you.

The **resolv.conf** stuff:

When i have it set to automatic

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.42.87



When i set it to manual and use the DNS servers my router says it is using
(these are working just fine on the host computer)

nameserver 68.87.85.102
nameserver 68.87.69.150




**tcpdump output** when pinging google.com and when pinging the ip address for google.com

The things in [brackets] basically just mean that the different repeats of these lines have different numbers or whatever.  does that make sense?  I just tried to make it easier to copy, because I don't know how to paste my VM's clipboard to Windows.


[looks like a timestamp] (tos 0x0, ttl 64, id 13107, offset 0, flags [DF], proto UDP (17), length 65)
    [computerName.local.numbers] > [gateway ip.domain]: [udp sum ok] [numbers+] PTR? 87.42.168.192.in-addr.arpa. (44)


It seems to repeat this format over and over again until I ctrl-C


when I ping google.com it times out, when I ping the ip address for google.com I get replies.

Hope this helps!

~PhoenixKsE

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-10-20
So, resolution to or 192.168.X.87 does not work but to the 68 address works?

Is 87 a DNS server? It appears not to be from the info you posted below?

Im sure I missed something in your explanation!

---

### Post by PhoenixKsE on 2011-10-20
I'm not quite sure what you're asking, so I'll take a stab at it.

The ip address 87.42.168.192 is my gateway's ip reversed.  I read somewhere that linux does this for some reason... I just don't remember what that reason is.

The ip addresses from the resolv.conf are as follows:

192.168.42.87 is my gateway (wireless router -- the host computer is plugged in to this directly)

68.87.85.102
and the other 68.x.x.x address -- these are the dns servers that my router is set to use, and my host computer uses the router (192.168.42.87) as its dns server.  this all works fine.  


The problem must be that I don't know how to properly tell linux where it should get its dns.  I must be doing something wrong.

Either that, or it is vmWare itself, but I can't find any articles about dns not resolving with a vm, and every vm I've used at school (with some form of Windows install) resolves dns just fine.

I really think it has something to do with linux.

I hope this helps clarify.

---

### Post by PhoenixKsE on 2011-10-21
UPDATE: Fixed. (Totally by accident)

I was working on installing my vmware tools and was told [(here)]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-install-vmware-tools-in-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx.html") to do this:

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get upgrade


And suddenly it was fixed.  I thought of trying to ping after I saw resolution of a domain name while apt-get was upgrading, and lo and behold, replies from google.com!

Done deal.  Can't believe it was so simple.  :)

~PhoenixKsE

---

