---
title: "802.11n mini PCI express recommendations?"
date: 2009-01-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Aaron44126 on 2009-01-27
Hi, I was wondering if someone could recommend a mini PCI express 802.11n card that works reliably in Ubuntu 8.10.

I currently have an Atheros AR5008-based card that works out of the box in Ubuntu with the ath9k kernel module.  However, it is certainly not reliable, as it frequently drops connections, offers slow throughput, often does work after hibernate/resume, etc.  I've already put some effort into getting it working better, but nothing seems to help.  I'm hopeful that improvements to ath9k in 2.6.28 will make this card more usable in Ubuntu 9.04, after all, it's a solid card, worked great in Windows, and is included with some models of the MacBook Pro.  However, whenever I've tried to install and use a more current version of the ath9k module, my system becomes unstable (periodic kernel panic even though the wireless card does work better).

So, I thought I'd ask you folks if anyone is using an 802.11n card that also works out of the box and reasonably reliably, or what your experiences have been with other 802.11n cards.

Some notes...
 - As I've said, it needs to be mini PCI express.
 - I've done some reading and I'm not sure if *any* card offers 802.11n throughput on Ubuntu yet?  This doesn't really matter to me, I'd be happy waiting until 9.04 or later for high speed if that's how it is, I just would like to have a card that works well in Ubuntu and is ready for the future.

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by flubio123 on 2009-03-06
Bump 

I would also like to know this as I am looking into upgrading my mini pci-e A/B/G card to one that supports wireless n.

---

### Post by Aaron44126 on 2009-03-06
I have since purchased an Intel 4695AGN card.  It was a little funny behaving at first, but after I installed the backport modules, it works great.  (Note: 802.11n is not supported in Ubuntu yet so you won't be able to connect at higher than 54 mpbs to an access point, unless you use ndiswrapper and a Windows driver.)

---

### Post by flubio123 on 2009-03-06
What about the Atheros based cards? Aren't there any mini-pci express cards that can take advantage of the open source Atheros drivers which were released last summer?

---

### Post by mpsii on 2009-03-06
I just purchased a Gigabyte GN-WI03N-RH MIMO 802.11n mini-pci card for my Toshiba 8200 notebook.

My notebook originally came with an option for 802.11g, so I only have 2 of the 3 antennas. Research on Gigabyte's support site shows that they have Linux drivers.

I will let you know my results.

---

### Post by flubio123 on 2009-03-06
Thanks for the suggestion mpsii but I am specifically looking for the *mini* pci-e form. I really wanted to use something that is less hacky and glitchy and more integrated into the OS. Does the Intel card fit the bill?

---

### Post by Aaron44126 on 2009-03-06
The Intel card is mini PCI-e, and Intel provides drivers.

I switched from an Atheros-based card because it was not working well.  Specifically, I was using an Atheros AR5008.

---

### Post by mpsii on 2009-03-06
> **flubio123 said:**
> Thanks for the suggestion mpsii but I am specifically looking for the *mini* pci-e form. I really wanted to use something that is less hacky and glitchy and more integrated into the OS. Does the Intel card fit the bill?

From my research the Intel cards in PCI-E are all supported. I don't know about 802.11n support though.

---

### Post by mpsii on 2009-03-09
Just as FYI (not to thread-jack), my Gigabyte card came today. After installation of the card and a fresh install of Xubuntu 8.10, I get the following in the lspci -v command:

```
$ sudo lspci -v
02:0c.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR5008 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
	Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device e914
	Flags: bus master, 66MHz, medium devsel, latency 168, IRQ 11
	Memory at f7db0000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64K]
	Capabilities: [40] #80 [0000]
	Kernel driver in use: ath9k
	Kernel modules: ath9k

```

Currently, I have not configured it because of a lack of utilities in Xubuntu. I am installing Ubuntu-Desktop package and am switching to Ubuntu (Gnome) to see how it handles auto-detection and setup.

---

### Post by flubio123 on 2009-03-09
Keep us updated.

---

