---
title: "8.10 drops network connections on big files"
date: 2009-01-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by wriggary on 2009-01-21
Hi, recently I have been having a problem streaming large files, i.e. youtube, vimeo, metacafe, and also downloading large files through Firefox, i.e. the Sauerbraten installer from sourceforge, and using apt-get to install Blender.

I say these files are large, not due to my system resources, but due to my bandwidth.  I'm on a 384k/128k wireless cable connection.  I stay with these people because a 1.5m/256k line in Idaho Falls still goes for around $40 a month, whereas my 384k is 18.89 including taxes.  You don't even want to know what a 5-9 mbps goes for...

Now, I know at these speeds, instant video streaming isn't possible, but usually I could just pause the playback and wait for it to buffer up a good bit of the movie.  But i'm starting to notice that it stops streaming (as indicated by the activity light on my router) about 30 seconds to two minutes into the stream, and can't really force it to restart the stream.

Also, while trying to download the Sauerbraten tarball (~300mb), it would make it 15-20 MB into the file, and stop.  Tried different mirrors for the file, and no luck, stop in roughly the same 15-20 MB range.

And lastly, while trying to install Blender from the ubuntu repos, apt-get would happily and efficiently chug away at the GET's, until it got to a big package (~22mb), then it would stop.  So, i would ctrl-c it, and run the install operation again, and it would stop in a few seconds.  I did notice, however, that when i opened a firefox window and did a google search for my symptoms, apt-get would magically start downloading again, until i about two minutes after it loaded the page.  

Weird.

Oh, and this is a desktop computer connected to a wrt54gv8 (stock firmware v.5) by ethernet.  Where would I look in my logs/settings to figure out what is going on? and if its the pc/router/isp closing these connections?  The ISP knows nothing of Linux, so they're no help.  

Here is what i've tried already.

My wife's (vista) laptop exhibits none of these symptoms.  And yes, I did click off her wireless card to clear up the symptoms.  These two computers should be the only two on the network, unless someone has cracked my wpa2.

I've checked the resolv.conf for weird entries, but nothing out of the ordinary. I have my isp's primary dns followed by 4.2.2.1 and then the secondary isp dns server.  Also tried moving 4.2.2.1 up to the first position, then restart networking... no change.

I've uninstalled network manager (did this when it ran 8.04).  Its a desktop and the lan side ip doesn't need to change very much, so i just specified the ip/gw in the interfaces file. 

I do have the proposed updated enabled, so I could get the new fglrx driver, so i can play games :).  fglrx now works great for me, no more segfaults, but i'm worried another proposed package broke the network.

Any help would be greatly appreciated, and will earn you many thanks for your profile.

---

