---
title: "11.04 Freezes on heavy network use"
date: 2011-12-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cbanakis on 2011-12-19
This is a first for me.
Ubuntu is actually freezing on me.
(All the way frozen, only remedy is a hard power cycle)

Running an Asus All-in-one PC (ET2410UITS)

Looks like it uses a realtek card

Everything works fine in windows, but in ubuntu when I perform more taxing network tasks, the system locks up.

Looks like the driver Ubuntu is using is r8169


I was showing Ubuntu off to a friend, telling him how its so great, and then I felt sorta like Bill Gates when it froze on me.  (So embarrassing)


Seems to work fine for the most part, but large file transfers (20GB+) and searching a network drive cause the system to freeze.

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-12-19
Hi,

please show:

```
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
```

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2011-12-19
03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) [168c:002b] (rev 01)
    Subsystem: AzureWave Device [1a3b:1089]
    Kernel driver in use: ath9k
--
05:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller [10ec:8168] (rev 06)
    Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. P8P67 Deluxe Motherboard [Realtek RTL8111E] [1043:8432]
    Kernel driver in use: r8169


Sorry, I never figured out how to put it in a fancy box in here.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2011-12-19
Replace the driver r8169 with the "real" one r8168 for the device [10ec:8168]:

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-headers-$(uname -r) build-essential dkms
wget http://r8168.googlecode.com/files/r8168-8.027.00.tar.bz2
tar xvf r8168-8.027.00.tar.bz2
cd r8168-8.027.00/
sudo sh ./autorun.sh
```
You should also install the metapackage for the header-files suitable to your kernel architecture (generic, generic-pae, whatever)

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2011-12-19
> **praseodym said:**
> Replace the driver r8169 with the "real" one r8168 for the device [10ec:8168]:

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-headers-$(uname -r) build-essential dkms
wget http://r8168.googlecode.com/files/r8168-8.027.00.tar.bz2
tar xvf r8168-8.027.00.tar.bz2
cd r8168-8.027.00/
sudo sh ./autorun.sh
```You should also install the metapackage for the header-files suitable to your kernel architecture (generic, generic-pae, whatever)


Looks like that did it.

Thank you very much for the idea, and especially for the step by step instructions on carrying out that idea.

---

