---
title: "Cellular Internet Setup, Sierra Wireless Compass 597"
date: 2009-07-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Valadur on 2009-07-15
OK, I have looked all over for help with this and no forum posts have what I am looking for, at least none I can find.

I have a Ubuntu 8.04 LTS box that I am attempting to hookup a Sierra Wireless cellular modem, model Compass 597. I have found various people saying they have it working on a similar system but only on old posts for sites I am not registered with and with no indication as too how. Now you roughly know my background.

So I have this system with the proper drivers installed as per Sierra Wireless's website. I am running a new enough kernel (obviously) I have the pppd scripts and both the KPPP and Gnome PPP packages installed. on the KPPP my log always read as follows when I attempt to connect:
ATZ
OK
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
ATM1L1
OK
ATDT#777
NO CARRIER

Expecting: CONNECT


with Gnome PPP I keep getting:
--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Cannot get information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATX3
ATX3
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM1L1DT#777
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM1L1DT#777

I have setup usbserial correctly I think, as per instructions from a forum post that worked for others. I just dont understand why it will not connect.

For reference what I am attempting to do is create a router for my sierra wireless USB adapter to my home network using my old PC. It exceeds all the minimum requirements by a fair bit so it should work. Currently its just the USB adapter holding me back. The PC detects the modem but can not seem to use it. Please help.

---

### Post by Valadur on 2009-07-17
What I discovered. Read it all before attempting.  WALKTHROUGH AT BOTTOM!

Sierra wireless' website offers limited support. The do however offer drivers.
[www.sierrawireless.com](www.sierrawireless.com)

The username and password, which are not documented by the support links on Sierra Wireless' website are available from the USB modem itself if you first connect it to a Windows box and install it there. At which point you click Tools -> Options and search following windows for the Profiles tab which will contain all the pertinent information. The Password will be starred out but is likely the ESN of the device. If not, the password can be obtained by using 'Cain and Abel' (which will be flagged as malware by your AV but isn't).

Install the device to your linbox as per the instruction from Sierra Wireless.

Ubuntu 8.10 seems to work better at recognizing this device than older versions. This is despite the fact the 8.04 LTS has a kernel identified by Sierra Wireless as being fully compatible. I believe this is due to a better Network Manager built to recognize these modems, this is my personal belief and lacks further evidence.

Nobody on any forum anywhere seems to be of assistance in this case, likely because of the diversity of cellular modems and ISP's  coupled with the rarity of people using them who also use linux and lack of support from said ISP's and manufacturers for linux. 

IT IS POSSIBLE TO DO!

I believe the following is the necessary action.

Step One: Activate your USB modem on a Windows machine. Linux machine activation is likely possible but why bother when it is just as easy or MUCH EASIER to activate on a winbox. you could even get your dealer to do it for you if they are willing.

Step Two: Have Ubuntu 8.10 or newer.

Step Three: Plug in your USB cellular modem.

Step Four: Left click on the network icon by the clock and select the relevant 'Mobile Broadband' connection and connect.

Step Five: Check your email, its that easy.

NOTE: I am attempting to ugrade my Ubuntu 8.04 LTS box to a Ubuntu 8.10 box as I type this on my Ubuntu 8.10 Notebook which is running a Sierra Wireless Compass 597 (CDMA) internet connection. If problems accrue I will try to document them in this thread to assist others who are experiencing similar issues.

---

### Post by Valadur on 2009-07-22
Everything seems to work fine. The Network manager has a share connection setting for the wired port as I hoped. The only issue I am having is when the unit dc's you need to go to the other room to fix it but whatever.

---

