---
title: "8.10 wireless"
date: 2008-10-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by fearful on 2008-10-04
Hello, I just upgraded to ubuntu 8.10. Everything seems to be going smooth. Ubuntu recognizes my wireless card, but when it tries to connect it doesn't establish the connection and after a while of trying it just stops and says network connection not established. I'm currently connected Locally, and it works fine. Anyone know why wireless won't work? I got a HP DV6426us with Intel/PRO Wireless 356

---

### Post by Sub101 on 2008-10-04
This sometimes happens with my HP. To fix it I generally have to turn off the wireless switch until the nm-applet shows the 2 pcs and exclamation. Then turn it back on. 

If that doesn't work I restart X with Crtl-Alt-Backspace.

---

### Post by fearful on 2008-10-04
> **Sub101 said:**
> This sometimes happens with my HP. To fix it I generally have to turn off the wireless switch until the nm-applet shows the 2 pcs and exclamation. Then turn it back on. 


Can you walk me through the nm-applet, never heard of this before

---

### Post by Sub101 on 2008-10-04
The icon that by default loads in the top right panel. When you are trying to connect it has a green circle and a dark circle above it. When you are connected it shows the signal strength as bars

---

### Post by fearful on 2008-10-04
Yea I'm not receiving any connection, I'll try to restart the X server. Whats wierd is that it worked perfectly in 8.04.

---

### Post by kdcoetzee on 2008-10-04
Post your output of these commands.

```
sudo iwevent
```

and startup a tail on your messages log

```
tail -f /var/log/messages 
```

Only wireless related of course. 


I was so hoping that the wireless problems was sorted in 8.10
Hope it is because you are using the beta.

---

### Post by sskb on 2009-01-18
Hi,

I use Ubuntu 8.10 on an Acer Aspire5920. Prior to this I was using Ubuntu 7.x

It was all working fine until I upgraded to 8.10 and since then I've been having lot of issues with my wireless.

First, the Wireless On/Off button does not work. It works partially just to turn off sometimes, but once turned off, I can not turn on using the same button which used to work fine in 7.x.

When I turn the computer on, it sometimes shows the Network Icon and sometimes doesn't. Sometimes it connects to the network without any effort at all. Sometimes, I have to right click and "Enable Wireless", and sometimes this option is grayed out!
Sometimes if I just restart, it works. Sometimes after a brief hibernation, it works.. 

I'm not an expert user, but have minimal idea of networks and stuff. 

Can someone help me understand what I need to do to get this straightened.

Thanks a lot!
sskb

---

### Post by lafollette8 on 2009-01-19
I installed 8.10 and all went great except I couldn't get wireless to work. Running updates (there were 220 available) helped a little--at least the operating system recognized that the wireless was available. 

**The fix** was to install Broadcom drivers (not Ubuntu supported). On restart, everything worked like a charm. I have an HP with dual boot to Windows Vista.

---

### Post by konrad.roeder on 2009-02-20
notes:
Computer: Toshiba A215 S4747

Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 01)
Atheros Communications Inc. AR242x 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)

Memory: 3.7 GiB
Processor 0: AMD Turion 64x2 Mobile Technology TL-52
Processor 1: AMD Turion 64x2 Mobile Technology TL-52

Available disk space: 24.6 GiB

OS: Unbuntu 8.10(Intrepid) 
    Kernel Linux 2.6.27-7-generic
    GNOME 2.24.1

User: Konrad, a newbie

Steps I have taken so far:
1) System>Preferences>Network configuration
Under wireless, added SSID without security.  The wireless modem has been configured to match

2) Laptop
Wi-Fi radio on; works under Vista

3) Network Manager Applet 0.7.0
enabled for networking
shows no network connections
only shows wired network, no wireless network

Eth0 does work when connecting to router using a dProcessor 0: AMD Turion 64x2 Mobile Technology TL-52irect connection to switch/router/access point combo with ethernet cable.

4) System>Administration>Hardware Drivers
Support for Atheros 802.11 wireless LAN cards enabled.

5) System>Administration>Network Tools
Shows only two interfaces available - lo and eth0

Driver problem?  Bug in Network Manager?
Clearly no driver is running to create the interface

Next steps:
Will try to find out if system update will cure the situation.
Then perhaps try a different driver.

1) I read somewhere that they had luck with the mad-wifi-hal-0.10.5.6-current.tar.gz driver.  I installed it with the following commands:
$ tar -zxvf madwifi-hal-0.10.5.6-current.tar.gz
$ sudo make install
$ sudo modprobe ath_pci
$ sudo modprobe wlan_scan_sta
This did not work either.
2) I added my information for my T-Mobile 8230 curve which can provide Internet over a cable to see if the other interfaces also come up.  nope.  I rebooted the laptop.
3) The wireless interface (wi-fi) came up, but my GPRS connection was not on the list of interfaces.
So I used this opportunity to download and install the updates - all 288 of them.
4) When the laptop re-booted, the wi-fi interface was gone.

Next steps:
Out of ideas.

---

