---
title: "12.04 wifi trouble"
date: 2012-05-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Erudhalion on 2012-05-25
I've recently upgraded to 12.04.
 
Recently my connection has started to play up: it will occasionally become incredibly slow (or possibly stop working altogether) for about 5-10 minutes, then work normally for another 5-10 minutes, then slow down again and go on like this for a few cycles.
 
This only happens when I use my home network, it works fine with other networks (in university, other home wifi etworks etc.).
 
When it stops working, it still says I'm connected to my home wifi, but if I try to connect to a site, it sits there trying to load, and occasionally then says "cannot find server at" whatever website I was trying to get to. I've also tried to ping various addresses form terminal, and I can't get anything.
 
I have also tried to use a wired connection, but all I get is a notice saying "wired connection disconnected - you are now off line" every few seconds.
 
does anybody know whats happening? Thanks in advance.
 
I'm using a 2 and a half year old HP Pavilion dv6. "lspci -nn | grep 0280" returns 
02:00.0 Network Controller [0280]: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 5100 AGN [Shiloh] Network Connection [8086:4237]

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-05-26
Hi, please open a terminal ctrl+alt+t copy and paste the following commands into it one line at a time, then paste the results here:

cat /etc/lsb-release; uname -a
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
iwconfig
rfkill list all
lsmod
by clicking on new reply and click # and paste the information between the brackets.
Thank you

---

