---
title: "12.04 wireless issue - driver is active, but no networks"
date: 2013-09-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by rillidyll on 2013-09-18
subject line is from an earlier, year-ago post to the forums re this issue discovered via a google-search but states my issue succinctly. i don't know what you'll need from me first but this is my machine:

HP-Compaq-6910p, Memory 3.9 GiB, Processor Intel Core 2 Duo CPU T7100 @ 1.80GHz x 2, 32-bit, 153.3 GB

doing the additional-drivers via system-settings i get:

This package contains Broadcom 802.11 Linux STA wireless driver for use with Broadcom's BCM4311-, BCM4312-, BCM4313-, BCM4321-, BCM4322-, BCM43224-, and BCM43225-, BCM43227- and BCM43228-based hardware.

also stating "this driver is activated and currently in use."

somehow arriving at this page:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx#Installing%20STA%20drivers](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx#Installing%20STA%20drivers)

and doing lspci -vvnn | grep 14e4 i got:

10.00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4311 802.11a/b/g [14e4:4312] (rev 02)

which i learn tells me my Chip ID is BCM4311 and PCI-ID is [14e4:4312] but after that i sort of lose it which is why i'm posting as an absolute beginner tho i've been using ubuntu (and facing this same wireless issue each time i install with a live CD) since 2009.

oh, and btw? i'm not seeing any way to copy/paste terminal outputs. help here, as well?

i know one of you tech-savvy gurus will be able to make short work of my problem in no time flat, as you have in the past. i wait patiently for the help from on high but will as likely plod on myself in the meantime. who knows, i may get lucky and stumble onto the solution buried somewhere in these forums that totally matches my profile.

=0)

ps: doing the "check if already posted" just nets me the one post already mentioned in my first paragraph:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=713626](http://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=713626)

---

### Post by zKhtdyX on 2013-10-31
There is a problem with the current sta driver and bcm4311 for quite a long time: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bcmwl/+bug/732677](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bcmwl/+bug/732677)

Please remove the bcmwl package (because it blacklists the b43 module) and try using the b43 driver.
```

sudo apt-get purge bcmwl-kernel-source
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter firmware-b43-installer
sudo modprobe b43

```

---

### Post by rillidyll on 2013-11-20
Resolved. User was ignorant of a hardware switch.   :oops:

---

