---
title: "WEP problems"
date: 2009-11-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by MrDead on 2009-11-30
After upgrading to 9.10 beta, then trying to upgrade using the alternate install disc for the full version (because of the same problem) I ended up having to do a completely new installation. Anyhow the problem still stands: my internet card works and it detects available wireless networks, the only thing is that after entering the key in, it will attempt to connect, then after a min or so, it will ask for the key again, ad infinitum. The upshot is that I can't connect to the internet at all. Right now I'm on Windows 7 RC. If anyone has any suggestions, that would be great.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-11-30
Are you sure you are using the correct encryption for your network?  If you are using WEP there are 2 types.

---

### Post by MrDead on 2009-11-30
I'm pretty sure I have the right one (128 bit), but I've tried both of them anyway. Right now I'm gonna boot into ubuntu and patch nm to it's latest version, and see if it works.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-11-30
Good idea.  If that fails i have found that another network client has solved similar problems for people in the past.  It is called WICD.  If you cant get network manager to work try it out.

---

### Post by MrDead on 2009-11-30
OK, after forgetting the systray applet part of NM, I finally got it working after uninstalling WICD (which didn't work) and I found out that it didn't improve anything. The same problem persists. In WICD it gets stuck on obtaining an IP adress, with NM it repeatedly asks for the key. Any ideas?

---

### Post by Manyette on 2009-11-30
Probably off base, but I generally use one of the keys generated by Gibson Research.  I think it's [www.grc.com](www.grc.com), but you can google for it.  Great source of keys, and I'd recommend you go up to WPA2 personal.  I know that works because it's what I'm using.  Just a thought.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-11-30
Did you try upgrading network manager with some stable PPA's?

---

### Post by MrDead on 2009-12-01
What does that mean? I downloaded it from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/net/network-manager](http://packages.ubuntu.com/karmic/net/network-manager) and then the gnome applet separately.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-01
1)  Open System>Admin>Software sources
2)  Third party software tab
3)  Add the following line.......
deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/network-manager/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/network-manager/ppa/ubuntu) jaunty main 

4)  You will need a keyfile so go to authentication tab.
5)  Right click [this]("http://keyserver.ubuntu.com:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x248DD1EEBC8EBFE8") and save to desktop.
6)  Import key file option on authentication tab.
7)  Import the key you just downloaded
8/ Update with sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
9)  Restart

---

### Post by MrDead on 2009-12-01
> **MrDead said:**
>  The upshot is that I can't connect to the internet at all. Right now I'm on Windows 7 RC. 

I'm not on ubuntu right now, and I have no way of connecting when I am on it, so I can't use apt-get update or anything. If there's some way to do that from a different hard drive that might work.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-01
Oh my mistake.  When you installed WICD did you restart the x server?

---

### Post by wal1970 on 2009-12-01
Hi I'm using xubuntu 9.10 an I having the same problem   I need help Please also my usb is edimax ew-8711un  my cp is a china nade  w/ inter M on it  I need lot of help please Thanks for any help :(

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-01
> **wal1970 said:**
> Hi I'm using xubuntu 9.10 an I having the same problem   I need help Please also my usb is edimax ew-8711un  my cp is a china nade  w/ inter M on it  I need lot of help please Thanks for any help :(


I suggest you start a new thread.  You will receive more help that way.  :)

---

### Post by MrDead on 2009-12-01
I had restarted the computer a number of times after installing WICD, but I never purposefully restarted only the x server (nor do I know how =P).

---

### Post by mo.reina on 2009-12-01
have you tried connecting manually?

disable the NM wireless capability (right click the NM icon and uncheck Enable Wireless)

go to terminal

```

sudo ifconfig wlan0 up
sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
sudo iwconfig wlan0 essid "*essid name*" channel *channel number* mode managed key *key*
sudo dhclient
```

note: this only works on wep, not WPA.  also if your key is a string you'll have to append **s:** at the beginning (**key s:***key*).

an example:
```
mo@mo-laptop:~$ sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
wlan0     Scan completed :
          Cell 01 - Address: 00:12:17:FF:61:55
                    ESSID:"linksys"
                    Mode:Master
                    Channel:6
                    Frequency:2.437 GHz (Channel 6)
                    Quality=100/100  Signal level:-40 dBm  Noise level=-94 dBm
                    Encryption key:off
                    Bit Rates:1 Mb/s; 2 Mb/s; 5.5 Mb/s; 11 Mb/s; 18 Mb/s
                              24 Mb/s; 36 Mb/s; 54 Mb/s; 6 Mb/s; 9 Mb/s
                              12 Mb/s; 48 Mb/s
                    Extra:tsf=0000000048afd187
                    Extra: Last beacon: 16ms ago

mo@mo-laptop:~$ sudo iwconfig essid "linksys" channel 6 mode managed key off
mo@mo-laptop:~$ sudo dhclient

```

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-01
Do you know if your encryption is a pass phrase or hexadecimal??

PS:  TO troubleshoot you can temporarily turn off the network encryption and try to connect.  If you can connect then there is something you are doing wrong with the encryption key.

---

### Post by MrDead on 2009-12-02
OK, so far I tried manually connecting, and that didn't work. I'll try disabling the password protection, and I'll report back with what happens.

---

### Post by pbrane on 2009-12-02
What kind of wireless router do you have? On mine (linksys) I can set a passphrase and generate a key from that. Then in Ubuntu I can connect using 128-bit passphrase instead of having to type in the long 26 character hex string. It really sounds like you aren't entering the correct passphrase or key. If it works without encryption enabled then it may be that.

---

### Post by MrDead on 2009-12-02
I have an actiontec router and an Hawking 300N extender which only complicates things. I know I have the correct key because it works on the same machine w/ windows. It's a 10 character hex key. But taking off the encryption might mess up other people on the network which is why it's taking so long for me to run any kind of diagnostics, but I really appreciate the help everyone.

---

### Post by msbohn on 2009-12-05
If you have a 10 digit hex key your WEP is 64 bit, at least according to my Linksys router.  I'm trying to get my 1st-time Ubuntu install to connect to my wireless and it seems like that WEP option is not available on Ubuntu.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-12-05
> **MrDead said:**
> I have an actiontec router and an Hawking 300N extender which only complicates things. I know I have the correct key because it works on the same machine w/ windows. It's a 10 character hex key. But taking off the encryption might mess up other people on the network which is why it's taking so long for me to run any kind of diagnostics, but I really appreciate the help everyone.That is a hex key. It should go in 'WEP 40/128-bit HEX key' with all letters, if any, in lower case, thus:```
083f123c41
```

---

