---
title: "14.04 - Wi-fi Connection Unstable (iwlwifi driver)"
date: 2014-05-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by chris214 on 2014-05-06
Ever since upgrading to 14.04 on my Dell XPS 13, I have seen issues with my Wi-Fi connection being unstable.  I read that there is a bug with the iwlwifi driver in the 14.04 kernel (see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2219014](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2219014)) and followed steps to disable the N mode.  However, I still see huge performance hits.  Running **iwconfig** shows the entry **Invalid misc:9501**, which is a huge number seeing as my laptop has only been online for 10 minutes.    I have also tried upgrading to the latest kernels (right now running 3.15.0-031500rc3-generic) and still have issues.

Anyone have any ideas what else I could look into?

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-05-07
Hi Chris,

We are currently testing an experimental version of the wireless_script that provides significantly more info. Please download it from this link : [https://dl.dropbox.com/s/qjc87hzk1z5x6z0/wireless_script](https://dl.dropbox.com/s/qjc87hzk1z5x6z0/wireless_script) and run it as per "No Internet" method described in the post linked to the "Wireless Script" link in my signature below. Please post its report so we can see if there is something else we can try other than what you have tried already.

---

### Post by chris214 on 2014-06-19
> **varunendra said:**
> Hi Chris,

We are currently testing an experimental version of the wireless_script that provides significantly more info. Please download it from this link : [https://dl.dropbox.com/s/qjc87hzk1z5x6z0/wireless_script](https://dl.dropbox.com/s/qjc87hzk1z5x6z0/wireless_script) and run it as per "No Internet" method described in the post linked to the "Wireless Script" link in my signature below. Please post its report so we can see if there is something else we can try other than what you have tried already.


Hi varunendra,
 I have been silently suffering through this.  Finally decided to run your script and have attached it to this post.  I upgraded to the latest mainline kernel ([v3.16-rc1-utopic/]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.16-rc1-utopic/")) and applied all available updates.  As I mentioned above, I have already disabled N mode but still have times of 100% dropped packets.  I never get a signal drop though - it stays connected.  My Dell XPS 13 has an Intel Corporation Centrino Advanced-N 6235 wireless card.  All the fixes online have been to disable 802.11n mode.  

I appreciate any insight or assistance you may be able to provide.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-06-20
Since disabling 'N' channel didn't help, I suggest you remove that parameter to switch back to full speed.

About the problem, which country you are in? If, for example, you are in US, try explicitly setting the wireless 'Regulatory Domain' code to "**US**". To apply that code permanently, open a terminal (Ctrl-Alt-T), and run the following command in it -
```
sudo sed -i 's/^REG*=/&US/' /etc/default/crda
```
This will edit the /etc/default/crda file to set the regdomain code to "US". If you are in some other country, change the code accordingly. Please refer to this table to find the code for your country : [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2#Decoding_table](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2#Decoding_table)

If this doesn't help, please follow the instructions in this post to download and run 'wireless_script' (experimental version) and post back the report it generates : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=13024222](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=13024222)

---

### Post by chris214 on 2014-06-21
> **varunendra said:**
> Since disabling 'N' channel didn't help, I suggest you remove that parameter to switch back to full speed.

About the problem, which country you are in? If, for example, you are in US, try explicitly setting the wireless 'Regulatory Domain' code to "**US**". To apply that code permanently, open a terminal (Ctrl-Alt-T), and run the following command in it -
```
sudo sed -i 's/^REG*=/&US/' /etc/default/crda
```
This will edit the /etc/default/crda file to set the regdomain code to "US". If you are in some other country, change the code accordingly. Please refer to this table to find the code for your country : [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2#Decoding_table](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2#Decoding_table)

If this doesn't help, please follow the instructions in this post to download and run 'wireless_script' (experimental version) and post back the report it generates : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=13024222](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=13024222)

I enabled N again and added **US** to the **crda** file.  Rebooted, and still see high  Invalid Misc (right now its at 1333, uptime of 5 minutes). 
I have also ran the Wireless Script experimental mode and attached.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-06-26
Hi Chris, sorry for not being able to respond quickly..

The access-point you are connected to is using 'TKIP' encryption algorithm with WPA2. Please log into your router/access-point's admin web interface and change it to WPA2 with 'AES' (CCMP). That is the best encryption type for modern hardware, both strongest and optimal. Reboot the router after saving the change. Keep it this way even if it doesn't seem to help.

By the way, the report you have attached is not from the experimental version. Please read the post carefully, and try again (if the above change doesn't solve the problem). Here's and example of how that report should look like : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=13055038](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=13055038)

---

### Post by sandyd on 2014-06-26
moved to network and wireless

---

### Post by chris214 on 2014-07-08
Hi varunendra,
  I switched to AES.  I also attached the output from the experimental script (I must have missed that link and clicked the link in your signature).

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-07-10
What are those last two lines in "/etc/rc.local" meant for? The "exit 0" should ALWAYS be the last line in that file, else you are inviting system troubles.

And why you are unable to read module parameters is mysterious to me. Let us see if we get some error if we try that separately here. Please run the command -
```
grep -R [[:alnum:]] /sys/module/iwlwifi/parameters
```
Post back whatever it returns on the terminal.

Also post the output of -
```
id
```
This will show us which groups you are a member of, although this possibly doesn't relate to the wireless problem, but may explain why the parameters were missing in the report (and possibly explain any errors you may get with the grep command suggested above).

Moving onto the solution part, I have just one suggestion for now (until the suspected oddities mentioned above are clarified/removed) - please change the channel in the router to 1 or 11. Currently it seems to be set to channel 6 (or 'auto'). Reboot the router after saving the change, and try to connect. Post back if it makes it any better.

---

