---
title: "rt2570-1.1.0-b2"
date: 2007-04-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by KidA01 on 2007-04-29
hi, i've downloaded rt2570-1.1.0-b2 from sourceforge, and i was wondering if anybody could tell me how i compile and use it?

thanks

---

### Post by chili555 on 2007-04-30
You need some prerequisites before you proceed:```
sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-headers-`uname -r`
```Then extract the file:```
tar -xvzf rt2570-1.1.0.b2.tar.gz
```A directory will be created, 'rt2570-1.1.0.b2'```
cd rt2570-1.1.0.b2/Module
make
sudo make install
sudo modprobe rt2570
```You should then be able to configure your interface through System -> Administration -> Networking.

In this, and almost every source file I've ever seen, this is covered in a README included, once you extract the file. You can extract these without remembering the exact command by right-clicking and selecting 'Extract Here.'

Good luck and post back if you get stuck.

---

### Post by KidA01 on 2007-04-30
hi. thanks for the instructions, but when i get to inserting 'cd rt2570-1.1.0.b2/Module' into the terminal i get this message come back: 'bash: cd: rt2570-1.1.0.b2/Module: No such file or directory' even though i have extracted the directory, and it is sitting there on my desktop :confused: 

thanks

---

### Post by chili555 on 2007-04-30
cd Desktop/rt2570-1.1.0.b2/Module

Try that one.

---

### Post by KidA01 on 2007-04-30
doesn't work either :( i get 'bash: cd: Desktop/rt2570-1.1.0.b2/Module: No such file or directory' even though the directory 'rt2570-1.1.0-b2' is right there looking at me

---

### Post by chili555 on 2007-05-01
When you minimize all windows and see your desktop with that pretty wallpaper, you can see a little folder there with text beneath it 'rt2570-1.1.0-b2', correct? 

Let's try it in two steps:```
cd Desktop
cd rt2570-1.1.0-b2/Module
```

Proceed with the steps above.

---

