---
title: "20.04 Network names tied to hardware"
date: 2022-04-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by sampsonats on 2022-04-08
I thought the network names (like enp3s0 and such) were tied to hardware so they would be predictable.  I'm seeing built-in network names change when a PCI Ethernet card is plugged in.  Am I missing something?  I'm setting up systems with Ansible using nmcli.

I have four built-in Ethernet ports.  They always have the same name until plugging in a PCI Ethernet card.  Life would be oh-so good if the built-in names would stay the same regardless of what's plugged into the PCI slots.

Please help!
Thanks!

---

### Post by him610 on 2022-04-08
> built-in network names change when a PCI Ethernet card is plugged in
Sounds as if your Bios/Euve settings has PCIe connections prioritized over onboard connections. In the past (and maybe present also) one could set the priority for PCIe GFX cards over the onboard graphics chips. You may want to review your motherboard manual, or go into your Bios/Euve settings to see if there is a setting for that. 
One alternative might be to just keep the PCI network card installed permanently.
Another alternative would be to reassign the shifted port names to permanent names whenever the PCI card is detected - that part I would not know how to do.

---

### Post by sampsonats on 2022-04-09
[IMG]https://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=290263&stc=1[/IMG]
Thanks for your help!  I added a picture that shows what happens when the PCI card is installed. I can't find anything in the BIOS that seems to relate to this.  I did find a post that suggests editing /etc/defaults/grub and change:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
to
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="net.ifnames=0 biosdevname=0"
```

I did that and the Ethernet names change to eth0, eth1...  I'll have to do some more experimenting to see how this behaves.

[B]My goal is to have the Ethernet names to be consistent, even when an Ethernet PCI card is installed.  This is crucial for automating the setup of the systems.  If anyone has a recomendation for how to accomplish this, please let me know.

Thanks![/B]

---

