---
title: "10.10 Upgrade Issue - Broadcom/rfkill/acer-wmi"
date: 2010-10-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by willm.wade on 2010-10-22
Ok there have been a few other posts about this type of thing, however what fixed it for them, has not for me.

Stats: Lenovo S12 (Intel/Broadcom version)
Wifi: Broadcom 4312 lp
Bluetooth: None
Ubuntu: 10.10 (Upgrade from 10.04)
Kernel: 2.6.35.22 (Although I have tried mainline .36 as well)
Worked: Ubuntu 10.04

Several posts relate issues with the acer-wmi module having problems.  For this laptop acer-wmi turns on the RF for the wifi.  Or rather it is supposed to do that.  What it actually does is has a bug that believes that it is soft blocked always.  So rfkill list shows 
acer-wireless
Soft Block: Yes
Hard Block: No

The interesting thing is that if I run rfkill event in one terminal, and then (sudo) rfkill unblock all in another, I can watch the card turn off the soft block and then enable it less than a second later.

Most of the acer-wmi posts conclude that the best thing to do is rmmod it and use the Broadcom STA driver.

Well unfortunately the STA driver then does not see any RF at all.  rfkill list is blank.

So I tried using the b43 driver.  Its RF works fine, but it:
dmesg:
wlan0: association with AP [MAC ADDRESS] timed out

It sees them all and authenticates, but then cannot associate.  (WPA2, and though it was able to associate with a non-encrypted network, however not consistently.)

So any ideas?  Perhaps there is an easy way to go back to the 2.6.32 kernel?

---

### Post by willm.wade on 2010-10-22
I ended up just installing the lenny kernel (2.6.32-latest) and using that with the STA driver.

Anyone with any ideas on the newer kernels let me know, although I suppose that the issue will go away once the official Broadcom wifi drivers get into the mainline kernel.

---

