---
title: "Ubuntu firewall failover to 4G hotspot"
date: 2018-09-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by BatteryKing on 2018-09-14
Something interesting I came across is at least for my wireless provider (Verizon), I can add a Jetpack AC791L for not too much extra money (and I get a very strong signal at home) while at the same time my wired ISP, Spectrum, is pretty terrible when it comes to reliability even though I had the cable installer wire straight to the cable modem, nothing else.  (I have all TV service streamed, so the pre-existing house coax can and is kept separate and at this is in pretty terrible shape, so best to not use it and make a bad problem worse.)  I thought hey, I should be able to do a failover setup with the AC791L seeing my firewall is running Ubuntu Linux with my own custom scripts somewhat evolved from my old post ([https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2279612](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2279612)).  I have seen dedicated wireless failover network boxes for boku bucks, but it is hard to justify that sort of expenditure for home use, plus they tend to only come with 100 Mb/s ports and when Spectrum does work, I sometimes see much faster speeds, so don't want to limit myself if I don't have to.  Also sometimes a dedicated hotspot comes in handy over turning your phone into a hotspot.  I have come across some problems though which I have been having trouble finding easy solutions to (I try not to re-invent too much if I don't have to).  These are:

1. A quick and easy way to detect when the primary ISP has failed and switch over to the backup ISP.  As Verizon Wireless is not really unlimited no matter what 'unlimited' plan you have with them, I really don't want to use this unless Spectrum is down.  (So no load balancing.)  I came across various proposed solutions such as setting a timeout like such `echo 15 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/route/gc_timeout`, however it just sat there and wireshark showed no traffic to the hotspot after a few minutes of trying.  I did a manual switch over test where I disabled the nic going to the cable modem and that worked.  I have also manually deleted and re-added routes with different metrics to switch which external facing interface gets used.  I have come across the proposed solution ([https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214561](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2214561)), however this relies on ICMP echo request / echo reply, which Verizon blocks, even when you use the DMZ option for the firewall system.  Instead I have been doing my 'ping' tests with nmap to an internet server on port 80 for both IPv4 and IPv6.  So while I suppose I could try adapting this package to my needs, I figure it is going to be some work, probably more trouble than what it is worth.

2. The right way to translate / proxy my internal IPv6 addresses to something that works with the Jetpack AC791L. While Spectrum does PD (prefix delegation) and I have multiple internal subnets for various reasons (it seems each release of wide-dhcpv6 screws this up some way and then has to be manually corrected, but once corrected is good), the hotspot only provides a /64 range and no RA support.  Poking around I came across RFC 4389 which seems to describe what I am after, however screwing around with the ndppd package, which seems to partially implement this RFC has gotten me nowhere.  I am a bit confused as to what would be the right way to set it up anyway as there are things like do I just act like my Spectrum supplied IPv6 addresses never expire out, manually setup more internal addresses for ndppd to use, why do the ndppd examples use odd network masks, etc.  It is also a bit of a challenge in that while Spectrum tends to allow me to keep the same network prefixes, it seems Verizon's shift around a lot.

So anybody go down this road and can point me in the right direction?

---

