---
title: "WEP Problems in Breezy"
date: 2005-11-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by The Producer on 2005-11-08
Hello.

I know this isn't the only thread regarding the dismal wireless problem in Breezy.

I have a Dlink DWL-520 Wireless PCI card installed in my desktop.  I know it works, and that it works in Linux, as it worked fine in Hoary.  However, we now have a encrypted network, and in order to connect I need to supply the WEP keys.  My attempt at doing this via both GUI and CLI methods in both Hoary and Breezy have failed.

Does anyone have any idea how to get this to work, if it's at all possible?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Manny C on 2005-11-08
Is the correct key in the /etc/network/interfaces file?

---

### Post by az on 2005-11-08
I made the mistake many times of putting in the key as text instead of HEX.  Could that be the problem?

---

### Post by The Producer on 2005-11-08
Hmm...how would I convert my key to HEX?  It's a 10 digits long, with two letters...

---

### Post by az on 2005-11-08
If it is not hex on your access point, then that is not the problem...

---

### Post by The Producer on 2005-11-08
After double checking my wireless router setup, it's set to 64 bits - 10 hex digits, and is the second out of 4 keys.  I take the key generated by my router and input it in the various methods for Ubuntu, and it still doesn't work.

I also used: 

```
sudo iwconfig wlan0 key open [2] xxxxxxxxxx
```

Still, no luck.

Any ideas?  Not to sound whiney, but I REALLY don't want to go back to SuSE.

---

### Post by Manny C on 2005-11-08
What router are you using?

---

### Post by The Producer on 2005-11-08
My router is a Linksys WRT54G.

Would that have anything to do with it?  I live in a student apartment with 4 other guys, both with XP and Mac OSX systems, and it works fine.

---

### Post by Manny C on 2005-11-09
Just checking that it was capable of WEP encryption. Anyway, it does. 

Also, you didn't answer one of my questions above. Do you have the correct key in /etc/network/interfaces file?

---

### Post by The Producer on 2005-11-09
Yes, I just double checked.  I also used "man iwconfig" to help make sure I put it in right. Still, nothing. 

When I do "tail /var/log/messages -f" it says something about Ndiswrapper not being able to load encryption key 1, when the key i'm supposed to be using is the second one out of the four.  Could that have anything to do with it?

Also, I already tried

```
sudo iwconfig wlan0 key restricted/open [2] xxxxxxxxxx
```

Both fail.

---

### Post by az on 2005-11-09
[QUOTE=The Producer]
When I do "tail /var/log/messages -f" it says something about Ndiswrapper not being able to load encryption key 1, when the key i'm supposed to be using is the second one out of the four.  Could that have anything to do with it?

[/QUOTE]
AHA!  Are you using punctuations or something in your key?  Try changing your key on the router and on your system to something really dumb.

Key 1 is the second key, since the first key is key 0.

---

### Post by The Producer on 2005-11-09
Ah, I see, lol

My key is 10 digits, 8 numbers and two uppercase letters.  It is hex, as I checked it on my router.

I'm just taking the string as my router gave it out, and putting it in.  No dashes, just the 8 numbers and two letters.

---

### Post by The Producer on 2005-11-10
I've solved this problem.

It seems as if Linux systems don't like ESSIDs with spaces in them.  Also, for those experiencing the same problems, try to use the first WEP key instead of the second.

---

