---
title: "How to configure OpenDNS  work with my Connection?"
date: 2009-10-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Saurabhdua on 2009-10-28
Hello There!

I have configured my ADSL Internet Connection to work in Bridge mode within Ubuntu.

I made entries of respective OpenDNS addresses under "IPv4 Settings" Tab  & applied BUT somehow....Connection Info. always depicts that Iam using the default ISP DNSes?

How to configure OpenDNS settings within Ubuntu?

---

### Post by lotuseclat79 on 2009-10-28
> **Saurabhdua said:**
> Hello There!

I have configured my ADSL Internet Connection to work in Bridge mode within Ubuntu.

I made entries of respective OpenDNS addresses under "IPv4 Settings" Tab  & applied BUT somehow....Connection Info. always depicts that Iam using the default ISP DNSes?

How to configure OpenDNS settings within Ubuntu?
Hi Saurabhdua,

It sounds like your router has internal settings for the ISP DNS servers.  In order to modify the router's DNS settings, you need to find out what  make and model router you have, access their documentation over the Internet if you do not have it, download it, determine if there is sufficient documentation to make the change and then do it.

I have done this kind of procedure with my Verizon router setting it to OpenDNS for both the coax and wireless settings.

I had the same symptoms you are experiencing until I read the documentation for my router which was in a PDF document on the CD that came with my router.

Issue the command:
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
and if it says anything like:
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain home
search home
nameserver 192.168.1.1

then it is your router overriding whatever settings you make internally in Ubuntu, even if you don't get the output above after you make it.

I had modified my /etc/resolv.conf (as you have for OpenDNS) and kept getting my ISP DNS server notifications for unknown ip address names.

When this is fixed in the router, you will then get OpenDNS server notifications for unknown ip address names, and most likely get the output above generated by NetworkManager (like it says).

-- Tom

---

### Post by Saurabhdua on 2009-10-29
Hi Tom!

Thanks mate for ur response..!

Here comes the Output of that command>>

saurabhdua@saurabhdua-desktop:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 203.94.243.70
nameserver 59.179.243.70
nameserver 208.67.222.222
# NOTE: the libc resolver may not support more than 3 nameservers.
# The nameservers listed below may not be recognized.
nameserver 208.67.220.220
saurabhdua@saurabhdua-desktop:~$ 

Now the fact is that Iam able to access my Router's Interface through 192.168.1.1 BUT from within Windows OS only!...Same procedure(typing 192.168.1.1 in address bar of a Browser) do not yield any result through Ubuntu!?

Another thing, I have saved my Router's config. to work with OpenDNS Nameservers only(using Windows OS) & am stunned to observe that how Router is able to rollback to default settings on changing the OS? I mean..Isn't a Router & its IOS a separate entity..all together independent of whatever OS you use?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-10-29
If you get connection via DHCP, you can use the "prepend" line in */etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf* to push your choice of server(s) to the top of the list.

---

### Post by lotuseclat79 on 2009-10-30
Hi Saurabhdua,

I looked up your nameservers with System>Administration>Network Tools and it appears that your ISP is Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd., ISP Division, New Delhi for 203.94.243.70 and 59.179.243.70.

I do recognize the third nameserver as that of OpenDNS - I suppose the third one is a fallback for the first two in the router's scheme of operating.

The problem you are having - i.e. only being able to access the router at the internal ip address of 192.168.1.1 from Windows is an artifact of being booted I suspect.  

If you use a Live CD of Ubuntu, since that is what is booted up, I would give it a try to access the router, modify the settings to use OpenDNS as the primary and secondary DNS servers.  I am not sure what to do to nullify the third DNS server, but I would consult the ISP's router documentation to find out.

I only use a Live CD environment, and have no trouble accessing my router at 192.168.1.1.

When you are successful, be sure to save your router's configuration within Ubuntu's partition.

If all else fails, I would attempt to modify the configuration file you saved from the Windows by finding the nameserver entries and replacing them from within your editor, then installing the new configuration in your router by accessing 192.168.1.1 followed by some testing and possibly rebooting though that should probably not be necessary if it works in that session.

Let us know what happens.

-- Tom

---

### Post by Saurabhdua on 2009-10-31
Hi Tom!

Everything seems to be going for a TOSS now since I have upgraded to New UBUNTU 9.10!

Forget about zigs & zag....am not able to connect to Internet at all!?

& it seems(on reading the Forum posts) that No. of other users are also having a trouble getting connected!

Any ideas to get things fixed? In version 9.04, I use to left click on the Network icon to choose DSL Entry(the one that requires Username & Password with Router set on BRIDGE Mode) & that's it!

Feeling tired while juggling with Auto e0 & DSL entry in 9.10..nothing seems to be working for me!

Gazing for even a HINT of Help...like a Koala!...Please guide!

---

### Post by lotuseclat79 on 2009-10-31
Hi Saurabhdua,

Here is a link to the [User Guide](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Karmic) for Ubuntu 9.10 (Karmic Koala).

-- Tom

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-10-31
> **Saurabhdua said:**
> Feeling tired while juggling with Auto e0 & DSL entry in 9.10..nothing seems to be working for me!DSL seems to have a problem: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8204222#post8204222]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8204222#post8204222")

---

### Post by Saurabhdua on 2009-11-02
Following the commands you have steered me through have actually messed up the things further! Initially, atleast Auto e0 use to show being connected, it GONE forever!

First command shown an error as indicated by the follower(above) & on using sudo pppoeconf , everything is flat to nothing!

Now is there a way to downgrade to 9.04?

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-11-05
> **Saurabhdua said:**
> Following the commands you have steered me through have actually messed up the things further! Initially, atleast Auto e0 use to show being connected, it GONE forever!

First command shown an error as indicated by the follower(above) & on using sudo pppoeconf , everything is flat to nothing!

Now is there a way to downgrade to 9.04?

Have you tried the other DSL programs in Synaptic Package Manager? I see a few there. Sadly, I don't have DSL to be able to tell you what works for me.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-11-05
> **Saurabhdua said:**
> Following the commands you have steered me through have actually messed up the things further!
Sorry - I HATE when that happens - my goal is to SOLVE problems, not make them worse...

---

