---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 wireless no longer works."
date: 2009-11-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gahoachma on 2009-11-12
I've spent 2+ hrs making a live USB drive [didn't work its the CD) and booting back to my main drive etc etc. trying to get on the internet. I've read thru plenty of forums posts and none of them have been any help.

 I liked 9.04..  booted  right up and i was on the net. Just abit of config to burn cds/dvds again and etc.

Not caring for 9.10 atm. Love some help if i can get any (useful). I *dont* want to go back to winXp or vista or 7......!   Or lose all my progress and go back to 9.04.. doubt i would anyway.:popcorn:

---

### Post by t0mppa on 2009-11-12
Ok, you're going to have to give up a bit more information before anyone can say anything about it. Is your wireless a PCI (internal) or USB (external) device? Can the system see it when running **lspci** or **lsusb** from the terminal? What does **lshw -C network** say?

---

### Post by gahoachma on 2009-11-12
Im using a linksys dual band wireless-n usb adapter model #: wusb600n
Btw Im using it right now on my 9.04 live CD.

Below the information you wanted: (thanks for any help)


> jeremiah@anon-desktop:~$ lsusb
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 413c:2003 Dell Computer Corp. Keyboard
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 008 Device 002: ID 0471:060c Philips
Bus 008 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 006: ID 05a9:2641 OmniVision Technologies, Inc.
Bus 002 Device 007: ID 0424:2514 Standard Microsystems Corp.
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 1737:0071 Linksys
Bus 002 Device 005: ID 0424:2512 Standard Microsystems Corp.
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 0bda:0111 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Card Reader
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
jeremiah@anon-desktop:~$




root@anon-desktop:/home/jeremiah# lshw -C network
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:1e:8c:2a:50:ff
       size: 10MB/s
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list rom ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=half latency=0 link=no multicast=yes port=MII speed=10MB/s
       resources: irq:28 ioport:e800(size=256) memory:febff000-febfffff memory:fdff0000-fdffffff(prefetchable) memory:febc0000-febdffff(prefetchable)
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       physical id: 1
       logical name: wlan1
       serial: 00:1e:e5:d9:f5:c5
       capabilities: ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abgn
root@anon-desktop:/home/jeremiah# 

---

### Post by bcpaes on 2009-11-12
it seems that have a lot of people whit this trouble...

someone who fixed this issue could post a HOW TO WIFI 9.04 TO 9.10

---

### Post by HolleywoodDesigns on 2009-11-12
I'm having the same problem with my Linksys WUSB100. The best "How-to" I've found so far is this one. [http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8102538](http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8102538) I just found that post last night, so I haven't had a chance to run through it yet. Let us know if and how You get it working.

---

### Post by gahoachma on 2009-11-12
> **HolleywoodDesigns said:**
> I'm having the same problem with my Linksys WUSB100. The best "How-to" I've found so far is this one. [http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8102538](http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8102538) I just found that post last night, so I haven't had a chance to run through it yet. Let us know if and how You get it working.

I've download all the info/files from that post to my usb drive. (glad i bought that thing!) I'm afraid to try it all out though, I don't want to screw up my system.. Spent so much time downloading/reading/learning. But anyway im not trying anything that "complex" tonite. The vodka has a hold on me atm. ;)

Sry I couldn't be of more help to ya holleywoodesigns. But post back here if you try it out before me.

Anyways if anyone reading this has found an easier solution love to hear it.

Other than that.. any ubuntu linux gurus in battle creek mi? I'll buy ya a fifth of [Stoli]("http://www.stoli.com/") to come over and help me out. :lolflag:

---

### Post by HolleywoodDesigns on 2009-11-12
Are You using 32 bit or 64 bit? I will give it a try tonight when I get home or tomorrow morning and let You know how it goes. I would really like to get this solved, seeing as how I have an ethernet cable stretched accross my dining room.
 BTW I am running the 64 bit version of Karmic.

---

### Post by bcpaes on 2009-11-12
I dunno what happened. I was angry because I can not managed to advance the work because of this update. I came to my colleague and said, happened again .... what? ... the wifi does not work again. Ok, turn on the netbook with karmic 32bit its magicaly connects to the internet, and at home too. I believe that God is behind this.

---

### Post by gahoachma on 2009-11-15
> **HolleywoodDesigns said:**
> Are You using 32 bit or 64 bit? I will give it a try tonight when I get home or tomorrow morning and let You know how it goes. I would really like to get this solved, seeing as how I have an ethernet cable stretched accross my dining room.
 BTW I am running the 64 bit version of Karmic.

32bit haven't found the time myself to try it yet either. *Work*

This sorta thing is the reason Windows still runs the game. Getting closer tho. Not quick enough but closer. :p

---

### Post by peepingtom on 2009-11-15
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1327009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1327009)
I've just posted what I believe to be a solution at the above link.
It worked for me, my chipset is an oddball RT2070L

Installing linux-backports-modules-generic from the backports repository may be necessary in some cases.

---

### Post by Dale61 on 2009-11-15
I was experiencing a similar problem - happily surfing, then after x amount of time, wireless connection would drop out, unable to reconnect unless I rebooted - but have found (hopefully) a solution in another thread.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1326114]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1326114")

Refer post #6.

---

### Post by gahoachma on 2009-11-16
> **peepingtom said:**
> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1327009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1327009)
I've just posted what I believe to be a solution at the above link.
It worked for me, my chipset is an oddball RT2070L

Installing linux-backports-modules-generic from the backports repository may be necessary in some cases.

Works perfectly for me thank you very much! :p

---

