---
title: "Wep 128"
date: 2007-08-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gentracer on 2007-08-17
I use WEP 128 (not secure I know), but for now until I have time to convert to WPA.  Anyway, using Network Manager 0.6.4, I can't seem to find any way to specify 128 nor can I find a way to specify anything other than the default key index (1).  Anyone have any experience getting this to work.

By the way, wireless works just fine on open, completely unsecured, wireless networks - my neighbor's. :(

Thanks.

---

### Post by spd106 on 2007-08-18
If you use network-admin or network manager then you can choose to enter hex or ascii for the key, it should not matter about key length as the programs are designed to adapt to what you give it. These programs to not except multiple keys at the moment, but you can configure this in the /etc/network/interfaces file by hand. So the *man interfaces* pages for the correct syntax. Ubuntu has been modified to use network manager by default, so you may have to disable it to have DHCP working.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-08-18
Actually if you do a man iwconfig might help you.

It doesnt state specifically how to add it the interfaces file

To use iwconfig

sudo iwconfig wlan0 key [1] XXXXXX key [2] XXXXXX key [3] XXXXXXX key [4] XXXXXX key [3]

Notice the format of the above:

sudo iwconfig wlan0 key <key number> <hexkey> key <key number> <hex key> ....... key <key that you want to use>

So in the above example I set four keys (each designated 1,2,3,4), and chose at the end to use key 3

If I wanted for some reason to change to key 1, I would do this:
sudo iwconfig wlan0 key [1]

I suppose (you would have to try) to add this to the /etc/network/interfaces file you would have to do:

wireless-key [1] XXXXXX
wireless-key [2] XXXXXX
wireless-key [3] XXXXXX
wireless-key [4] XXXXXX
wireless-key <index of key you want active>

Play around with it and let us know what you find.

---

### Post by gentracer on 2007-08-21
I won't be where I can try this iwconfig solution until this weekend, but that looks like it has possibilities.  I had tried numerous ways to configure things manually with absolutely no success - read every help listing I could find when I first got the PC.  I will give this a try and let you know.

Thanks much!

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2007-08-22
> **gentracer said:**
> I won't be where I can try this iwconfig solution until this weekend, but that looks like it has possibilities.  I had tried numerous ways to configure things manually with absolutely no success - read every help listing I could find when I first got the PC.  I will give this a try and let you know.

Thanks much!
But you do see 104-WEP, is that correct? 104-WEP actually refers to a 128-bit WEP key, 40-WEP to a 64-bit one. These options should be available in Network Manager. Confusing, ey? :-)

---

### Post by gentracer on 2007-08-26
The network manager does give me the 128-bit option - passphrase, hex, or ascii.  Nothing worked for using key index 3.  However, when I decided to use the default key index of 1, it works just fine.  While I am pleased to finally have wireless working, I don't like having to use the default values.

As soon as I have time I plan to try to switch to WPA - hopefully.  Any pitfalls with that and network manager that anyone knows about?  I don't want to switch if it will make the situation worse!

Thanks to all.

gentracer

---

### Post by bdoe on 2007-08-26
Other than the fact that Network Manager doesn't deal with WPA at all?  It'll work with a pre-configured key, but you can't edit it in NM.  You'll have to either edit iftab by hand, or rely on one of the other network managers out there.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2007-08-27
> **gentracer said:**
> The network manager does give me the 128-bit option - passphrase, hex, or ascii.  Nothing worked for using key index 3.  However, when I decided to use the default key index of 1, it works just fine.  While I am pleased to finally have wireless working, I don't like having to use the default values.

As soon as I have time I plan to try to switch to WPA - hopefully.  Any pitfalls with that and network manager that anyone knows about?  I don't want to switch if it will make the situation worse!

Thanks to all.

gentracer
Do you see the WPA option? If not by default, this could mean trouble on the horizon.

---

### Post by zinner on 2007-08-27
hi there.. 

have been looking for this as well. Not many who uses this i guess. :-)
Found this page: [http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com/wiki/index.php/Debian_rt2500_Howto](http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com/wiki/index.php/Debian_rt2500_Howto)

so this is in my  etc/network/interfaces

#auto eth1
#iface eth1 inet dhcp 
#wireless-essid goaway
#**wireless-key3 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx**

tried with ifdown, and then ifup..
finally, it works. =D>

---

