---
title: "14.04 Causes Router to keep rebooting about 90 times a day"
date: 2014-08-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2014-08-12
I have an odd problem here.  I have bought a new Router (Vigor 2860vnPlus) and connected it to my LAN/WAN.

I noticed that the Router keeps rebooting about every 15minutes.  I have a email exchange with the router service support, but a PC running 14:04 that I use as a server and also runs a Virtualbox VM with Windows 7 on it and a 3CX IP-PBX decided to crash on me Sunday night.  The reboots stopped immediatly and the router has stayed up continuously since.  Tonight I managed to get the PC up and running again and immediatly the reboots have started again....

What on earth could this be and how do i fix it.  I can only assume I have something on the PC that is sending a dodgy message.  The PC is connected directly to one of the LAN posrts on the router and I have tried swapping to one of the other ports, but it makes no difference.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2014-08-14
Does this router have the facility to log messages of any kind, particularly traffic and/or access attempts? Enable it and check the log.

On Ubuntu, you may enable the firewall (ufw) and check its log as well. But the router's log may tell us much more than Ubuntu logs can.

Without logs or clues, we can only make wild guesses, and my guesses are -

1) High traffic or unusually large packets/frames causing the router to choke.
2) Some malware in either Ubuntu (difficult, but not impossible) or the Win7 VM opening backdoors for unauthorized access to the router/system.

Don't mean to ring alarms, but the behaviour you describe is unusual. I'm neither a security expert nor a network expert (I only deal with drivers, not protocols), so my guesses may be totally misleading. Only the logs can provide something substantial, just check them.

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2014-08-26
[varunendra]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1043629")
You scarred the pants off me!!!!!  I don't think it is that.  I have been getting a new beta firmware and I have noticed it getting better over time.  SO I am going to see what happens over the next couple of weeks and if it settles I shall close this off.  Something LAN side, I think was upsetting it...

---

