---
title: "Network issues after power cut."
date: 2011-11-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-17
Ubuntu 11.04
Almost complete beginner on Ubuntu/Linux

Had a power cut today. Booted up to find 1) missing user in login screen and 2) a broken network connection. Here's what I have tried:
[LIST=1]
[*]Restarting;
[*]Disabling/re-enabling network connections;
[*]Removing network connections, re-adding them;
[*]Changing NetworkManager.conf managed=false to true (was getting device not managed message on Network Manager at one point);
[*]Repeatedly adding and removing the "auto eth0 / iface eth0 inet dhcp" lines in the interfaces file, in various combinations with the previous item, and have tried assigning static up addresses;
[*]Disabling and re-enabling the NIC in BIOS (bizarrely this resurrected the missing user from login screen);
[*]Flushing ip tables;
[*]sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart, as I read this would reset all the networking settings, but I don't think this is quite right;
[*]ifdown -a / ifup -a, this came up with a Firestarter error so I (completely) uninstalled Firestarter. 
[*]System-Administration-Network Tools shows ip4 address as 0.0.0.0
[/LIST]

Have tried full restarts between after each. I have also plugged the same cable into a Windows XP laptop and it connects straightaway, so it's not a problem with the router. 

Is there anything I can do to wipe all networking settings, and start again? I'm going mad here, any help appreciated, don't want to waste any more time on this crap. If you want me to report back on the output from any commands it's going to be tricky as I'll have to type it all manually (suppose I could save to text file and copy using USB but would be nice to know if there are any particular lines you are interested in). 

Saw a post which said to try dhcpcd eth0 but it's not installed and I obviously cannot install it. I could download it on the laptop but if there are a lot of depencies it might be a bit of a nightmare. If someone thinks it's worth it I'll give it a go.

One last thing: there's an eth0:avahi item in ifconfig (along with eth0 and lo) - not noticed this before, perhaps it's relevant. I think the network card is a Realtek 8111E (onboard my Asus mobo). 

Thanks very much indeed,
Paul

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-17
Hi there


Goodness knows whats up with your system now, but 
port the results of 
ifconfig
/etc/network/interface
lshw
/etc/networks/resolv.conf
route -rn
dmesg |grep eth

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-17
Thanks. I did try to reset everything to how it was after each step so hopefully not too bad!

I have attached those outputs as requested. Note that resolve (which was not in /etc/network; rather it was just in /etc, not sure if that's relevant) is empty apart from the comment line # Generated by NetworkManager. 

Route -rn failed saying r is an invalid option so I re-ran without it.

Thanks again,
Paul

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-17
Hello


Your logs are kind of hard to read as they come down with no formatting.

However, your right,
/etc/ is the location of resolv.conf
if its empty and given ifoncfig shows no IP address assigned it looks as if it hasn't got an Ip address via dhcp


Did you try 
```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking stop
sudo /etc/init.d/networking start

```

See what happens

post ifconfig and any debug you may get

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-17
Sorry about the format; just piped to text files and uploaded. They look OK in Wordpad, assumed they would be OK on a Linux viewer. How do they look now?

Will do those other now...

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-17
I did the start/stop; output attached.
Did ifconfig again afterwards; output also attached.

Thanks for looking.
Paul

P.S. Off to bed now so thanks again, will resume tomorrow if you are still around.

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-17
Yep

Looks a lot better,

I see your getting the eth0:ahavi 169 address

I think this is usually assigned when you cant see anything from the network or get an IP address back from the DHCP server.

It will go if you get an ip address


The question for me is why its not getting an IP address....


Recommend you open two terminal windows

in one type

```
sudo tcpdump -vvv -i eth0 -s 1600 prot bootps
```

Let that run, and in the next one type
```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```

Hopefully you should see a request for IP on eth0,

You can post result back here if you want me to look at them

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-17
One other thing, I am writing all this assuming you do have a wired connection and thats what you want to use?

---

### Post by 741Baus on 2011-11-17
inhumangek ,what jonbor has said works for me how-ever I add one more command that flushes the var/lib/Network-Manager file what I've done in the past after power outages is 

```
 sudo service network-manager stop
 sudo rm /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.state
 sudo service network-manager start
```
this gives me networking back.

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-18
> **jonobr said:**
> One other thing, I am writing all this assuming you do have a wired connection and thats what you want to use?

Yes! Sorry for not making it clear... 


> **741Baus said:**
> inhumangek ,what jonbor has said works for me how-ever I add one more command that flushes the var/lib/Network-Manager file what I've done in the past after power outages is 

```
 sudo service network-manager stop
 sudo rm /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.state
 sudo service network-manager start
```
this gives me networking back.

Hi 741Baus thanks for the suggestion. However it doesn't seem to get me any further :o(

jonobr, the output from the tcpdump is attached. (For anyone else reading, I think there was a typo - prot should be port?)

I have also noticed that my NetworkManager.conf has the line "no-auto-default=f4:6d:04:60:b5:27" which (after doing a bit of reading) I have commented out? 

Also, might help, when the Network Manager auto configures, it calls the connection "ifupdown (eth0)"

Thanks again
Paul

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-18
Yep

Something weird is going on there.

There are no bootp requests going to the router.

Did you try setting a static to see if that would take, just for giggles?


Does 

```
dmesg | grep eth
```

Show anything of interest?

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-18
I can't seem to get static to work; in Network Manager it greys out the Save button whenever I try to set a static IP, and if I add the details in the conf file, it doesn't seem to change anything.

What's more, i've tried booting to a clean live USB stick and even that won't configure the network connection properly (every other time I've booted from USB it has done this, as far as I can remember). 

Do you think it could be a hardware fault? Lights come on, and as I said before, plugging the cable into another computer works. 

```
dmesg | grep eth 
```
Output attached as requested.

Cheers,
Paul

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-18
Hmm I went back to the conf file and changed NetworkManager.conf managed=true and re-enabled the no-auto-default=f4:6d:04:60:b5:27 line.

Now, Network Manager seems to make a connection using static IP settings I'd previously added to the interfaces file (before, I just got the pulsing wi-fi signal and eventually a "disconnected" message). I now have the double-arrow signal and ifconfig looks better (attached).

However, I cannot ping the router and no web pages load. Perhaps one step forward?

I have run through all your tips again, and I have attached new versions of those text files, I'm not really sure what to look for. If you could have a look that would be much appreciated.

Thanks,
Paul

P.S. Cannot add more than 5 attachments so here's the result of route -n:

```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0

```

Also, I ran those two command you suggested previously;

> Recommend you open two terminal windows

in one type

```
sudo tcpdump -vvv -i eth0 -s 1600 prot bootps
```

Let that run, and in the next one type
```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```


But nothing seems to come back this time; it just sits there listening. The second command comes back with the error: 
```
SIOCDELRT: No such process
```. Have also tried with sudo service network-manager stop/start.

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-20
I have now ruled out a hardware fault as a clean install of Windows/lubuntu (on a different HDD) works just fine.

Which makes me a bit confused... When I booted to the Ubuntu Live CD, with the main HDD still connected,  I had exactly the same issues, as if the live CD tried to borrow the network settings from the existing installation. Now that I've removed that HDD, the Live CD works (well, I'm using lubuntu at the moment but that shouldn't make a difference?)

Have raised a new [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11473536") thread about how to re-install specific components.

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2011-11-20
Now that's bizarre. 

After hours/days of tweaking, editing, re-booting, posting on these forums, I got nowhere. Now I've installed Windows 7 (and then lubuntu) onto a new HDD, in order to prove it wasn't a hardware issue, and I've just swapped back to the old HDD in order to back it up and start again, and it's sprung into life. I thought that was typical of Windows, not Linux. I've honestly changed nothing since I was last logged in.

It's as if those other OS's persuaded my NIC to play ball.

Oh well, hopefully it will stay working!

Thanks,
Paul

---

### Post by inhumangeek on 2012-04-08
Had the same issue yesterday, have fixed it again... with a simple re-install of the drivers. Something which didn't occur last time!

[Realtek website]("http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=13&PFid=5&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false#2")

Unpack, and run autorun.sh.

---

### Post by mdwy62 on 2012-09-18
I didn't see this solution mentioned above, but it worked for me. Running 12.04 on a system I accidentally unplugged. Router was not affected just unplugged the Ubuntu system. Could ping the router but had neither lan nor wifi access through the router to the internet. 
Noticed that I did not have /etc/resolv.conf. 

Used:
sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf
and rebooted,

as originally described in this answer by [rostislav-stribrny]("http://askubuntu.com/users/81618/rostislav-stribrny"):

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/137037/network-manager-not-populating-resolv-conf](http://askubuntu.com/questions/137037/network-manager-not-populating-resolv-conf)

Now I have both lan and wifi access to internet through router.

---

