---
title: "802.11a using Broadcom BCM4309?"
date: 2009-06-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by definingmoment on 2009-06-01
Does anyone know if there is any way to get 802.11a (5ghz) working with the Broadcom BCM4309 chipset. I know the B43 website says their driver doesn't support this channel. Wording is anyone had this working or had any other ideas, thanks in advance.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2009-06-01
What does this command tell us?```
sudo iwlist wlan0 freq
```Substitute your interface here, if it's not wlan0.

---

### Post by definingmoment on 2009-06-01
This command isn't going to work for me. I don't have a wlan0 because I don't have a wireless driver installed yet. Maybe I need to clarify. I know my card supports "a" band in windows. I was wondering if anyone knows of a driver or way to get "a" band working in Ubuntu. Thanks for the help though.

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-06-01
If you have the Windows XP drivers for this you may be able to install it with ndiswrapper and ndisgtk.  You can find the .deb files for ndiswrapper and ndisgtk in their own directories on the Ubuntu install disk in the /pool/main/n directory. Just click on the deb file to install. Now you should have Windows Wireless Drivers under System-Administration. Run this and then browse to where the .inf (XP) file is to install the driver.

---

### Post by definingmoment on 2009-06-01
I have tried this also, ndiswrapper doesn't appear to make use of the "a" band either. The iwlist won't show the band, and I know my card supports it:

lspci:

03:03.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4309 802.11a/b/g (rev 03)

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-06-02
Have you seen [[COLOR="Red"]this[/COLOR]]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper") ? (it doesn't specifically detail 802.11a though).  It may be worth asking a question via Launchpad (a similar one [COLOR="Red"][here]("https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/66169")[/COLOR]).

---

