---
title: "10.04 Can't connect to internet after setting static IP for Samba"
date: 2010-05-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by BigBaka on 2010-05-17
I recently used this [process]("http://www.jonathanmoeller.com/screed/?p=1590&cpage=1#comment-9376") to connect my Samba network to be able to access and allow Windows XP machines to access my computer on my office network. 

For various reasons, all the XP computers on the network are set to fixed (do we say static?) IP addresses with manual DNS. Hence I realised during the Samba setup that I had to set a static IP on my Ubuntu machine similar to my Windows static IP's (ie 192.168.10.?) in order to be able to see the Windows share PC's properly. 

Once I set my Ubuntu machine to static IP of 192.168.10.3 with subnet of 255.255.255.0 and gateway of 192.168.0.1 then I was able to access and be accessed by PC's on the network. However I couldn't access the internet after this. I input the DNS server in the edit connections as you can see per the attachment. All these settings (except the IP address obviously) were all now exactly the same as the PC machines, and I thought I'd now be able to access the windows network, as well as have access to the internet, however, even though my wired network is connected there is still no internet access. 

I'm using the GUI under network connections to make all these changes if that is important. What am I doing wrong? I can't understand why this doesn't work?

Regards,
BB

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-05-17
Is the default gateway 192.168.0.1 or 192.168.10.1?
can you ping 192.168.0.1

---

### Post by VeeDubb on 2010-05-17
Something else that might help you, is instead of setting your computer up for static IP, leave it on full DHCP, but reserve that IP address on your router.  Not all routers will do this, but my netgear, and half the other routers I've owned over the years will.  That way you'll always have the same IP, no configuration required on the desktop, and it prevents the router from assigning the IP address you want to use to another device that connects DHCP.

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-05-17
I am not a networking expert But I think the mask need to be changed to 255.255.0.0 for the present setup (gateway 192.168.0.1)to work.

---

### Post by VeeDubb on 2010-05-17
> **dineshs said:**
> I am not a networking expert But I think the mask need to be changed to 255.255.0.0 for the present setup (gateway 192.168.0.1)to work.

I am 99.999% certain this this in incorrect.

However, 192.168.10.1 instead of 192.168.0.1 looks very wrong to me.  Unless you have a very complicated network, the only number that should be different is the last number.

---

### Post by BigBaka on 2010-05-18
Thanks all,

Got it worked out. Tried to Ping 192.168.0.1 and realised that there was nothing there. Pinged 1.1 instead and got a response, so changed my gateway to 192.168.1.1 and low and behold everything works, plus as gateway number is 192.168.1.1, I changed all the comps to the same 192.168.1.* as per VeeDub's comments.

Now the network is running with no problems. Can see my Ubuntu comp on the Windows machines and vice versa. 

All good here,

Thanks.

---

### Post by arunarun4 on 2010-06-03
Hi all..
May be this can help you connect to Internet through ethernet.

[COLOR=Red]*ifconfig -a | grep eth*[/COLOR]
This will give you the ethernet details. Be sure to check the number  after "eth"; ie "eth0". "eth1". And that is your ethernet port. This is  applicable to all further commands.

[COLOR=Red]*sudo ifconfig eth0 10.0.0.100 netmask 255.255.255.0*[/COLOR]
This will create a temporary ip. 
[I]
[COLOR=Red]ifconfig eth0[/COLOR][/I]
Use this to verify the configuration. 

[COLOR=Red]*sudo route add default gw 10.0.0.1 eth0*[/COLOR]
This will create a default gateway.

[COLOR=Red]*sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces*[/COLOR]
This will open the interfaces file
Add the following to the end of the file. Be sure to add your port  number (eth?)
[COLOR=Red][I]auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp[/I][/COLOR]

[COLOR=Red]*sudo ifup eth0*[/COLOR]
This will enable the settings

This is a small information I got from the help and support in Ubuntu  10.04. I was able to connect to Internet with the help of these  commands. Please try it . I'm sorry if this doesn't solve your problem.  I'm a newbie to ubuntu 10.04.

Thank you all :smile:

---

