---
title: "18.04 Private Internet Access VPN Freezes, have to restart."
date: 2018-07-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jimijives on 2018-07-08
Hi,  I have just upgraded the OS from 16.04 where I never had any problems with the laptop freezing, it was just slow due to a poor CPU.  

However, I installed 18.04 Minimal to combat this and at first everything was running smoothly.  I installed Gnome Tweaks to get the date and time on the menu bar.  Then a Help sign appeared in Favorites and I didn't put it there.  Then my VPN started to freeze.  I couldn't change location whenever Google prompted a two hour Captcha for suspicious traffic (I think I shall have to change VPN because most of its servers are now getting this prompt).

I installed another app called easy-openvpn but every time I try to Launch it nothing happens.  I thought I could use that to fix the problem.

Is there anything I can do to fix this?  I don't like the security issue related to the VPN freezing.

What about wiregaurd-fenriswolf?  Is that a free VPN for desktop users also?

Thank you for any advice.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2018-07-08
For what its worth I use PIA Vpn and don't have any issues with freezing or anything for that matter.
It is also used on Arch linux with no problems.
Captcha's are common with Google and any VPN. (Spammers and Bad Guys) I now use StartPage as my search engine.
I can't really recommend a free VPN (Privacy issues)
I suspect there is more here than meets the eye with your install or hardware.
Sorry I'm not more helpful.

---

### Post by jimijives on 2018-07-08
Hi 1fallen,

Thanks for replying, I appreciate you taking the time to help me.

Did you install the 'Full' install of 18.04?  My 'Minimal' install was working fine for the first few days.  The only change I made was installing Gnome Tweaks and VLC.  Maybe I'll try to reinstall and see how it goes without installing any further apps.

It's getting progressively worse too, now it not only freezes but the PIA icon in the menu bar has started disappearing even though a look at ipleak.net shows I'm still connected.

Very confusing, as I said I never had a problem with PIA and 16.04.

---

