---
title: "16.04 LTS Ethernet says connected but no Internet access"
date: 2017-01-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by narsnarf on 2017-01-18
Ok I'm trying to get my desktop up and running. Put in a brand new hard drive and fresh start install of  ubuntu 16.04 LTS, the ethernet shows as connected but I get no Internet. 

Here are a few results that I found:

ping -c4 google.com  result: unknown host google.com

ping -c4 8.8.4.4  result: network is unreachable

ls -l /etc/resolv.conf  result: lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 29 Jan 17 02:54 /etc/resolv.conf -> ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf

cat /etc/resolv.conf  result:dynamic resolv.conf (5) file for glibc resolver (3) generated by resolvconf (8) don't not edit this file by hand your changes will be overwritten 

I'm posting from my phone as of now any help will be surely appreciated! Thanks

---

### Post by Fire_Chief on 2017-01-19
The resolv.conf aspects are not relevant at the moment since you cannot ping an external IP address directly. 
You need to verify that
1 - You have a valid IP address, subnet mask, and default gateway assigned on the ethernet interface from your local network.
2 - You can ping the default gateway
3 - If your Internet connection is working properly, you can trace route to an external IP address and see how far the packets travel from your computer. Once you start getting timeouts, you can identify the problem hop.
4 - Optionally, you can verify that the DNS servers you have configured on your network or on the Linux system directly can be reached via ping just like you did before going to 8.8.4.4.

After IP connectivity is confirmed to the Internet and to valid DNS servers, you should be able to reach Internet destinations via domain name.

Cheers!

---

### Post by praseodym on 2017-01-19
What hardware is it?
```

lspci -nnk
lsmod
```

---

### Post by markling on 2017-11-23
[Steps given here may well help identify the problem]("https://askubuntu.com/a/717584/297529")

---

### Post by witizer on 2017-11-24
I am having a somewhat similar problem.
A temporary solution to have internet access might be:
[COLOR=#000000]Check /etc/resolv.conf file. If it looks like this:[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Code:
# Generated by Connection Managernameserver ::1
nameserver 127.0.0.1[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Overwrite the resolv.conf file indicating a DNS server (google) each time you reboot, to get access to internet:[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Code:
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4


[/COLOR]
Best.

---

