---
title: "11.04 won't connect to wireless internet"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mauchroucinia on 2011-05-01
I recently upgraded to 11.04 natty narwhal and I can no longer connect to a wireless network (I'm doing this with ethernet). When I click on the wireless network icon it says:
_______________________________________
*wireless internet disconnected*  |
VPN connections ->                     |
&#10003;Enable Networking                     |
connection information (not available) |
_Edit Connections                       |_

it doesn't list any available connections, and it doesn't connect either


I have a Dell vostro 1000 and a belkin surf n3000 router

---

### Post by somapusher on 2011-05-01
Having the same issue here.

---

### Post by khushalb on 2011-05-14
Same issue

iwconfig gives me following info any solution guys?

  	 	 	 	 	 	  lo        no wireless extensions.   eth0      no wireless extensions.   wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:off/any             Mode:Managed  Access Point: Not-Associated   Tx-Power=0 dBm              Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off            Power Management:off

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-05-14
Every one run this: *** Edit Just noticed it is a week old thread:
```
lspci -k
``````
iwconfig
``````
sudo lshw -C network
```copy and paste to a new thread of your own:
Highlight it all and then hit # sign in upper right of Message box.
will put in nice little box to read from. And will show cards and drivers used.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-05-14
> **khushalb said:**
> Same issue

iwconfig gives me following info any solution guys?

                                 lo        no wireless extensions.   eth0      no wireless extensions.   wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:off/any             Mode:Managed  Access Point: Not-Associated   Tx-Power=0 dBm              Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off            Power Management:off
You do not seem to have wireless enabled at all, can you right click on network icon and check enabled.

---

### Post by mauchroucinia on 2011-06-06
> **garvinrick4 said:**
> Every one run this: *** Edit Just noticed it is a week old thread:
```
lspci -k
``````
iwconfig
``````
sudo lshw -C network
```copy and paste to a new thread of your own:
Highlight it all and then hit # sign in upper right of Message box.
will put in nice little box to read from. And will show cards and drivers used.

when i do that, this comes up: 

lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

vboxnet0  no wireless extensions.

---

