---
title: "v9.10 wireless connection to wrt54gs issue"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by toclimbk2 on 2009-11-13
I recently upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04 and having issues connecting to my Linksys WRT54GS wireless router.

I had no probs in 9.04 and my recently installed mac OS X had no issues connecting.

I must be doing something wrong.  When I click on the network manager and enter the name of the router, I enter the WPA Personal key as the password.   Shortly after that, a message appears saying network disconnected.  It seems it connects for a short time then disconnects.  I go back to the network manager and this time choose the router name from the pull down option but, my password is now empty and I can't update it.  I have to delete the router then re-add it, only to get the same thing.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by rlelina on 2009-11-13
I have the same issue but I'm using a Netgear PCMCIA card on my ancient laptop running Ubuntu (WG511v2) and my router is also Netgear (WGR614). I have machines connecting wirelessly using WPA, (WinXP, Snow Leopard, and Jaunty 9.04). All worked flawlessly. When I ugraded to Karmic using the Update Manager, my wireless connection on Karmic keeps dropping every minute or so and cannot reconnect automatically. I had to pull out the PCMCIA card and push it back in before it can reconnect successfully, for about a minute or so. I quickly gave up on this and immediately reinstalled Jaunty from the CD. So far so good.

---

### Post by rlelina on 2009-11-21
> **rlelina said:**
> I have the same issue but I'm using a Netgear PCMCIA card on my ancient laptop running Ubuntu (WG511v2) and my router is also Netgear (WGR614). I have machines connecting wirelessly using WPA, (WinXP, Snow Leopard, and Jaunty 9.04). All worked flawlessly. When I ugraded to Karmic using the Update Manager, my wireless connection on Karmic keeps dropping every minute or so and cannot reconnect automatically. I had to pull out the PCMCIA card and push it back in before it can reconnect successfully, for about a minute or so. I quickly gave up on this and immediately reinstalled Jaunty from the CD. So far so good.

I changed my router to Linksys WRT160Nv3 with firmware v3.0.02 build 3. WPA is working fine now. So far no dropped connections. So my guess is you need trial and error to figure out a good wireless card and router combination when using WPA security.

---

### Post by darco on 2009-11-22
> **toclimbk2 said:**
> I recently upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04 and having issues connecting to my Linksys WRT54GS wireless router.

I had no probs in 9.04 and my recently installed mac OS X had no issues connecting.

I must be doing something wrong.  When I click on the network manager and enter the name of the router, I enter the WPA Personal key as the password.   Shortly after that, a message appears saying network disconnected.  It seems it connects for a short time then disconnects.  I go back to the network manager and this time choose the router name from the pull down option but, my password is now empty and I can't update it.  I have to delete the router then re-add it, only to get the same thing.

Any help would be appreciated.

I have the same router...works fine in Karmic w/wpa2 psk. What you could have done was upgrade the stock firmware to a 3rd party. I use Tomato and its a great firmware...Heres a link to a website where you can look around and see which would work for you.

[http://www.linksysinfo.org/forums/?](http://www.linksysinfo.org/forums/?)

darco

@rlelina- i posted this to your thread, I got mixed up w/this one!
__________________

---

### Post by gnusci on 2009-11-22
Try wicd:

[http://wicd.sourceforge.net](http://wicd.sourceforge.net)

I had problems to connect after upgrade to karmic but now everything is working well.

---

