---
title: "8.04 beta + wirless networking"
date: 2008-04-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Evil Harb on 2008-04-22
Hi folks

being new to this linux thing I thought I'd better ask in here straight away to see if I can get some help (whilst I troll Google incase something is there).

I've installed 8.04 beta - waiting for the full release in 2 days - and I've found an old D-Link AirPlusG+ DWL-G520+ wirless card from my old pc - my question is this: can this be installed on the Linux pc by any chance? If yes then I'd certainly appreciate it if someone could help me get this done - I plan on putting the linux machine downstairs, but my router is upstairs - I could use some help with this one :)

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-04-22
Look no further than this: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCardsDlink](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardwareSupportComponentsWirelessNetworkCardsDlink)

It looks like it should just work.

---

### Post by Evil Harb on 2008-04-22
Ah, thankyou :) I did have a go at it but for some reason I can't connect to the router wirelessly. I've checked the router admin page and under Secutiry Options it has "WPA-PSK (Wi-Fi Protected Access Pre-Shared Key)" ticked as the encryption method. Now when I click the network icon on the desktop (near the clock) I get the option to select this network and a few choices for the type of key/encryption - the above one isn't one of them and it just won't let me connect. I'm a bit stumped by this...any suggestions on a remedy?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-04-22
I think the link I referred you to said it doesn't work with WPA. Not everything works with everything. My stupid 2003 Prism II card doesn't do Draft-N, either!

Can you live with WEP for your network?

---

### Post by Evil Harb on 2008-04-23
I don't see why not - not much difference is there between the 2? If I can just get the network/router working I'd be happy :) So, would I just need to edit the router to work with WEP and put in a new key?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2008-04-23
WEP is quite a bit less secure than WPA. WEP can be cracked, some say in 5 minutes. I have tried myself, and it's never been quite that easy for me.

However, you are not a bank or a store handling credit card transactions, so why would the bad guys even want your information. Also, if your neighborhood is like mine, a quick scan with Kismet shows several unencrypted networks. So why go to the time and trouble to crack my WEP, when there is a wide open network a few houses up the street?

If you look around in your router's administration pages, you will also see MAC address filtering. This will allow you to specify the address the router will connect to. You simply (and very carefully) put in the MAC address of your D-Link and no other device will connect.

You can probably adjust the transmit power of your router. Adjust it down until you can't connect and then back up one increment. This will make the signal harder, not impossible, to sniff from the street.

These steps will make an imperfect encryption protocol a little better.

---

### Post by nihiilist on 2008-04-23
Do you know what chipset this card uses?  If it uses the TI chipset and the acx111 driver try this tutorial here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=324148&highlight=acx111+WPA](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=324148&highlight=acx111+WPA)

I had a hell of a time getting my card to work until I found this.  Use WPA instead of WPA2 for the time being to see if it works.

You can find the driver Ubuntu installed by typing the following in terminal

sudo lshw -C Network

---

### Post by Teoman on 2008-04-26
Hi,
i am new user and begginer.
i have same problem about my DWL-G520. so i used this command. and resuts was like that:

phyxius@quadcore:~$ sudo lshw -C Network
[sudo] password for phyxius: 
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:05:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 01
       serial: 00:1a:4d:55:09:07
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm vpd msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.2LK duplex=half latency=0 link=no module=r8169 multicast=yes port=twisted pair
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:06:00.0
       logical name: eth1
       version: 01
       serial: 00:1a:4d:55:09:05
       size: 100MB/s
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm vpd msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.2LK duplex=full ip=192.168.1.2 latency=0 link=yes module=r8169 multicast=yes port=twisted pair speed=100MB/s
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: AR5212/AR5213 Multiprotocol MAC/baseband processor
       vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:07:00.0
       logical name: wifi0
       version: 01
       serial: 00:1b:11:1e:01:f1
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath_pci latency=168 maxlatency=28 mingnt=10 module=ath_pci multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11g


sincerely Teoman :)

---

