---
title: "18.04: two WiFi interfaces, and setup a hotspot"
date: 2018-04-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kk01 on 2018-04-29
Hey Everyone,

I don't know if it's a bug or i'm doing it wrong!
on Ubuntu 16.04 if I have two WiFi interfaces i can turnoff one and let the other running, and i can select any one of them and make a hotspot wifi.

On Ubuntu 18.04 there is problems and to make it clear:
If you have two WiFi interfaces (wlo1, wlx##_usb)

[IMG]https://i.stack.imgur.com/j6QLg.jpg[/IMG]


**First Problem:**
if you try to turnoff one of them from the Wifi Settings it will turnoff the other, even from the top menu drop list.


[IMG]https://i.stack.imgur.com/TJ2cA.gif[/IMG]


[B]Second Problem:
[/B]When I try to create a Hotspot for the (wlx##_usb) from the Wifi Settings it will select the (wlo1) as the interface for the Hotspot even if i'm on the (wlx##_usb) tab!


[IMG]https://i.stack.imgur.com/K8lNP.jpg[/IMG]


 For this problem i can use the command ```
nm-connection-editor
``` and it show me the 16.04 connections list and i can edit what ever i want, **but** if i stop the connection from the Settings you can't select it back!

**It that problem just on my system or anyone else have it?**

---

### Post by kk01 on 2018-04-30
Hmmmm, is it a bug? Can anyone test it and give a feedback

---

### Post by kk01 on 2018-05-08
is this problems from Ubuntu or GNOME?

---

### Post by zwzwzwzwzxt on 2018-10-27
I use Kali, and maybe after Gnome 3.28?, I have the same problem.I think it a Gnome bug. Do you have solved it ?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2018-10-27
Thread closed.

@zwzwzwzwzxt, if you need help, please start your own thread. Please note that this section is for support only for Ubuntu and the official flavours of Ubuntu. Kali is not one of them. You may ask a question concerning Kail here: [https://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=452](https://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=452) , but since Kali is not based on Ubuntu, this is not the best place to seek help with it.

---

