---
title: "Problem connecting to wireless network in 10.04"
date: 2010-05-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by CrossBack7 on 2010-05-15
Hey, I upgraded from Ubuntu 9.10 to 10.04 this morning, and I can't connect to my wireless network.  The Network Manager shows it's there, with the correct SSID and security key and everything, yet it still won't connect.  I'm using a D-Link DI-524 Wireless Router that I've never had any problem with before.
 
Any help?

---

### Post by Justice Bucket on 2010-05-15
I'm in the same boat and waiting on a reply to my own thread. I'll let you know if anything comes up.

---

### Post by CrossBack7 on 2010-05-16
Any help with this?  I'm seeing several other threads with the same basic problem, most of them still have trouble.

---

### Post by daimaru on 2010-05-16
what kind of wireless card are you using? could you post some infos
```
sudo hwinfo --wlan
``````
sudo iwconfig
``````
sudo ifconfig
``````
route
```
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
more info on setting up your connection manually -> [[COLOR=Red]here[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=641598")

---

### Post by wideaperture on 2010-05-16
I've got the same issue.  Moreover, the installer disk that I used not only recognized my wireless card, network, and password, but used them to complete the installation.  So it's especially frustrating that the subsequently installed system isn't able to connect to the same network using the same hardware, despite still "seeing" the wireless hub.

---

### Post by wideaperture on 2010-05-20
Any progress on this?  Is there another thread I should be checking at this point?

---

### Post by ANew on 2010-05-20
Check

"rfkill list"

---

### Post by CrossBack7 on 2010-06-29
roger@roger-desktop:~$ sudo iwconfig
lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.


roger@roger-desktop:~$ sudo ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:11:11:87:69:10  
          inet addr:192.168.0.100  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::211:11ff:fe87:6910/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:3375 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:2468 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:3791945 (3.7 MB)  TX bytes:353672 (353.6 KB)

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:68 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:68 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:4944 (4.9 KB)  TX bytes:4944 (4.9 KB)


roger@roger-desktop:~$ route
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0
link-local      *               255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
default         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0


roger@roger-desktop:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain zoomtown.com
search zoomtown.com
nameserver 192.168.0.1


Alright, I finally just wired it so I could get some more info up for everyone.  The wireless USB adapter is a D-Link DWL-G120.  Thing is, when I plug it in, it doesn't even get power.  I know it's not the card, and it worked with 9.10.

---

### Post by drh1141 on 2010-06-30
Running 10.04 on a 5-year-old Toshiba Satellite Pro laptop with a new Belkin USB wireless adapter which worked OK on Windows XP earlier.  Ubuntu "sees" the adapter and "sees" the Verizon-installed wireless network (Cisco hw) but I **can't get out to the WWW** with any browser, even after toying with multiple wireless settings in the various dropdown boxes.  My brother has the same issue with 10.04 on a Dell laptop with an internal wireless card. His laptop is dual-boot w/XP and it worked OK with XP but not Ubuntu.  We're not noobs, both in IT for many years, and know our way around network stuff, so what's a noob to do when this comes up?  Should we now be hunting all over for Windows drivers and messing w/ndiswrapper?  Or...could there be an easier route???

---

### Post by wavery on 2010-06-30
This seems to be a common problem for some people, and I'm not finding any solutions.  I'm running 10.04 on an older Dell Inspiron 8200 with a TrueMobile 1150 series wireless card.  It worked fine with 9.10 but won't connect to my network in 10.04.  It sees the network, just won't connect when I enter security info.

At this point I think I need to revert back to 9.10, but I think that means reinstalling Ubuntu, yes?

---

