---
title: "Wifi on Lenovo Ideapad 310-15ABR with Ubuntu don't work"
date: 2017-09-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by marc.iglesias on 2017-09-20
Hello,


1 month ago I bought the Lenovo Ideapad 310-15ABR laptop and I was there for 1 month using that computer, when I saw that everything worked well and there was no component that failed, I decided to install Ubuntu, because it came with Windows 10 default.
The installation was fast and without problems, but after reaching the use of the computer I saw that the internet failed, it was super slow and disconnected every time. I was watching on the internet that many users with Lenovo computers had this problem, but I have not found the solution that works for me, after reading hundreds of forums of the same problems.


I see people reporting this problem inserts the information generated by a script, and that's what I'm going to insert, I hope you can help me, thank you.


Wireless Info:
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/25579265/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/25579265/)

---

### Post by praseodym on 2017-09-20
Try

```
echo "options rtl8821ae swenc=1 swlps=1 fwlps=0 ips=0" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/rtl88821ae_options.conf
```
and reboot

---

### Post by marc.iglesias on 2017-09-20
It works for a while, but super slow and when 2-3 minutes pass it stops working.

---

### Post by festustino on 2017-09-20
It might not be your system, **it may be your internet or the router**. Try rebooting your router or disabling your wifi and turning it back on.
Hopefully that helped.

---

### Post by marc.iglesias on 2017-09-21
No, because right now I'm connected by cable and it works for me.


Please help me!

---

### Post by acesabe2 on 2017-10-14
> **praseodym said:**
> Try

```
echo "options rtl8821ae swenc=1 swlps=1 fwlps=0 ips=0" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/rtl88821ae_options.conf
```
and reboot

Not sure about how well those conf options work or not, but for sure they won't if the conf file name has 3 x 8's in it, it should be **rtl8821ae**_options.conf to match the wifi module name..

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2017-10-14
> **acesabe2 said:**
> Not sure about how well those conf options work or not, but for sure they won't if the conf file name has 3 x 8's in it, it should be **rtl8821ae**_options.conf to match the wifi module name..
The name of the conf file doesn't matter as it gets the module name from the contents of the file

---

### Post by acesabe2 on 2017-10-14
The only config that was different from the default was the "fwlps=0" part, so tried that,  [Edit] [s]no dice[/s] slight improvement, short drops, some longer but still drops completely after a while.
(I am already using: [https://github.com/lwfinger/rtlwifi_new](https://github.com/lwfinger/rtlwifi_new) as outlined already still drops out, I'm not sure there is anything in there newer/different from current default 16.04 install anyway?)

As there is about 1000 duplicate threads on this subject both here and other forums, will continue tests until I find anything useful to share.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2017-10-14
I think this might fix it but the change is so new it doesn't exist in any kernel yet [https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/next/linux-next.git/commit/drivers/net/wireless/realtek/rtlwifi?id=b8b8b16352cd90c6083033fd4487f04fae935c18](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/next/linux-next.git/commit/drivers/net/wireless/realtek/rtlwifi?id=b8b8b16352cd90c6083033fd4487f04fae935c18)

---

### Post by acesabe2 on 2017-10-14
OK cool, something else to try (other than removing card, stamping on it, cursing Realtek and installing something better supported!)

As for patching kernel conf there, will wait till hits main before changing things that may get overwritten but regular upgrade..

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2017-10-14
Since you are using Lwfinger's github version, it may be something other than what I linked to and I see people have reported the disconnects on the github page

You might want to uninstall the github version and download [https://github.com/lwfinger/rtlwifi_new/archive/kernel_version.zip](https://github.com/lwfinger/rtlwifi_new/archive/kernel_version.zip) unzip the file then cd into the folder in terminal then run the make and sudo make install commands, reboot and see if that fixes it

---

### Post by acesabe2 on 2017-10-15
Well actually what appears to have "solved" the problem for this rtl8821ae laptop (Lenovo Ideapad 310 series), a classic solution I remember from back in the mid 2000s; rip out network-manager and install WiCD instead. No dropouts so far since, would drop out after few mins before. I remember this being a workaround we used at one point with a Ralink card iirc back in the Mepis days, bit surprised to find this still happens 10 years later and in a distro as well resourced as Ubuntu.
Having tried most of the suggested changes, I am quite unsure that any of them actually did anything, adding a modprobe.d conf file appears to do nothing as checking modinfo rtl8821ae indicated the config is not adhered to..

```
cat /etc/modprobe.d/rtl8821ae.conf 


options rtl8821ae int_clear=0 fwlps=0 ips=0

```

```
modinfo rtl8821ae

filename:       /lib/modules/4.10.0-37-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/realtek/rtlwifi/rtl8821ae/rtl8821ae.ko
firmware:       rtlwifi/rtl8821aefw.bin
description:    Realtek 8821ae 802.11ac PCI wireless
license:        GPL
author:         Realtek WlanFAE    <wlanfae@realtek.com>
srcversion:     7035D4BEF647A4E63CBD578
alias:          pci:v000010ECd00008821sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
alias:          pci:v000010ECd00008812sv*sd*bc*sc*i*
depends:        rtlwifi,rtl_pci,btcoexist,mac80211
intree:         Y
vermagic:       4.10.0-37-generic SMP mod_unload 
parm:           swenc:Set to 1 for software crypto (default 0)
 (bool)
parm:           ips:Set to 0 to not use link power save (default 1)
 (bool)
parm:           swlps:Set to 1 to use SW control power save (default 0)
 (bool)
parm:           fwlps:Set to 1 to use FW control power save (default 1)
 (bool)
parm:           msi:Set to 1 to use MSI interrupts mode (default 1)
 (bool)
parm:           debug:Set debug level (0-5) (default 0) (int)
parm:           disable_watchdog:Set to 1 to disable the watchdog (default 0)
 (bool)
parm:           int_clear:Set to 0 to disable interrupt clear before set (default 1)
 (bool)



```

I also suspect that the driver code in lwfinger's Github repo is the same as the current module shipping with latest 4.10. kernel...

Maybe I will investigate what exactly the network-manager issue is that causes this problem...maybe I won't..spent enough time on this one already.

My issue is not resolved but workaround is in place for now...

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2017-10-15
The modinfo shows the defaults, not the current settings, check ```
grep [[:alnum:]] /sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/*
```
That will show you the current settings

---

### Post by acesabe2 on 2017-10-15
Spoke too soon! Went away few mins, connection dropped and no way to restore via WICD, get apparmor error (dmesg) so that's not so great.. In fact switching to WICD (following the outdated Ubuntu wiki page results in core metapackage removal, so not great idea really.

OK so output form the above command:

```
$ grep [[:alnum:]] /sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/*/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/debug:0
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/disable_watchdog:N
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/fwlps:N
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/int_clear:N
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/ips:N
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/msi:Y
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/swenc:N
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/swlps:N



```

and I still have

```
cat /etc/modprobe.d/rtl8821ae.conf 
options rtl8821ae int_clear=0 fwlps=0 ips=0
```

which doesn't reflect in the output of the command you suggested, and calls into question the modinfo query which is part of the wireless info script that is linked to in many of these threads..

None the wiser other than *only* since swapping to WICD has there been any improvement so far, draw your own conclusions...

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2017-10-15
0 = N and 1 = Y and you could use N instead of 0 in the modprobe.d conf file.  The wireless script shows the modinfo and the results of the command I gave you.

According to a bug report these issues are fixed in a very new kernel 4.14 rc 4 and being an rc version means it might have bugs

---

### Post by acesabe2 on 2017-10-15
Well we await the fix as mentioned in the comment [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-firmware-nonfree/+bug/1707185/comments/1](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-firmware-nonfree/+bug/1707185/comments/1) you refer too.

It is still curious how WICD manages to keep a reasonably stable wifi connection where network-manager can't, OK have had connection drops but nothing like in ootb 16.04 install!

Minor detail, am using 5Ghz network, so this is unlikely anything to do with neighbour networks on same channel...

---

