---
title: "10.04 x64 NOT detecting as gbit, only 10/100 most of the time"
date: 2010-05-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Quan-Time on 2010-05-24
```

~$ sudo mii-tool -v eth0 
eth0: negotiated 100baseTx-FD flow-control, link ok
  product info: vendor 00:07:32, model 17 rev 2
  basic mode:   autonegotiation enabled
  basic status: autonegotiation complete, link ok
  capabilities: 1000baseT-HD 1000baseT-FD 100baseTx-FD 100baseTx-HD 10baseT-FD 10baseT-HD
  advertising:  100baseTx-FD 100baseTx-HD 10baseT-FD 10baseT-HD flow-control
  link partner: 1000baseT-HD 1000baseT-FD 100baseTx-FD 100baseTx-HD 10baseT-FD 10baseT-HD flow-control

```

Sometimes my network will be gbit, others it wont.  Its quite annoying when trying to transfer large files to and from my server.  Hardware is Asus K7 series laptop, which works "sometimes".  Can't really determine when it wants to choose gbit.

If i mii-tool -r (renegotiate) it doesnt get better, and -f (force) doesnt provide the option for 1000baseT, only 10baseT and 100baseT.

Anyone know of a fix / ideas to this problem ?  Free beer to the one with an answer.

---

### Post by puppywhacker on 2010-05-24
Since the speed is negotiated, all the parties involved have a say in the speed. If you connect a Gb interface to a Gb switch with nothing else connected and you have a good cable (preferably CAT6) with no electromagnetic sources (powercable) around it to disturb the signal, and the cable is as short as possible and there is no other device in the switch that doesn't like to talk at a lower speed which will drag down the total speed of the network including your Gb link.

In my experience a cable straight from one machine to the other will negotiate 1000baseT/Full, with cheap switches I have less luck

---

### Post by Quan-Time on 2010-05-26
when on a win7 boot it connects @ gbit perfectly ever time.  It "sometimes" negotiates gbit on ubuntu, but mostly not.
Its obviously capable, but something is blocking it.

Its not the cable / router.  Its only just started doing it since 10.04 update.  Well, that ive noticed.  Could have been longer.

Anyone with ideas ?

---

