---
title: "20.04 NetworkManager How to autoconnect to specific hidden Wi-Fi network?"
date: 2020-06-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-06-11
In Xubuntu 18.04, NetworkManager would automatically connect to hidden-SSID Wi-Fi networks by default.  I didn't like that being default behavior, but sometimes for a specific hidden Wi-Fi network it can be helpful.

In Xubuntu 20.04, NetworkManager does not automatically connect to hidden Wi-Fi network by default :) But even when "Connect automatically with priority" is checked, it still doesn't automatically connect?  I must manually go to NetworkManager > "Connect to Hidden Wi-Fi Network...", then select the Wi-Fi network from the drop-down and click Connect.

How to enable automatic connection to a specific hidden-SSID Wi-Fi network?

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-06-14
bump

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-06-17
bump

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-06-22
bump.

I likely could force it with a script that calls [FONT=Courier New]nmcli connection up[/FONT].  But that's not a good solution.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-06-26
bump

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-06-29
I did find [this]("https://askubuntu.com/questions/1231434/automatically-connect-to-a-hidden-wireless-network") which sounds like a similar issue.  I had tried the suggested solution.  But for me that only resulted in one automatic connection once, and has not helped at all since.

I had also tried using a USB Wi-Fi adapter.  Still no dice.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-07-01
bump

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-07-06
bump

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-07-07
Is [this]("https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/NetworkManager/NetworkManager/-/issues/438") a related issue?  Except for me it doesn't work on wake from suspend either.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-07-26
Hmm.  I have now installed Xubuntu 20.04 on two other computers that have Wi-Fi, and this problem did not exist in either case.  So this is either related to my specific hardware/drivers, or it's something I've done.

If the former, I don't care to go further down that rabbit hole.  I have this vague feeling that that could leave me with no Wi-Fi at all. :P

I have been working around this with a panel launcher that calls [FONT=Courier New]nmcli[/FONT] .  Since this problem appears to be just me, and doesn't affect actual use of the Wi-Fi network, I might just continue using the workaround and not bother investigating further.

---

