---
title: "WPA problems with Prism 2.5 chipset, drivers"
date: 2006-06-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cyboreal on 2006-06-21
I have a Thinkpad with an Intersil Corporation Prism 2.5 Wavelan chipset, with station firmware 1.8.4.  According to [http://hostap.epitest.fi/wpa_supplicant/](http://hostap.epitest.fi/wpa_supplicant/) the hostap driver supports WPA/WPA2 for Prism 2/2.5/3 chipsets.  So this card should be able to handle WPA.

After installing Kubuntu 6.06 and the knetworkmanager package, I could see my wired and wireless interfaces, with my AP listed under the wireless section.  But when I tried to configure it, there were no options for WPA encryption, only WEP.

Running `lsmod` shows that orinoco, orinoco_pci and hermes are all loaded - which do not support WPA.  I tried modprobing the hostap driver in and modprobe -r orinoco_pci but now knetworkmanager does not even see the wireless card.

So my first question is: **how do I tell Kubuntu to use the hostap driver to manager my wireless card and not the orinoco driver?**  It seems like I'm getting conflicts at the driver level.

Secondly, with the hostap driver loaded, I have setup my wpa_supplicant.conf file as follows:
```
ctrl_interface=/var/run/wpa_supplicant
network={
  ssid="myap"
  key_mgmt="WPA-PSK"
  proto=WPA
  pairwise=TKIP
  group=TKIP
  psk=***** (generated by wpa_passphrase)
```
I have setup my /etc/network/interfaces file for eth1 (my wireless nic) as:
```
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
wpa-driver hostap
wpa-conf /path/to/wpa_supplicant.conf
```
When I run ifup eth1, I get the following output:
```
user1@hostname:~$ sudo ifup eth1
ioctl[SIOCSIWPMKSA]: No such device
ioctl[SIOCSIWMODE]: No such device
Could not configure driver to use managed mode
ioctl[SIOCGIFFLAGS]: No such device
Could not set interface 'eth1' UP
ioctl[SIOCGIWRANGE]: No such device
ioctl[SIOCGIFINDEX]: No such device
ioctl[PRISM2_IOCTL_HOSTAPD]: No such device
Failed to set encryption.
ioctl[PRISM2_IOCTL_HOSTAPD]: No such device
Failed to set encryption.
ioctl[PRISM2_IOCTL_HOSTAPD]: No such device
Failed to set encryption.
ioctl[PRISM2_IOCTL_HOSTAPD]: No such device
Failed to set encryption.
ioctl[PRISM2_IOCTL_HOSTAPD]: No such device
ioctl[PRISM2_IOCTL_PRISM2_PARAM]: No such device
ioctl[PRISM2_IOCTL_PRISM2_PARAM]: No such device
Failed to disable WPA in the driver.
ioctl[PRISM2_IOCTL_PRISM2_PARAM]: No such device
ioctl[PRISM2_IOCTL_PRISM2_PARAM]: No such device
ioctl[SIOCSIWAP]: No such device
ioctl[SIOCGIFFLAGS]: No such device
wpa_supplicant: failed to locate ctrl_interface socket, exiting
run-parts: /etc/network/if-pre-up.d/wpasupplicant exited with return code 1
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.0.3
Copyright 2004-2005 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit http://www.isc.org/products/DHCP

SIOCSIFADDR: No such device
eth1: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device
eth1: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device
Bind socket to interface: No such device
Failed to bring up eth1. 

```
Is this still the driver problem or something else?  Any clues are appreciated.

---

### Post by cyboreal on 2006-06-21
After further configuring, I found that the orinoco and hermes driver were still loaded and preventing hostap from taking over control of the wireless nic.  After modprobe -r the orinoco and hermes drivers, eth1 automatically comes up with an IP address.  So far so good.  I still have two problems:

1. (Same as original question above) **how do I tell Kubuntu to use the hostap driver to manage my wireless card and not the orinoco driver?** 

2. knetworkmanager only shows my wired connection now, not my wireless card, even though the interface is up and connected.  **How do I get (k)NetworkManager to show my wireless card, even though it is using the hostap driver?**  I would like to use knetworkmanager to be able to keep track of the various APs I use (work, home, any, etc.).  How do I configure it to let me do that, using wpa_supplicant (for all connections, or just when needed)?

---

### Post by ranf on 2006-06-21
1. put the orinoco and hermes modules on the blacklist in file `/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist' like this:
```
blacklist <module name>
```

---

### Post by cyboreal on 2006-06-22
Odd that blacklisting the orinoco and hermes modules didn't do the trick.  After rebooting, the orinoco set and the hostap set were loaded.  However I was able to get WPA-PSK working by doing the following:

1. Unloading the orinoco/hermes modules and renaming them (/lib/modules/2.6.15-23-386/kernel/drivers/net/wireless) so that they are not loaded, causing the device to use the hostap drivers

2. Following the directions here ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperNetworkManager)](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DapperNetworkManager)), I reverted to the original /etc/network/interfaces file.  I changed wlan0 to wifi0 since the hostap drivers show two devices: eth1 and wifi0

3. I created the file /etc/default/wpasupplicant and added "ENABLED=0" to it.

After /etc/init.d/networking restart, kNetworkManager correctly identified that my AP has WPA encryption, presented me with all the WPA options, and pulled up an IP address after I entered my key.  Hope it still works after the next reboot!

---

### Post by cyboreal on 2006-07-11
To follow up my own post, I found that though WPA was working perfectly using the hostap drivers, I could not connect to WEP or Open APs.  This is apparently a known problem (see this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=207345)](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=207345)).  However, it seems that the problem can be solved (at least for my Prism 2.5 card) by editing /etc/iftab and changing the entry for eth1 to wlan0 and rebooting.  I'm not sure what is going on under the hood but it seems the kernel is fine using eth1 but the userland tools are choking when looking for wlan0.  By renaming the interface to wlan0 (using the same MAC address) all the tools are working as expected... at least KNetworkManager now connects to my WPA router at home and the WEP router at work.  I also changed /etc/network/interfaces so it looks like this:
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
address 127.0.0.1
netmask 255.0.0.0

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
```

---

### Post by jml on 2006-07-12
I do not think that the problem is with either the wireless card or the driver.  As best as I can tell, neither Ubuntu, or Kubuntu 6.06 support WPA out of the box.  One needs to download, install and configure an application called wpa_supplicant.  To be frank, I have never been able to get it to work with Ubuntu.  The only distros I have been able to get to work with WPA encryption is Kanotix and Mandriva 2006.  

Joe

---

### Post by cyboreal on 2006-07-12
> **jml said:**
> ...As best as I can tell, neither Ubuntu, or Kubuntu 6.06 support WPA out of the box.  One needs to download, install and configure an application called wpa_supplicant.  To be frank, I have never been able to get it to work with Ubuntu.
Actually, I didn't need to do any manual configuration of wpa_supplicant.  I don't remember if it was installed by default, but if it wasn't, it was just a matter of adding it to the list of requested packages and letting apt-get do its thing.  Barring the confusion of how to switch the driver from orinoco to hostap and the manual reconfiguration of the wireless nic from eth1 to wlan0, NetworkManager handles WPA beautifully.  
> The only distros I have been able to get to work with WPA encryption is Kanotix and Mandriva 2006.
SuSE 10.0 handled WPA out of the box with an Intel 2200BG card on my other box.  It looks like more distros are finally getting with it wrt to WPA.

---

### Post by rhydz on 2007-11-25
i am having this problem now in kubuntu gutsy. any ideas on how i can solve it?

---

