---
title: "New Ubuntu User: YAWQ - Yet another wireless question"
date: 2005-12-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by freshy on 2005-12-27
Hi everyone.

I'm a beginning Linux user.  This isn't the first time I've installed Linux (I used mandrake for a while but seldomly), but my Linux skills are lacking.

So, I've got ubuntu installed and everything seems to work alright except my wireless (which of course I want to get working so I can start installing packages :) ).

This install is on my laptop.

My wireless card is pcmcia.  Apparently it is a no-name card though.  Written on the card is "Long Range Wireless LAN PC Card" and then written below that is "Wireless LAN Simple Mobility IEEE 802.11b".

The card works just fine under windows with my Linksys Wireless router.

So far, I have used the System->network GUI to activate the device as well as fill in the relevant information. (oh btw, the router is using 128bit wep encryption) Also, i've googled the card and cannot find a website or anything for who actually sold this card.  I got the card from a friend and he has no idea what brand name it is.

Follows is the output from some of the commands in the WiFi HOWTO.

lshw:

Description: wireless interface
product: AR5212 802.11 abg NIC
vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
phys. id: 5
bus info: pci@00:05.0
logical name : ath0
serial: 00:0F:ea:91:5a:89
driver: ath_pci
driver version: 0.9.6.0(Experimental)

lspci -n reveals:

0000:00:05.0 0200:

**168c:0013**

So that 168c:0013 is apparently related to the chipset my card is using.  I've been to the ndiswrapper site and many different cards have that signature.

I'm feeling really lost right now and would really appreciate any help.

THANKS!

Sean

---

### Post by Lambert on 2005-12-27
Need a little bit about your network
Is it open key or shared/restricted key?
hexadecimal or ascii key?

Post the output of this this command

```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
```

xxx out all private data.

---

### Post by freshy on 2005-12-27
Hi.

My wep key is currently being generated by a passphrase.

It is in the format

0BBA39BF.....

Think that would be hex right?

I've got to boot back to ubuntu to run cat... give me a few moments.

Sean

EDIT:  @Lambert:  Just checked my settings for Windows Wireless.  The key appears to be "open" or at least that is what I have selected under windows and it works.
I'm going to boot into ubuntu now, will reply when I am done.

On a side note, what's the differenece between open, wpa, wpa-shared and all that. Anyone have a link?

---

### Post by Lambert on 2005-12-27
that does look like hexadecimal format. It's important to know if it's open or shared key though. 

If it's shared key then there is a driver setting that needs to be edited for the driver to work and connect to the ap.

---

### Post by freshy on 2005-12-27
Hi.

```
 cat /etc/network/interfaces 
```

returns the following:

#
#  Some comments at the top
#

#loopback interface

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

#
# Some comments about hotplug
#

mapping hotplug
script grep
map eth0


That's all.

Sean

---

### Post by Lambert on 2005-12-27
so let's open the file and add some data

```
sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```

then add a section like this a few lines underneath the map eth0 line

iface ath0 inet dhcp
wireless-essid ________
wireless-key ________
wireless-mode managed
auto ath0

This next line makes the driver work for wep shared key settings so only use this if you know it's shared key or if the above didn't work. If adding this line makes your connection work then you know your router is wep shared key setting.

post-up iwpriv mode 2

Notes on entering key. Some routers won't accept key being entered like this

abcd123410

so if you still can't connect try entering key so there is a - every 4 characters

abcd-1234-10

then run this command

```
sudo ifconfig ath0 down
```
```
sudo ifconfig ath0 up
```

by the way, above is based on using dhcp to get ip address.

---

### Post by freshy on 2005-12-28
Hi.

Thanks for the advice.

My wep key is 26 charaters long.... will that still work?

I just have to put dashes every four characters?

Sean

---

### Post by freshy on 2005-12-28
Hi.

I've added the lines you suggested to /etc/network/interfaces.  I tried adding the wep key in xxxx-xxxx-xx format as well as xxxxxxxxxx. 

I also tried it with post-up iwpriv mode 2 as well as without that line.

Going to system->network it appears that the device has been activated.  The essid, wep key are all there as well.

The wireless is still not working.  I tried going to google.com, no luck.  I tried pinging the router, no go.

The light on my pcmcia card never goes on either.

Could this be a driver problem?
Do I need to use ndiswrapper?
Maybe I entered the information wrong?

I guess I'll keep plugging along but this is very frustrating.

---

### Post by Lambert on 2005-12-28
so let's get some data

after trying to connect bring up these commands and post output

iwconfig

ifconfig

sudo iwlist ath0 scan

you can xxx all personal data

---

### Post by freshy on 2005-12-28
Here we go :)

iwconfig returns:

lo - no wireless extensions

eth0 - no wireless extensions

ath0 - IEEE 802.11  ESSID: gimpy
Mode: managed Freq: 2.412  Access point:  00:00:00:00:00:00
BitRate: 1mb/s  Txpower 18dBm Sensitivity: 0/3
retry: off  RTSthrottle: off  Fragment throttle: off
Encryotion key: xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xx  Security mode: restricted

Power management: off  Link quality 0/94  Signal level: -95 dBm  Noise level: -95dBm
Rx invalid nwid:0 Rxinvalid crypt:0  Rx invalid fragments:0
Tx excessive retry:0  Invalid misc:0  

sit0 - no wireless extensions

----------------------------------------------------------------

iwlist ath0 scan returns:

ath0 failed to read scan data,  resourc temporairily unavailable

---------------------------------------------------------------

ifconfig returns

ath0  Link encap: Ethernet  HWaddr:  00:0F:EA:91:5A:89
Inet 6 addr:  fe80::20f:eaff:fe91:5a89/64   Scope: link
UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  Mtu:1500  Metric:1
Rx - all values zero
Tx- all values zero
Rx bytes: 0 (0.0 b)
Tx bytes: 0 (0.0 b)

-----------------------------------------------------------

I also went to Applications -> Network tools.  That brought up "unknown interface ath0" if that helps.  Also in the rupper-righthand corner the network symbol only showed the looback interface lo.

---

### Post by Lambert on 2005-12-28
>  ath0 - IEEE 802.11  ESSID: gimpy
Mode: managed Freq: 2.412  Access point:  00:00:00:00:00:00

1st thing you need to get association with your router. the access point in the iwconfig device says you're not associated with the router.

with a no name device and unable to read iwlist scan results I'm curious if the driver needs to be updated as there are cards that were known not to work with the madwifi driver. With a no name card it's hard to tell if this is one of them.

Some other thoughts

What protocol is your router broadcasting in? Your initial post said the card read 802.11b, is your router also broadcasting .11b?

Even though it just says .11b I believe all atheros devices can use either a,b, or g. previous command output in post kind of tells this.

We can try to specify the driver so it is only in a certain protocol (it usually sets up auto so it picks the appropriate one)

```
sudo iwpriv ath0 mode _
```

fill in the blank with 

0=auto
1=a
2=b
3=g

And last thought is finding out exaclty what mode your wep is. Open or shared key. it's very important with the madwifi driver as a setting needs to be set.

Can you change to an open signal briefly? This might be the next best troubleshooting step to ensure that the card and driver will function. Then add wep back in after we rule out driver/card problems.

---

### Post by freshy on 2005-12-28
Just checked out my router.  The authentication is currently set to "both".

The menu allows the options of open, shared key, and both.

Should I change the auth. method to open?

EDIT:  I just changed my router to authenticate in "open" mode.  I can turn off my wep but last time I tried that it stopped windows from being able to log on.... wierd I know.  I'm going to see if changing to open mode helped and if not I will try it without wep turned on.

---

