---
title: "Gutsy - DHCP3-server firestarter NAT Problems"
date: 2008-04-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by getdanonit on 2008-04-03
ARHH My first post. I never usually post as most of the time I can find the answers I'm looking for somewhere or another, but I knew there would be a day when I couldn't.

My current problem is setting up ubuntu 7.10 server as a dhcp3-server / nat router. Now I know it would probably be a lot easier to go buy a router that does this for me but I already have all the kit. wireless access point, hub, 2 nics etc, so why spend money when i dont have to.

I have installed dhcp3-server and firestarter. Firestarter successfully configured my dhcp config with the right settings and my clients can receive ip address's from dhcp no problem. I have correctly (or so I think) setup firestarter to share the internet connection. The strange thing is I cannot browse the internet on the clients. i can ping the firewall machine and vice versa no problem, but cannot ping any external address from the clients. 

Ubuntu 7.10 server:
eth0 - LAN 192.168.0.1 
eth1 - INTERNET dhcp
range - 192.168.0.2-100
name server <dynamic>

dhcp.conf--
# DHCP configuration generated by Firestarter
ddns-update-style interim;
ignore client-updates;

subnet 192.168.0.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
        option routers 192.168.0.1;
        option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
        option domain-name-servers 194.168.4.100, 194.168.8.100;
        option ip-forwarding off;
        range dynamic-bootp 192.168.0.2 192.168.0.100;
        default-lease-time 21600;
        max-lease-time 43200;
}


one thing i have noticed is my xp sp2 and vista client does not receive name server addresses. It also receives 2 default gateway addresses 0.0.0.0 and 192.168.0.1, is this normal? 

If you need anymore info please let me know! I'm at a lost cause here now!:confused:

---

### Post by getdanonit on 2008-04-03
i have also followed this [http://wiki.steenbe.nl/?p=29#more-29](http://wiki.steenbe.nl/?p=29#more-29) and same problem exists!

---

### Post by getdanonit on 2008-04-05
please someone must be able to help?? :(

Do you think this is hardware, ie my 2nd nic? How do i go about adding new hardware after changing the nic round?

---

