---
title: "9.04 stopped discovering wireless networks?!"
date: 2009-05-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by VladCE on 2009-05-09
I searched and did not find anything similar here, so comes this new thread, sorry...
I am completely new to Ubuntu with my Dell Mini9 and I don't know what I did (if anything) but about a week ago my Network Manager (applet) stopped discovering wireless networks. I still can connect to previously discovered networks, but can't see any others. I use Ubuntu 9.04 with all the latest updates. I wonder whether it's a bug or a new feature?

Now, if I run

iwlist scan

...it says "Interface doesn't support scanning" on all interfaces.

If I do

sudo iwlist scan

... then it does discover all wireless networks.

The question is how do I make it discover thru the nm-applet, at boottime?

P. S. Another question, maybe - is it possible somehow to roll back to older versions (of nm-applet, namely) without reinstalling the whole OS?

Please help and thanks in advance,

---

### Post by VladCE on 2009-05-11
Does anybody here care to reply?

---

### Post by VladCE on 2009-05-12
Now I can see how "Ubuntu is 'humanity towards others'. It is 'the belief in a universal bond of sharing that connects all humanity'."

Probably I have to get back to the XP concept of "universal bond of sharing that connects".

---

### Post by cbraxton on 2009-05-12
> **VladCE said:**
> I searched and did not find anything similar here, so comes this new thread, sorry...
I am completely new to Ubuntu with my Dell Mini9 and I don't know what I did (if anything) but about a week ago my Network Manager (applet) stopped discovering wireless networks. 

I use Ubuntu 9.04 on an Asus Eee 1000. First thing I did was install wicd in place of network manager, it just works a lot better. You can install via "sudo apt-get install wicd" or search for it in the Synaptic package manager. (Network Manager will be automatically uninstalled.)

---

### Post by VladCE on 2009-05-13
> **cbraxton said:**
> I use Ubuntu 9.04 on an Asus Eee 1000. First thing I did was install wicd in place of network manager, it just works a lot better.

Really? Thanks, I'll give it a try!

---

### Post by VladCE on 2009-05-13
> **cbraxton said:**
> I use Ubuntu 9.04 on an Asus Eee 1000. First thing I did was install wicd in place of network manager, it just works a lot better.

It's funny, I tried it out. It certainly works different albeit 'a lot better'. Wicd can discover all wireless networks and can connect to some, but can't to my own. Now, the Network Manager can't discover anything, but at least can connect to my own weird wireless Belkin router. Maybe it's where the problem is (friends don't let friends to buy Belkin hi-tech). Also funny is that WICD and Network Manager are mutually exclusive, that is, uninstall each other at any chance :)

Gee, I thought after all these years Linux could have been more mature than that...

---

