---
title: "Computer unreachable through shared connection"
date: 2015-04-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Gilbert_Schuurman on 2015-04-29
Hi,
I have the following setup:
Computer with Ubuntu 14.04 LTS with two ethernet ports. One of them is connected to our office LAN, the other is connected to a desktop PC running Windows 8.1. I enabled 'Shared to other computers' on this connection.

From the W8.1 computer I am able to connect to the Ubuntu computer and, through it, to the office LAN.
From the Ubuntu computer I am able to ping the W8.1 computer.
From the Ubuntu computer I am ***not*** able to connect to the VNC server that is running on the W8.1 computer.

When I connect the W8.1 computer to the office LAN directly, I can reach the VNC server just fine.

Below is the output of the iptables /L command:
[FONT=courier new]
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         
ACCEPT     udp  --  anywhere             anywhere             udp dpt:bootps
ACCEPT     tcp  --  anywhere             anywhere             tcp dpt:bootps
ACCEPT     udp  --  anywhere             anywhere             udp dpt:domain
ACCEPT     tcp  --  anywhere             anywhere             tcp dpt:domain

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         
ACCEPT     all  --  anywhere             10.42.0.0/24         state RELATED,ESTABLISHED
ACCEPT     all  --  10.42.0.0/24         anywhere            
ACCEPT     all  --  anywhere             anywhere            
REJECT     all  --  anywhere             anywhere             reject-with icmp-port-unreachable
REJECT     all  --  anywhere             anywhere             reject-with icmp-port-unreachable

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         [/FONT]


Can someone tell me how to get the vnc connection working?

Thanks,

Gilbert

---

### Post by The Cog on 2015-04-29
I don't think your post contains the full information about the rules. Specifically, any interface-specific info is missing, and I suspect there may be some. 
I don't see any reason the VNC connection should fail from the above post. Perhaps the missing info provides a clue.
Please can you post the output of
```
sudo iptables-save -c
```
which will give all the details of the rules.

---

### Post by Gilbert_Schuurman on 2015-04-29
Here it is:

[FONT=courier new]# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.21 on Wed Apr 29 13:46:28 2015
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [58370:7386105]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [86353:74624668]
[4:1392] -A INPUT -i eth4 -p udp -m udp --dport 67 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A INPUT -i eth4 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 67 -j ACCEPT
[1180:76357] -A INPUT -i eth4 -p udp -m udp --dport 53 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A INPUT -i eth4 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 53 -j ACCEPT
[65449:35289684] -A FORWARD -d 10.42.0.0/24 -o eth4 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
[44009:15653243] -A FORWARD -s 10.42.0.0/24 -i eth4 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A FORWARD -i eth4 -o eth4 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A FORWARD -o eth4 -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-port-unreachable
[0:0] -A FORWARD -i eth4 -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-port-unreachable
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed Apr 29 13:46:28 2015
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.21 on Wed Apr 29 13:46:28 2015
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [6876:633319]
:INPUT ACCEPT [5010:441074]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [4107:269478]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [4097:268763]
[1711:181365] -A POSTROUTING -s 10.42.0.0/24 ! -d 10.42.0.0/24 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed Apr 29 13:46:28 2015
[/FONT]

---

### Post by The Cog on 2015-04-29
I can't see anything in those rules that would prevent the RDP from working. 

My next thing would be to try to trace the packets as you try to make the RDP connection. Use tcpdump to print the packets. You need to trace on the interface that connects to the W8.1 PC - which I think is not eth4 but I don't know which one it is. The command below assumes eth0, but adjust it to trace the correct interface:
s```
udo tcpdump -np -i eth0
```
then try the RDP connection and then stop the trace (with Ctrl-C). We might see why the connection fails.

---

### Post by Gilbert_Schuurman on 2015-04-29
Hi,
I got it to work but I don't know how. The only thing I (can remember I) did was unplug the network cable between the two PCs and plug it back in.
I am trying to retrace my steps and figure out what happened.
Will let you know when I do.

Thank you for your support so far.

Gilbert

---

