---
title: "Slow browsing after upgrade to 11.10"
date: 2011-11-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by JPBodner on 2011-11-10
Hi all

I have a dual-boot win7/Ubuntu machine.  No issues browsing in firefox in Win7.  But after upgrading from 11.04 to 11.10, browsing in Ubuntu is awful.  There is a long pause before anything happens (DNS lookup?) and then the download speed itself seems slow.  Based on reading other posts, I made these changes in the network settings:

IPV4: Automatic (DHCP)
IPV6: Ignore

Can someone walk me through a trouble-shoot of this?  I didn't have problems in 11.04, so I'm perplexed about how something got more broken in the new release.

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-11
Hello


I would recommend trying to connect to a website using name , and comparing that to going to a website via IP address.
there will be a slight delay due to DNS lookup been done for the name resolution, but it should be negligible.

When you compare the two it may show a difference in sreponse times between the two,.

If thats the case maybe post results for /etc/resolv.conf
maybe that may show somethime.

If navigating via IP adress seems the same it could down to something more basic then that like MTU size issues or something of that nature, but first things first.
Try the direct compare first

---

### Post by JPBodner on 2011-11-20
Thanks for the advice.  Typing the IP directly didn't make it any faster.   

Here's the contents of the file:

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain The
search The Machine
nameserver 192.168.2.1
```

So, there's not much information there.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by dineshs on 2011-11-21
Pl see postcount #3 [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741873")

---

### Post by JPBodner on 2011-11-22
Thanks for the advice, but it didn't help much.  When I run a DSL speed test on Ubuntu, download speeds are where they should be, but the upload speed is horrible.  Any other thoughts?

---

### Post by JPBodner on 2011-11-27
Using the host command, I get a pretty immediate response.  I think this means the DNS lookup is happening fast, but I'm not 100% sure about this.  Still, the time for firefox to make the move to load a page is still unacceptably slow.  

Anyone have any advice?

---

