---
title: "RTL8723BE on Lenovo Z50 Issues"
date: 2015-06-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by chewycwook on 2015-06-11
Hello,

I am a long time ubuntu user and I have not been able to find a suitable solution to my problem, I fear some of my attempts my have made the problem worse so I come here for advise.  My wireless network connection will sometimes stop working until I disconnect and reconnect, although it still shows the bars in the top right.  I believe the problem started when messing around with PIA vpn and some of my configurations got changed to the point that a connection was not possible at all.  I corrected the problem with the following commands:
```

sudo apt-get remove --purge resolvconf && sudo apt-get install --reinstall resolvconf
sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf

```
however, it seems frequent disconnections are still occurring.  I notice the high "Invalad misc" numbers from iwconfig, this is after being connected for about 10 minutes:
```

  Bit Rate=15 Mb/s   Tx-Power=20 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr=2347 B   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=70/70  Signal level=-20 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:12971   Missed beacon:0

```
Here are some other outputs that you may find relevant:
from lspci:
```

02:00.0 Network controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8723BE PCIe Wireless Network Adapter
    Subsystem: Lenovo Device b736
    Kernel driver in use: rtl8723be

```
Contents of /etc/resolv.conf:
```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
nameserver 209.222.18.222
nameserver 209.222.18.218

```
there is also a /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf those contents are:
```

nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4

```

Maybe that is the discrepency causing the problem, again I hope someone out there more knowledgeable than me can advise.  Thank you for your help, let me know if there are any other outputs you would like to see.

---

### Post by Pilot6 on 2015-06-12
You can install a driver by

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:hanipouspilot/rtlwifi
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install rtlwifi-new-dkms linux-firmware
```

and reboot.

---

### Post by chewycwook on 2015-06-12
This is more updated than the driver I am currently using?  I feel like it is a misconfigured file over the driver, as it was once working properly.  I can look into it when I get home, thank you for your time to respond!

---

### Post by Pilot6 on 2015-06-12
And what driver are you using? Default kernel driver? It is very poor.

---

### Post by chewycwook on 2015-06-12
Yes I don&#8217;t recall installing anything different, I had no idea.  I will give it a try.  Much appreciated!

Edit: I installed it and everything seems much snappier, have yet to have any issues. Thank you so much for the solution!
I will post another thread if it begins to show issues again but it seems you were absolutely right.

---

### Post by pnreddy on 2015-08-03
I am trying to update Realtek RTL8723BE driver in Lenovo G50-30. The OS is LUbuntu 12.04. I came across the advice that you had given and tried to do the same. However, After the third command, I am getting the response "Unable to locate package rtlwifi-new-dkms". Can you please help me install the driver. TIA.

---

### Post by José Serra on 2015-08-09
pnreddy: The problem is that PPA only supports 14.04 Trusty, 14.10 Utopic and 15.04 Vivid.

---

### Post by One_4ntr4x on 2015-09-08
im a new user of ubuntu i just followed your steps Godbless

---

