---
title: "8.10 new install can't acquire network address"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dresdenron on 2009-04-26
Have had a wireless network set up for quite some time. Took hard drive out of one PC and installed ubuntu 8.10 on a clean harddrive in it. Everything seems to work O.K  up to the point of connecting to the network. Using Linksys access point and Linksys USB wireless adapter on PC.  Shows me my wireless network and my neighbors so I assume my adapter and access point are recognized. But then the network icon starts churning and says acquiring network address from "wireless network" after a couple of mintues it disconnects.  went through some of the help screens on Ubuntu documentation but nothing applied.  This is my first shot at Linux.  Went to my first meeting and someone suggested i try with security disabled, which i did, but same problem. 
 
any help would be appreciated

---

### Post by m_2009 on 2009-04-26
Were you using the wireless card in another machine before installing linux? If so were you able to connect then?

Do you have DHCP enabled on the router? If not then you wil need to enable it in order for it to assign the network card an IP address

---

### Post by dresdenron on 2009-04-27
yes, this hardware, adapter, router was working well with WIN98 installed. I only swapped another harddrive into this PC (removed the other one) and installed Linux on it. So all hardware was setup and running for quite some time as a Windows wireless network. rest of network under Windows is still working well. 
 
Router is Linksys BEFW11S4, adapter on this PC is Linksys WUSB11

---

