---
title: "Incorrect DNS nameserver"
date: 2013-01-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by aschepler on 2013-01-07
Running Ubuntu 12.04.1 LTS.

On the local ethernet is a DSL modem/router which acts as a DHCP server and DNS server.  It recently worked just fine.  I somewhat frequently update the Ubuntu packages, but I may have also switched some setting on the modem a while back.  The modem IP is 192.168.1.1, on a 192.168.1.* network.

When I boot up the Ubuntu box, the ethernet interface appears to be properly configured:

```
$ ifconfig eth0
...
inet addr:192.168.1.47  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
```

But the resolvconf DNS information is bad:

```
$ ls -l /etc/resolv.conf
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 29 Sep  7 22:17 /etc/resolv.conf -> ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
search homelinux.net
```

Using lo as a DNS server doesn't work at all.  I ought to be using the modem 192.168.1.1 instead.

(I've been able to work around this one boot at a time by manually running "cat bettersettings > sudo resolvconf -a NetworkManager".)

I tried adding "supersede domain-name-servers 192.168.1.1;" in /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf , but after reboot there was no apparent effect and I'm still getting only "nameserver 127.0.0.1".

Somebody on irc.freenode.net #ubuntu suggested putting a nameserver line in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base (which was previously empty).  So I tried that, but again no apparent effect.

Any other ideas?  If nothing else, I could try to add a local upstart step that fiddles resolvconf right after eth0 comes up, but I'm hoping for something simpler that makes more sense.

---

### Post by dpurgert on 2013-01-07
you can try editing your /etc/network/interfaces to include this:

```

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
dns-nameservers 208.67.222.222 208.67.220.220

```

then save, and restart the system (there's probably a better way, but I've not found a clean one).

Now, I'm using the openDNS nameservers because I can't stand my ISP's 404 redirect page, and they're not nice with "seriously, lemme shut it off!"

---

### Post by aschepler on 2013-01-07
That did the trick. Thanks.

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-01-09
> **dpurgert said:**
> You can try editing your /etc/network/interfaces to include this:

```

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
dns-nameservers 208.67.222.222 208.67.220.220

```

then save, and restart the system (there's probably a better way, but I've not found a clean one).

A way to activate this change without rebooting is to do "ifdown eth0 ; ifup eth0".

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-01-09
> **aschepler said:**
> But the resolvconf DNS information is bad:

```
$ ls -l /etc/resolv.conf
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 29 Sep  7 22:17 /etc/resolv.conf -> ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
search homelinux.net
```

Using lo as a DNS server doesn't work at all.  I ought to be using the modem 192.168.1.1 instead.


Your /etc/resolv.conf appears to be correct: it directs the glibc resolver to connect to a locally running, forwarding nameserver that listens on the loopback IP address 127.0.0.1.

> (I've been able to work around this one boot at a time by manually running "cat bettersettings > sudo resolvconf -a NetworkManager".)

That should be "cat bettersettings | sudo resolvconf -a NetworkManager".

> I tried adding "supersede domain-name-servers 192.168.1.1;" in /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf , but after reboot there was no apparent effect and I'm still getting only "nameserver 127.0.0.1".

That was the wrong approach. Make sure you have reverted all your experimental changes.

> Somebody on irc.freenode.net #ubuntu suggested putting a nameserver line in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base (which was previously empty).  So I tried that, but again no apparent effect.

There is lots of bad advice out there on the 'net. It is almost never correct to put "nameserver" lines into files in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/. Make sure you revert those changes too.

You say that adding a stanza to /etc/network/interfaces fixed the problem. Were you using NetworkManager to configure the interface previously? If so then you should know that there is also a way to tell NetworkManager about static nameserver addresses.

---

