---
title: "12.04 stalled shutdown kills wired interfaces on router"
date: 2012-09-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by NoxDeleo on 2012-09-21
I've run into a really odd problem that I previously thought was a duff router, but turns out to be linked to when Ubuntu doesn't shutdown properly.

Occasionally I've had Ubuntu stall whilst shutting down (although I've yet to dig into why), and had to forcibly power off my PC. For some reason, this kills all the wired connections on my router (Linksys WRT56G version 7). I can still connect to it wirelessly and access the configuration page, but all wired connections (including the connection to the modem) are down. No amount of power cycling seems to fix this, but everything starts working again once I boot Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Bushflyr on 2012-09-26
FWIW I'm having a very similar issue. I was tearing my hair out for 2 days trying to figure out why my ethernet connection on my Mac was FUBAR. WiFi worked fine. Finally I tried to SSH into my 12.04 server and realized that it had crashed for some unknown reason. As soon as I shut the server down my Mac's ethernet was all fine again. :mad:

No idea why, but you're not the only one. And it's an Asus RT-n66u router, so that's not the issue.

---

### Post by NoxDeleo on 2012-09-27
Glad it's not just me. I've poked around syslog/dmesg when I've had a stalled shutdown, but I couldn't see anything out of the ordinary networking-wise (not that I'm 100% on what is ordinary). Maybe someone could let me know what logs/debug information would be useful here.

---

