---
title: "11.04 on Toshiba Satellite: Wireless support disappeared after updates"
date: 2011-05-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by JessicaNumber on 2011-05-09
This is a Toshiba Satellite L640  and has a Broadcom BCM4313 controller and Bios version 1.9 and I'm posting by booting my Ubuntu 11.04 cd in "trial" mode which rules out hardware cause for trouble. 

My 11.04 install is brand new today and wireless was working perfectly immediately after install. Since then, I've shut it down and when I rebooted it I haven't been able to find any wireless connections. 

I've installed the  updates that were suggested after the install and also activated the two proprietary drivers that th system suggested - this might include the proprietary Broadcom wireless driver, that's the only proprietary driver suggested in the current "trial" mode and I remember there being the graphic driver and one other.

I wondered if the wireless was turned off so I tried to turn it on or get it up. I typed ifup wlan0 but it said wlan0 was not configured. 

In production mode, when I click the wireless icon: it says wireless is enabled and offers me the option of connecting to a hidden network or setting up a new connection, but it can't see any connections even when my phone has seen the connection and automatically signed in. It can't see my home WPA2 connection or my completely open work connection.

Any thoughts? I don't know how to regress my updates, deactivate the proprietary driver or anything and can't find the tools to help with this, so I'm open to all advice.

---

### Post by JessicaNumber on 2011-05-09
After defining the problem, it was actually easy to solve. Sorry about crying wolf but I hope my solution helps someone else who has this problem in future.

I found the tool called Additional  Drivers by searching in my menu. Sure enough there was the Broadcom driver. I deactivated it, rebooted and was authenticated by the time I was logged in.

Now I just have to get battery notification up and I'll be a happy girl. :KS

---

