---
title: "10.04 not playing well with others"
date: 2010-05-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by lmwashere on 2010-05-15
OK, 

I have an old desktop running ubuntu 10.04. I have a cannon mp160 printer attached to it and can print from the desktop fine.

I would like to share the printer over then network with a vista laptop and a linux mint laptop. 

I had this setup working with 8.04 LTS but it is not working with 10.04 at all. I cannot even see the printer from my other machines. Even if I go to setup the printer on my mint machine and type in the static IP of the desktop, it tells me that there is no printer at that address. I have not modified the firewall from the initial install. I have also gone through the basics approximately 22 times.



(1) Turn off or temporarily disable any firewall you have on either machine. If you haven't touched the firewall on Ubuntu then you don't need to do anything on the Ubuntu box.

(2) On ubuntu:

Make sure the printer is "shared" and "published" 

_Share_:
Administration > Printing > Right Click the attached printer > Properties > Policies > Check Enabled, Accepting Jobs, and Shared

_Publish_:
Administration > Printing > Server > Settings > Check "Publish Shared Printers connected to this system"

(3) Make sure that CUPS has started:

**sudo service cups restart**


Still no results from the vista or mint machines.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-05-16
Although not really a server, perhaps [this ]("https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/cups.html")excerpt from the [Ubuntu Server Guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/serverguide/C/index.html") will be helpful.

---

### Post by lmwashere on 2010-05-16
Looked at my .conf file. It is completely different from the one described there. Not sure if that is from the difference between the OS's or if something is wrong with mine. Anyone know?

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2010-05-17
Just wanted to mention I'm experiencing the same problem exactly. Haven't come across a working solution yet either.

---

