---
title: "12.10 Wireless Connected; Firefox Can Not Find Any Web Site"
date: 2013-02-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2013-02-15
Upgraded my Laptop from 12.04 LTS to 12.10. Everything went fine after the upgrade, including the GRUB loader. However, Firefox will not connect to any web sites.

The Wireless Connection shows that it is connected. Other PC's are using it simultaneously.

I made Firefox go back to "Default" so nothing I have added is in there.

Then I learned that 12.10 has a wireless bug that requires a manually created wireless connection. I deleted all wireless connections from the screen and manually created a single new one with my router's user names and password. The wireless shows connected, but again Firefox will not load any web sites.

I am using WEP & WPA 2 settings. I did the "rfkill list wlan" and "rfkill list all" and got all NO's for soft and hard block answers. I continued anyway with "rfkill unblock wlan" and "rfkill unblock all", restarted the network manager with "sudo service network-manager restart", then rebooted the laptop. Again the wireless shows connected, but Firefox will not load any web sites.

Can anyone advise a next step to try? If you need the script run, I will need the code; I can not find it in my library.

Thank you.
Spike
[email]spikels6@comcast.net[/email]

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-02-15
I would try to narrow down whether it is a basic IP layer issue, or a name resolution (DNS) issue e.g. using ping first with a numerical IP and then with a hostname

```
ping -c4 8.8.8.8
``````
ping -c4 google.com 
```You can also use

```
ifconfig
```to check that you are getting a valid IP configuration, and

```
ip route list
```

to see if there's a sensible route

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2013-02-15
Steeldriver, these are the test results you suggested. Can you find anything of help in them? (Attached)

Spike

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2013-02-15
Steeldriver, these are the test results you suggested. Can you find anything of help in them? I tried both a .txt and .odt attachmentment, but neither uploaded to the forum. This is a copy file:
mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ iwconfig
eth0      no wireless extensions.

lo        no wireless extensions.

wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:"MagicMoose"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.462 GHz  Access Point: C0:C1:C0:93:D6:79   
          Bit Rate=1 Mb/s   Tx-Power=20 dBm   
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=50/70  Signal level=-60 dBm  
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:27   Missed beacon:0

mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ 

mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ sudo iwconfig eth2
eth2      No such device

mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ sudo iwconfig eth2
eth2      No such device

The Ubuntu Forum suggested these:

mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ ping -c4 8.8.8.8
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_req=1 ttl=46 time=30.9 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_req=2 ttl=46 time=27.9 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_req=3 ttl=46 time=29.9 ms
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_req=4 ttl=46 time=26.9 ms

--- 8.8.8.8 ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3003ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 26.986/28.955/30.905/1.546 ms
mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ ^C

mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ ping -c4 google.com
ping: unknown host google.com
mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ ^C

mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1e:68:1a:ce:9b  
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:352 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:352 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:28064 (28.0 KB)  TX bytes:28064 (28.0 KB)

wlan0     Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1f:3a:45:a6:79  
          inet addr:192.168.1.121  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::21f:3aff:fe45:a679/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:83 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:47 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:15866 (15.8 KB)  TX bytes:11592 (11.5 KB)

mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ 

mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ ip route list
default via 192.168.1.1 dev wlan0  proto static 
169.254.0.0/16 dev wlan0  scope link  metric 1000 
192.168.1.0/24 dev wlan0  proto kernel  scope link  src 192.168.1.121  metric 9 
mike@mike-HP-Pavilion-dv9700-Notebook-PC:~$ 

Spike

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-02-15
It looks like your name resolution is broken - did you configure DNS servers manually? if so how?

Not sure how it looks in 12.10 but in 12.04 if you go into the IPv4 Settings tab of the nm-applet connection editor, you get a choice between 'DHCP' and 'DHCP (addresses only)' - iirc if you choose the latter you need to supply valid DNS servers in the boxes below. If you choose the former it should pull down whatever DNS IPs are configured at your router.

Just to be thorough, you can also check that the resolvconf service is running

```
service resolvconf status
```

and that there is a valid /etc/resolv.conf symlink

```
ls -l /etc/resolv.conf
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2013-02-15
My IPv4 Setting is 'DHCP' Automatic; it should pick up the wireless automatically. I assume that is OK since the laptop shows a connection to the wireless router.

The 'service resolvconf status' shows "running".

The ls -l /etc/resolv.conf = ls: can not access /etc/resolv.conf: no such file or directory
The cat /etc/resolv.conf = cat: can not access /etc/resolv.conf: no such file or directory

It appears I need to set up a /etc/resolv.conf symlink file. How do I do that? I am in new territory.

Spike

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-02-15
Hmm... it should all happen behind the scenes - however there are various bug reports about /etc/resolv.conf going missing during release upgrades - you could try

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf
```[NB that's resolvconf (the package) not resolv**.**conf (the file)] 

and answer 'Yes' when it asks if you want to prepare for dynamic updates. Use the 'TAB' key to navigate the screen(s) and 'ENTER' to choose.

*DISCLAIMER: it's new territory for me as well so you may want to wait for someone more knowledgeable to chime in*

---

### Post by SpikeLS6 on 2013-02-15
Just before you sent the "sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf" Terminal command, I receive an email advising to try the same thing. I said yes to the newly created resolvconf file and yes to the original file. After a reboot, Firefox keep up with any web site I requested.

Thank you very much for the help! I will put a [SOLVED] on this thread.

Spike

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-02-15
Great! happy to help

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-02-16
> **SpikeLS6 said:**
> I said yes to the newly created resolvconf file and yes to the original file. After a reboot, Firefox keep up with any web site I requested.

It should suffice to answer Yes to the linkify-resolvconf question. Normally you answer No to the link-tail-to-original question.

Having answered Yes to the link-tail-to-original question you now have a symbolic link /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail -> original. Thus the contents of /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/original are appended every time to the dynamically generated resolv.conf file. This is fine as a temporary measure, but the intent is that you configure things properly and then replace the symbolic link /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail with one pointing to /dev/null.

In your case you shouldn't have to do anything more in order to "configure things properly". You are using NetworkManager and an automatically configured interface, so nameserver information should be obtained via DHCP and added to resolv.conf automatically. So run
```

    sudo ln -nsf /dev/null /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail
    sudo resolvconf -u

```
and make sure that name resolution still works. If it doesn't, then look in /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/original. Any nameserver addresses x.x.x.x in there should be tested
```

    ping x.x.x.x
    host www.google.com x.x.x.x

```
and added (if working) to the "Additional DNS servers" field in the configuration window for the connection in question. After doing that, disable and enable networking. Name resolution should work again.

---

