---
title: "problems connecting belkin f5d8053 on PC with jaunty"
date: 2009-10-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ppb7 on 2009-10-01
Hello,
I am a newbie and am trying to recreate with linux the same setup as with XP. I have a custom-built PC and wanted to follow the explanations given in the "Ubuntu User" magazine. i will firs tgive you a listing of the output generated by specific commands
I attach a text file with all the commands we were advised to run if we want to post a "wireless" thread.
I downloaded the rt2870 drivers, edited files as advised, but what about 
> 
CountryRegion=0
CountryRegionABand=2
CountryCode=US
Channel=0
NetworkType=Infra
WirelessMode=5(Countrycode can't equal US since I live in Britain or is it about the chip? and is Channel about the wireless channel i set to begin with).
After rebooting, I am then asked to run iwconfig
> lo        no wireless extensions.

eth0      no wireless extensions.

ra0       Ralink STA  
          
pan0      no wireless extensions.then iwlist chan
> lo        no frequency information.

eth0      no frequency information.

ra0       no frequency information.

pan0      no frequency information.The final section of the readme file should, I am told, enable me to find out how to load the module automatically when booting the machine. the problem is that the file refers to a non-existent location on my system: /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ doesn't exist (BTW, later the file/etc/sysconfig/network is mentioned  but doesn't exist on my system either) and I added the line "alias ra0 rt2870sta" to the /etc/modules file (when it said to add that to /etc/modules.conf, which doesn't exist).
So, what should I do now?
Thanks in advance for your help

---

