---
title: "7.10 Server Forgets Static IP"
date: 2007-12-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Meatetarian on 2007-12-25
Hi guys,

I've got Gusty Server installed on a box and have edited /etc/networking/interfaces to what you see below:

```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
  address 10.0.0.3
  netmask 255.255.255.0
  network 10.0.0.0
  broadcast 10.0.0.255
  gateway 10.0.0.1

```

The problem is that it seems to randomly revert to DHCP and I'll have to restart networking to make it go back where it belongs.  The network/interfaces file remains unchanged, however -- I only have to run "/etc/init.d/networking restart" to get it back to the correct IP.

This is probably coincidental, but it FEELS like this occurs more often after I use my Windows box to access a Samba share on it.

Has anyone run into this before?

Thanks in advance for your help!

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-12-25
I know this seems like a pain, but if you complete the connection via the command line and obtain a connection, do you lose the connection from this point??  I just want to see if this is a network manager issue!

---

### Post by tomcheng76 on 2007-12-25
are you using router?
you can always reserve 10.0.0.3 to your ubuntu box using mac address of your eth0.
set it in DHCP server setting of your router, then you just need to use DHCP..

---

### Post by Zer0d on 2007-12-25
Maybe you should remove ```
auto eth0
``` so your configuration will be like this:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

iface eth0 inet static
  address 10.0.0.3
  netmask 255.255.255.0
  network 10.0.0.0
  broadcast 10.0.0.255
  gateway 10.0.0.1
```

Don't know if I'm wrong but having auto and static on same interface seems wrong to me :S

---

### Post by csiv on 2007-12-25
I was having the same problem.

Thanks Zer0d. I can't believe I missed that.

C

[SIZE="1"]PS I would have given you a thanks, but I can't see where to do that.
Although in the computer field a long time I don't use email much or participate in forums (2nd time ever).[/SIZE]

---

### Post by csiv on 2007-12-25
I jumped too quickly. I tried it and it doesn't work.
I found the following on a google search - 

"commenting out auto eth0 shouldn't really solve your problem. All that line says is that it will bring your eth0 iface up as soon as /etc/init.d/networking is started"

I'm still looking for an answer. I'll post if I find it.

Bye,
C

---

### Post by Meatetarian on 2007-12-26
Thanks for all the replies!  I really appreciate the help!

> I know this seems like a pain, but if you complete the connection via the command line and obtain a connection, do you lose the connection from this point?? I just want to see if this is a network manager issue!

That's an interesting question.  I'll leave a connection open to the server while I'm at work today and see if it drops and changes IPs on me.


> are you using router?
you can always reserve 10.0.0.3 to your ubuntu box using mac address of your eth0.
set it in DHCP server setting of your router, then you just need to use DHCP..

Actually, yes, that's my plan for later -- I want to get a cheap server and put Smoothwall or something on it to be a bit more secure and get some QoS going.

Right now I have a Linksys WRT54G ver. 6 or something that can't handle doing static DHCP and DD-WRT didn't want to install for me to give me the extra features.


Thanks again for all the help!  I'll post back with my connection results or if I figure anything out.

---

### Post by Meatetarian on 2007-12-26
Just a quick update:  I did get disconnected while I was logged in and the IP did switch (if that's what you were asking).

---

### Post by thoffman2 on 2008-01-02
Any luck with this?  I have the exact same issue.  My server keeps randomly jumping back to DHCP for some reason.  Today I had two ssh sessions open remotely and bang, connection reset by peer and the server was gone.

---

