---
title: "12.10, Intel Wireless-N 2230, Not Working"
date: 2012-11-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by caeso on 2012-11-29
Howdy. I have an HP Envy4 that is running 12.10, with an Intel Centrino Wireless-N 2230 that won't work.

Prior to upgrading it worked (however I had to do a LOT of finagling to get it to), however I did an "apt-get update" and it stopped working, so I decided to upgrade from 12.04 to 12.10 to see if that solved the issue (it has not).

Specs below:

lspci -v
```

02:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N 2230 (rev c4)
	Subsystem: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N 2230 BGN
	Flags: fast devsel, IRQ 17
	Memory at c0500000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=8K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel modules: iwlwifi


```

dmesg | grep iwl
```

[    9.241059] iwlwifi: Intel(R) Wireless WiFi Link AGN driver for Linux, in-tree:
[    9.241064] iwlwifi: Copyright(c) 2003-2012 Intel Corporation
[    9.241223] iwlwifi 0000:02:00.0: pci_resource_len = 0x00002000
[    9.241228] iwlwifi 0000:02:00.0: pci_resource_base = ffffc900110e8000
[    9.241232] iwlwifi 0000:02:00.0: HW Revision ID = 0xC4
[    9.244425] iwlwifi 0000:02:00.0: irq 45 for MSI/MSI-X
[    9.523996] iwlwifi 0000:02:00.0: request for firmware file 'iwlwifi-2030-6.ucode' failed.
[    9.555895] iwlwifi 0000:02:00.0: request for firmware file 'iwlwifi-2030-5.ucode' failed.
[    9.555902] iwlwifi 0000:02:00.0: no suitable firmware found!

```

rfkill list all
```

0: hci0: Bluetooth
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: no
1: hp-wifi: Wireless LAN
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: no
2: hp-bluetooth: Bluetooth
	Soft blocked: no
	Hard blocked: no

```

iwconfig = empty

locate 2030-6.ucode
```

/lib/firmware/iwlwifi-2030-6.ucode

```


Any help would be appreciated. I know the drivers are supposed to be in-tree, but for some reason it still doesn't work!

HELP! Thanks :)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-11-29
Let's see if the firmware file is intact and uncorrupted. Please run and post:```
ls -al /lib/firmware/iwlwifi-2030-6.ucode
```Thanks.

---

### Post by caeso on 2012-11-29
Interesting. It says that there is "no such file or directory", which i'm assuming means exactly that, however "locate iwlwifi-2030-6.ucode" says it exists in that location. I'm going to redownload it and play it there, see what happens. If you have any other advice on the way i'd appreciate it, and thank you for your help!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-11-29
>  I'm going to redownload it and play it there, see what happens.Meaning what, exactly. I'd think all you need to do is:```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-firmware
sudo modprobe -r iwlwifi
sudo modprobe iwlwifi
```

---

### Post by caeso on 2012-11-29
Woops. I meant redownload the 2030-6.ucode file and "place" it in the firmware folder. Which I did, and now the the wireless works, however it's super slow so I'm thinking I need to disable N. Thanks for your help Chili!

Also, since it works downloading the ucode file, would you recommend following your instructions to reinstall the firmware anyway?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-11-29
I don't think it's necessary. It's probably only useful for OCD, neat-freak, super sanitary, wake-up-in-the-middle-of-the-night people like *ME!*

---

### Post by caeso on 2012-11-29
I see, hah. Well thanks. Disabling 11n worked for the speed issue as well. You rock!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-11-29
Awesome! Please use thread tools at the top to mark Solved.

---

### Post by arodulfo on 2013-04-18
@caeso: I've been looking for clues on how to disable 11n in my Centrino N-2230 (I have the same unstability problem with mine).
Could you please give me some light on it?

Thank you so much in advance.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-04-19
> **arodulfo said:**
> @caeso: I've been looking for clues on how to disable 11n in my Centrino N-2230 (I have the same unstability problem with mine).
Could you please give me some light on it?

Thank you so much in advance.Please see post #7 here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2125952&highlight=11n_disable](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2125952&highlight=11n_disable)

---

### Post by arodulfo on 2013-04-23
@caeso: It worked! Thank you so much for your hint!

Now I can use my WiFi connection without lockouts or unstabilities.

However, after all my reading and tests, I still find a couple of things difficult to swallow:
[LIST]
[*]I am sacrificing my adapter's WiFi-N capabilities in order to keep -G capabilities
[*]A Live CD test, using the same CD I used to install 12.04 LTS from scratch, brought a big surprise to me: It was capable of running the WiFi-N connection without hesitations or unstabilities and reach 144 Mb/s almost consistently
[/LIST]

Anyway, even if I keep looking for a suitable approach not tied to losing my -N capabilities, now I can use my laptop as intended, and that's an outstanding success!:popcorn:

Kind regards.

---

### Post by ahow628 on 2013-10-25
> **arodulfo said:**
> However, after all my reading and tests, I still find a couple of things difficult to swallow:
[LIST]
[*]I am sacrificing my adapter's WiFi-N capabilities in order to keep -G capabilities
[*]A Live CD test, using the same CD I used to install 12.04 LTS from scratch, brought a big surprise to me: It was capable of running the WiFi-N connection without hesitations or unstabilities and reach 144 Mb/s almost consistently.
[/LIST]
I was curious about this as well since I've had this happen on a couple of occasions:
[LIST]
[*]I used this fix (disabling N) with my Toshiba Portege Z935. Using a LiveUSB of Ubuntu 12.04.3 worked perfectly (as mentioned above), but once I installed it, wireless broke almost immediately.
[*]I had a CR-48 Chromebook that would work perfectly with the LiveUSB of 12.04.2 and after install, the trackpad and wireless would be broken and the screen resolution would be stuck at 800x600. The fix for that one was to use an image of 12.04.0 which then could be upgraded to 12.04.2 from the Update Manager with nothing breaking.
[/LIST]

So does anyone know why this happens? Is there some place else it would be better to get an answer for this (IRC, Ask Ubuntu, etc)? And is there a way to keep whatever drivers are standard on the Live iso image?

EDIT: So I did a couple of things and I don't know which one "worked" but I think I have an idea, in case someone else wants to test. I went into BIOS and disabled Bluetooth from there because part of the issue with this card (or so I understood) was that Bluetooth and wireless could not work simultaneously. Therefore one of the fixes was to add the ```
options iwlwifi bt_coex_active=N
``` snippet to ```
/etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
```. Now Bluetooth doesn't show up at all and when I do ```
iwconfig wlan0
```, I get that my data rate is 28.9 which is an N rate. So apparently it is working.

Also, at about the same time, I disabled the ```
options iwlwifi 11n_disable=1
``` to be ```
options iwlwifi 11n_disable=0
``` instead.

Everything seems to be working at this point but I'm going to do some testing on my original question as to why things work in the LiveCD environment and then break after install.

---

