---
title: "8.10 Alt+F2 Cannot access smb share"
date: 2008-11-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Genogp on 2008-11-05
Hey guys

After loading 8.10 i can seem to access samba share via Alt+F2
I can access these via nautilus and manually typing in the share 
eg. smb://.......... 
But for some reason i cannot do this when pressing Alt+F2. The error is 'No application is registered to handle this file'

any help would be appreciated
Thanks

---

### Post by Tiago Cruz on 2008-11-10
Hello,

I have this problem too, and I'm having difficult to use one shared Printer like 

smb://192.168.50.225/HPLaserJet

How can I fix it? :lolflag:

---

### Post by flomar on 2008-11-18
I'm having the same issue here on 8.10. The german error message is: ```
Es wurde keine Anwendung gefunden, die diese Datei verarbeiten kann
``` - which is the same as the one 'Genogp' posted.

Anybody has an idea?

Flo

---

### Post by elyjet on 2008-12-12
same problem here

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-12-12
why do you want to open it via alt+f2?

---

### Post by Cyberspace19 on 2008-12-13
Same Problem here.

And why should it work with ALT-F2: If you do not have an nautilus open and want to access a smb share very quickly you can type it in the ALT+F2 text box.

This allready worked in 8.10. But since the last updates this functionality is broken.

So any help to fix this would be very useful.

Thanks!

Cyberspace19

EDIT:// ALT+F2 "nautilus smb://server/share" will work.

---

### Post by jonobr on 2008-12-22
Greetings all,

I was doing some work on Samba and came across this thread,
Im guessing this is solved as I seem to be able to Alt F2 and smb://ipaddr

If not then Im surprise Im working ok, its usually the other way round,
everyone else is working , Im not?



Thanks!!!

---

### Post by jimmah6786 on 2009-01-06
> **jonobr said:**
> Greetings all,

I was doing some work on Samba and came across this thread,
Im guessing this is solved as I seem to be able to Alt F2 and smb://ipaddr

If not then Im surprise Im working ok, its usually the other way round,
everyone else is working , Im not?



Thanks!!!

I read this the other day and was thrilled to see that this was finally fixed. However after upgrading to 8.10 from 8.04.1 I am unable to use smb:// in nautilus or in the run-application dialog. samba is installed :-s

Yuck this is a major downer ](*,)

Jonobr,
Can you post your samba version and nautlius version? Are you pulling from the respository or from another source? Compiling?

Thank You

---

