---
title: "7.04 &amp; OpenDNS not working"
date: 2009-02-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bluedalek on 2009-02-08
hello all!

I am having trouble using OpenDNS on my new install.

I have verified that OpenDNS has my current IP address. 

I have gone into the Network settings and manually entered the 1st & 2nd DNS addresses.

I have manually configured my Linksys WRT54G-RG router with the two DNS addresses.

My ISP is Rogers Cable (dynamic IP) and the router automatically adds a 3rd DNS address.

My 2nd PC, running Xubuntu 8.10) is correctly filtered by the OpenDNS service.

Any help & or suggestions would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by bluedalek on 2009-02-08
bump!

(sorry if this is bad etiquette!)

---

### Post by mohitchawla on 2009-02-08
You don't need to add the DNS entries in your ubuntu. Its just the router that needs to know this information. So probably undo what you have done to your ubuntu , and see if it works then.

---

### Post by bluedalek on 2009-02-08
Nope... still not working.  I removed the OpenDNS servers from my DNS tab on my Network settings Window, and I lost internet connectivity.

I set the DNS settings to my ISP's (found within my router), and all access is unlocked.

I set the DNS to 192.168.0.1 (my routers IP) and access is still unlocked.

the only thing I can think of is when accessing my router, I have 3 DNS addresses listed.  I have the two from OpenDNS, and a third that is auto populated by my ISP.  

I am considering trying to change my settings from Dynamic to static and input the current IP.. dunno if this will work or not.. lol

---

