---
title: "10.10 Broadcom wireless BCM43224 - unstable latency"
date: 2010-10-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by facebuntu on 2010-10-29
Hi,

Since upgrading to 10.10 I have a problem with the latency through the wireless being very unstable, Ping times goes between 1ms to 200 or 300 ms even when signal strength is very good.

This is pinging the wireless router 
```
$ ping 10.10.10.1
PING 10.10.10.1 (10.10.10.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 10.10.10.1: icmp_req=1 ttl=64 time=3.24 ms
64 bytes from 10.10.10.1: icmp_req=2 ttl=64 time=194 ms
64 bytes from 10.10.10.1: icmp_req=3 ttl=64 time=174 ms
64 bytes from 10.10.10.1: icmp_req=4 ttl=64 time=132 ms
64 bytes from 10.10.10.1: icmp_req=5 ttl=64 time=73.7 ms
64 bytes from 10.10.10.1: icmp_req=6 ttl=64 time=1.39 ms
64 bytes from 10.10.10.1: icmp_req=7 ttl=64 time=200 ms
64 bytes from 10.10.10.1: icmp_req=8 ttl=64 time=2.47 ms

```

- Prior on 10.04 I did not have this issue.  

- Dual boot into Windows7 doing the same test & latency is normal so must be Ubuntu deriver issue. 

- Also I've tried with other different wireless APs and while other users does not have issues with the same AP.

I've tried reinstalling the Broadcom STA driver from repository and also by building manually.

**Anyone come across this?**

Is it possible for me to go back to an old driver on 10.04 for example?  Any direction would be much appreciated as I haven't found any in my search.  Bare in mind I'm no linux expert.

My specs are:

HP ProBook 6540b

```
$ uname -a
Linux orc-b 2.6.35-22-generic #35-Ubuntu SMP Sat Oct 16 20:45:36 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

$ lspci -nn | grep Network
44:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM43224 802.11a/b/g/n [14e4:4353] (rev 01)

$lsmod  | grep "b43\|ssb\|wl"
wl                   1965295  0 
lib80211                6175  2 wl,lib80211_crypt_tkip

```

I've tried build the Broadcom STA drivers manually using the x64 driver
[http://www.broadcom.com/docs/linux_sta/hybrid-portsrc_x86-64_v5.60.246.2.tar.gz](http://www.broadcom.com/docs/linux_sta/hybrid-portsrc_x86-64_v5.60.246.2.tar.gz)


I'd like to get this fixed as even a simple telnet session via the wireless is painful.

---

### Post by facebuntu on 2010-11-02
Fixed by using ndiswrapper and using a WinXP 64bit driver from HP website.

---

### Post by facebuntu on 2010-11-09
Spoke too soon.  Ubuntu will hang on boot 9 out of 10 tries with the ndiswrapper winxp 64bit driver installed.  I've had to remove the ndiswrapper driver for now.

---

### Post by dino0x on 2010-11-14
Same here with the MacBook Pro 6,2

Can't get a constant speed with the Broadcom STA drivers.
No problem in Win7.

---

### Post by uvaio on 2010-11-17
Macbook pro 7,1 same issue... I have to use external USB to get decent connection ;o(

---

### Post by frank3d on 2010-12-07
Same problem here though with Linux mint 10 (based on Ubuntu 10.10)
Running on a Dell mini 10
Did you manage to find a solution?

my details:

lspci -nn | grep Network

03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g LP-PHY [14e4:4315] (rev 01)

uname -a
Linux runabout 2.6.35-22-generic #35-Ubuntu SMP Sat Oct 16 20:36:48 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by frank3d on 2010-12-11
Sort of solved :)
If I do this:
 sudo iwconfig eth1 power off
ping times drop down to a couple of milliseconds and are stable
If I do this
 sudo iwconfig eth1 power on
they go back to randomly long values.
This command turns on/off power management on the interface.  So it would seem that power management is the culprit here.
This effect is totally repeatable.

---

### Post by krvermeulen on 2011-01-17
This thread really helped me out as well: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10368636](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10368636)

---

### Post by tomf84 on 2011-02-22
> **frank3d said:**
> Sort of solved :)
If I do this:
 sudo iwconfig eth1 power off
ping times drop down to a couple of milliseconds and are stable
If I do this
 sudo iwconfig eth1 power on
they go back to randomly long values.
This command turns on/off power management on the interface.  So it would seem that power management is the culprit here.
This effect is totally repeatable.

+1 for this, many thanks. Wireless on my Dell E6410 goes from entirely unusable to really quite good. Here's some info:

```
eth3      IEEE 802.11abgn  ESSID:"xxxxxx"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.412 GHz  Access Point: 00:26:44:xx:xx:xx   
          Bit Rate=54 Mb/s   Tx-Power:24 dBm   
          Retry min limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Encryption key:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=5/5  Signal level=-52 dBm  Noise level=-94 dBm
          Rx invalid nwid:0  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0
          Tx excessive retries:21  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0
```

```
tf@tf-latitude:~$ lspci | grep -i broadcom
03:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM43224 802.11a/b/g/n (rev 01)

```

Access point is configured as follows:
Security Mode:	WPA-PSK
WPA-PSK Encryption:	TKIP+AES
WPA-PSK Version:	WPA+WPA2

How do I permanently turn off power management for this interface short of sticking this command in a startup script?

---

### Post by glxtreme on 2011-11-10
Hello, i'm a real newbie to all the linux world, i come from a professional career on microsoft platforms, even though i started configuring for the first time an IPcop ;)

Anyway, i now have in my posession a DELL Vostro 3400 for work and i recently installed Ubuntu 11.10 x64.

The only challenge to face was the integration of the Wireless Lan Driver.

a month ago i downloades the broadcom official driver from here:

[http://www.broadcom.com/support/802.11/linux_sta.php](http://www.broadcom.com/support/802.11/linux_sta.php)

Back then the version was v5.100.82.38 and i had these latency problems everyday.

The command mentioned on this post didn't worked for me, the system says Operation Not Supported.

Yesterday i found a new version of the driver on the same page.

This Version 5.100.82.112 fixed my problem without the setting of sudo iwconfig eth1 power off

I hope this can help anyone out there, since it would be my first contribution (i hope) to the Open Source World.

Thank You! :)

---

