---
title: "9.10 home network anomalous problem"
date: 2009-11-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ethanay on 2009-11-10
UPDATE:  I believe this is the related bug report
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/462169](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/462169)
--------------------------------------
I installed Ubuntu 9.10 on two Dell laptops at the same time -- an older XPS m1330 and a newer Inspiron 1440.  Wireless networking has worked flawlessly from the start.  Hooray!

Home networking is still leaving me scratching my head, though:

I set them up almost identically, and the XPS m1330 has done a great job so far with home network, both as a server and a client with both Linux and Windows computers.  All I had to do was enable sharing inside of Nautilus, and I am sharing my "public" folder as "read only."   

The Inspiron 1440 works fine as a client, and can see both Linux and Windows computers on the network.  However, it REFUSES to act as a server -- it remains invisible on the network regardless of my share settings.

I finally completely uninstalled Samba, libpam-smbpass and nautilus-share packages and reinstalled them, and set up file sharing again.  For a couple of minutes, the computer was visible on the network, and then it disappeared again.  Oy.

Any thoughts??

```
findsmb
```
from either laptop reveals only the XPS m1330.

I am at a loss as to what is different with the Inspiron 1440 that it is impossible to set it up as a server?

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-11-10
Is there a Win7 machine in the network?

---

### Post by ethanay on 2009-11-10
Hi dmizer,

No.  The only other computer is an old desktop running Windows XP (which will soon be replaced by Ubuntu :)

When I removed Samba I got the following message:
```
Removing samba ...
 * Stopping Samba daemons
start-stop-daemon: warning: failed to kill 1311: No such process

```

Maybe Samba is crashing quietly.  However, if that were the case, shouldn't a restart fix the problem at least temporarily?  However, in this case, only a clean reinstall of Samba seems to work.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-11-10
If all your computers are Linux (or will be Linux) then don't bother trying to make Samba work. Use NFS instead. There's a good NFS howto in the 4th link in my sig.

---

### Post by ethanay on 2009-11-10
I think it is working now.  It works after resuming from suspend, after rebooting, and is persistent under normal operation.  

...After uninstalling and reinstalling for the third time on the problem computer.  This time i used the command prompt instead of synaptic:

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge samba, libpam-smbpass and nautilus-share
```

and rebooted before reinstalling.  Now all computers can see one another with their "public" folders shared as "read only."

I appreciate the NFS offer, but I don't think it will work for a few reasons:
1. The home network setup is for my parents, who aren't computer savvy (and i barely am!).  So the setup needs to be very simple for them:  "You click on this icon here, and you check this box here."  
2. I need to maintain compatibility to share files across Windows, Mac and Linux computers (e.g., guests in the house)
3. My mom's computer is a laptop and will exist outside the protection of the home network, so she needs a simple way of making her computer secure/invisible when traveling with it.

---

### Post by ethanay on 2009-11-23
I believe this is the related bug report:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/462169](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/samba/+bug/462169)

A fix should be out soon!

---

