---
title: "wireless card disappeared because of #BASHRC# deletion?"
date: 2008-06-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by seub on 2008-06-15
Hi,

I have recently installed xUbuntu Hardy Heron 64bits on my Dell inspiron 6400 laptop.

Everything worked perfectly well after the installation, including the wireless (I did not have to do anything).

But suddenly my wireless card is no longer recognized (and the wireless menu does not appear in network manager...). 

I figured maybe the reason is I deleted a file named something like #BASHRC# in my home directory (and it is not the .bashrc file I can still see using ls -a). (I know this was probably a very stupid idea, I just thought I had created the file myself and it was annoying me).

Anyway I have really no idea if there is a relationship between the two but in any case if someone could help me I would be very grateful!

Seub

---

### Post by kevmitch on 2008-06-15
One of the nice things about Linux is that it's really hard to mess up something as fundamental as networking as a regular user much less modifying something in your home directory. The #BASHRC# file was likely a backup or recovery file generated by some text editor and the possibility that is at all related is extremely remote. 

Something you might try is issuing the following command in a terminal:

```

sudo /etc/init.d/dbus restart

```

If that doesn't make things work, it will hopefully give you some indication as to why not. 

Are you certain that wireless was working before? What kind of wireless card do you have? You can determine this with the command

```

lspci

```

---

### Post by seub on 2008-06-15
I guess we'll never find out, because I eventually reinstalled Ubuntu! I'm not very patient, am I... Actually I was hesitating to switch from xUbuntu to Ubuntu so that problem gave me a good pretext.

In any case thank you very much for your help.
PS : what was the first line of code meant to do?

---

### Post by kevmitch on 2008-06-15
> **seub said:**
> PS : what was the first line of code meant to do?

dbus is a daemon that coordinates all kinds of system level stuff with user level apps such as gnome-network manager. Daemons are controlled with the scripts in /etc/init.d/. You can give them the arguments "start", "stop", or "restart" which do what you might expect to the daemons. 

So I was basically saying you should restart dbus to see what messages it gave.

---

