---
title: "10.04 - Need help switching to NFE from Forcedeth"
date: 2012-10-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by gschoppe on 2012-10-24
I have been having serious speed issues with forcedeth on my Nvidia CK804 Integrated NIC.  Internal network transfers have ranged in speed from 1mb/s all the way down to 47kb/s.

I am told that the NFE driver is the better choice, and am hoping that it will solve some of these issues, but I have no idea how to get it installed.

help?

---

### Post by BadgerKid on 2012-11-21
> **gschoppe said:**
> I have been having serious speed issues with forcedeth on my Nvidia CK804 Integrated NIC.  Internal network transfers have ranged in speed from 1mb/s all the way down to 47kb/s.

I am told that the NFE driver is the better choice, and am hoping that it will solve some of these issues, but I have no idea how to get it installed.

help?


I'm working through a similar issue at the moment. It seems that after a while, the interface run by the forcedeth driver either (1) gets extremely slow (as in, DNS lookups seem laggy), or (2) chokes under heavy traffic (in my case, I see it while scp'ing many small files).

So far, simply unloading and reloading the kernel module seems to work:

```
sudo modprobe -r forcedeth
sudo modprobe -a forcedeth
```

Looking around the web, you'll find options that can be passed to forcedeth, but I haven't tested those at all.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-11-21
You can find all the options here:```
modinfo forcedeth
```> parm:           max_interrupt_work:forcedeth maximum events handled per interrupt (int)
parm:           optimization_mode:In throughput mode (0), every tx & rx packet will generate an interrupt. In CPU mode (1), interrupts are controlled by a timer. In dynamic mode (2), the mode toggles between throughput and CPU mode based on network load. (int)
parm:           poll_interval:Interval determines how frequent timer interrupt is generated by [(time_in_micro_secs * 100) / (2^10)]. Min is 0 and Max is 65535. (int)
parm:           msi:MSI interrupts are enabled by setting to 1 and disabled by setting to 0. (int)
parm:           msix:MSIX interrupts are enabled by setting to 1 and disabled by setting to 0. (int)
parm:           dma_64bit:High DMA is enabled by setting to 1 and disabled by setting to 0. (int)
parm:           phy_cross:Phy crossover detection for Realtek 8201 phy is enabled by setting to 1 and disabled by setting to 0. (int)
parm:           phy_power_down:Power down phy and disable link when interface is down (1), or leave phy powered up (0). (int)
parm:           debug_tx_timeout:Dump tx related registers and ring when tx_timeout happens (bool)
As an example, you might try:```
sudo mdprobe -r forcedeth
sudo modprobe forcedeth msix=1
```If it helps, write a conf file:```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth.conf
```Add a single line:```
options forcedeth msix=1
```Proofread, save and close gedit.

Most importantly, when you find out the parameter that fixes the problem, *_please_* post it here.

---

