---
title: "PPTP VPN works but no nameserver"
date: 2008-01-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Schr on 2008-01-17
Hi,

I have an otherwise working PPTP VPN connection. But when the VPN connection is up I have no nameserver.

/etc/resolv.conf file only has this (no nameserver):

# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!





I've tried various combinations of the DNS settings in the VPN Settings (Peer DNS through tunnel and User Peer DNS), but there is no difference.

Now I can manually edit /etc/resolv.conf after opening VPN connection. But what would be the correct way to tell the NetworkManager not to touch dns settings.

S

---

### Post by joebeasley on 2008-02-06
Check the file that network manager creates.  It's in /etc/ppp/peers.  Should have a line with  usepeerdns.

---

### Post by zd3nik on 2008-02-29
As far as I can tell the files in /etc/ppp/peer are irrelevant unless you're using dial-up.

I am posting this as a partial solution to your problem (assuming you're using GNOME and gutsy) and as a request for more help in configuring this so there is no need for manual intervention to get it working every time you connect to your VPN.

After connecting to the VPN you can click on the Network Manager icon in the notification tray and choose the Manual Configration option.  Then go to the DNS tab and put your DNS Server(s) and Search Domain(s) in.  This will update the /etc/resolv.conf file for you.  This is better than editing the resolv.conf file manually for one reason: you can save the configuration for "easy" access the next time you connect to your VPN.

The question is:  Can the VPN connection be configured to automatically load a saved configuration?  Otherwise, every time you connect to your VPN you have to:

1) click the network manager icon
2) click manual configuration
3) select your saved configuration from the "Location" list
4) click the check mark next to the "Location" selection box.
5) click close

THAT'S A LOT OF CLICKS!

Here's hoping someone out there knows a better way, or some bored programmer gets in there and creates a better way... :)

Z

---

### Post by joebeasley on 2008-03-03
PPTP connections use /etc/ppp/peers to save info about the vpn connection.  PPTP uses PPPD...:popcorn:

---

