---
title: "14.10: Poor wifi speed with Intel Ultimate 5300"
date: 2015-01-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Markus72 on 2015-01-30
Hi guys,

I now read posts on linux wifi speed issues with intel cards for about 5 hours.
And actually I cannot believe what I read.

So, here is my issue: 
I own a Lenovo T500 with a Intel Corporation Ultimate N WiFi Link 5300 (which shows up exactly like this in lspci).
My router is an Asus RT-N66U (one of the fastest N class devices).
A 1000 GBit NAS is attached to that router, cabled GBit network shows a read/write throughput from/to NAS of about 65 MB / sec. 

Here are my Windows 7 transfer rates:
5 GHz: 16 MB/sec up and down
2,4 GHz: 8.5 MB/sec down and 10 MB/sec up

Here are my Kubuntu 14.10 transfer rates with standard conf:
5 GHz: 7 MB/sec down and 2.6 MB/sec up
2,4 GH: 6.3 MB/sec down and 2.2 MB/sec up

Here are my Kubuntu 14.10 transfer rates with bt_coex_active=0 swcrypto=1 11n_disable=1:
5 GHz: 7.2 MB/sec down and 5.8 MB/sec up
2,4 GHz: 5.8 MB/sec down 4.5 MB/sec up

Since I use Windows only occasionally and I usually believe Linux is the better and more mature OS, I always thought those poor rates are normal.
But guess my surprise when I saw the Windows transfer rates.

Now having read quite a few dozen posts on that topic, my current understanding of the recommended standard solution is:

- disable IPV6 (done)
- disable Wireless-N (done)
- disable bluetooth (done)

In fact, the transfer speed increased, but hey, that must be a bad joke - disable Wireless-N?

I refuse to believe, that this is the status quo for
- Linux in general
- A wifi card sold in incredibly high numbers
- from a manufacturer actively contributing to the community.

Also, I read about throughput issues with the Intel 7260 AC card.
Good that I did before checking out my already filled Amazon basket containing that card and an AC router...

Anyone who really solved that issue?
Windows must not win over Linux. Never ;-)

Thanks
Markus

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2015-01-30
Actually the parameter that gets you the speed is ```
11n_disable=8
``` and I have a couple 7260's and one 6250 among others.  The 6250 won't even connect to N only networks without 11n_disable=8

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-01-30
I own and use successfully two Intel wireless devices. I have honed a few techniques in several years and thousands of forum posts.

First, check the settings in the router. WPA2-AES is preferred; not any WPA and WPA2 mixed mode and certainly not TKIP. Second, if your router is capable of N speeds, I have better luck with a channel width of 20 MHz in the 2.4 GHz band instead of automatic 20/40 MHz. I also have better luck with a fixed channel, either 1, 6 or 11, rather than automatic channel selection. Also, be certain the router is not set to use N speeds only; auto B, G and N is preferred. After making these changes, reboot the router. 

Next, I recommend that your regulatory domain be set explicitly. Check yours:```
sudo iw reg get
```If you get 00, that is a one-size-maybe-fits-all setting. Find yours here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) Then set it temporarily:```
sudo iw reg set IS
```Of course, substitute your country code if not Iceland. Set it permanently:```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/crda
```Use nano or kate or leafpad if you don't have the text editor gedit.

Change the last line to read:```
REGDOMAIN=IS
```Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor.

Next, I'd set IPv6 to Ignore in Network Manager: [http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png](http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png)  This example is for ethernet, but you want wireless.

After these changes, we'll love to hear your further report.

---

### Post by Markus72 on 2015-01-30
Hi guys,

thanks for your replies.
The router was already configured for WPA2/AES.
But I applied all the changes and played around a bit with the router settings and also set the region and also 11n_disable=8.
IPV6 was already set to ignored.

No change in whatever combination :-(

Regarding the router changes: does this really make a difference if I get much higher transfers in Windows with the same router settings?

More help is highly appreciated.

Thanks
Markus

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-01-30
Since a different driver is used in Ubuntu than in Windows, then yes.

---

### Post by Markus72 on 2015-01-30
Ah ok... makes sense.

Any more clues where to tweak?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-01-30
I suggest you make all the changes and then test. If the speed still lags, we'll look in syslog for clues and then I'll probably propose a driver parameter or two, depending on what we glean in syslog.

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2015-01-30
What is the current content of iwlwifi.conf[code]cat /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf[/conf]

---

### Post by Markus72 on 2015-02-01
@Chili: I already performed all the changes before my last post, including the locale
@Jeremy: here you go

> # /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
# iwlwifi will dyamically load either iwldvm or iwlmvm depending on the
# microcode file installed on the system.  When removing iwlwifi, first
# remove the iwl?vm module and then iwlwifi.
remove iwlwifi \
(/sbin/lsmod | grep -o -e ^iwlmvm -e ^iwldvm -e ^iwlwifi | xargs /sbin/rmmod) \
&& /sbin/modprobe -r mac80211
options iwlwifi bt_coex_active=0 swcrypto=1 11n_disable=8
#options iwlwifi 11n_disable=8

I tried more different settings now.
On 2,4 GHz band I selected channel 4 which is the most remote channel compared to all other routers within reach.
I achieved best throughput with 20/40 MHz enabled.
Of course WPA2/AES and wireless mode automatic is enabled.

On 5GHz my router is the only one within reach.
Best throughput with 40MHz only.

For the test I located my router in direct view (3m / 10ft) of my laptop - no obstacles between them.

But in the end I never was able to outperform the throughput with the automatic settings as shared in my first post - at least in Ubuntu... 
In Windows it became slightly better on 2,4 and 5 GHz.

(of course I checked all router settings separately with Ubuntu and Windows)

Besides that, I also booted a fresh Ubuntu 14.10 from a stick - just to sort out any strange non-standard config in my system.
In fact, without the adapted iwlwifi.conf the plain 14.10 wifi performance is about 50% of the already bad performance of my adapted system

So, what's next? :-)
Markus

PS: what is in general considered to be a good throughput with 802.11n 450MBit?
PPS: ah, ok, I just found out that in real life, the net throughput would be up to 140MBit/sec - since I now get 17 MB/sec = 136 MBit/sec in Windows, I think, I'm pretty close there

---

### Post by chili555 on 2015-02-01
> # /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
# iwlwifi will dyamically load either iwldvm or iwlmvm depending on the
# microcode file installed on the system. When removing iwlwifi, first
# remove the iwl?vm module and then iwlwifi.
remove iwlwifi \
(/sbin/lsmod | grep -o -e ^iwlmvm -e ^iwldvm -e ^iwlwifi | xargs /sbin/rmmod) \
&& /sbin/modprobe -r mac80211
options iwlwifi bt_coex_active=0 swcrypto=1 11n_disable=8
#options iwlwifi 11n_disable=8I suggest you reverse these so it reads:```
# /etc/modprobe.d/iwlwifi.conf
# iwlwifi will dyamically load either iwldvm or iwlmvm depending on the
# microcode file installed on the system. When removing iwlwifi, first
# remove the iwl?vm module and then iwlwifi.
remove iwlwifi \
(/sbin/lsmod | grep -o -e ^iwlmvm -e ^iwldvm -e ^iwlwifi | xargs /sbin/rmmod) \
&& /sbin/modprobe -r mac80211
#options iwlwifi bt_coex_active=0 swcrypto=1 11n_disable=8
options iwlwifi 11n_disable=8
```Now lets' see what clues we can see in syslog:```
cat /var/log/syslog | grep -e iwl -e 80211 | tail -n50
```As the output is lengthy, post the result here and let us have the link in your reply: [http://paste.ubuntu.com](http://paste.ubuntu.com)

---

### Post by Markus72 on 2015-02-03
Hi - give me a bit more time... I accidently bricked my router :-)

---

