---
title: "10.04 &quot;Network Connections&quot;"
date: 2010-06-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by BMT22033 on 2010-06-22
We have three identical new Dell systems.  We installed 10.04 on one of them, configured it with our software load and then used dd to copy it to the other two systems.  We just booted up the second system and it comes up fine except for the network cards (4 in each system) which obviously have different MAC addresses.  A co-worker who was trying to help fix the problem deleted all four interfaces from the "Network Connections" (aka Network Manager?) UI and edited /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules to remove all of the network devices and then rebooted the system.  Now that the system is back up, ifconfig properly identifies each of the four NICs but the "Network Connections" UI is still blank.  Can anyone tell me where this UI gets its information from?  Is there a way to restore that information without having to manually re-add each device?  Thanks VERY much!!

---

### Post by BMT22033 on 2010-06-22
Oh, and for what it's worth, the contents of /etc/network/interfaces is:


auto lo
iface lo inet loopback



This is identical to the first system that we imaged with dd.  Only on that system, the Network Connections UI properly displays all 4 of the network interfaces (eth0, eth1, eth2 and eth3).

---

### Post by dozdozez on 2010-06-22
Every time that I have configured a net by hand i have had trouble with network manager.
Try uninstalling it. (Of course that's just a guess, but i would try it)

---

### Post by BMT22033 on 2010-06-22
I couldn't find a way to automatically recreate this info for the Network Manager so I ended up doing it manually for each interface.  For anyone who cares, the info for each interface that the Network Manager recognizes is stored in /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections.

---

### Post by waligaman on 2011-04-06
Here is my problem... and I solved it by looking here on this thread, and somewhere else about manually configuring the network.

When I installed Ubuntu, I manually configured a static IP address. In Mandriva Linux, this configuration always carried over from the installer's config to the permanent install. In Ubuntu 10.04, the configuration from the install is stored in /etc/network/interfaces, but nothing makes it over to /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections.

So this is what the /etc/network/interfaces file looks like with me having manually configured the network during the install (the text between start and end)...

(The xxx's are true IP information in the original file, just xxx'ed out here for security reasons)

----start of file

# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
	address xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
	netmask 255.255.248.0
	network xxx.xxx.xxx.0
	broadcast xxx.xxx.xxx.255
	gateway xxx.xxx.xxx.1
	# dns-* options are implemented by the resolvconf package, if installed
	dns-nameservers xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
	dns-search abc.somename.com

----end of file


Even if I enter the network config later in the Network Manager, the config that I just added are stroed in files in in /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections, but the config doesn't take, and the Network Manager just sits there. Upon reboot, the network config does not appear in the Network Manager. I believe the config files are still there in /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections. Now, I have another machine that has just has (the text between start and end)...

----start of file

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

----end of file

in /etc/network/interfaces

and it has custom configs in /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections and those configs appear in the Network Manager GUI.

So what I did on the non-working network machine, is move the /etc/network/interface file to an admin folder for saving (just in case), and put a copy of the simple file of /etc/network/interfaces in place.

Rebooted, and voila, the configs in /etc/NetworkManager/system-connections took, and they now appear and are editable in the Network Manager GUI.

I don't know if this helps, but I think the Network Manager is programed to think it is the only configurator in the system, whereas the other method is probably a leftover from Debian or an old version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by jnorthr on 2011-04-06
thank you very much !!! this cured my problems on an old 10.04 install that lost it's way to the internet :popcorn:

---

