---
title: "Need help compiling driver: Tenda W311M (RT5370) on 14.04 or 12.04"
date: 2016-01-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by darkod on 2016-01-13
Hi all,

To cut a very long story short, I need some help compiling the driver for Tenda W311M with Ralink RT5370 chipset. The reason why I need the driver compiled as opposed to use one included with ubuntu is that I actually need to change the VID and PID of the device. According to my investigations, the built-in drivers do not support the iwpriv e2p command which the compiled driver will do.

So I'm not even interested using the wifi dongle in ubuntu but I need to do the VID/PID change. I am open to any suggestions if there is an easier way to do that.

I'm not lazy and here is what I have done so far after searching a lot on google:
1. Downloaded latest driver from Mediatek website dated 2012-10-22 (it seems they bought Ralink some time ago so the drivers are there now).
2. Tried the compile which seems to finish correctly, but after plugging the dongle no ra0 or wlan0 device showing up in ifconfig. The device is always visible in lsusb (even before compiling driver of course).
3. Tried older driver for RT5370 too, no luck.

I was also playing around with Tenda W311U which has RT3070 chipset, but I would like to focus on the W311M because it has been confirmed it has worked for people on Samsung TV (the idea of changing the VID/PID is so the TV can detect and use it).

I can find my way around ubuntu quite good but no real experience with compiling drivers. I have 14.04 Desktop on my main PC and also old netbook with 12.04 Desktop, in case it's easier to work with that.

I am open to suggestions, I don't know what more to post right now (logs, output, etc)... As I said, I am also open to suggestions if there is an easier way to change the VID/PID.

Thanks in advance.

PS. Just to add that even though the driver seems to compile good, it's not working so I might be doing something wrong or something is missing. Reading on google there are many cases where you need to modify something in the unpacked drvier files before compiling it, so this step might be missing to make a "better driver".

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2016-01-13
Hi,please post the output of..
```
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
```
thanks.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-01-13
This is without the driver (module) loaded but with the dongle plugged in. I just noticed that I have deleted the compiled driver because I couldn't get it to work anyway. But assume I have no compiled driver at all...
```
root@HomePC:~# cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.


# PCI device 0x10ec:0x8168 (r8169)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="94:de:80:00:8a:99", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"


# USB device 0x:0x (rt2800usb)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:b0:8c:09:bd:a6", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan0"
```

```
root@HomePC:~# lsusb
Bus 009 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 008 Device 003: ID 046d:c52b Logitech, Inc. Unifying Receiver
Bus 008 Device 002: ID 04b4:0060 Cypress Semiconductor Corp. 
Bus 008 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
[COLOR=#ff0000]Bus 005 Device 002: ID 148f:5370 Ralink Technology, Corp. RT5370 Wireless Adapter[/COLOR]
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0003 Linux Foundation 3.0 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0003 Linux Foundation 3.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
```

PS. NOTE: The rt2800usb in the first code output is probably relating to the W311U dongle I was using earlier. Now I use cable ethernet and no wifi. The W311U has RT3070 and ubuntu was loading the rt2800usb for it. I know have the rt2800usb blacklisted currently.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2016-01-13
Doesn't *rt2800usb* work as expected for your device? It is easy enough to add the usb.id dynamically if not.

What caused you to blacklist it?

It is doubtful that an older driver, that is, "...latest driver from Mediatek website dated [COLOR="#FF0000"]2012[/COLOR]-10-22...", will help.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-01-13
The rt2800usb was working with Tenda W311U, although I thought it was connecting on lower speeds than it should.

I blacklisted it right now while compiling the driver, to prevent it from loading. The reason I am trying to compile the Mediatek (Ralink) driver is to allow me iwpriv e2p option which ubuntu included drivers don't have. Even if it's older, I need the e2p functionality. Also note that now I'm trying to compile for slightly different model, the Tenda W311M with RT5370 chipset.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2016-01-13
# USB device 0x:0x (rt2800usb)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="<MAC 'wlan1' [IF]>", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan1"

# Tenda W311M Wi-Fi USB dongle
#Bus 001 Device 002: ID 148f:5370 Ralink Technology, Corp. RT5370 Wireless Adapter

# We are going to build 2 FILES:
# /etc/udev/rules.d/network_drivers.rules
# /etc/modprobe.d/network_drivers.conf

#148f:5370

Remove the device and in a terminal, do:
Code:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/udev/rules.d/network_drivers.rules
```

Add one long line:
Code:

```
ACTION=="add", SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idVendor}=="148f", ATTR{idProduct}=="5370", RUN+="/sbin/modprobe -qba rt2800usb"
```

Caps, brackets, punctuation, etc. are crucial. Proofread twice, save and close gedit.
Code:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/network_drivers.conf
```

Add one long single line:
Code:

```
install rt2800usb /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install rt2800usb $CMDLINE_OPTS; /bin/echo "148f 5370" > /sys/bus/usb/drivers/rt2800usb/new_id
```

Proofread twice, save and close gedit. Insert the device. If it doesn't start immediately, you might have to do:
Code:

```
sudo modprobe rt2800usb
```
TO View the PID/VID
```
lsusb -v -d 1458:5370
```

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-01-14
@Hadaka

Correct me if I'm wrong, but those commands will simply allow rt2800usb to be loaded for my dongle, right? That is not what I want. I need the Mediatek driver compiled since it offers more functionality compared to ubuntu's drivers.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2016-01-14
You might try this: [https://github.com/xiangzhai/rt5370](https://github.com/xiangzhai/rt5370) It may work for 14.04.

Post back if you need a step-by-step.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-01-14
OK, I'll try it when I get home. Thanks...

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2016-01-14
Hi, as dr chili pointed out in post#4 its not likely the driver you want to compile would work anyway.
the Tenda W311m device has a ralink chip as shown by VendorID 148f Tenda uses the 5370 ProductID.
You should be abe to get the long version VID/PID with a little research.

Here is a printout of my Hawking wifi usb.  also..VendorID 148f with Hawking using 2573 as their ProductID
and it runs plug and play on Ubuntu assigned driver RT73

hadaka:~$ sudo lsusb -v -d 148f:2573
 
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 148f:2573 Ralink Technology, Corp. RT2501/RT2573 Wireless Adapter
Device Descriptor:
  bLength                18
  bDescriptorType         1
  bcdUSB               2.00
  bDeviceClass            0 (Defined at Interface level)
  bDeviceSubClass         0 
  bDeviceProtocol         0 
  bMaxPacketSize0        64
  idVendor           0x148f Ralink Technology, Corp.
  idProduct          0x2573 RT2501/RT2573 Wireless Adapter
  bcdDevice            0.01
  iManufacturer           1 Ralink
  iProduct                2 802.11 bg WLAN
  iSerial                 0 
  bNumConfigurations      1
  Configuration Descriptor:
    bLength                 9
    bDescriptorType         2
    wTotalLength           32
    bNumInterfaces          1
    bConfigurationValue     1
    iConfiguration          0 
    bmAttributes         0x80
      (Bus Powered)
    MaxPower              300mA
    Interface Descriptor:
      bLength                 9
      bDescriptorType         4
      bInterfaceNumber        0
      bAlternateSetting       0
      bNumEndpoints           2
      bInterfaceClass       255 Vendor Specific Class
      bInterfaceSubClass    255 Vendor Specific Subclass
      bInterfaceProtocol    255 Vendor Specific Protocol
      iInterface              0 
      Endpoint Descriptor:
        bLength                 7
        bDescriptorType         5
        bEndpointAddress     0x81  EP 1 IN
        bmAttributes            2
          Transfer Type            Bulk
          Synch Type               None
          Usage Type               Data
        wMaxPacketSize     0x0200  1x 512 bytes
        bInterval               0
      Endpoint Descriptor:
        bLength                 7
        bDescriptorType         5
        bEndpointAddress     0x01  EP 1 OUT
        bmAttributes            2
          Transfer Type            Bulk
          Synch Type               None
          Usage Type               Data
        wMaxPacketSize     0x0200  1x 512 bytes
        bInterval               0
Device Qualifier (for other device speed):
  bLength                10
  bDescriptorType         6
  bcdUSB               2.00
  bDeviceClass            0 (Defined at Interface level)
  bDeviceSubClass         0 
  bDeviceProtocol         0 
  bMaxPacketSize0        64
  bNumConfigurations      1
Device Status:     0x0000
  (Bus Powered)

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-01-14
I didn't understand the part about Tenda using PID 5203. In post #3 the lsusb results clearly show 148f:5370 which is sort of standard for Ralink RT5370 and exists in the rtusb_dev*.c in the Mediatek/Ralink drivers for compiling.

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2016-01-14
You are correct..typo on my part...it has been corrected, please
accept my apology for my error.

---

### Post by darkod on 2016-01-14
Thanks chili.

That driver compiled out of the box on 14.04 and I was able to use the iwpriv e2p which was my goal. My TV refuses to work with the dongle but that's not the driver's fault.

I am marking this solved as I managed to do what I wanted in a way...

---

### Post by chili555 on 2016-01-14
> **darkod said:**
> Thanks chili.

That driver compiled out of the box on 14.04 and I was able to use the iwpriv e2p which was my goal. My TV refuses to work with the dongle but that's not the driver's fault.

I am marking this solved as I managed to do what I wanted in a way...Awesome! Glad it's working.

---

