---
title: "8.10 LiveCD Wireless does not work"
date: 2008-12-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Inhumane on 2008-12-30
Hi, I can't seem to get wireless to work on my parents Laptop using the LiveCD. I remember I had this same problem before with an older version and it was fixed when I actually installed Ubuntu, but they won't let me install it again unless I can show them it all works fine first.

It actually detects the Atheros card but I can't seem to get it to.. work.

I go to the little networking icon in the taskbar and go to the wireless tab and input my details (why does it ASK me for the SSID? Why can't it scan the area, anyway?), but I can't switch from wired to wireless, it just doesn't show up as an option. There's only one option under a grayed out Wired Ethernet, which is Eth1 or something, and I can't even select that.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by ieee488 on 2008-12-30
dual-boot

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-12-30
> **Inhumane said:**
> 
It actually detects the Atheros card but I can't seem to get it to.. work.

I go to the little networking icon in the taskbar and go to the wireless tab and input my details (why does it ASK me for the SSID? Why can't it scan the area, anyway?), but I can't switch from wired to wireless, it just doesn't show up as an option. There's only one option under a grayed out Wired Ethernet, which is Eth1 or something, and I can't even select that.

Any ideas?

If it was working it would scan the area and obtain the SSID so you having to manually enter it shows its not working correctly and when you say there is only one option for Wired well there should be 2 options one saying wireless with a list of available networks.  Check the hardware wiki for your card that may shed some light

---

### Post by Inhumane on 2008-12-30
> **tuxxy said:**
> If it was working it would scan the area and obtain the SSID so you having to manually enter it shows its not working correctly and when you say there is only one option for Wired well there should be 2 options one saying wireless with a list of available networks.  Check the hardware wiki for your card that may shed some light

Well it did show up under one of the tools (the multi-tool one that lets you ping, trace, etc), it listed the wireless card =/ Hrmm, the laptop is also a Toshiba one that's no more than a year and a half old :confused:

---

### Post by Inhumane on 2009-01-07
OK, just installed Ubuntu and Wireless still doesn't work for some reason!

lspci shows my Atheros card, so it's detected.. what can I do? :confused:

14:00.0 Ethernet Controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR242x 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-01-07
post output of 
1)iwconfig
2)iwlist scanning

---

### Post by Inhumane on 2009-01-07
> **superprash2003 said:**
> post output of 
1)iwconfig
2)iwlist scanning

lo0 - not compatible with scanning

eth0 (this one is wired) - not compatible with scanning

pan0 - not compatible with scanning.

I googled this wireless chip and ubuntu and apparently it's just not supported. Some said madwifi works, others ndiswrapper. I tried both methods with zero luck. I'm already positive I installed too much stuff from both of them to be able to revert to vanilla without conflicting drivers :(

---

