---
title: "Bind DNS driving me absolutely nuts..."
date: 2013-03-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by aSteve on 2013-03-17
I've a small network with my Ubuntu server box acting as DNS and DHCP.... and all was fine until my router failed.  I replaced my router, but the new one doesn't work quite the same as the old one - which prompted me to rationalise my IP address schema... and prompted me to 'fiddle' with both DHCP and DNS to shift from a class A private subnet on 10.x.x.x to a class B private subnet 192.168.x.x.  Perhaps, with hindsight this wasn't strictly necessary - but it's done now.

I believed that Bind-9 on my Ubuntu server worked by extending the DNS names for the whole of the internet with the DNS names for devices on my Private LAN.  This server now works for my private DNS names - but not for the rest of the internet.  I've fudged this by including the address of my external router as well as the address of my Ubuntu box as the DNS servers specified in my DHCP setup.  This works well for my Win7 box - but things aren't rosy for my Ubuntu server - even though I've tried to achieve the same ends with this in my /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/original.

--
nameserver 192.168.0.1
domain mydomain.co.uk
search mydomain.co.uk
--

which generates the following in my /etc/resolv.conf

--
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
nameserver 192.168.0.1
domain mydomain.co.uk
search mydomain.co.uk
--

Unfortunately, while 192.168.0.1 is reachable... nslookup on this server only works for local dns names - with replies from 127.0.0.1.

My /var/log/syslog is filling with errors from named (at an alarming rate) - though I can neither make any sense of these messages directly... or by googling the error message.

--
Mar 17 06:52:00 kenneth named[1734]: DNS format error from 128.63.2.53#53 resolving ./NS: non-improving referral
Mar 17 06:52:00 kenneth named[1734]: error (FORMERR) resolving './NS/IN': 128.63.2.53#53
--

I get a lot of these - possibly one for each root nameserver.

What am I doing wrong?  

--named.conf--
// This is the primary configuration file for the BIND DNS server named.
//
// Please read /usr/share/doc/bind9/README.Debian.gz for information on the
// structure of BIND configuration files in Debian, *BEFORE* you customize
// this configuration file.
//
// If you are just adding zones, please do that in /etc/bind/named.conf.local

include "/etc/bind/named.conf.options";
include "/etc/bind/named.conf.local";
include "/etc/bind/named.conf.default-zones";
--

--named.conf.options--
        // ports to talk.  See [http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/800113](http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/800113)

        // If your ISP provided one or more IP addresses for stable
        // nameservers, you probably want to use them as forwarders.
        // Uncomment the following block, and insert the addresses replacing
        // the all-0's placeholder.

        //forwarders {
        //      0.0.0.0;
        //};

        //========================================================================
        // If BIND logs error messages about the root key being expired,
        // you will need to update your keys.  See [https://www.isc.org/bind-keys](https://www.isc.org/bind-keys)
        //========================================================================

// Temporary HACK to avoid a slew of errors following hint found on net...
        dnssec-enable no;
//      dnssec-validation auto;
//  End Temporary Hack

        auth-nxdomain no;    # conform to RFC1035
        listen-on-v6 { any; };
};
--

--named.conf.local--
include "/etc/bind/rndc.key";
controls { inet 127.0.0.1 port 953 allow { 127.0.0.1; } keys { rndc-key; }; };

zone "mydomain.co.uk" {
     type master;
     file "/etc/bind/zones/mydomain.co.uk.db";
     allow-update { key rndc-key; };
     notify yes;
     };

//zone "0.10.in-addr.arpa" {
//     type master;
//     file "/etc/bind/zones/rev.0.10.in-addr.arpa";
//     allow-update { key rndc-key; };
//     notify yes;
//     };

zone "168.192.in-addr.arpa" {
     type master;
     file "/etc/bind/zones/rev.168.192.in-addr.arpa";
     allow-update { key rndc-key; };
     notify yes;
     };
--

--named.conf.default--
// prime the server with knowledge of the root servers
zone "." {
        type hint;
        file "/etc/bind/db.root";
};

// be authoritative for the localhost forward and reverse zones, and for
// broadcast zones as per RFC 1912

zone "localhost" {
        type master;
        file "/etc/bind/db.local";
};

zone "127.in-addr.arpa" {
        type master;
        file "/etc/bind/db.127";
};

zone "0.in-addr.arpa" {
        type master;
        file "/etc/bind/db.0";
};

zone "255.in-addr.arpa" {
        type master;
        file "/etc/bind/db.255";
};
--

All of these check out with named-checkconf and named-checkzone.

Why won't my DNS server resolve non-local domain names?

---

### Post by jdthood on 2013-03-20
In /etc/bind/named.conf.options, include the address of your nameserver 192.168.0.1 in the "forwarders" clause. Then the local BIND named will forward DNS queries for non-local names to that other nameserver.

Replace the symbolic link at /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail with a symbolic link to /dev/null. Including the contents of "original" in "tail" is not meant to be a permanent solution.  Then run "sudo resolvconf -u". After this, make sure that you still have a "search" line in resolv.conf. If you don't then either configure your DHCP server to give the proper search path to DHCP clients or, if the machine in question isn't a DHCP client, add a correct "search" line to /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base and run "sudo resolvconf -u".

---

