---
title: "14.04 clean install, Samba client can't retrieve share list"
date: 2015-09-05
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by pderocco on 2015-09-05
I just installed 14.04 desktop on a blank disk. When I browsed the (wired) network, it showed all my other machines, but I got the "Failed to retrieve share list from server: Connection timed out" message. I realized Samba wasn't installed by default, so I did "apt-get install samba", after which I had the usual nmbd and two smbd daemons running. Yet I still get the same error message, even after rebooting. I have three Windows machines on the network, A Mac, and one other Linux box, all with passworded shares. I get the same error message from each of them when I try to open it to see its shares. My username and password is the same on all machines (including this one).

As I said, this is a clean install on a blank disk, plus Samba, so I haven't had a chance to do anything that could have broken this. Is there something else one is supposed to do before one can access network shares? If not, how do I diagnose this?

---

### Post by pderocco on 2015-09-09
Maybe I shouldn't have posted this at the start of Labor Day weekend. Anyone have any ideas on this?

---

### Post by bab1 on 2015-09-09
> **pderocco said:**
> I just installed 14.04 desktop on a blank disk. When I browsed the (wired) network, it showed all my other machines, but I got the "Failed to retrieve share list from server: Connection timed out" message. I realized Samba wasn't installed by default, so I did "apt-get install samba", after which I had the usual nmbd and two smbd daemons running. 

Those daemons are for the Samba server.  They are not for a ***client*** looking for SMB shares.  The Samba ***client*** is installed by default with Ubuntu desktops.
> 
Yet I still get the same error message, even after rebooting. I have three Windows machines on the network, A Mac, and one other Linux box, all with passworded shares. I get the same error message from each of them when I try to open it to see its shares. My username and password is the same on all machines (including this one).

As I said, this is a clean install on a blank disk, plus Samba, so I haven't had a chance to do anything that could have broken this. Is there something else one is supposed to do before one can access network shares? If not, how do I diagnose this?
Post the output of this terminal command```

smbtree -d3
```

Please use the [noparse]```

```[/noparse] blocks when posting the data.  You can do this easily by clicking on the [SIZE=5]**#**[/SIZE] icon at the top of the Advanced Editor that you use to reply with.

---

### Post by pderocco on 2015-09-10
```
lp_load_ex: refreshing parameters
Initialising global parameters
rlimit_max: increasing rlimit_max (1024) to minimum Windows limit (16384)
params.c:pm_process() - Processing configuration file "/etc/samba/smb.conf"
Processing section "[global]"
added interface eth0 ip=192.168.123.108 bcast=192.168.123.255 netmask=255.255.255.0
Enter pauld's password: 
tdb(/var/cache/samba/gencache.tdb): tdb_open_ex: could not open file /var/cache/samba/gencache.tdb: Permission denied
resolve_lmhosts: Attempting lmhosts lookup for name WORKGROUP<0x1d>
resolve_lmhosts: Attempting lmhosts lookup for name WORKGROUP<0x1d>
name_resolve_bcast: Attempting broadcast lookup for name WORKGROUP<0x1d>
Got a positive name query response from 192.168.123.254 ( 192.168.123.254 )
Connecting to 192.168.123.254 at port 445
Server requested LANMAN password (share-level security) but 'client lanman auth = no' or 'client ntlmv2 auth = yes'
Connecting to 192.168.123.254 at port 445
Server requested LANMAN password (share-level security) but 'client lanman auth = no' or 'client ntlmv2 auth = yes'

```

And here's my smb.conf, stripped of all comments:

```
[global]
   workgroup = WORKGROUP
   netbios name = BUILD
   server string = %h server (Samba, Ubuntu)
   dns proxy = no
   log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
   max log size = 1000
   syslog = 0
   panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d
   server role = standalone server
   passdb backend = tdbsam
   obey pam restrictions = yes
   unix password sync = yes
   passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
   passwd chat = *Enter\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *password\supdated\ssuccessfully* .
   pam password change = yes
   map to guest = bad user
   usershare allow guests = yes
[printers]
   comment = All Printers
   browseable = no
   path = /var/spool/samba
   printable = yes
   guest ok = no
   read only = yes
   create mask = 0700
[print$]
   comment = Printer Drivers
   path = /var/lib/samba/printers
   browseable = yes
   read only = yes
   guest ok = no
[all]
    comment = Everything
    read only = no
    path = /
    browsable = yes
    create mask = 755

```

This is basically the default version with comments stripped, with an added netbios name and an added share at the end.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2015-09-11
> **pderocco said:**
> ```
lp_load_ex: refreshing parameters
Initialising global parameters
rlimit_max: increasing rlimit_max (1024) to minimum Windows limit (16384)
params.c:pm_process() - Processing configuration file "/etc/samba/smb.conf"
Processing section "[global]"
added interface eth0 ip=[COLOR="#0000FF"]**192.168.123.108**[/COLOR] bcast=192.168.123.255 netmask=255.255.255.0
Enter pauld's password: 
tdb(/var/cache/samba/gencache.tdb): tdb_open_ex: could not open file /var/cache/samba/gencache.tdb: Permission denied
resolve_lmhosts: Attempting lmhosts lookup for name WORKGROUP<0x1d>
resolve_lmhosts: Attempting lmhosts lookup for name WORKGROUP<0x1d>
name_resolve_bcast: Attempting broadcast lookup for name WORKGROUP<0x1d>
[COLOR="#FF0000"][B]Got a positive name query response from 192.168.123.254 ( 192.168.123.254 )
Connecting to 192.168.123.254 at port 445
Server requested LANMAN password (share-level security) but 'client lanman auth = no' or 'client ntlmv2 auth = yes'
Connecting to 192.168.123.254 at port 445
Server requested LANMAN password (share-level security) but 'client lanman auth = no' or 'client ntlmv2 auth = yes'[/B][/COLOR]

```

I'm surprised at this result. This shows a very non-default result (see the red highlight above).  Is this host (192.168.123.254) a Windows machine?  I assume that the new Ubuntu host is 192.168.123.108 (in blue above).  Am I correct?
> 
And here's my smb.conf, stripped of all comments:

```
[global]
   workgroup = WORKGROUP
   netbios name = BUILD
   server string = %h server (Samba, Ubuntu)
   dns proxy = no
   log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
   max log size = 1000
   syslog = 0
   panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d
   server role = standalone server
   passdb backend = tdbsam
   obey pam restrictions = yes
   unix password sync = yes
   passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
   passwd chat = *Enter\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *password\supdated\ssuccessfully* .
   pam password change = yes
   map to guest = bad user
   usershare allow guests = yes
[printers]
   comment = All Printers
   browseable = no
   path = /var/spool/samba
   printable = yes
   guest ok = no
   read only = yes
   create mask = 0700
[print$]
   comment = Printer Drivers
   path = /var/lib/samba/printers
   browseable = yes
   read only = yes
   guest ok = no
[all]
    comment = Everything
    read only = no
    path = /
    browsable = yes
    create mask = 755

```

This is basically the default version with comments stripped, with an added netbios name and an added share at the end.
The share listed in the smb.conf file is *very problematical*.  At the very least you should never share the OS files.  The shares should only contain data.  I would remove the share.  It won't help to have a share for what we are diagnosing.

So the first question is:  What type of host is 192.168.123.254?  Is it a Windows, Apple or Linux machine.  At the present time smbtree is choking on the LANMAN password (share-level security).

---

### Post by pderocco on 2015-09-12
Thanks for looking at this. However, I just found an old smb.conf file from my previous Linux box which worked, and the difference was the line "name resolve order = bcast wins". Adding that fixed the problem. Not understanding how SMB works, I have no idea what this actually means.

Can you or anyone explain why, if this is necessary for talking on a Windows network, it isn't part of the default smb.conf? Is there some commonly used network setup where this would be detrimental? I vaguely recall having this problem three or four years ago when I set up my last Linux box. (I'm mostly a Windows programmer/user.)

---

### Post by bab1 on 2015-09-12
> **pderocco said:**
> Thanks for looking at this. However, I just found an old smb.conf file from my previous Linux box which worked, and the difference was the line "name resolve order = bcast wins". Adding that fixed the problem. Not understanding how SMB works, I have no idea what this actually means.

The name resolve order parameter sets the order in which the Samba client looks for hosts by name.  The bcast method is the fallback method that should work all the time on a single segment network.  The other methods may or may not be configured, but bcast is "baked in" and available always.  The ***name resolve order ***has nothing to do with passwords; either *lanman *or *ntlmv2*, however.
> 
Can you or anyone explain why, if this is necessary for talking on a Windows network, it isn't part of the default smb.conf? Is there some commonly used network setup where this would be detrimental? I vaguely recall having this problem three or four years ago when I set up my last Linux box. (I'm mostly a Windows programmer/user.)
It is part of the default setup.  The default is ```
name resolve order = lmhosts wins host bcast 
```
Since this is the default it does not need to be stated in the smb.conf file.  As you can see the bcast parameter is last since it should always work.  The others are tried and if unsuccessful the next parameter is used.  The parameter *lmhosts* is not used at all anymore,  *wins* is not set up by default, the *hosts* file may not be accurate, but *bcast* always forces all servers to broadcast their name and status.

You mess with the smb.conf file at your own peril. I think the server is still miss-configured , but if it works for you, then so be it.

---

### Post by pderocco on 2015-09-14
After some experimenting, I found that of those four choices, only "bcast" works. "wins" and "lmhosts" are harmless as long as "bcast" is in there. However, if "hosts" is in the list *before *"bcast", then it hangs for 15 seconds and fails. The samba docs says that "hosts" uses "Unix name-resolution methods, which can be */etc/hosts*, DNS, NIS, or a combination, depending on how the local system is configured." My /etc/hosts file looks like this (sans comments):

```

127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.1.1       BUILD
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff01::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

```

That's what Ubuntu generated on installation--I haven't touched it. For now, I'll just leave "hosts" out of the list, but I'm curious why "hosts" should fail.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2015-09-14
> **pderocco said:**
> After some experimenting, I found that of those four choices, only "bcast" works. "wins" and "lmhosts" are harmless as long as "bcast" is in there. However, if "hosts" is in the list *before *"bcast", then it hangs for 15 seconds and fails. The samba docs says that "hosts" uses "Unix name-resolution methods, which can be */etc/hosts*, DNS, NIS, or a combination, depending on how the local system is configured." My /etc/hosts file looks like this (sans comments):

```

127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.1.1       BUILD
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff01::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

```

That's what Ubuntu generated on installation--I haven't touched it. For now, I'll just leave "hosts" out of the list, but I'm curious why "hosts" should fail.
The direct reason the hosts parameter causes "hang[s] for 15 seconds and then fails" is because you have already declared the NETBIOS NAME in the smb,conf file  (i.e. netbios name = BUILD).  This means that the smbd daemon broadcasts to the network that the name BUILD is bound to the IP address the host is using on the network.  In your case that would be *some* IP address in the 192.168.123.0 /24 network I believe.

The above is kind of murky at best without knowing the whole reason for looking at various name resolve methods (lmhosts, host, wins, bcast) is so that the **nmbd** daemon can convert that name (.e.g. the hostname) to a NETBIOS NAME.  If you have explicitly declared the NETBIOS NAME in the smb.conf file the **nmbd** daemon stops looking at any name resolve methods since it already has the NETBIOS NAME.  This is what causes the hang.  The [COLOR="#008000"]**smbd**[/COLOR] daemon relies on the [COLOR="#0000FF"]**nmbd**[/COLOR] daemon to resolve the [COLOR="#008000"]**smbd**[/COLOR] provided name possibilities.

In addition your hosts file does not have a hostname associated with any interface that is on your local network (eth0) so the file could be considered mis-configured for Samba use.  If you are to configure the hostname to network interface it should be with a fixed IP address.  If you are using DHCP you would need to use a reserved IP address.

One of the nice things about Samba and NETBIOS is that the IP address is resolved against the _known NETBIOS NAME_ rather than the hosts/DNS method of resolving the hostname against a _known IP address_.

Samba can be configured for many different situations.  Samba configured to use *_netbios name_* and *_bcast_* in the smb.conf file is by far the simplest method for a simple LAN using DHCP (random IP addresses).  There is no reliance on any external naming.  The only limitation is that broadcasts don't traverse routers so you are limited to a single subnet.  If you have multiple subnets you should use a WINS server to hold the NETBIOS NAME to IP address database.  It is dynamic so hosts can come and go just like the bcast method.  The limitation here is that you can have only one WINS server in use at one time on your multi-segment network.

---

