---
title: "12.04 and Atheros Ath9k driver (can't get 11n connection)"
date: 2012-09-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jdahlum on 2012-09-18
All,

I'm running 12.04 (64-bit) with kernel 3.5.4 and all is well, very well actually, with the exception of one thing.  I can not for the life of me get my wifi to connect at N-speeds.  I also have a MacBook sitting right beside me and it connects just fine with the double the wife speed I have.  I have an Atheros AR9485 Wireless N card in the laptop (Asus N56V).  It connects fine via 11G and I have fairly decent speeds but it's almost like 11N capability is disabled.  

I have added nohwcrypt=1 to the ath9k.conf module configuration file with no effect.  

Does anyone know how to get 11n working with this card?  Thanks!

Jamie

---

### Post by jdahlum on 2012-09-20
Can anyone help?  I'm really at a loss at this point.  Let me know if you need me to pull any logs or anything.  Thanks in advance!!

---

### Post by einonm on 2012-09-21
N speeds can only be obtained if every wifi device connected to the wireless access point (AP) is also running at N speeds, otherwise the AP will have to use the slower G, or lower, speed.

All devices must also be set up to use channel bonding (usually the 40MHz channel setting as opposed to 20MHz).

---

### Post by apokkalyps on 2012-09-21
Whatt?? So your saying bring 1 G device onto an N network and suddenly they all have to run at G speeds?

---

### Post by jdahlum on 2012-09-22
I've never had a problem with any other machine getting N-speeds on my current router regardless of whether or not there were any other devices connected.  I have machine sitting right beside this one and it connects with 11n and download speeds are twice that of the Ubuntu box.  

Any ideas?

---

### Post by einonm on 2012-09-23
> **apokkalyps said:**
> Whatt?? So your saying bring 1 G device onto an N network and suddenly they all have to run at G speeds?

Yes, that's about the long and short of it. It's the same with having a 'b' device on a 'g' AP. 

Have a read of this - [http://www.zdnet.com/blog/networking/four-ways-to-get-the-most-from-your-802-11n-wi-fi/122](http://www.zdnet.com/blog/networking/four-ways-to-get-the-most-from-your-802-11n-wi-fi/122)

If you have other g devices connected to this AP, and a device is telling you that you're getting n speeds, I suspect it may be lying.

---

