---
title: "19.04 cannot access files on Win 10 computer"
date: 2019-04-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by naiqor0-people on 2019-04-27
Got a new ssd for desktop computer and decided to do a clean install of ubuntu 19.04
Set up shared folders then checked to see if Ubuntu could see the win10 laptop  it can see the laptop but when trying to access it I get the error message:
Unable to access location
Failed to retrieve Share list:
network dropped connection on reset.

Now Ubuntu can see laptop, but cannot connect to it. Ubuntu can ping laptop. Ubuntu can see my PVR (OP system is linux) and down load files from it.
The Laptop can see Ubuntu and can and download files from it, can also see my PVR and down load files from it.
Checked if laptop could push files to the ubuntu machine, yes, but some times but not  every time it wants to print them out as well. Much drama there first try at that was a folder with 89 files on it,  printer started spitting out paper every where. If i stop the printer it doesn't save the files to a folder. By the way printer is wireless printer using cups on the ubuntu machine.

Still have my Ubuntu 18.10 on old HDD drive. So swapped cable over booted it and everything OK transfer files back and forth no problems. Thought it might be problems with smb.conf, so copied the smb.conf from the 18.10 boot to usb and then swapped cables booted 19:04 copied the 18.10 smb.conf to the 19.04  and tried again to access laptop, still got the same error: 
Unable to access location
Failed to retrieve Share list:
network dropped connection on reset.
Do not know if it is me or the new Samba update that came with Ubuntu 19.04.
Thank you

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2019-04-27
Yep, it's a bug of some sort but I don't know where it is at the moment.

You cannot browse for the server / share to get access or you will receive the error message you posted. You can use Connect to Server though:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]283114[/ATTACH]

And a CIFS mount works - probably because CIFS is a Linux kernel component and they know what they're doing:
> sudo mount -t cifs //vwin10/shared /home/tester/Test -o username=smbuser,password=smbuserpw,uid=1000

There was a change to a gnome component that "fixed" a bug where you couln't browse the network for smb hosts. It works in that you can see the Win10 host and there are no issues when accessing say another Linux host but it probably never occurred to anyone to test it against a Win10 machine.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2019-04-27
I've been playing with this a bit and I think I understand the why but not the how.

You will get the **Failed to retrieve Share list: network dropped connection on reset.** error when accessing Win10 only if SMBv1 has been disabled on the server end of Win10. If enabled it will allow access. 

Since Connect to Server works even with SMBv1 disabled it looks to me that this is connected to the gvfsd-smb-browse fix that went into 19.04. It drops down to SMBv1 to get the server list but instead of returning to > SMBv1 to make the connection it gets stuck there.

That is not a good situation since one way or another SMB1 on the server end of Win10 is going to be disabled.

---

### Post by naiqor0-people on 2019-04-28
Thank you for your reply, at least i now know i am not senile in my old age.
Tried the smb://win10/shared/
Unable to access: Invalid argument
Changed it to smb://LAPTOP/shared/
get dialog box
Password Required on laptop
O Anonymous
O Registered User
User name        bucky
Domain             WORKGROUP
Password

Tried Anonymous it just recycles dialog box
Tried Windows login password
Tried Ubuntu login password
Get same error message:- Unable to access location
                                          Failed to mount share: No such file or directory

And your other solution I tried  by cut and past into terminal it could not find anything. Probably need to change the files and directories, but i do not understand which directories or files i need to name.
As i am all self taught i tend to set things up rather different to people that have been trained.
It looks as though i will have to wait or a bug fix to come through.
Thank you again.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2019-04-28
> Tried the smb://win10/shared/
**win10** is the name of _**my**_ Windows 10 machine and **shared** is the name of the share on that machine.

You need to change that to your host name and share name.

And if there is a name resolution problem just use your ip address on the Win10 box.

---

### Post by naiqor0-people on 2019-04-29
Again thank you Morbius1 for that I understand what I have to do and it worked, a bit clunky as you have to do that for each folder you may wish to copy from. Don't know whether to mark it as solved, as you have only given me a work around the bug. And hopefully they will fix it soon, or we may have to wait until 19.10.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2019-04-29
It is in fact only a workaround. 

Side Note: I added my own wit and charm to the original bug report on smb browsing so we'll see if anyone responds to this issue: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/1778322?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/1778322?comments=all)

---

### Post by naiqor0-people on 2019-11-23
After waiting patiently or Ubuntu 19.10 hoping for a fix to that problem, with no luck, I decided to go through all my shares folders the clunky way smb://Computername/folder and then when open bookmark the site. So now when I need to open one of those folders to copy a file over I just need to click the bookmark and it is there. A partial fix for now.

---

