---
title: "9.10 Desktop - PPTP VPN not working"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jgolightly on 2009-10-31
I just did a fresh install of Ubuntu 9.10 Desktop on my Acer Aspire One 110.  The wired and wireless work fine out of the box with no issues.  I immediately installed network-manager-pptp and attempted to set up the VPN connection to my office.  I am able to create and save the VPN connection, but it does not show up as an available connection via the network-manager panel interface.  The only options under VPN Connections > ... are "Configure VPN" and an unavailable "Disconnect VPN".  I have tried restarting network-manager and then restarting Ubuntu.  I can get the VPN connection to show up if I check "Make available to all users", but then it loses the password settings and encryption settings, and attempting to connect to the VPN does nothing.  No notification popup, no messages in /var/log/messages, no network-manager panel icon change.

This worked fine in 8.04, 8.10 and 9.04 with the correct settings.

Has something changed in 9.10 that is keeping PPTP VPN from working?  Is anyone else experiencing a similar issue?

---

### Post by jgolightly on 2009-11-01
If anyone has any how-to's for 9.04 PPTP VPN setup, it might be worth adding one final step:

Install network-manager-pptp
Restart
Setup VPN
New step ---> Logout
New step ---> Login


Fixed thanks to a tip from theadmin in #ubuntu at irc.freenode.net.

---

### Post by Donair on 2009-11-28
Hi, I'm new to using linux in general, but I found a way to get mine to work.  I logged out, logged back in as root and everything seems to work fine.  once I log back into my non root account it stops working though. :(  does that help?

---

