---
title: "8.04 ipw2200 rtap0 interface problem"
date: 2008-09-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dtunget on 2008-09-07
I'm running ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24.19-generic.

I've installed the patched ipw2200 drivers for use with the aircrack-ng suite, which I want to use in this OS instead of loading my backtrack 3 USB drive.  The problem I'm having is that I can't bring up my rtap0 interface.  It looks like there's a problem with it having an all 00 MAC address, however it gives an error if you attempt to assign a MAC to it.

Any ideas?

EDIT:

Found this page via a google search:  [http://aur.archlinux.org/packages.php?ID=14082](http://aur.archlinux.org/packages.php?ID=14082)

In the comments, someone describes exactly what I'm seeing:

Comment by: ekerazha on 20080228 [10:53:28] 
Uh... maybe there's a problem after having sync-ed it to the 2.6.24 driver.

If I enter "ifconfig rtap0"

I see 

HWaddr 00-00-00-00-00-00-F7-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00-00

The MAC address is invalid, but trying to change it I receive

SIOCSIFHWADDR: Invalid argument


EDIT#2:

The rtap0 patch on this page fixed it:

[http://aur.archlinux.org/packages.php?ID=14082](http://aur.archlinux.org/packages.php?ID=14082)

---

### Post by dtunget on 2008-09-07
bump

---

### Post by svguy on 2008-10-25
Well, I feel like a knob.  I've been playing with this for hours now and I can't get the rtap interface working.

I've got kernel 2.6.24-21
I've got ipw2200 1.2.2

I think I just need to apply that rtap patch from above, but I can't for the life of me get that figured out. 

When i do an iwconfig it says rtap0 has no wireless extensions and if I try to bring the interface up it says "SIOCSIFFLAGS: invalid argument" 

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by svguy on 2008-10-29
Any help?
I've started researching possibly buying another card but it looks like there's work involved in those too and I might as well just get my ipw2200 setup working.
I could really use some help though.

---

### Post by dtunget on 2008-10-29
It's been some beers back since I did this...I think it was just the patching of ipw2200.c before compiling that fixed it....I used the patch at the link above.

It seems like there was 1 more thing but I'm not 100% sure.....I definitely had the all zero mac address issue and the "invalid argument" error.  It's just that I had to fix like 5 things to get this working on the ipw2200.

If you want to throw a little $ at the problem, get a card that is madwifi compatible...they're better at injection anyways and support more than just arpreplay.

---

### Post by svguy on 2008-10-30
I'm open to getting an adapter that's more capable of this be it PCMCIA or USB, or even a replacement for my mini PCI card.  I just want to make sure I'm not getting in to something that's more work than my current ipw2200 setup.

---

