---
title: "2.6.31-19 to 2.6.31-20 RT3070sta driver?"
date: 2010-03-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by azagaros on 2010-03-04
I have to revert back to 2.6.31.19 to use the driver.

When I started with this set up it was 2.6.31-17 I finally got the driver to work.  When the 2.6.31-19 came out I just recompiled and it worked after moving the correct files.  Now going to the 2.6.31-20 it seems to be a big difference in stuff that the recompile didn't work.  I don't even know where to look for what changed, since the driver recompiled and installed.  None of the other files needed to be updated since they didn't change from 17 to 19.

the other thing noted was in the ifconfig.  It seemed to have devices listed that I didn't see see before, like loop backs which were not set up before.  This does suggest that something changed but I don't know where to look for the above problems.

what changed and how do I make it work?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-04
The loopback interface, lo, has been a part of networking in Ubuntu and it's parent, Debian for as long as my old gray whiskers can remember.

Next, rt3070sta is part of the mainline kernel. Have you tried to simply:```
sudo modprobe rt3070sta
```There are some additional drivers that conflict with rt3070sta that get loaded for some wireless cards and fight. May we please see:```
lsusb
dmesg | grep -e rt2 -e rt3
```Please run this while booted into the -20 kernel and copy and paste the terminal output into a text document so it can be posted here.

---

### Post by azagaros on 2010-03-06
The kernel didn't load the driver, as expected in the first note.  and compilation and install.  Depmod acts like it loads the driver and the net card doesn't come alive like it did 2.6.31-19.  Most of the config files have it set up to load on boot and haven't changed for several versions of the kernel.

lsusb listed the network card, with the correct id.  If you follow the linksys forums they use this driver for that after you modify the sources up through 2.6.31-19.

They were part of Debain, the base of Ubuntu.  That's nice.  The weren't part of 2.6.31-14 to 19.  They never showed up on a ifwconfig for me unless I asked them to show up.  

I have checked all the normal things and I do watch the Linux kernal updates on the kernel.org.  Nothing changed drastically enough here to cause this.  So, What did Ubuntu do to the kernel to make a simple routine become so complex?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-06
May I please reiterate:> There are some additional drivers that conflict with rt3070sta that get loaded for some wireless cards and fight. May we please see:
```
lsusb
dmesg | grep -e rt2 -e rt3
```I need information to help.

---

