---
title: "Browsing doesn't work (ex. Google)"
date: 2011-01-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Tomaco on 2011-01-27
Hi, I am new linux user, installed Kubuntu 10.10 month ago and since that I still suffer from internet problem. I am wired by ethernet using router and Win XP's (dualbooting) internet works fine.
Kopete works, updates don't also whole browsing doesn't. I have tried Konquerer,Chrome and firefox but it's still the same. Only sites I found loading are google.com (instantly) and kubuntuforums.com (after 30 sec). I have searched and there were some topics about disabling IPv6, changing resolv.cfg, setting custom DNS servers (i tried google dns) or router blocking (i reset it) but nothing works... I have found that my router blocks some ips but I think that's nothing to do with my problem.
Is there any option left? :(

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-01-27
> **Tomaco said:**
> Hi, I am new linux user, installed Kubuntu 10.10 month ago and since that I still suffer from internet problem. I am wired by ethernet using router and Win XP's (dualbooting) internet works fine.
Kopete works, updates don't also whole browsing doesn't. I have tried Konquerer,Chrome and firefox but it's still the same. Only sites I found loading are google.com (instantly) and kubuntuforums.com (after 30 sec). I have searched and there were some topics about disabling IPv6, changing resolv.cfg, setting custom DNS servers (i tried google dns) or router blocking (i reset it) but nothing works... I have found that my router blocks some ips but I think that's nothing to do with my problem.
Is there any option left? :(Please open a terminal and run and post:```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
route -n
```Did you disable ipv6? Please right-click the Network Manager icon, select 'Edit connections...' Please see attached.

---

### Post by Tomaco on 2011-01-27
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 85.237.225.250
nameserver 192.168.0.1
```

```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination    Gateway     Genmask      Flags Metric Ref   Use Iface
192.168.0.0    0.0.0.0     255.255.255.0   U   1       0    0  eth0
169.254.0.0    0.0.0.0     255.255.0.0     U   1000    0    0  eth0
0.0.0.0        192.168.0.1 0.0.0.0         UG  0       0    0  eth0
```

In Kubuntu there is no IPv6 setting under network setup so First i changed it in Firefox and then in root folder .. but it does nothing

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-01-27
> then in root folderI don't understand. What exactly did you do?> # Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 85.237.225.250
nameserver 192.168.0.1Please amend this to:```
# Generated by NetworkManager
#nameserver 85.237.225.250
nameserver 192.168.0.1
```I am a bit suspicious about the first nameserver; it's not pingable, but perhaps that's intentional. Are there other computers on your network that browse correctly? Are you able to learn their DNS nameserver addresses?

---

### Post by Tomaco on 2011-01-27
i did it in /etc/default/grub there added some command like IPv6.disable="1"

My Win XP DNS are the same , 198.168.0.1 is my router adress

Now iam going to change it (now iam on Win, only here i can post on this forum :) )

---

### Post by Tomaco on 2011-01-30
No change after changing Linux computer name to Win Computer name...
 
Any other idea anyone?

---

