---
title: "ubu 10.04 wifi not working(AR9285 Wireless)"
date: 2011-08-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by zensawa on 2011-08-17
Hello, Just purchased acer aspire one D257-13652, and I'm not able to use wifi. The connection manager shows my networks connection. I then type the network wep key, doesn't load(searches and searches). So iv gone through various search results, and have found out maybe back ports will fix problem, only they don't. This site is relevant  [http://apt.ubuntu.com/p/linux-backports-modules-wireless-lucid-generic](http://apt.ubuntu.com/p/linux-backports-modules-wireless-lucid-generic) . Also various other searches. None helped...

lspci -v

02:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)
    Subsystem: Foxconn International, Inc. Device e016
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 17
    Memory at 54000000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: ath9k
    Kernel modules: ath9k

Any fixes?:confused:

---

### Post by airper on 2011-08-17
Hi zensawa,

This is currently a problem for a number of people, there is quite a comprehensive thread running here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1821721](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1821721)

investigating this little problem, which are far as I know, is not yet solved. 

I think everyone is seeing the same kind of thing. Network Manager is listing the available wireless connections, but clicking on one, with or without authenication turned on or off, does not result is a connection, it seems to timeout.

The investigation is on-going, however I hope this helps, even if it is not a solution yet. At least you're not on your own with this.

---

### Post by netbook_helper on 2011-08-17
I am not sure if this is your Problem, but have you tried this:
Open the Program 'Additional Drivers',
It should preform a search at the beginning, when you open it,
Then hopefully, it should show you that you need to install it,
then when you install it, it will download then install.

Hope this works,

:) :D :)

---

### Post by zealibib slaughter on 2011-08-19
Have you tried to reset your router back to default settings then connecting?  I've had to reset my router before and connect with the default open settings, and re-set up my security measures to be able to connect with linux before.

---

