---
title: "12.04.1 Intel Centrino Ultimate-N 6300"
date: 2012-12-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by borgware on 2012-12-23
Good morning,

I'm trying to get this wireless card working for couple of days and I got some limited success so far. 

The card is detected by dmesg 

[ 1549.327310] Intel(R) Wireless WiFi Link AGN driver for Linux, in-tree:
[ 1549.327318] Copyright(c) 2003-2011 Intel Corporation

Have to load kernel module manually like sudo modprobe iwlwifi and all get is

sudo lshw -C network
*-network UNCLAIMED
       description: Network controller
       product: Centrino Ultimate-N 6300
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:06:00.0
       version: 1a
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:fdcfe000-fdcfffff

The card has worked twice in the past 7 days and when it works it really works flawlessly but then it just drops connection and there is no way to get it back on.  HELP! :D

If you need more info please let me know.
Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2012-12-23
Turn off power management for it:
[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/internet#TOC-Disable-power-management-for-the-wireless-card](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/internet#TOC-Disable-power-management-for-the-wireless-card)
(item 2.1, right column)

Otherwise try 12.10, which may contain a newer driver for your card.

---

### Post by borgware on 2012-12-23
Thank you Pjotr for quick reply.

I think power management solution could work if I ever get wlan interface online again.

Already tried 12.10 live CD and network didn't work.

Any way to force the network card to wlan0?  When it works it's under wlan2 interface.  wlan1 is my USB wireless and wlan0 was my old ralink pci card I think.

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2012-12-23
Maybe the wireless backports can help, too:
[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/internet#TOC-Install-the-wireless-Backports-modules](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/internet#TOC-Install-the-wireless-Backports-modules)

But it might be wise to apply this roadmap from the beginning:
[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/internet](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/internet)

---

