---
title: "v.16.04 Samba &amp; Gigolo: getting file sharing to be bidirectional"
date: 2017-09-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kirbo719 on 2017-09-11
Attempting to file-share between a Windows7Pro laptop and two Xubuntu v16.04 LTS workstations, using Samba and Gigolo on a home LAN.

Samba version 4.3.11-Ubuntu


The Windows machine can browse and copy files in directories on both the Xubuntu workstations shared via Samba.

Neither Xubuntu workstation can access shares on the Windows machine. In Thunar on Xubuntu workstation A, clicking Network will present "Windows Network."
Clicking "Windows Network" will present "1325" (name of workgroup).
Clicking "1325" will result in display of all three machine names.

Clicking on WindowsMachineName results in:
"Failed to open WindowsMachineName. Failed to retrieve share list from server: Connection refused."

Likewise, clicking on XubuntuMachineB results in:
"Failed to open XubuntuMachineB. Failed to retrieve share list from server: Connection refused."

On XubuntuMachineA, if I run Gigolo and attempt to create a connection to the Windows machine, I obtain an input box asking for the password to the share on the Windows machine. I supply the password, and obtain the error message:
    Connecting to "smb://1325;bob@asus-laptop/e_data/" failed. Failed to mount Windows share: Invalid argument.

On XubuntuMachineA, if in Gigolo I attempt to create a connection to shares on XubuntuMachineB, I obtain the same error message "Failed to mount Windows share: Invalid argument."

On XubuntuMachineB, if in Gigolo I attempt to create a connection to either of the other workstations, I obtain the same argument "Failed to mount Windows share: Invalid argument."

I THINK all this means I have successfully configured Samba. (The Windows machine has no trouble accessing shared folders as declared in smb.conf.)

If I run testparm, I obtain "Loaded services file OK." I also obtain "WARNING: The 'syslog' option is deprecated.

Would someone kindly point out what I might have mis-configured?

Thank you in advance,

Bob

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2017-09-11
I'm going to focus on these two symptoms because I've never seen both error messages - together on the same machine:
> Likewise, clicking on XubuntuMachineB results in:
"Failed to open XubuntuMachineB. Failed to retrieve share list from server: Connection refused."

> On XubuntuMachineA, if in Gigolo I attempt to create a connection to  shares on XubuntuMachineB, I obtain the same error message "Failed to  mount Windows share: Invalid argument."
A "failed to retrieve share list" is a name resolution error and a "failed to mount" is usually a permissions problem. You don't see both errors every day.

Would you post the output of this command so we can see how things are set up:
```
testparm -s
```
Do it once for XubuntuMachineB and again for XubuntuMachineA.

---

