---
title: "why are 5 diget ports open in ubuntu?"
date: 2011-01-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by leeper69 on 2011-01-02
Hi I have been running Ubuntu 10.10 and have found that at any time I am connected to the Internet that I will randomly see high port numbers open when doing a port scan on my computer all are in the unknown listings with five didget numbers  so I don't know what is going on or who is using them. has anyone else had this happen on there computer? pleas check your system to see if you are having the same thing happen by using netwoork tools and filling in your local ip address in the port scan tab. if you do pleas let me know. 
note: if you shut down your Ethernet interface and run port scans the high ports are no longer open. this will at least keep whoever is using your ports at bay when you are not using the net.

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-01-02
Run sudo netstat --tcp --listening -p and find out.

---

### Post by leeper69 on 2011-01-04
Thanks psusi they are only system calls from cups etc. until I opened network tools and ran a port scan on my etho 0 then the high port numbers come up so I tryed the following in root terminal ( netstat -t -a -c ) and then ran network tools port scan on my machine ip and watched as they role by in root terminal the ports are set to TIME_WAIT. I still dont know who is switching the ports it may just be network tools port scan?
I have vary limited terminal knowledge and relay appreciate your help.

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-01-04
TIME_WAIT is a result of the scan, just look for what is listening.

---

### Post by leeper69 on 2011-01-05
all the high ports are listed as coming from my machine ip address so they are binging generated by my system. I guess I am just paranoid but I will try to find the pid info to see what is generating the calls.
thanks for getting me one step closer to finding out what is using these ports. I can tell by your profile that you are very knowledgeable with the terminal and wish to thank you again for taking the time to help!
note: netstat -t -u -a -p -e -c tells me what I need to know. this makes a fairly good port scanner if you have your terminal set to stay on top.

---

