---
title: "wpa"
date: 2006-07-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by KB3MKD on 2006-07-02
how do you get wpa working?

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-07-03
Hello, 

This is a very general question and I will give you a very general answer: Try to figure out what hardware you have and search for solutions in this forum. There is tons of information... you just need to search for it.

He

---

### Post by KB3MKD on 2006-07-03
been searching.  right now i'm just confused and want to start from scratch.
I'm using an acer laptop with broadcom wireless chipset that works using ndiswrapper.
the following is my wpa_supplicant.conf
ctrl_interface=/var/run/wpa_supplicant
ap_scan=2

network={
       ssid="CROSSCONNECTS"
       scan_ssid=1
       proto=WPA
       key_mgmt=WPA-PSK
       pairwise=TKIP
       psk=c5933223...
}

what else do I need?

---

### Post by StoneMan353 on 2006-07-03
For starters, you need the massively long WPA encryption key generated by wpa_passphrase...

```
wpa_passphrase [your ssid] [your passphrase] >> /path/to/wpa_supplicant.conf
```

then try starting the wpa_supplicant daemon with...

```
wpa_supplicant -Bw -i[interface] -D[driver] -c[/path/to/wpa_supplicant.conf]
```

Then you should be able to disable and re-enable your network interface, re-request dhcp with dhclient (if your network is set to dhcp) and see if you have a connection.

No guarantees, my hardware and drivers are very different than yours, so your mileage may vary, but wpa_supplicant supports many drivers including ndiswrapper, so there's no reason it shouldn't work.

The wpa_supplicant man-page is helpful too. :)

---

### Post by Paloseco on 2006-07-03
I get it working with network manager, although is VERY unstable (the connection).

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-07-03
Hi, 

Try this a link for NDiswrapper and WPA(2) with WPA Supplicant and static IP: 

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202834]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202834")

I have a similar setup and created this howto sometime ago. Hope this helps. NetworkManager is a good option but for DHCP only. It worked fine with IPW2200...

He

---

### Post by Paloseco on 2006-07-03
Well, as network manager fails I have tried it manually. First disable wireless devices in the network manager, in case you are trying to connect with it. After that create a file, for example in /etc/wpa_supplicant.conf

Then edit it to fit the wireless connection. Here is mine:
> 
eapol_version=1
ap_scan=1

network={
ssid="ap3001"
key_mgmt=WPA-EAP
pairwise=TKIP
group=TKIP
eap=TTLS
identity="user-mee@host.com"
password="yourpass"
priority=2
}

After that launch wpa_supplicant like that (as root):
> 
wpa_supplicant -dd -ieth1 -Dwext -c/etc/wpa_supplicant.conf

Where eth1 is the wireless network and wext the driver used. The conf file is the one you have edited in the previous step. And wait till it looks like:
> 
WPA: Key negotiation completed with 00:11:22:33:44:55 [PTK=TKIP GTK=TKIP]
Cancelling authentication timeout
State: GROUP_HANDSHAKE -> COMPLETED
CTRL-EVENT-CONNECTED - Connection to 00:11:22:33:44:55 completed (auth)
EAPOL: External notification - portValid=1
EAPOL: SUPP_PAE entering state AUTHENTICATED
EAPOL: authWhile --> 0
EAPOL: idleWhile --> 0


Then obtain a valid IP as root (if it is provided via dhcp):
> 
dhclient eth1


Then you should obtain the IP:
> 
sudo dhclient eth1
Password:
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.0.3
Copyright 2004-2005 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit [http://www.isc.org/products/DHCP](http://www.isc.org/products/DHCP)

Listening on LPF/eth1/00:11:33:33:44:99
Sending on   LPF/eth1/00:11:33:33:44:99
Sending on   Socket/fallback
DHCPDISCOVER on eth1 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 5
DHCPOFFER from 10.3.1.2
DHCPREQUEST on eth1 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
DHCPACK from 10.3.1.2
bound to 10.20.43.187 -- renewal in 17981 seconds.


There is an bar applet that shows you the link level and such.
Tell us what you´ve got \\:D/

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-07-03
See? There are tons of options. Just need to make a choice (that being the sole tough part).

He

---

### Post by awaldram on 2006-07-03
Once youve got this far.

install wifi-radar and it's all automated.

so you can easily connect to open/wep networks and with some modification of your wpa_supplicant.conf any wpa network.

any config is only required once and can the be recalled by the gui (or running  
wifi-radar -d from resume/boot scripts)

in this manner you can have your network up whenever your machine is active even if you've moved networks.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-07-03
[QUOTE=awaldram]so you can easily connect to open/wep networks and with some modification of your wpa_supplicant.conf any wpa network.[/QUOTE]

Could you throw some light on this? This would be a brilliant solution but perhaps you can post a few lines on how to make Wifi work in conjunction with WPA and your "wpa_supplicant.conf file".

He

---

### Post by KB3MKD on 2006-07-04
I had triede several options b4 starting this thread and none of them worked.  I finally have it all working.  The next step is to make sure it stays working through a reboot.

Then I won't need the windows partition (at least for anything important!)

Thanks for the help.

Scott

---

### Post by awaldram on 2006-07-04
[QUOTE=wieman01]Could you throw some light on this? This would be a brilliant solution but perhaps you can post a few lines on how to make Wifi work in conjunction with WPA and your "wpa_supplicant.conf file".

He[/QUOTE]

if you have wpa_supplicant working manualy then just selecting wpa from the wifi-radar gui and selecting the driver (probably 'wext') is enough (when you set up profiles for it.

It's easier than it sounds install wifi-radar and give it a whirl.

hint wifi-radar -d will connect to the first available network in your profiles (great for roaming).

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-07-04
Hi Awaldram, 

Great stuff. I'll give it a shot over the weekend. Thanks.

He

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-07-04
[QUOTE=KB3MKD]I had triede several options b4 starting this thread and none of them worked.  I finally have it all working.  The next step is to make sure it stays working through a reboot.[/QUOTE]

I reckon this has to do with "ipv6" which you may have to disable. Search for it in the forum (I cannot help you at the moment as I am on the road)... It's mainly  blacklisting the module and removing ipv6-related entries from the "host" tab in "networking".

It has been working great ever since.

He

---

### Post by ubunturules on 2006-07-04
WPA is very easy to get.  2 simple commands.

```
sudo apt-get install network-manager-gnome
```

```
nm-applet
```

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-07-04
NetworkManager works fine if you need neither Static IP nor have hidden ESSID's. The tool has a couple of known issues but generally is a good option for those who "just don't want to bother".

This thread is more about setting networks up manually.

He

---

### Post by ubunturules on 2006-07-04
First of all do you know how many hours I've wasted wanting to bother.  That would be a lot of hours.  Do you know how many HOWTOs I've looked at on the internet and none of them work.  I've bothered for a long time.  Network Manager is a great app that works for just about everyone.

---

### Post by wieman01 on 2006-07-04
Hi, 

I can image how long it took... Man, I have been through this as well, believe me. Like I have said, it is a good option but I decided against because of personal preferences.

I hope this tool will be further improved so that it will eventually be able to cope with Static IPs & hidden ESSIDs. Then there will be NOOO substitute.

---

### Post by sionghua on 2006-10-30
I got everything setup and running ok, except that it is not automated even though I included the wpa_supplicant command in /etc/network/interfaces so everytime I start my computer I need to run wpa_supplicant manually and then dhclient manually as well in order to access to internet. Any idea why automation is not working?

my interfaces file as follow:

> auto wlan0
iface wlan0 inet dhcp
wireless-mode Managed
wireless-essid bplus1
pre-up wpa_supplicant -Dwext -iwlan0 -c/etc/wpa_supplicant.conf -Bw
post-down killall -q wpa_supplicant
By the way I notice that I need to completely shut down my computer before I login to ubuntu again to make sure the usb adapter refresh, if I simply restart it will not be detected.

---

