---
title: "Intrepid Ibex, DNS resolves only as root"
date: 2008-11-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by NitroBooster on 2008-11-12
8.10 Desktop amd64

> 
admin@098457:~$ host google.com
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
admin@098457:~$ sudo su
[sudo] password for admin: 
root@098457:/home/admin# host google.com
google.com has address 72.14.207.99
google.com has address 64.233.187.99
google.com has address 209.85.171.99
google.com mail is handled by 10 smtp4.google.com.
google.com mail is handled by 10 smtp1.google.com.
google.com mail is handled by 10 smtp2.google.com.
google.com mail is handled by 10 smtp3.google.com.
root@098457:/home/admin# 


How do I fix this please...

---

### Post by jamb on 2008-11-15
I my home network, one host (shire) is set up as DNS-server in the home domain (gigahome.net). I run static IP 's on all hosts in the 192.168.0.X address space.

I recently installed Intrepid (8.10) on one laptop and one desktop system . The interesting thing is that I did not touched the laptop for 13 days, but the desktop were upgraded with all new packages as they were released. 

The laptop (no upgrades) still have access to Internet as expected, but suddenly the desktop failed to mount a NFS share, referenced by host name (but works if it is replaced by the 192.168.0.X address) and the connection to internet stopped working due to 'address could not be found' in the web browser.

Error in a terminal:
```
$ host shire.gigahome.net
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
$ host 192.168.0.10
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
$ ping 192.168.0.10
PING 192.168.0.10 (192.168.0.10) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 192.168.0.10: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=3.51 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.0.10: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.055 ms
64 bytes from 192.168.0.10: icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
```

However, but when I changed the original 'hosts line' in /etc/nsswitch.conf by referring my home DNS server as the second item, my problem was solved:

hosts:          files dns mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] mdns4
# hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4

and in /etc/resolv.conf, I added one reference to my DNS name server, without touching/removing NetworkManager or changing /etc/networks/interfaces.

nameserver 192.168.0.10

This was my quick workaround. Since my 8.10 laptop system still work (not upgraded for 13 days), is this related to recent Intrepid 'updates'?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-15
What does your /etc/resolv.conf look like?

Jim

---

### Post by jamb on 2008-11-16
Original /etc/resolv.conf
---------------------------
# Generated by NetworkManager
---------------------------
Note only one comment line, no more, after a fresh Intrepid install (see below for my usual way doing this)

Current "working" file:
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf

---------------------------
nameserver 192.168.0.10
---------------------------

Since I changed two thing to get this to work, I removed my edits in nsswith.conf, aka the host line is again:
hosts: files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4

--> still working

Thus the presence of the nameserver reference (only) in /etc/resolv.conf makes Intrepid work, not my changes in nsswitch.conf. 
This has been tested on the laptop as well. 

Now to test if it has something to do with last weeks package upgrades, I simply removed my nameserver line on the laptop.
--> System can not resolve any internet URL or the host (shire.gigahome.net). When the nameserver line is added, it works again. Note that I use bind9 as my internal DNS server, and use DNS forwarders, two IP addresses provided by my ISP for Internet access. 

Thus it looks like the problem is not connected with the last 2 weeks package updates. 

Hardy test
==========
I re-installed Hardy on the laptop, just to see how it looks like right after the installation + one extra reboot.

Here is the Hardy etc/resolv.conf
------------------------------------
search gigahome.net
nameserver 192.168.0.10
------------------------------------
and no comments that "NetworkManager have been there". Internet and networking performs as expected.

My install procedure. 
Background to my Xubuntu installation. I always use the alternate single ISO-install disk. 
When networking is attempted by the installer, my lack of any DHCP, it fails, and moves to manual network setup. 
I fill in the host address, mask, nameserver address, and gateway address. From there it's smooth sailing, except that /etc/resolv.conf contains _only_ the NetworkManager (NM) comment for Intrepid. Strange to me, since I informed, during the install, about my DNS server, but NM writes nothing sensible in /etc/resolv.conf.

---

### Post by rt2002 on 2008-11-18
Adding the nameserver line in /etc/resolv.conf fixed things for me too.  But whatever broke happened right in the middle of the day as I was browsing.  So it wasn't like I had changed any of the network settings.  Does anybody know if ifupdown has anything to do with this?

---

### Post by jamb on 2008-11-18
Interesting, because I have a vague memory that it actually, did work, I was able to connect to Internet, directly after the fresh install of Intrepid, but after few boots or days no access any longer...

---

