---
title: "2 NIC drive me mad, help!!!"
date: 2007-07-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by koala114 on 2007-07-28
I have 2 NIC in my box that drivers are via_rhine, 8139too. 
As the box startup, OS load driver to assign eth? for NICs, but always randomly, sometime 8139too is eth0, via_rhine is eth1, and maybe 8139too is eth1, via_rhine is eth0

I googled and found that modify the /etc/udev/rules.d/network-devices.rules file will solve this issue, so I followed example modifying this file as below 
[PHP]
# Local network rules to name your network cards.
# These rules were generated by nethelper.sh, but you can
# customize them.  By default, all rules are commented out.
# You will need to uncomment and edit them as needed.
# (If, for example, your machine has more than one network
# card and you need to be sure they will always be given
# the same name, like eth0, based on the MAC address)
#
# If you delete this file, /lib/udev/nethelper.sh will try to
# generate it again the next time udev is started.

KERNEL=="eth0", SYSFS{address}=="00:50:8d:ad:96:70", NAME="eth0"
KERNEL=="eth1", SYSFS{address}=="00:05:5d:61:28:ad", NAME="lan"

[/PHP]

In the end, it doesn't work yet
:confused:

---

### Post by az on 2007-07-28
This is not normal nor desired behavior.  Please file a bug report.

---

### Post by Peter76 on 2007-07-28
I used to have this problem as well, don't know if it is a bug, but someone then pointed me too the /etc/iftab file where you can set the name of a nic according to it's MAC address; as you try above. This worked for me...

See man iftab for more info. Good luck,

Peter

---

