---
title: "Lg x110 l.a7b1a9"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by helder815 on 2008-12-29
Hello everyone, 
 I purchased a LG X110 on Friday December 26th. On Saturday I installed Ubuntu from a bootable live USB stick. Since then I have working on getting my wireless working. No success so far.

Hardware:
*-network UNCLAIMED
 RTL8187SE Wireless LAN Controller

*-network DISABLED
 Logical name: pan0
 Serial: b2:18:id:0e:9c:4f

I have tried the MSI Wind drivers and the WindowXP Drivers with ndiswrapper.

With ndiswrapper I was able to see available networks but not connect to anything. I also notice the addition of a wlan entry with the ndiswrapper but the MSI drivers didn't seem to do anything.

Does anyone have this working on an X110 and what were the steps?

---

### Post by jjcmmgb on 2009-01-02
Hi there,
Just send you a link to wifi drivers I saw in another post.

[http://boskastrona.ovh.org/index_en.html](http://boskastrona.ovh.org/index_en.html)

Hope this solves your issue with this point at least :-)

Cheers

---

### Post by mrund on 2009-01-24
I'm having the same problem with my X110. Ibex doesn't seem to be aware that there is a wifi card in the machine. The network menu top right has the "Wired Network" greyed out.

I installed a Hardy driver dated 17 january from Boski's site:

[http://boskastrona.ovh.org/download/linux-rtl8187se-modules-1023.2@2.6.24.23.25.deb](http://boskastrona.ovh.org/download/linux-rtl8187se-modules-1023.2@2.6.24.23.25.deb)

But nothing changed.

(Win XP has no trouble with the wifi on this machine.)

---

### Post by mrund on 2009-01-28
I had great success with the nsdiwrapper method on my stationary machine, so I decided to try it on my netbook too. (An LG x110 is a small laptop/netbook = MSI Wind = twenty other OEM versions worldwide...)

Using Synaptic, I downloaded and installed ndisgtk, ndiswrapper-common and ndiswrapper-utils-1.9. Ndisgtk installs a GUI utility under the Administration menu called Windows Wireless Networks.

On the Windows XP driver DVD delivered with the netbook, I easily located the two necessary files, net8187Se.inf and rtl8187.sys, and then got them onto the netbook (by means of an older laptop with a DVD reader and a USB memory stick). I then pointed the Windows Wireless Networks program at the Windows XP driver. And it almost worked.

At first the machine was able to see my (unprotected) wifi access point, but it couldn't connect to it. Then I re-booted, and the machine could no longer even see the access point, though when I told it the name of the wifi point it tried to connect to it again -- and failed.

So that wasn't so great. Any ideas?

[Oh no, the exercise not only failed, it also messed up the machine's ability to make a wired connection! Drat!]

---

### Post by mrund on 2009-01-30
Instead of ndiswrapper, I went with a native driver offered here with simple installation instructions:

[http://forums.msiwind.net/debian/rtl8187se-drivers-for-ubuntu-and-deb-packages-t4954.html](http://forums.msiwind.net/debian/rtl8187se-drivers-for-ubuntu-and-deb-packages-t4954.html)

And it worked -- until I rebooted. Then it didn't work any more. And repeating the driver installation didn't repeat the fix.

---

### Post by mrund on 2009-07-08
The 24 March version for Intrepid works fine on my LG x110:

[http://boskastrona.ovh.org/](http://boskastrona.ovh.org/)

---

