---
title: "802.11ac hardware requirements"
date: 2013-09-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jason13 on 2013-09-27
I need a router, I'm willing to get a little spendy or do some work on my own to get a good, reliable setup. I need to know if an 802.11ac/5ghz type signal will work with my hardware or if I need to stick to an "n: type network. I have a new Lenovo laptop with a CentrinoN 2230 wireless adapter and a 2012 era Droid smartphone. My desktop also has a ~4 year old wireless card, but I'm less concerned with than because I can setup the router to where I can have a wired connection. everything is currently run, wirelessly, off of a mixed 2.4/5ghz capable router. I was reading into dd-wrt, and while I've never setup something like that I think I could.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2013-09-27
I believe that, just as with the G and N standards, 802.11AC requires that both the router *and* the connecting wireless adapters be AC capable. Much more information can be found here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_802.11ac](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_802.11ac) and here: [http://wikidevi.com/wiki/List_of_802.11ac_Hardware](http://wikidevi.com/wiki/List_of_802.11ac_Hardware)

---

### Post by 1clue on 2013-09-28
I think the focus should be a bit different.

Look at your network.  Do you have some sort of network bandwidth meter?  How heavy is the load?  If you load it up with whatever you can think of, does the network get anywhere close to saturation?

I use a lot of VMs.  I copy them across the network for a backup, and I occasionally switch the host they run on.  I periodically get pretty high bandwidth because of that.  Fortunately most of that happens across the wire, but one vm host is wireless only.  It pretty much saturates my wireless ac for the time it takes to back the VM up.

Also, even though it's just me and my wife, as of right now I have 26 IP addresses registered (not expired) on my DHCP.  They're all mine.  14 are currently active, but not all of them are ac.  Most of them are N.  My router is dual band, so I expect it's throwing the Ns on one band and the ACs on the other.  I don't have anything earlier than N.

Some of those addresses are home entertainment devices, like a TV and a couple blu-rays that are smart.  A couple are phones.  One is a printer.  A good share are virtual machines, but a few of those machines are pretty continuously active.

If you have a lot of hosts, or if a few of those hosts have long-running local network transfers that get tedious, then consider bumping it up.

IMO you shouldn't give your current gear too much weight.  How old is it?  How slow is it?  If it's getting older, maybe you should take into account that there are some failures probably coming up.  I've had some old gear that never dies, but I've also had some relatively new gear give up the ghost.  Don't base your decision about wireless ac on the capability of your entire suite of networkable devices to use ac.  Get ready for equipment you'll undoubtedly get in the next year or two.

---

