---
title: "11.10 Can't connect via ethernet ipv4"
date: 2012-07-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ctm54 on 2012-07-08
Hey guys. Let me preface this by telling you where I'm at in general.   The machine I'm having trouble with is my first computer build, and this   is my first foray into Ubuntu. I'm at a power user level on Mac, so I   sort of understand syntax and a few basic commands in Unix. But when   I've looked at other threads for similar problems, the discussion has   been a tiny bit over my head. So forgive me if I have to ask for   clarification on what you say. With all of that out of the way...

The short version is *I can't connect to the internet via ethernet cable*. 

The cable is plugged in to the ethernet port on my motherboard. When I   tell Ubuntu to connect automatically with DHCP, it spins for a while and   then fails to connect. When I give it a manual address (and set up the   appropriate routing instructions on my router) it says it's connected,   but I cannot access the internet or even ping the router. 

Since this is my first computer build, I'm not ruling out that it's a   hardware or driver issue, but it seems unlikely since the OS clearly   recognizes that there is an ethernet port.

Here's what I'm working with:[INDENT]-ASROCK N68C-GS FX Motherboard (connecting the router directly to the ethernet port on the motherboard)
-Ubuntu Desktop 12.04 LTS
-Asus RT-N12 router[/INDENT]Any guidance would be greatly appreciated. Thanks!

---

### Post by drs305 on 2012-07-08
Duplicate of [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2020571]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2020571")

Thread closed. Please don't post multiple threads on the same topic.

---

