---
title: "9.04 connect to WEP"
date: 2009-06-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Vinger on 2009-06-10
Hello,

I'm installing desktop computer with a pci wifi card.
Kubuntu installed fine, but when i scan the wireless area (WEP), i don't find any networks. A windows laptop that is next to the computer, connect without problems.

I tried folowing commands to try if my card is good installed:
> 
$ lspci
00:09.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4318 [AirForce One 54g] 802.11g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 02)

> 
$ iwconfig
lo no wireless extensions.

eth0 no wireless extensions.

wmaster0 no wireless extensions.

wlan0 IEEE 802.11bg ESSID:""
Mode:Managed Frequency:2.417 GHz Access Point: Not-Associated
Tx-Power=20 dBm
Retry min limit:7 RTS thr:off Fragment thr=2352 B
Power Management:off
Link Quality:0 Signal level:0 Noise level:0
Rx invalid nwid:0 Rx invalid crypt:0 Rx invalid frag:0
Tx excessive retries:0 Invalid misc:0 Missed beacon:0

pan0 no wireless extensions.

I tried to connect to a wireless network via the network manager.
There i go to wireless and then scan: It doesn't find any network...

Can someone confirm that my card is good installed? (it was the standard installation of Kubuntu.)
What can i try to find my network?
Is there a difference between connection to WEP and WPA?
Allready thanks for the help...

grz

---

### Post by Arkmagi on 2009-06-12
First I am absolute beginner, so keep that in mind...

There are a lot of posts around the net about this wireless card, you may have found ine of them by this time. The thing is that the drivers for this card is propriatory and (k)ubuntu does not install them by default. 

What you need to do is:

1. go to programs - system - hardware drivers
2. activate the driver called Broadcom B43 etc.

You should now be able to find you network. 

Arkmagi

---

### Post by Vinger on 2009-06-14
ok, thanks!
i'm a step further.

Now, i see my wireless network, but i cannot connect to it.

When i try to connect to my network, it asks the WEP key. 
Security -> WEP
Key Type -> Hex Key (not passphrase)
WEP index -> 1 (default) i don't know what this is...
Authentication -> open system.

I checked the wireless router: It has a 64bit WEP encryption in open system.

What do i do wrong?
What can i try?

Allready thanks.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-06-14
You just need to get with whoever knows the 10 digit key for your router. WPA is more secure than WEP but harder to setup.

---

### Post by Vinger on 2009-06-14
> **theozzlives said:**
> You just need to get with whoever knows the 10 digit key for your router. WPA is more secure than WEP but harder to setup.

tx
What do you mean with that? (10-digit key)
Do i need al least a 10-digit key to be able to access it?

I know that WPA is more secure. I want first that everything works with WEP and then, i can go over to WPA. (then i know both...)

grz.

---

### Post by SPW06 on 2009-06-14
WPA is more secure. However, almost every device supports WPA now. in fact, I have had less issues with compatibility when using WPA. If you find that you do have compatibility issues, make sure that you have the latest firmware for your router, and that your Windows PCs have the latest drivers for their network cards.    With Linux distributions in general, WPA is supported very well in many network cards.

---

### Post by Vinger on 2009-06-14
ok, i understand.
I'll go to WPA security after i connected to the WEP Security.

Anyone some tips?

tx.

---

### Post by Vinger on 2009-06-27
thanks everybody...

The problem is solved. I bought myself a new laptop.
The problem was that my old laptop could not handle the various formats of my switch except for WEP.

With my new laptop, i can connect to WPA without problems.

grz.

---

