---
title: "/etc/resolv.conf gets changed on its own?"
date: 2010-02-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by DThurman on 2010-02-09
For my Ubuntu server, I do NOT have a running DNS
server at all but have several DNS servers elsewhere
on my network.

The NetworkManager seems to be useless as it seems that
I cannot get 'Wired Tab' to be configured at all.  I note
that I cannot get rid of the entries:

Wired Tab:
> 
Name                 Last Used
ifupdown (eth0)      never       <--- cannot change/modify
ifupdown (eth1)      never       <--- cannot change/modify


So, giving up, I used the 'System->Administration->Network'
tool to change the settings for each ethX port as well as
to add a list of nameservers and the domain name for the
system. The changes made resulted as:

/etc/network/interfaces:
> 
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback



iface eth1 inet static
address 10.1.0.8
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 10.1.0.200



iface eth0 inet static
address 10.1.0.9
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 10.1.0.200


and...

/etc/resolv.conf
> 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 10.1.0.1
nameserver 10.1.0.2
search  mydomain.com


However, for some reason or another the /etc/resolv.conf
file at some point is reset as:

/etc/resolv.conf
> 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1


So why is it that my Ubuntu system insists that it
has a nameserver at 127.0.0.1 when there is none to
be had?

Why is this happening?

---

### Post by DThurman on 2010-02-09
I added to the /etc/network/interface
the following stanzas:

dns-nameservers X.X.X.X Y.Y.Y.Y
dns-search mydomain.com

for each of the interfaces.

This seemed to have no effect in controlling
the /etc/resolv.conf file.. it still shows
only the single entry of:

nameserver 127.0.0.1

However, it *seems* that I am able to resolve
my DNS issues...

---

### Post by puppywhacker on 2010-02-09
In the file /etc/nsswitch.conf there is a line for hosts, this defines the resolve order. mdns is avahi is zeroconf which can find services from the network, it probably finds the other dns servers and uses them.

I think it's the network manager that will change the /etc/resolv.conf every time a network event happens. I do not like the network manager since the behaviour is unpredicatable to me.

In case you get your network information from a DHCP server you can let the dhcp client prepend your own dns servers by modifying the file
/etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf
prepend domain-name-servers 10.1.0.1;

---

### Post by DThurman on 2010-02-09
OK, thanks for the info.

1) I find that my nsswitch host entry is:
hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4

Is this normal?

2) Can I safely remove NetworkManager pkg and expect things to work?

3) I don't use DHCP but thanks for the tidbit, good to know.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-02-09
My servers are CLI, so Network Manager is not an option. You should be able to disable Network Manager in System>Preferences>Startup Applications. If all works well, you can probably remove NM - if not, re-enable it...

---

### Post by DThurman on 2010-02-09
Hmmm...  rebooting the system seems to put me
into a network-disabled state.  The only way that
I could recover the network was to do this as root:

sudo ifdown eth1
sudo ifup eth1

and then I get my network working again.

So what is it that is somehow preventing networking
from starting up properly?

Naturally the network should have started up long before
logging in, but this is not happening...

Still scratching my head on this one...

Oh, btw: I did disable NM via System->Preferences->Startup Applications
and all that did was to remove NM tool from the notification tray
and seemed to be of no effect, or so it seems...

[edit-1]

I think I finally figured it out.  If one looks at:
/etc/network/interfaces in the above post, what seems to be
missing are the two stanzas (one of which is connected to the
switch [eth1] was missing)!

auto eth1
auto eth0

I rebooted and lo' and behold, it now works.  NM does
not even come into the picture and I am not even using
it so I will leave it installed since there is no harm
done, or so it seems.

[/edit-1]

[edit-2]

It is clear to me that /etc/resolv.conf is a problem
since I am missing my nameserver entries and left
only with 127.0.0.1

Can someone shed some light how to FORCE my DNS entries
to remain in resolv.conf and not get co-opted by
NM or something other?

[edit-2]

---

### Post by capscrew on 2010-02-09
> **DThurman said:**
> Hmmm...  rebooting the system seems to put me
into a network-disabled state.  The only way that
I could recover the network was to do this as root:

sudo ifdown eth1
sudo ifup eth1

and then I get my network working again...

You need to add ```
auto eth1
```to the eth1 stanza in your /etc/network/interfaces file.  This is what brings up the interface at boot time.

---

### Post by DThurman on 2010-02-09
I have purged network-manager, network-manager-gnome
and the /etc/resolv.conf is still getting overwritten,
so perhaps NM is not the problem.

According to a bug related to resolvconf, it seems
that it may be the culprit as to why the /etc/resolv.conf
file is getting overwritten.

In that bug report, someone said purging resolvconf
package resolved the issue him and for another,
simply uncommenting out /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf
the entry:

prepend domain-name-servers X.X.X.X

did the trick for him, but not for me.

So, I purged resolvconf and guess what - I can no longer
get networking working again. even with ifdown/ifup...

Seems to me that something is really wrong with networking
for Ubuntu 9.10...

For now, I am downloading 9.10 LiveCD and hope to
re-install resolvconf and hopefully I can recover.

If anyone has a better idea, I am all ears!

[edit-1]
I have reinstalled resolvconf and I have recovered my
networking connections to the Internet.

Seems that removing this package simply does not allow
access to the Internet but local access was fine, which
was how I was able to download and obtain the resolvconf
package and re-install it.

I guess I will have to wait until someone can fix these
problems in the next release.  This is not cool at all.
Grr...
[/edit-1]

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-02-10
hi

having looked through some of the scripts the first option is to look for the resolvconf, if it exists then it exits the that part of the script .

although installing this resolves your problem it is not the Universal answer to the actual problem that exist with this NM . installing the resolvconf impacts on anyone relying on dialup options  etc.

anyway if it works for you then stick with it

---

### Post by DThurman on 2010-02-10
The odd part is, that without resolvconf, I was able
to access the local networks but it required changes
to /etc/nsswitch: host, and I was not able to access
the Internet, which led me to believe that perhaps the
gateway was not being found or used...  just a gut
feeling.

Since I am not too familiar with the way Debian does
things as opposed to Fedora/RH, as I did not spend too
much time trying to resolve this issue, but I did find
a long list of Network issues in bug reports for 9.10
and it is disappointing.  What is also interesting is that
the network problems seems to be spread across many
components (resolvconf, NM, dhcp3, ...), perhaps requring
a general design/implementation review by a focused team
dedicated to fix it.

I sure hope these integrated-network problems get sorted out
soon and be fixed, because as it is, it is very poorly done.

[Edit-1]
I am able to access my local and Internet, however, due to
/etc/resolv.conf being mostly-messed up, applications
depending on local DNS nameservers will not be found
and therefore cannot connect to those servers.

Manually changing /etc/resolv.conf has been found to
totally disable the network, locally and remotely
and a reboot seems necessary to recover in the same
broken state. What a pain in the a..!
[/Edit-1]

---

### Post by User4519 on 2011-11-01
I realize this is a stale thread, but it pops up at the top on Google, so just to provide the solution:

The suggested prepend domain-name-servers bit is to be set in /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf, **not** /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf. Just edit it, it'll be perfectly clear. Mine's

prepend domain-name-servers 8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4;

Please don't flame - this is for those, like me, who came here via Google ;)

---

### Post by Iowan on 2011-11-01
> **DanielBuus said:**
> The suggested prepend domain-name-servers bit is to be set in /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf, **not** /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf.In Jaunty (9.10) that the OP was using, the path was */etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf*. 

From the Code of Conduct:
> If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. [COLOR="Red"]In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time[/COLOR], and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.

---

