---
title: "iptables connlimit"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by whatthecrap on 2009-11-02
I am running a web server using Ubuntu Server 9.10, and occasionally a bot comes along that opens a bunch of simultaneous connections (the Yahoo! bot in particular does this - shame on Yahoo!).  I want to limit the number of connections from one IP, but can't find a way to do this in Apache.

I've read that the way to do this is using iptables rules like this:

-A INPUT -p tcp --syn --dport 80 -m connlimit --connlimit-above 2 -j REJECT
-A INPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT

While iptables accepts those rules, the connlimit one appears to have no effect.  Checking "iptables -c" shows that the rule is never matched, no matter how many connections are made from the same host.  Removing the connlimit clauses allows the rule to match (but obviously is not useful):

-A INPUT -p tcp --syn --dport 80
-A INPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT

then the count increases for each rule with every new connection.  Anybody know why this is not working, or know of another way I can limit simultaneous connections?  I've found other solutions that limit the number of connections per time period, but I don't like that solution because there are other bots that are polite and only request one page at a time, but do it very quickly (i.e. googlebot).

Here's a dump from iptables-save if it helps:

```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Mon Nov  2 10:24:11 2009
*filter
:INPUT DROP [20:3230]
:FORWARD DROP [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [448676:25461779]
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,ACK SYN -m connlimit --connlimit-above 2 --connlimit-mask 32 -j REJECT --reject-with icmp-port-unreachable 
-A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT 
COMMIT
# Completed on Mon Nov  2 10:24:11 2009
```

---

### Post by oliver341 on 2009-11-08
iptables connlimit was working fine for me in 9.04, but, having just had a successful DoS on my web server, I realise it is now broken in 9.10. Damn, this needs to be fixed with some urgency I think.

---

### Post by oliver341 on 2009-11-08
Bug report filed:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/iptables/+bug/478290](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/iptables/+bug/478290)

---

