---
title: "9.10 Karmic Intel Centrino wifi (3945) won't authenticate after update to 2.6.31-16"
date: 2009-12-24
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nstenz on 2009-12-24
I just got this working and am posting in case anybody else has this problem, since I didn't find this exact issue and had to guess.

I fired up Ubuntu on my laptop about an hour ago because I got sick of Vista disabling my battery and volume system tray icons again. It had last checked for updates 41 days ago, so I told it to update. It asked me to reboot, so I did.

When I logged in again, I got prompted for the wifi key for my WPA2 (AES) network. The key should've been saved already, but I entered it again. It didn't work.  It sat there for something between 10 & 45 seconds (I have no idea- it's too early), then prompted again.

The laptop is a Gateway with a Core 2 Duo "Centrino" with an Intel PRO/Wireless 3945ABG chip. If it matters, the router is a Linksys WRT54G running Tomato v1.27 firmware.


The long & short of it-

**uname -a**:
> Linux *** 2.6.31-16-generic #53-Ubuntu SMP Tue Dec 8 04:01:29 UTC 2009 i686 GNU/Linux

**lspci**:
> 02:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)

**lsmod**:
...said something about iwl3945,iwlcore being loaded. I can't find exactly what it said now???

**dmesg** (not verbatim- still on a different PC):
> [380.??????] wlan0: authenticate with AP 00:...
[380.??????] wlan0: authenticated
[380.??????] wlan0: associate with AP 00:...
[380.??????] wlan0: RX AssocResp from 00:... (capab=0x411 status=0 aid=1)
[380.??????] wlan0: associated
[380.??????] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): wlan0: link becomes ready
[390.??????] wlan0: disassociating by local choice (reason=3)
[390.??????] wlan0: deauthenticated (Reason: 6)

I can assure you there was no "local choice" made by the user...

Anyhow, this fixed it:
```
modprobe -r iwl3945
modprobe -r iwlcore
modprobe iwl3945
```

I then clicked on the network manager tray icon and chose my network again, and it connected within a few seconds. Networking is working.


I didn't try rebooting first- I didn't think it would help.

---

