---
title: "12.04.3 No firefox web pages"
date: 2013-09-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by condor 088 on 2013-09-10
ubuntu 12.04.3 Fresh install from CD download at public library. Dialup connects to isp using port ttyACM0 (last digit is a zero). Other ttyS ports do not connect. Firefox new tab opens :-- type several different desired websites in the search box; and each time I receive a message that "Firefox can not find the desired server; check network connection, firewall permission, and proxy". In Network Manager, "enable network" is checked; in Firefox preferences, advanced, "No Proxy" is selected; and ubuntu ufw firewall is "inactive".
My computer is set up with two IDE hardrives, each one set in a removable slide out tray; enabled one at a time. Not able to Hot swap these drives. Windows XP on one drive, and Ubuntu on the other drive. It takes a little bit of time to shut down, switch drives, and boot up. So it will take me some time to implement your input solutions. I also am new to linux and the associated procedures; so please bear with me. Thank you.

---

### Post by condor 088 on 2013-09-17
I have marked this thread as SOLVED. When all else fails; please read the instructions. Yes, I committed the unpardonable sin.  I have a TrendNet TFM-561U USB modem (ACM device). I use the ubuntu pppconfig program to activate this device. It does not work with port ttyS0, ttyS1, ttyS2, nor ttyS3 selected in pppconfig. I had to set this parameter at ttyACM0 (last digit is a zero). I also selected the wrong nameserver configuration (static). I then reselected "Dynamic". For this parameter of the configuration, use the arrow keys to scroll down to "Dynamic", then use the_ SPACE_ bar to select it, then tab key, and then ENTER key; as the _instructions _on the page state.
As a word of caution, please read each page of_ instructions_ carefully during PPPconfig; and proceed with due care. If in doubt of any parameter, consult your ISP, ubuntu forums, ask ubuntu, and linux websites.
Other sources of good informationare can be researched on Google. Search ACM Device, and your modem name and number.
It is my firm belief that this modem (ACM device) would have worked right out of the box, had I not proceeded in haste. My haste caused several days of research on the subject; and on the lighter side; I gained a little more knowledge on the subject.
I do hope this might be of some help to those configuring a dialup connection.

---

