---
title: "[SOLVED] Routing/DNS problems vpnc"
date: 2008-05-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by karlhm76 on 2008-05-29
I've searched the net and there are lots of posts on this, yet nothing seems to help my situation. The problem is I'm not sure if its a routing problem or a DNS problem.

I think the solution is quite simple because the VPN actually isn't used for much, and once connected all I do is RDP into my computer by IP address at work.

I'm using vpnc version 0.4.0-3 with network-manager-vpnc

I've specified the addresses in network-manager-vpnc that I only want directed down the connection, everything else should go through my standard connection.
The way I did this was in the network-manager screen, choose the option "only use vpn connection for these addresses" and added 10.10.0.0/16

The VPN connection works great and I can open the RDP connection to work and everything is fine. The problem is everything stops working locally such as Firefox and aMSN after I open the VPN connection.

Here is the result of netstat -r before, during and after connecting to the VPN:

```
karl@karlubuntu:~$ netstat -r
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
192.168.0.0     *               255.255.255.0   U         0 0          0 eth1
default         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth1
karl@karlubuntu:~$ netstat -r
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
61.xxx.xxx.xxx  192.168.0.1     255.255.255.255 UGH       0 0          0 eth1
192.168.0.0     *               255.255.255.0   U         0 0          0 eth1
10.10.0.0       *               255.255.0.0     U         0 0          0 tun0
default         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth1
karl@karlubuntu:~$ netstat -r
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags   MSS Window  irtt Iface
192.168.0.0     *               255.255.255.0   U         0 0          0 eth1
default         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG        0 0          0 eth1


```

Most of the solutions for DNS issues I've found (if thats what it is) talk of setting up a local forwarding DNS server to split the DNS traffic between local and remote connections. I don't want to go to that much trouble, and I only need DNS for my non VPN traffic.

Thanks,

Karl.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2008-05-30
please post the output of /etc/resolv.conf file ..

---

### Post by karlhm76 on 2008-06-03
Hi, thanks for the help.

here is resolv.conf before during and after a vpn session.


before:
```
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!



nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

```

during:
```
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!
```
Its empty!!!

after:
```
# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!



nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

```

That's diabolical.. now how to fix it?
Obviously the networkmanager script decides to clear DNS for some reason.

Checking my setup it appears DNS is set by DHCP. I've hardcoded openDNS IPs into my router and my PC's DNS gets populated upon connection.

So, could it be possible that upon connection to the VPN, network manager is querying the DNS again and setting it to nothing? I assume the vpn connection has some kind of DHCP because I didn't have to specify an address.

---

### Post by karlhm76 on 2008-06-04
Ok, I did a bit of research after I found that resolv.conf was being wiped by vpnc and network manager upon connection. 

It turns out that this is a known issue with DHCP.

Damn, that's the second bug I've found in ubuntu related to vpnc and network manager! I talked to my network admin at work and he said it was an issue with XP as well, so I don't feel so bad now.

If anyone's interested there is a patch described at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dhcp3/+bug/90681]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dhcp3/+bug/90681") to detect that a connection is being made on a tun interface and prevent the DNS records from being overwritten, but I'm lazy and don't really understand how to do it for fear of wrecking everything, and it basically works flawlessly except for this small issue.

So for now what I'll do is if I have to connect to the vpn for an extended period of time, say when working from home, and I also need to browse/chat/email non-work emails, I'll simply manually add the DNS server addresses to my network settings.

Thanks for your help

---

