---
title: "internet doesn't work, except skype!"
date: 2010-03-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by LK_gandalf_ on 2010-03-10
Hi all, I have a desktop pc with xubuntu 9.10 32bit installed. I don't have direct access to this machine, but they told me that internet is not working (firefox, synaptic,etc...), but only skype works! 
If they reboot on windows, everything works well, so it's not a matter of connection or dns.

It's very important because they work with that computer. How can i solve the problem? and what could be the cause of this strange anomaly?
thank you very much in advance

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-03-10
> If they reboot on windows, everything works well, so it's not a matter of connection or dns.I think it is a problem with DNS. Please check in a terminal:```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```If there is no valid nameserver there, you can add the address of the gateway. Find out with:```
route -n
```You will get an answer something like:> $ route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     [COLOR="Red"]Gateway[/COLOR]         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 wlan0
0.0.0.0         [COLOR="Red"]192.168.1.254[/COLOR]   0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 wlan0When you find the gateway address, you can do:```
sudo su
echo "nameserver 192.168.what.ever" > /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by LK_gandalf_ on 2010-03-11
Thank you for the indications, unfortunately this doesn't seem to work.

cat /etc/resolv.conf
gives

```

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.x.x
```

while route -n gives

```
Tabella di routing IP del kernel
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use 
192.168.X.1     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.255 UH    0      0        0 
0.0.0.0         0.0.0.0         0.0.0.0         U     0      0        0

Iface
ppp0
ppp0
```

under gateway column there are only 0.0.0.0
So I tried echo with the only IP I see (192.168.X.1) which is now in etc/resolv.conf, saved, reboot but nothing changed. Only skype works :(

---

### Post by LK_gandalf_ on 2010-03-11
Ok, I solved the issue, at least temporarily.

I searched on internet for the DNS1 and DNS2 of my isp, and write them in the resolv.conf whici now contain just this two lines:

```

nameserver DNS1
nameserver DNS2

```

then i restarted, and now it works. It's like if networkmanager was not able to get the DNS from the isp automatically?

---

