---
title: "9.04 lost ethernet on 2 different laptops - help!"
date: 2009-10-04
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bluebookrick on 2009-10-04
Both laptops are running Ubuntu 9.04 and have been working fine for ages now.

About 4 weeks ago I did an update on my main laptop (Dell inspirion 1520). Since then, the laptop lost the ability to use ethernet (we don't use wireless). Also, accessing folders has started to take AGES - wondering if this is a Gnome Do issue or not to be honest, so the least of my concerns, getting the internet back is the first!

ifconfig in the terminal gives the following:

eth0    Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1d:09:c0:41:61
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500 Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:17

lo       Link encap:Local Loopback
          inet addr@127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436   Metric :1
          RX packets:3928 errors:0 dropped:0 overuns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:2938 errors:0 dropped:0 overuns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0
          RX bytes:294760 (294.7 KB) TX bytes:294760 (294.7 KB)


Then, this week, my work laptop (an HP) updates and loses ethernet too (at work, so different network). Nothing has changed at home or at work with the network. This is definately an ubuntu issue! I am using a windows machine running from the same home network (bt homehub)

Please please help - I was so close to getting the wife to let me convert the last windows machine to ubunutu!!!

I'm new to this forum and quite new to ubuntu!

---

### Post by houstonbofh on 2009-10-04
Shove a LiveCD in and test a clean environment.  If that works, you can start looking at the clean environment and comparing to your installed environment.  You may have installed a package that was updated and broke badly...

---

### Post by bluebookrick on 2009-10-04
Hey Houstonbofh

Thanks for the tip - but it didn't work! Not at work so can't test the work laptop.

I am baffled by this one! Used ubuntu for around 4 years, bumped into many issues but this one has foxed me!

It was 18 days ago for my home laptop - surely someone else has had this issue?!

---

### Post by sendblink23 on 2009-10-04
> **bluebookrick said:**
> Hey Houstonbofh

Thanks for the tip - but it didn't work! Not at work so can't test the work laptop.

I am baffled by this one! Used ubuntu for around 4 years, bumped into many issues but this one has foxed me!

It was 18 days ago for my home laptop - surely someone else has had this issue?!

Explain "Thanks for the tip - but it didn't work! Not at work so can't test the work laptop."

You just mentioned it didn't work & on the same time you can't test the work laptop...  in other words the Live CD 9.04 hardware reading does not work on the laptop...   try an Older OS distro livecd 8.10... 

I'm just assuming here(that you had not needed to manually install drivers to have that ethernet hardware to work), you said it has always worked in the past...  after updating...  it crippled your ethernet connection *wired, if it was an Update > then through a LIVE CD it should work perfectly fine, but if it isn't through live cd...  that means the ethernet *hardware got damaged

---

### Post by bluebookrick on 2009-10-04
> **sendblink23 said:**
> Explain "Thanks for the tip - but it didn't work! Not at work so can't test the work laptop."

I meant that I tried a live cd (9.04) on my home laptop. I'm at home, not work, so can't check the other laptop.

> **sendblink23 said:**
> You just mentioned it didn't work & on the same time you can't test the work laptop...  in other words the Live CD 9.04 hardware reading does not work on the laptop...   try an Older OS distro livecd 8.10... 

Will try that tomorrow now, thanks

> **sendblink23 said:**
> I'm just assuming here(that you had not needed to manually install drivers to have that ethernet hardware to work), you said it has always worked in the past...  after updating...  it crippled your ethernet connection *wired, if it was an Update > then through a LIVE CD it should work perfectly fine, but if it isn't through live cd...  that means the ethernet *hardware got damaged

Eeek! I hope that it isn't hardware - I mean, how likely is it that two laptops have the same hardware failure, owned by the same person!

I'll let people know if a different live cd helps....

---

### Post by houstonbofh on 2009-10-04
> **bluebookrick said:**
> Eeek! I hope that it isn't hardware - I mean, how likely is it that two laptops have the same hardware failure, owned by the same person!

If you have plugged them both into the same shorted switch?  Likely...  I have see a switch blow about half of the nics plugged into one bad port, and work just fine with the other half.  Guess which half my diagnostic laptop was on? :(

---

