---
title: "Network interface naming"
date: 2015-11-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by canavaroski90 on 2015-11-19
Hi guys,

There are bunch of ubuntu server 14.04 installed systems in my office. Everyday we got new usb-to-eth converters and test them. To make test scripts work, I must suppose that I know the interface name (please, do not ask why we need to know interface name...)

We all have dedicated primary eth ports on our computers and ubuntu labeling them as eth0. We would like to make ubuntu give eth1 label to the newly connected usb-eth converter.

Question is simple I think, how we can assure that newly connected usb-eth converter will be named as eth1?

thanks in advance.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-11-19
Create a udev rule in /etc/udev/rules.d/
Look at other rules (like /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules) for examples.

---

### Post by canavaroski90 on 2015-11-19
> **ian-weisser said:**
> Create a udev rule in /etc/udev/rules.d/
Look at other rules (like /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules) for examples.

sorry not to mention about mac.

as I said, we are using a lot of different usb-eth converters so we do not have static mac for eth1.

I need something which is not related to mac address but the interface type (if it is usb or sth else)

---

### Post by Hadaka on 2015-11-19
Hi, perhaps a visual aid will help..and by the way, any added device is going to have a mac address.
ok, here is my udev 70 rules [COLOR=#ff0000]**WITH**[/COLOR] and additional wifi [COLOR=#ff0000]usb[/COLOR] added...same as adding [COLOR=#ff0000]**ETH**[/COLOR] but i dont have
any usb eth converter modules. the numbering is is done by the system or by you.  #example: WITH ADDITIONAL WLAN same as ETH

hadaka@the-beach:~$ cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules [COLOR=#ff0000]# command to view[/COLOR] 
# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key. [COLOR=#ff0000]<-- [/COLOR] 

# PCI device 0x14e4:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1e.0/0000:02:00.0/ssb1:0 (b44)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:a5:7e:2b:fe:c6", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="[COLOR=#ff0000]eth0[/COLOR]"

# PCI device 0x14e4:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1e.0/0000:02:03.0/ssb0:0 (b43-pci-bridge)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="02:14:ac:6c:52:b4", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="[COLOR=#ff0000]wlan0[/COLOR]"

# USB device 0x148f:0x2573 ([COLOR=#ff0000]usb[/COLOR])
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:26:3c:6e:53:a2", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="[COLOR=#ff0000]wlan1[/COLOR]" [COLOR=#ff0000]# NAMED BY SYSTEM[/COLOR] 
hadaka@the-beach:~$ 


hadaka@the-beach:~$ sudo rm /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules[COLOR=#ff0000] #to reset system dev rules to default or write in new additional device[/COLOR]  
[sudo] password for hadaka: 


hadaka@the-beach:~$ cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules[COLOR=#ff0000] #after usb was removed and system booted[/COLOR] 
cat: /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules: No such file or directory[COLOR=#ff0000] #DELETED[/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000][/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000][/COLOR]


hadaka@the-beach:~$ cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules[COLOR=#ff0000] # <- after usb removed AND above file deleted and system booted[/COLOR] [COLOR=#ff0000][/COLOR]
# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.[COLOR=#ff0000] <-[/COLOR] [COLOR=#ff0000][/COLOR]

# PCI device 0x14e4:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1e.0/0000:02:00.0/ssb1:0 (b44)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:a5:7e:2b:fe:c6", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="[COLOR=#ff0000]eth0[/COLOR]"

# PCI device 0x14e4:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1e.0/0000:02:03.0/ssb0:0 (b43-pci-bridge)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="02:14:ac:6c:52:b4", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="[COLOR=#ff0000]wlan0[/COLOR]"

[COLOR=#ff0000]*Notice **wlan1** is gone, *If i had removed the usb and looked at the udev 70 rules file..wlan1 would still show,even though the usb had been removed,
so be sure you delete the file and boot to reset to default or...you will get a wlan2 *IF the new usb has a different mac address...this is one of several
reasons the mac address is involved.  [/COLOR][COLOR=#ff0000][/COLOR]

---

### Post by canavaroski90 on 2015-11-20
Thank you for the replies.

I found another solution which guarantees cabled connection will be labeled as eth0, eth1 ...

It is possible by changing grub parameter which is;
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="net.ifnames=1 biosdevname=0"

If net.ifnames=1 biosdevname=0 parameters passed to cmdline variable, then ubuntu automatically labeling the interfaces as I mentioned. 

Thanks again.

---

