---
title: "Cannot populate name-server"
date: 2009-04-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by danduq on 2009-04-15
Hi,

I'm having lots of problems with my networking since installing and configuring vpnc via network manager. My main problem is that I've lost machine's on my network, and I cannot get my name-servers back.

My /etc/resolv.conf says;
```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
search mydomain.net test.mdomain.net dev.mydomain.net

```

My /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf says;
```

send host-name "<hostname>";
prepend domain-name-servers 192.168.1.1,192.168.1.2;
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
	domain-name, host-name,
	netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope;
timeout 30;

```
As you can see my search domains aren't specified, so how they're staying in the resolv.conf I'm not sure. I used to have them specified in dhclient.conf, but have since taken them out.

My /etc/network/interfaces says;
```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

```
I have tried removing eth0 from it too, to see if network manager can sort it out, but that had no effect.

My /etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf says;
```

[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile
[ifupdown]
managed=true

```
Although I usually have managed=false because I have been unable to get network manager to properly manage my network.

In the nm-applet interface my wired connection says "Auto eth0 - never", even though if I use network manager to manage my network it connects to Auto eth0 successfully. If I add name-servers and search domains in the nm-applet interface for "Auto eth0", it seems to make no difference to my resolve.conf.

I think I've been playing around with my network config files so much now that it's all a bit flakey.

Any ideas how I can straighten things out and get my name-servers back?

Cheers.

---

### Post by puppywhacker on 2009-04-15
if you use managed=false, you are not using the network manager. That means that everything you do will have to be configured by the DHCP server or by configuration.

The nameservers are specified in /etc/resolv.conf you can add the nameservers there manually. The warning in that file means that DHCP may overwrite the resolv.conf. 

You are prepending the domain-name-servers 192.168.1.1 and 192.168.1.2 to what you are getting returned from the DHCP server. So in theory your resolv.conf should have been overwritten as soon as you get a new lease.

check the last 20 lines of your lease-file like this
tail -20 /var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.eth0.leases

or you can grep around for all the domain-name-servers the DHCP server tries to feed you

grep domain-name-servers /var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.*.leases

I guess there are file permission issues for the resolv file, so that the dhclient can't overwrite the values. You can set them manually to your favorite DNS servers.

The search domains are now "mydomain.net test.mdomain.net dev.mydomain.net" which means that if you try to resolve the host "test" the following will be tried "test" "test.mydomain.net" "test.test.mdomain.net" "test.dev.mydomain.net" until the name resolver finds one.
This is only useful if you like to to the shorthand for your hosts. It is not a must

---

### Post by danduq on 2009-04-15
Thanks puppywhacker!

> **puppywhacker said:**
> if you use managed=false, you are not using the network manager. That means that everything you do will have to be configured by the DHCP server or by configuration.
Yes, that's fine and was working, until I started using NM to configure a VPN.

> **puppywhacker said:**
> The nameservers are specified in /etc/resolv.conf you can add the nameservers there manually. The warning in that file means that DHCP may overwrite the resolv.conf. 
Yep, except that I can't make changes to the resolv.conf as they are overwritten by the dhclient.conf when my computer restarts (or at least they used to be, not tried editing resolv.conf itself since this happened to me in Hardy).

> **puppywhacker said:**
> or you can grep around for all the domain-name-servers the DHCP server tries to feed you

grep domain-name-servers /var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.*.leases
Looks OK to me;
```
/var/lib/dhcp3/dhclient.eth0.leases:  option domain-name-servers 192.168.1.1,192.168.1.2;

```

> **puppywhacker said:**
> I guess there are file permission issues for the resolv file, so that the dhclient can't overwrite the values. You can set them manually to your favorite DNS servers.
Hmmm... Maybe.
```
$ ls -l /etc/resolv.conf
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 31 2009-04-14 13:05 /etc/resolv.conf -> /etc/resolvconf/run/resolv.conf

$ ls -l /etc/resolvconf/run/resolv.conf
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 230 2009-04-15 15:03 /etc/resolvconf/run/resolv.conf
```
What should perms for /etc/resolvconf/run/resolv.conf be?

> **puppywhacker said:**
> The search domains are now "mydomain.net test.mydomain.net dev.mydomain.net" which means that if you try to resolve the host "test" the following will be tried "test" "test.mydomain.net" "test.test.mdomain.net" "test.dev.mydomain.net" until the name resolver finds one.
This is only useful if you like to to the shorthand for your hosts. It is not a must
Yes, but we have machines in those sub domains (machine1.test.mydomain.net) so it saves me doing "ssh machine1.test"

OK, just tested perms on /etc/resolvconf/run/resolv.conf and it's made no difference. Any other ideas where I might be going wrong?

Thanks again.

---

### Post by danduq on 2009-04-15
I just can't seem to get this working.

I've checked through my dhclient.conf and restarted using "sudo dhclient eth0" and this is the syslog output;
```

Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name dhclient: There is already a pid file /var/run/dhclient.pid with pid 9942
Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name dhclient: killed old client process, removed PID file
Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name dhclient: Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.1
Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name dhclient: Copyright 2004-2008 Internet Systems Consortium.
Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name dhclient: All rights reserved.
Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name dhclient: For info, please visit http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/
Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name dhclient: 
Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name dhclient: wmaster0: unknown hardware address type 801
Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: Withdrawing address record for 192.168.1.15 on eth0.
Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: Leaving mDNS multicast group on interface eth0.IPv4 with address 192.168.1.15.
Apr 15 19:37:13 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: Interface eth0.IPv4 no longer relevant for mDNS.
Apr 15 19:37:14 computer-name dhclient: wmaster0: unknown hardware address type 801
Apr 15 19:37:14 computer-name dhclient: Listening on LPF/eth0/00:18:8b:be:33:c7
Apr 15 19:37:14 computer-name dhclient: Sending on   LPF/eth0/00:18:8b:be:33:c7
Apr 15 19:37:14 computer-name dhclient: Sending on   Socket/fallback
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name dhclient: DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.1.15 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name dhclient: DHCPACK of 192.168.1.15 from 192.168.1.53
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: Joining mDNS multicast group on interface eth0.IPv4 with address 192.168.1.15.
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: New relevant interface eth0.IPv4 for mDNS.
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: Registering new address record for 192.168.1.15 on eth0.IPv4.
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: Withdrawing address record for 192.168.1.15 on eth0.
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: Leaving mDNS multicast group on interface eth0.IPv4 with address 192.168.1.15.
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: Interface eth0.IPv4 no longer relevant for mDNS.
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: Joining mDNS multicast group on interface eth0.IPv4 with address 192.168.1.15.
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: New relevant interface eth0.IPv4 for mDNS.
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name avahi-daemon[5268]: Registering new address record for 192.168.1.15 on eth0.IPv4.
Apr 15 19:37:17 computer-name dhclient: bound to 192.168.1.15 -- renewal in 254328 seconds.
Apr 15 19:37:38 computer-name kernel: [ 3671.774491] type=1503 audit(1239820658.424:23): operation="inode_permission" requested_mask="::r" denied_mask="::r" fsuid=117 name="/proc/5322/net/if_inet6" pid=5323 profile="/usr/sbin/named"

```

Any help gratefully received.

---

### Post by puppywhacker on 2009-04-15
hi again,

I noticed avahi, the zeroconf client uses the multicast DNS like apples bonjour. it should interfere with your configured DHCP setup, but the automatic discovery of services may decide to use the services it discovers, rather than the once you define. As luck would have it, you are running a named server on localhost ... just a theory though.

if you are not using these services stop them to keep your troubleshooting pure.
/etc/init.d/avahi-daemon stop
/etc/init.d/bind9 stop

goodluck

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-04-15
[Here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=971064") is a similar thread...

---

### Post by danduq on 2009-04-16
Thanks guys.

I've stopped avahi and bind and suddenly all my name servers appeared! Hurrah!

Thanks for all your help.

---

### Post by danduq on 2009-04-17
I've found that bind is stopping my name-servers from being correctly populated, and stopping it (/etc/init.d/bind9 stop) seems to do the trick.

How can I stop it from running at start-up? Or should I be looking at correcting it's configuration somehow?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-04-17
> **danduq said:**
> ...How can I stop it from running at start-up? Or should I be looking at correcting it's configuration somehow?

Thanks.I tend to do it the hard way - editing /etc/rcX.d files (rename with lowercase "s").  Check System>Preferences>Sessions>Startup Programs - in case it's as easy as unchecking a box...

---

### Post by danduq on 2009-04-28
Well, I've now got a clean, fresh Jaunty installation on my laptop and everything appears to be running properly at last!

Thanks for all your help and suggestions. :)

---

