---
title: "14.04.2 LTS Networking Ethernet Mac address lost"
date: 2015-05-28
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by stefan-czinczoll on 2015-05-28
Hi there,

please help me with the following problem: 

My laptop lost it's internet connectivity. WLAN may be reinstalled later, but I'm even unable to put ethernet connectivity back to work. Ethernet controller is AR8132 Fast Ethernet from Qualcom Atheros and worked flawlessly before. 

Network is activated, settings for cable connection 1 are set up properly (DHCP). My router is working well. However, the settings field for the MAC address (dropdown menu) is empty and stays this way no matter what I try. I've tried to find out the mac address of the chip by "sudo lshw -C network" in order to fill in the address manually, but the mac address is not listed, i.e. there's no "serial" entry in the output as expected.

Any ideas please?

Kind regards

Stefan

---

### Post by corti-nico on 2015-05-28
Hi,

You can view your mac address with
```
sudo ifconfig eth0
```

The address is just after **HWaddr**

Try to put it but I'm not so sure that this will solve your problem...let us know

---

### Post by stefan-czinczoll on 2015-05-28
Hi corti-nico,  this does not work - it says it cannot read the device information as the device does not exist. I want to create a new one so ...?

---

### Post by corti-nico on 2015-05-28
> **stefan-czinczoll said:**
> Hi corti-nico,  this does not work - it says it cannot read the device information as the device does not exist. I want to create a new one so ...?

What happens if you type only
```

sudo ifconfig

```
?

---

### Post by stefan-czinczoll on 2015-05-29
The only entry visible is the one for localhost.  By now I was able to find out the MAC address: I used "lspci -vvv" as root and voila!   However, I'm still unable to use it. The networking plugin GUI doesn't let me enter it manually. Before entering data the save button is active. After entering a single letter in one of the MAC address fields (normal or spoofing) the button becomes inactive (greyed out).  So I'm still stuck.   What may be the reason for that?  Kind regards,  Stefan

---

### Post by corti-nico on 2015-05-29
> **stefan-czinczoll said:**
> The only entry visible is the one for localhost.  By now I was able to find out the MAC address: I used "lspci -vvv" as root and voila!   However, I'm still unable to use it. The networking plugin GUI doesn't let me enter it manually. Before entering data the save button is active. After entering a single letter in one of the MAC address fields (normal or spoofing) the button becomes inactive (greyed out).  So I'm still stuck.   What may be the reason for that?  Kind regards,  Stefan

It seems that you have lost your 'eth0' network interface.
Try to have a look at this: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/394217/my-eth0-has-gone-and-i-dont-have-internet-and-network-connection](http://askubuntu.com/questions/394217/my-eth0-has-gone-and-i-dont-have-internet-and-network-connection)

---

