---
title: "169.254.0.0 on my routing table"
date: 2007-05-31
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bhdenterprises on 2007-05-31
hi fellow ubuntureros,

ive set up my builtin NIC to static ip address in an ubuntu fesity fawn 7.04. originally i set them up with one default ip address plus two aliases as i have to monitor three networks.

here's a copy of my /etc/network/interfaces

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
address 127.0.0.1
netmask 255.0.0.0

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.102
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1

auto eth0:1
iface eth0:1 inet static
address 192.168.200.225
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.200.1

auto eth0:2
iface eth0:2 inet static
address 192.168.161.225
netmask 225.225.225.0
gateway 192.168.161.1
```

you see, i have no problems with connecting to these networks as i can ping each host that i monitor. the problem is i cannot connect to the internet using the 192.168.1.1 gateway which serves as our internet gateway. when i do the route -n command, here's what i get:

```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
192.168.200.0   0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
192.168.161.0  0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0       0       0 etho
[COLOR="Red"]169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0[/COLOR]
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.200.1  0.0.0.0        UG    0     0         0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.161.1  0.0.0.0       UG     0     0        0 eth0

```

my question is why there is a 169.254.0.0 destination address in my routing table when i have not set it. i know this address is like an automatic address block provided by dhcp or another. but why do i have this when im setting up my nic to static addressing?

i check this with another machine with kubuntu feisty fawn 7.04, it has the same 169.254.0.0 dilemma.
i check two servers using ubuntu 6.06 and it has no 169.254.0.0 entry.

i'll appreciate if somebody could enlighten me about this.

- harvey

---

### Post by capn_hector on 2007-06-01
the ips in range 169.254.x.x normaly mean dhcp failed.  its a weird thing that linux uses this as a method to say i failed.  its normaly something found in winbloze but i noticed it on ubuntu (and since ubuntu and kubuntu use the same under lying structure [ubuntu - gnome desktop kubuntu - kde desktop but use the same kernel] the problem would be the same on both of the machines.  try not starting the dhcp damon on startup

---

### Post by bhdenterprises on 2007-06-01
performing ```
cat /var/log/messages | grep dh
``` returned that a certain ```
dhcdbd
``` daemon is running. tried to stop the service from System > Administration > Services but there was no DHCP service on the list. so my question now is how to stop the dhcdbd so it won't get started every boot-up time?

---

### Post by netztier on 2007-06-01
> **bhdenterprises said:**
> 
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
address 127.0.0.1
netmask 255.0.0.0

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.1.102
netmask 255.255.255.0
gateway 192.168.1.1

auto eth0:1
iface eth0:1 inet static
address 192.168.200.225
netmask 255.255.255.0
[COLOR="Red"]gateway 192.168.200.1[/COLOR]

auto eth0:2
iface eth0:2 inet static
address 192.168.161.225
netmask 225.225.225.0
[COLOR="Red"]gateway 192.168.161.1[/COLOR]
```

[...]
you see, i have no problems with connecting to these networks as i can ping each host that i monitor. the problem is i cannot connect to the internet using the 192.168.1.1 gateway which serves as our internet gateway. when i do the route -n command, here's what i get:

```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
192.168.200.0   0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
192.168.161.0  0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     0       0       0 etho
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
[COLOR="Red"]0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.200.1  0.0.0.0        UG    0     0         0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.161.1  0.0.0.0       UG     0     0        0 eth0
[/COLOR]
```


Three default routes in your table? And how's your IP stack to know which one to use? the last? the first?
Correct your **/etc/network/interfaces** to have only one "gateway" statement, with the correct interface, of course.

A gateway statement (or a static route, for that matter) is only needed if you want to reach IP destination addresses *outside* your local subnet via that interface. In that case, you need to know the destination  network's address and subnet mask and the IP address of the router ("next hop address") that knows a path to that network.

In 95 cases out of 100, the destination network is "any" (0.0.0.0, mask 0.0.0.0) and the next hop is just your DSL/Broadband router's LAN interface: the default route is just a special static route, it's next hop address is what you configure in /etc/network/interfaces as "gateway".

> **bhdenterprises said:**
> 
my question is why there is a 169.254.0.0 destination address in my routing table when i have not set it. i know this address is like an automatic address block provided by dhcp or another. but why do i have this when im setting up my nic to static addressing?

Probably the much-loved avahi deamon. 169.254.0.0/16 is the address range for "self-assigned link-local" addresses. A computer may assign itself an address from this range if it fails to obtain one via DHCP. Like this, you can just "plug together" a few hosts and let them talk to each other via IP, without the need for manual configuration or setting up DHCP. These addresses are not meant to be routed by any device nor meant to be used in the Internet.

By the way...

Why do you need three IP addresses on one Interface anyway? Three IP subnets on one LAN, three broadcast groups on one broadcast domain, a multinet? I get the slight suspicion of some weird network topology... Can you elaborate, please?


best regards

Marc

---

### Post by bhdenterprises on 2007-06-01
well, my bad, that i put so many gateways in each ip address... as i said above, i was setting up a box which can monitor other network hosts using nagios... the other two networks run our internal applications, so we have to separate them. one is for cash collection and the other is for real property assessments...

in order for me to perform a ping on the hosts on these two networks or in order for nagios to do the same, i have to put aliases to my only NIC.

i tried getting rid of the extra gateways and i can now connect to the internet. thank you so much.

now if you have other way to monitor hosts in different network without adding aliases or putting in another NICs, please tell me... i really appreaciated your help, netztier

---

### Post by netztier on 2007-06-01
> **bhdenterprises said:**
> well, my bad, that i put so many gateways in each ip address... as i said above, i was setting up a box which can monitor other network hosts using nagios..

Using  a system for monitoring is already a good idea. Better *you* know what is going on and where the trend is going before your users do.

>  the other two networks run our internal applications, so we have to separate them. 

Well...

If you're on the same LAN (in extenso: using the same hubs and switches), setting different IP addresses and IP Subnets for different groups of systems and calling that "different networks" is walking on VERY thin ice! I *strongly* advise against that! 

> one is for cash collection and the other is for real property assessments...

Business. Money at risk. ow!

[SIZE="1"][INDENT]Imagine one LAN with - say a 24port-switch. 8 hosts are running with IP addresses (picking at random, not from your example) with 192.168.1.xxx, 8 more with 192.168.2.xxx and the rest with 192.168.3.xxx. 

Now every now and then, a host needs to send a broadcast because it needs to know the MAC-Address of a neighbor in it's own IP range - because it wants to talk to it. Now *all* other systems get to hear that broadcast, too - but not only the ones in the same IP network, but also the ones in the other two!

Now imagine one of the systems catches a nasty cold and the operating system goes mad and starts flooding the network with broadcasts. Not only it's own IP subnet will be affected, but also the other two - all systems included!

Even worse - a system in the property assessment gets hacked - and the attacker knows what IP addresses are in use in cash collection. It is feasible to ARP-spoof the identity of one of the cash-collection systems from the compromised computer, now acting as a man-in-the-middle between the cash collection station and say.. your database backed? **Nice** things you can do like that...
[/INDENT][/SIZE]


> in order for me to perform a ping on the hosts on these two networks or in order for nagios to do the same, i have to put aliases to my only NIC.

The first idea of grouping the systems into different subnets is perfectly ok, but the separation has to go further if security or robustness is your goal. If not, then don't, and put them all into the same subnet. Troubleshooting and life in general is a lot easier that way. Using the same unsegmented Ethernet with different subnets is just maskerade and a security and operational risk (IMHO).

The separation also has to happen at the ethernet level: use seperate switches or hubs for each network, or use switches that can do VLAN separation. With VLANs, you can define ports as belonging to only one Virtual LAN, on the same switch: so you can have "red", "yellow" and "green" hosts on the same switch - but they can't talk to each other - but to any other "red", "yellow" or "green" hosts, on the same or other switches. 

Links between switches get configured as "multicolor" (802.1q Trunk links), so you don't have to run multiple cables between them.

Now sometimes you need to talk from "red" to "yellow" or "green"- not possible without the help of a router. This can come in different forms:
[LIST]
[*]as a "routing engine" in one of the switches (which is then called a Layer3-Switch), with an internal virtual port into each VLAN. It gets an IP address of that Subnet and acts as default gateway for the hosts in that VLAN.
[*]as an external router box with each a port per VLAN. Can be done with a Linux PC with IP forwarding enabled and multiple interfaces (possible to to with one physical, but muliple logical (sub)interfaces). Again, each interface has an IP address that fits the VLAN it is connected to, and this IP address becomes the default gateway for the hosts in that VLAN. You can then even start to do firewalling on the Router-PC to allow only specific traffic between the VLANs.
[/LIST]

If you don't need traffic from one network to the other, you can attach your managment station like the router box, with each an interface into the different VLANs (physical or logical), and leave IP forwarding disabled, very much like your system is configured now; it's just that it has it's interfaces (logically) separated at the ethernet level.

> now if you have other way to monitor hosts in different network without adding aliases or putting in another NICs

There are, but as stated above, it won't really help unless you get good separation of the networks at the ethernet level. I suggest you review your network architecture and IP addressing strategy: implementing VLANs is not black magic, just need some imagination and the capability to "think in colours".

best regards

Marc

---

### Post by bhdenterprises on 2007-06-03
hi marc,

thank you so much for these bountiful information. i am new to network administration, really. and this theory helps me a lot. i know about VLAN but my organization cannot provide a manageable switch because of budget constraints and so we do subnetting instead. but i have already insist that we get one.

i'll try to follow your advice, though. again, thanks a lot.

---

### Post by netztier on 2007-06-05
> **bhdenterprises said:**
> 
because of budget constraints and so we do subnetting instead. but i have already insist that we get one.


Look at switches like the [Linksys SRW2048]("http://www.linksys.com/servlet/Satellite?c=L_Product_C2&childpagename=US%2FLayout&cid=1139963264685&pagename=Linksys%2FCommon%2FVisitorWrapper&lid=6468545678B02"). That's a 48-port 10/100/1000 Gigabit Switch. "Street price" in my country is around CHF 1050.- that's roughly USD 850.- (as of writing this posting), and that's the top model of that product range.

A company that actually does *business* with it's LAN just can't afford NOT spending a few hundred dollars on a robust network infrastructure. And yes, the times when something like that cost 10-thousands of dollars are gone, for good.

best regards

Marc

---

