---
title: "14.04 LTS Ethernet problems (Intel Corporation [8086])"
date: 2014-07-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by lesuisse on 2014-07-13
Hello dear Community

After the installation of the new Ubuntu 14.04 LTS on my HP Z Book I had problems connecting with the wired Ethernet. 
I have to unplug and plug the cable in in order to get a connection. And connecting takes a very long time (up to 15 s). 

My hardware (cables, connectors and switch) is Cat 6 (Gigabit). However using this thread 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217661](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217661)
i can only get a 100 Mbit/s connection.


Here is what running "sudo lshw -numeric -C network" yields:

  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: Ethernet Connection I217-LM [8086:153A]
       vendor: Intel Corporation [8086]
       physical id: 19
       bus info: pci@0000:00:19.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 04
       serial: a0:48:1c:ce:0b:22
       size: 100Mbit/s
       capacity: 1Gbit/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=off broadcast=yes driver=e1000e driverversion=2.3.2-k duplex=full firmware=0.12-3 ip=192.168.2.108 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=twisted pair speed=100Mbit/s
       resources: irq:44 memory:cca00000-cca1ffff memory:cca3b000-cca3bfff ioport:6080(size=32)
  *-network DISABLED
       description: Wireless interface
       product: Centrino Advanced-N 6235 [8086:88E]
       vendor: Intel Corporation [8086]
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:5c:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 24
       serial: b4:b6:76:d6:c0:22
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwlwifi driverversion=3.13.0-30-generic firmware=18.168.6.1 latency=0 link=no multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abgn
       resources: irq:45 memory:cc900000-cc901fff


Thanks for helping my out since I am quite new to Linux.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-07-13
> My hardware (cables, connectors and switch) is Cat 6 (Gigabit). However using this thread 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217661](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2217661)
i can only get a 100 Mbit/s connection.Wow. I don't pretend to know everything about Intel devices and Ubuntu, but I'd be shocked if *autoneg off* is helping your Intel. May we see:```
cat /etc/rc.local
```

---

### Post by lesuisse on 2014-07-14
Thanks for your quick reply. 
Of course, here it is: 
eric@sweety:~$ cat /etc/rc.local
#!/bin/sh -e
#
# rc.local
#
# This script is executed at the end of each multiuser runlevel.
# Make sure that the script will "exit 0" on success or any other
# value on error.
#
# In order to enable or disable this script just change the execution
# bits.
#
# By default this script does nothing.

/sbin/ethtool -s eth0 speed 100 duplex full autoneg off
exit 0

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-07-14
> i can only get a 100 Mbit/s connection.That's exactly what you requested.> /sbin/ethtool -s eth0 [COLOR="#FF0000"]speed 100[/COLOR] duplex full autoneg offI doubt highly that you need those parameters at all. Let's comment out the line and see what happens:```
gksudo gedit /etc/rc.local
```Use nano or kate or leafpad if you don't have the text editor gedit. Change the line like this:```
#/sbin/ethtool -s eth0 speed 100 duplex full autoneg off
```The hashmark will tell the system that it's a comment and not a command to implement. Proofread, save and close the text editor. Now do:```
sudo ethtool -s eth0 speed 1000 autoneg on
```Any improvement?

It may take a reboot.

---

### Post by lesuisse on 2014-07-20
Thanks for the post. I tried that. 
The shell only gave back "Cannot advertise speed 1000"
Then, after about 15 seconds it connects but with 100 Mbit/s. 
Same result after a reboot. 

Here is the problem re-described: 
Just after booting it takes a lot of time (ca. 15s) until Ubuntu tries to make a connection with the Ethernet. 
But all attempts in connecting fail. It is such that just after unplugging and re-inserting the Ethernet cable form the 
Notebook that Ubuntu successfully makes a connection with the Ethernet. 

I also tried this directly at my Cisco SG 300-20 Gigabyte Switch. Same outcome.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-07-21
Sorry for the delay in my reply.

With the ethtool line commented out in rc.local, and the ethernet attached, please reboot and before you do anything else, run and post:```
dmesg | grep -e e100 -e eth0
cat /var/log/syslog | grep etwork | tail -n20
modinfo e1000e | grep version
```We wonder what's going wrong here.

---

