---
title: "Setting domain name persistant"
date: 2011-06-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by hplc on 2011-06-10
Hi, i have a question, it ought to be a simple task for most but im as noob as they get.
In ubuntu 11.04 desktop, how do i change the hostname as well as setting the new domain name?. 

Temporarily its easy with *hostname* and *domainname* in terminal, but i want it to become persistant.

Lets say i want the machine name to become _***computer01***_ and domain to become _***homenet.lan***_. Then i would change the _***/etc/hostname***_ to contain _***computer01***_ only.

But what i cant figure is how the new /etc/hosts is supposed to look, the old one is:

[COLOR=Blue]127.0.0.1    localhost
127.0.1.1    *current_computer_name*

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
[/COLOR]
[COLOR=Black]But how is the new /etc/hosts supposed to look if hostname is to be computer01 and domainname homenet.lan[/COLOR]?, thanks in advance

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-06-10
edit /etc/resolv.conf

domain DOMAIN

i.e.

domain mshome

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-06-10
> domain trash
search trash
nameserver 172.16.64.15
nameserver 8.8.8.8


mine

---

### Post by hplc on 2011-06-10
so......i dont need to change /etc/hosts at all?

old /etc/resolv.conf is:
[COLOR=Blue]
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain localdomain
search localdomain
nameserver 192.168.0.1[/COLOR]

[COLOR=Black]i erase everything and write:

[COLOR=Blue]# Generated by NetworkManager
domain homenet.lan
search homenet.lan
nameserver 192.168.0.1

[COLOR=Black]instead?

edit:

Nope, if i set domainname to homenet.lan something changes domainname back to localdomain, besides in terminal i get error message _***unable to resolve host computer01 ***_
[/COLOR] [/COLOR][/COLOR]

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-06-10
No, you still have to add the entries to hosts.

The resolv.conf is only for specifying the domain.

So in my hosts, I would put 

Computer 1   xxx.xxx.xxx
computer 2   xxx.xxx.xxx
etc...


In my resolv i would put 
domain xxxx
search xxxx

so that when i go to ping computer1 i dont have to type 
ping computer1.domain

i just type ping computer1 and the domain is automatically added...

get it? lol Are you even running a domain? or is this just a work group of some sort

---

### Post by hplc on 2011-06-10
well i am trying to experiment with a home network, i really am sorry for my ignorance, but i just dont understand.

if i understand you correctly my new /etc/hosts should be something like............

127.0.0.1              localhost
127.0.1.1              computer01.homenet.lan
192.168.0.1          firewall.homenet.lan [U][I]** (another physical machine as router, gateway, firewall, DNS)**
[/I][/U]

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2011-06-10
> **hplc said:**
> well i am trying to experiment with a home network, i really am sorry for my ignorance, but i just dont understand.

if i understand you correctly my new /etc/hosts should be something like............

127.0.0.1              localhost
127.0.1.1              computer01.homenet.lan
192.168.0.1          firewall.homenet.lan [U][I]** (another physical machine as router, gateway, firewall, DNS)**
[/I][/U]

This is not correct.

The file /etc/hostname defines the hosts name.  A host being your computer.

The file /etc/hosts defines the mapping between the hostname and the IP address.  It should look like this (annotated in red)```
127.0.0.1              localhost **[COLOR="Red"]# This is a test interface for your local machine[/COLOR]**
127.0.1.1              computer01.homenet.lan **[COLOR="Red"]# So is this-- No need for your real host name here[/COLOR]**
192.168.0.1          firewall.homenet.lan **[COLOR="Red"]# This is where you put the name of your computer - if there is a 2nd name it is an alias[/COLOR]**


```

In my network there is a host named *newport*.  The /etc/hostname file contains ```
newport
```

The /etc/hosts file contents includes```
127.0.0.1	localhost
192.168.1.3	newport 
192.168.1.1     router
192.168.1.151   printer

```

The entries for the router and printer refer to other hosts on the network.  The 192.168.1.3 address is what is used for the host to talk to others on the LAN and Internet.

DNS server settings go in the /etc/resolv.conf file

But all of this is for manually configuring a hosts interfaces.  I see you are using Network Manager.  Some of this is handled through N-M. not the files directly.

---

### Post by hplc on 2011-06-10
NetworkManager was nothing but trouble and i threw it out and installed the better *network-admin* package. Well 192.168.0.1 is a physical server machine which is running DHCP, http proxy, firewall, IDS/IPS etc etc, since i am experimenting, with DHCP there can be no fix address in */etc/hosts* ? right? (i can ofcourse go static IP if it simplifies things during this walk-through)

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2011-06-10
> **hplc said:**
> NetworkManager was nothing but trouble and i threw it out and installed the better *network-admin* package. 
Network Manager *[COLOR="SeaGreen"]automates [/COLOR]*the management of the interface.  This is especially nice when using wireless connections that are by nature ephemeral.  Network-Admin is a GUI interface allowing you to *[COLOR="Blue"]edit the files[/COLOR]* we have been talking about.  These are two different applications.> 

Well 192.168.0.1 is a physical server machine which is running DHCP, http proxy, firewall, IDS/IPS etc etc, since i am experimenting, with DHCP there can be no fix address in */etc/hosts* ? right? (i can ofcourse go static IP if it simplifies things during this walk-through)

You are correct the /etc/hosts is the primitive initial version of DNS and as such handles fixed IP addresses only.  later DNS systems (BIND9) can handle dynamic IP address implementation when mapping hostname to IP address.

My personal feeling lean toward simplicity first.  I use static configuration of files with fixed IP addresses (no DHCP at all) for all hosts that are not portable.  I use a plain text editor when modifying the various files. I use DHCP only on laptops and hand held devices.

One thing to take into consideration is that in a few years IPv4 will be obsolete to IPv6 and you will have a different paradigm to understand.

---

### Post by hplc on 2011-06-11
> **redmk2 said:**
> One thing to take into consideration is that in a few years IPv4 will be obsolete to IPv6 and you will have a different paradigm to understand.

But one will still be able to use old IPV4 on internal nets? or NAT wont work like that at all?

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2011-06-11
> **hplc said:**
> But one will still be able to use old IPV4 on internal nets? or NAT wont work like that at all?

IPv4 and IPv4 NAT are not compatible with IPv6.  For awhile there both will will be running side by side (dual stack).  There are 4 to 6 and 6 to 4 brokers but not translations.  IPv4 addressing is 32 bits wide and IPv6 is 128 bits wide.  If you are using IPv6 outside of the LAN then you should be using IPv6 in the LAN.

Here is what [**_[COLOR="Blue"]Wikipedia[/COLOR]_**]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6") has to say about IPv6.

---

### Post by hplc on 2011-06-11
im confused, if:


"A typical example of an IPv6 address is
 2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334"and if _*each and every single device will have a perfectly unique address*_, well to me it sounds the days of human intervention is over, for one no one will be able to keep that kind of addressing in the head, nor will there ever be a need for human intervention since there no longer exists a need for manual setting of address?. Secondly, it sounds to me the days of hacking and illegal file sharing comes to an end for good?

Looking forward to hear your point of view

---

### Post by capscrew on 2011-06-11
**Edit:** @redmk2 says it best.  I can't keep IPv4 addresses in my head.  IPv6 addressing is even worse.  :-(

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2011-06-11
> **hplc said:**
> im confused, if:


"A typical example of an IPv6 address is
 2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334"and if _*each and every single device will have a perfectly unique address*_, well to me it sounds the days of human intervention is over, for one no one will be able to keep that kind of addressing in the head, nor will there ever be a need for human intervention since there no longer exists a need for manual setting of address?. Secondly, it sounds to me the days of hacking and illegal file sharing comes to an end for good?

Looking forward to hear your point of view

The original idea was, as you say; to create an network with every device identified uniquely.  All the things we take for granted where developed afterward to help in the human management of large networks.  See [**_[COLOR="Blue"]here[/COLOR]_**]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classful_network") for a description of early IP addressing.  The picture in the upper right is particularly interesting.  The name *Postel * is significant.  [**_[COLOR="Blue"]Jon Postel[/COLOR]_**]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jon_Postel") is a significant figure in the creation in the history of the internet.  

DNS, DHCP and especially NAT have added to the complexity.  NAT is not required to connect to the Internet.  In the past you could lease a block of IP addresses and connect directly.  

The problem we have today is a lack of assignable IP address blocks.  Too many devices and not enough addresses to assign to them.  So NAT was developed to allow a network with multiple hosts  to use just 1 public facing IP address.

With IPv6 we are starting the process over with a larger amount of address block and the experience gained from using IPv4 for almost 30 years.

But we are really off on a tangent here with IPv6.  Learn IPv4 addressing and all the enhancements.  It will be valuable knowledge when we transition to IPv6.

---

