---
title: "Can't resolve hostname"
date: 2009-03-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by B34N on 2009-03-15
I have three Ubuntu machines on a wireless network using DHCP on the router.  (hostnames = office-desktop, mark-laptop, old-desktop) All of the sudden, I am no longer able to resolve the hostname for office-desktop. All three machines can ping each other using IP address and all three machines can ping mark-laptop and old-desktop using hostnames, but the mark-laptop and old-desktop can not ping office-desktop using the hostname.  (office-desktop can still ping itself using the hostname)

From the router I can see that office-desktop is connected using the right name.

Any suggestions?

On office-desktop:
etc/hostname
> office-desktop
etc/hosts
> 127.0.0.1	localhost
127.0.1.1	office-desktop

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts

/etc/resolv.conf
> 
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain myhome.westell.com
search myhome.westell.com
nameserver 192.168.1.1
nameserver 192.168.1.1


etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf has
> send host-name "<hostname>";

Thank you!

---

### Post by B34N on 2009-03-16
Update:
Everything worked as it should when I started up this morning.  The hostname was resolved and I am now able to use Synergy across all of the machines by including the startup command using the hostname.  I believe that I've had this problem with the hostname a few times in the past but I didn't troubleshoot it as much and I simply went to using IP addresses and manually starting synergy.

Does anyone have any thoughts on why this is happening?  I'm guessing that is has something to do with the DHCP.  Should I have phsyically powered down all machines instead of just rebooting or maybe reset the router?

Thank you

---

