---
title: "Trying to change MAC, or at least re-set the adaptor"
date: 2009-06-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nrthguy on 2009-06-17
On my Ubuntu 9.04, (installed from within Win on a laptop if it matters). 
I have to change the mac address from the default built-in one (model reads "Broadcom NetLink (TM) Gigabit Ethernet" adaptor) to a specific one to use the home hardwired connection, which requires manual setting of Ip/mask/gateway.

I change it through the the network manager, as well as the specific Ip/mask/gateway ip's but net doesn't flow. (And it should, if MAC is right and Ip/mask/gateway)

Tried to edit "/etc/network/interfaces" and naturally I screwed up everything and even if i create a new connection, with the manager, It still doesnt connect. (doesnt even try to connect)

So how can i completely reset everything to defaults and start from beginning, modifying (safely) the MAC and IP/Mask/Gateway? tia!

---

### Post by jonobr on 2009-06-17
Hello

Im not sure why you would need to change your mac address to connect to the network?

Mac address are generated at manufacturing time to be unique and should require you to modify them to connect to the network.

Could you post the result of ifconfig from a terminal window and let us know if you are using static or dynamic addressing?
Also, if you could

cat /etc/resolv.conf
cat /etc/hosts
cat /etc/nsswitch.conf
Im assuming your using provate addressing and as such are not releaseing any confidential info


The only way that I would think you would modify the mac is if IP addresses are being assigned based on a preconfigured mac address during the bootp process. If that were the case, your device handing out IP addresses should be modigued to recognise your mac.

Either which way, post the results and we will see what it says.

---

### Post by nrthguy on 2009-06-18
Well that's the thing, I dont have such a device assigning addresses, they should be manually input (IP, net mask, gateway), its all manual and static. So the ISP is the party that should reassign/recognise the mac address, but that will be more of a pain my end in the long run (hence all this). Not using dhcp ect.

$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
chris@ubuntu:~$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1	localhost
127.0.1.1	ubuntu.ubuntu-domain	ubuntu

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts


$ cat /etc/nsswitch.conf
# /etc/nsswitch.conf
#
# Example configuration of GNU Name Service Switch functionality.
# If you have the `glibc-doc-reference' and `info' packages installed, try:
# `info libc "Name Service Switch"' for information about this file.

passwd:         compat
group:          compat
shadow:         compat

hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4
networks:       files

protocols:      db files
services:       db files
ethers:         db files
rpc:            db files

netgroup:       nis


$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr >MAC_that_has_to_be_changed<  
          inet6 addr: fe80::216:d3ff:fe5c:141/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:8666 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:563977 (563.9 KB)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:16 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:44 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:44 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:3280 (3.2 KB)  TX bytes:3280 (3.2 KB)

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2009-06-18
This sounds like a question I have been asked at work...


We potentially want to have a DNS / LDAP server to control pc logins etc.

But we would like to map specific MAC addresses to IP addresses.

I hope it is just a simple matter of an LDAP server, and a method to link system MAC addresses to specified IP addresses in some config file.

If a "new" or "Guest" terminal arrives we can then give it a "free" address, so as not to impinge on one of the already "pre-allocated" IP's

The reason for fixing the IP is so as we can all continue to share our data easily.

I'm guessing that it can be done somehow with a combination of the above DNS / LDAP and the /etc/hosts file on a server?

Currently we use fixed IP's on every terminal, and then any user who wants to use a diferent terminal is required to have their details entered into that system.... so if they leave / forget a password / we get a terminal upgrade, all the names / passwords need to be re-entered!

The result is that we have a lot of "shared" user names and password combinations.... which in my mind is not clever / safe / secure, and we have a lot of important research data, that needs regular auto backups also.

I'm guessing that all this can be "easily" done... but before I shout about it I want to be sure I have my facts straight.


Thanks in advance.

David

---

### Post by nrthguy on 2009-06-18
Pretty much what you said about IP+MAC and guests, the case is home internet connection. 1 fixed address assigned by the ISP. So for instance the "old pc" was the one 'registered' with the ISP, one gets a new PC, it has different MAC, so this new MAC address will have to be registered with the ISP, but that way when the guest/new PC goes away, the net wont flow for the old PC, its MAC has to be re-re-registered > hassle.
No hassle? -> all machines with 1 MAC Address, that's what I want.
And to answer the natural question, yes, primitive ISP.

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2009-06-18
nrthguy.

sounds to me like you should set up your initial "old" pc as a DHCP server / router / gateway.

Then you will loose the problems you mention.

I've not done this myself yet, but I'm sure that other threads will be able to assist you better than I can.

David

---

