---
title: "Slow Internet possible because of .local domain thingy"
date: 2013-11-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-17
Ok, so in these past attempts to try to use Linux, there has been one thing stopping me: the Internet. I did post a previous thread about my problem, and I thought it was fixed, but...I didn't mention it back on that thread because I thought that would be necro-ing a forum.
Anyway, I decided to try Linux again (Xubuntu) and I noticed something when I connected to my network. I took a screenshot of it. It mentions something about a .local domain. Can someone tell me if this is why my internet is slow with Linux?
Here's the screenshot:
[IMG][[IMG]http://imageshack.com/scaled/1024x768/34/c1br.png[/IMG]]("http://imageshack.com/i/0yc1brp")Uploaded with [ImageShack.com]("http://imageshack.com")[/IMG]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-11-18
Welcome to the forums.

Let's see if we can help. 
What troubleshooting have you performed so far?
Exactly which version of Ubuntu are you running?
What do the log files show related to this issue?

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-19
So far, I found this thing where I type this command:

host -t SOA local

and where I get:

local has SOA record...

Apparently, I should not be getting this. The thread (I forget which) said to make it so that another DNS server is used. Do this by editing /etc/resolv.conf
However, /etc/resolv.conf keeps resetting. Which sucks. I've searched up maybe things (mostly it was stuff with something called DHCP), but they do not work :(
So yeah...what should I do? I really don't want to go back to Windows.

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-11-19
Hi lavini557.

There's a simple solution without messing with your router or DHCP server.

Stop the avahi service:
```
sudo service avahi-daemon stop
```
Or if you are not using it at all, uninstall it:
```
sudo apt-get purge avahi-daemon
```
Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-20
I tried uninstalling the avahi-daemon. I think there might be a slight difference, but my internet's pretty much the same speed as before :( Also, the host SOA command thing is pretty much the same, except now it shows this (I think it was because of what I was trying to do before I started this thread)

local.my.domain.commy.domain.com has SOA record . . 0 0 0 0 0


I have no idea what the "local.my.domain.commy.domain.com"  is...

Just saying if this helps: Sometimes, on the notification bar thing (the one that shows the wifi signal's power) it varies a lot. Sometimes it shows up to maximum, but most of the time it is 2/5 of the thing or 1/5 of the thing. Not sure if I'm making sense here, but I'd thought I'd mention it just in case. This is also evident with Chrome. Sometimes, for like a second, the apps and stuff go gray, as though there is no internet. It does go back to color, though.

Anything that anyone would recommend that I should do?

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-22
bump

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-22
> **lavini557 said:**
> I tried uninstalling the avahi-daemon. I think there might be a slight difference, but my internet's pretty much the same speed as before :( Also, the host SOA command thing is pretty much the same, except now it shows this (I think it was because of what I was trying to do before I started this thread)

local.my.domain.commy.domain.com has SOA record . . 0 0 0 0 0


I have no idea what the "local.my.domain.commy.domain.com"  is...

Just saying if this helps: Sometimes, on the notification bar thing (the one that shows the wifi signal's power) it varies a lot. Sometimes it shows up to maximum, but most of the time it is 2/5 of the thing or 1/5 of the thing. Not sure if I'm making sense here, but I'd thought I'd mention it just in case. This is also evident with Chrome. Sometimes, for like a second, the apps and stuff go gray, as though there is no internet. It does go back to color, though.

Anything that anyone would recommend that I should do?

To start with please post the terminal output for these commands```
cat /etc/hosts

cat /etc/resolv.conf

hostname
```

Try to ping Google.  Post the terminal output of these commands```
ping -c4 google.com

ping -c4 74.125.224.137 
```

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-23
lavini557@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1    localhost
127.0.1.1    Pavilion


# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

lavini557@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
search my.domain.commy.domain.com
lavini557@Pavilion:~$ hostname
Pavilion

lavini557@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 google.com
PING google.com (173.194.46.33) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from ord08s10-in-f1.1e100.net (173.194.46.33): icmp_seq=1 ttl=53 time=38.9 ms
64 bytes from ord08s10-in-f1.1e100.net (173.194.46.33): icmp_seq=2 ttl=53 time=40.3 ms


--- google.com ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 2 received, 50% packet loss, time 3003ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 38.947/39.628/40.309/0.681 ms

lavini557@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 74.125.224.137
PING 74.125.224.137 (74.125.224.137) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 74.125.224.137: icmp_seq=1 ttl=51 time=100 ms
64 bytes from 74.125.224.137: icmp_seq=2 ttl=50 time=98.1 ms
64 bytes from 74.125.224.137: icmp_seq=3 ttl=51 time=682 ms
64 bytes from 74.125.224.137: icmp_seq=4 ttl=51 time=107 ms


--- 74.125.224.137 ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3003ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 98.161/247.106/682.114/251.174 ms

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-23
> **lavini557 said:**
> ```
lavini557@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1    localhost
127.0.1.1    Pavilion


# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
```

This is correct for a default installation.
> 
```
avini557@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
search my.domain.commy.domain.com [COLOR="#FF0000"]<-- This is part of the problem.  You configured something to create this. [/COLOR]

```

See the comment in red above.  That is part of your problem, but you can't directly edit the file,  so it has been added via the app resolvconf.  Post the output of this command```
cat /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail
```
> 
```
lavini557@Pavilion:~$ hostname
Pavilion
```

Good
> 
```
avini557@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 google.com
PING google.com (173.194.46.33) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from ord08s10-in-f1.1e100.net (173.194.46.33): icmp_seq=1 ttl=53 time=38.9 ms
64 bytes from ord08s10-in-f1.1e100.net (173.194.46.33): icmp_seq=2 ttl=53 time=40.3 ms


--- google.com ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 2 received, 50% packet loss, time 3003ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 38.947/39.628/40.309/0.681 ms

lavini557@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 74.125.224.137
PING 74.125.224.137 (74.125.224.137) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 74.125.224.137: icmp_seq=1 ttl=51 time=100 ms
64 bytes from 74.125.224.137: icmp_seq=2 ttl=50 time=98.1 ms
64 bytes from 74.125.224.137: icmp_seq=3 ttl=51 time=682 ms
64 bytes from 74.125.224.137: icmp_seq=4 ttl=51 time=107 ms


--- 74.125.224.137 ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3003ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 98.161/247.106/682.114/251.174 ms
```
Both of these are google.com, so we definitely have a DNS resolution problem.  the DNS server that you are using is local to this host (127.0.1.1) and it is probably confused with the DNS suffix you have created in resolv.conf.

So the big question is what app have you installed that could have created this problem?  Or what did you misconfigure while following somebody's howto instructions.  It  doesn't appear to be a problem from a default install of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-23
I'm not sure I agree that the different IP for [www.google.com]("http://www.google.com") indicates a DNS problem - [www.google.com]("http://www.google.com") resolves to a 173.194.x.x (1e100.net) address for me as well - maybe it's a regional thing? I agree you should find out what's setting the my.domain.commy.com DNS search though

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-23
> **steeldriver said:**
> I'm not sure I agree that the different IP for [www.google.com]("http://www.google.com") indicates a DNS problem - [www.google.com]("http://www.google.com") resolves to a 173.194.x.x (1e100.net) address for me as well - maybe it's a regional thing? I agree you should find out what's setting the my.domain.commy.com DNS search though

Google has load balancing for regions so it can be a different IP address.  I just meant that there are resolution problems when you ping google.com as opposed to using a direct IP address.

Normally I use a local domain to test.  One that has a single IP address and domain name.  Google is just more universally understood as a place to ping.

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-24
bab1, that file apparently doesn't exist, because

lavini557@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tailcat: /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail: No such file or directory

I'm not sure why it's not there, but that thing you did note out did appear after one of the howto's I searched up - although I don't know what specifically. So that thing is definitely my fault (I can't remember which file I specifically changed, but I did edit a file. Definitely do not remember editing a file called tail). There were two things I did that I kind of remember (not exactly remember, but it might help you):
-I edited a file called base
-I edited a file that had something to do with DHCP and resolvconf (resolvconf is a maybe - I'm not really sure)
I tried to look through my history, but I can't seem to find the thread that I looked in. Not sure how that happened o.o

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-24
Another place it might have been added is via the network manager applet - if you select and edit the connection (from the applet, or by typing nm-connection-editor in a terminal), look under the 'IPv4 Settings' tab there should be boxes for 'DNS servers' and 'Search domains'. They are grayed out if you are running 'pure' DHCP but become active if you have selected 'Automatic (DHCP) addresses only' in order to specify your own DNS settings.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-24
> **lavini557 said:**
> bab1, that file apparently doesn't exist, because

lavini557@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tailcat: /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail: No such file or directory

I assume you meant ```
cat /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tai
```...if the file isn't there it means there is nothing to append to the base file.
> 

I'm not sure why it's not there, but that thing you did note out did appear after one of the howto's I searched up - although I don't know what specifically. So that thing is definitely my fault (I can't remember which file I specifically changed, but I did edit a file. Definitely do not remember editing a file called tail). 

There were two things I did that I kind of remember (not exactly remember, but it might help you):
-I edited a file called base
-I edited a file that had something to do with DHCP and resolvconf (resolvconf is a maybe - I'm not really sure)
I tried to look through my history, but I can't seem to find the thread that I looked in. Not sure how that happened o.o
The base file is the standard boilerplate that should be in any dynamically created /etc/resolv.conf file.  Might look there.  If not @steeldriver's suggestions could be the answer.

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-24
-bab1 - is "tai" a typo? Because I thought the command had tail, not tai. I'm assuming it's a typo, but just checking. And it has this:

nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

I think this is when I was trying to change the DNS server and someone said to edit the base file and add this there. Should I take it out? It was originally blank, if I remember correctly.

-steeldriver - I am kind of confused by your suggestion. I checked the network editor thing and I have the automatic DHCP one. Are you telling me to leave it like that or change it to DHCP? 

Also, a general note that might help with figuring out the problem: After I edited whatever files I edited, I randomly disconnect from my network and cannot connect to it. The other computers in my house (my parent's and my brother's) are unaffected when this happens). I only get connected back after restarting or waiting a few minutes (I'd say at least 5 minutes). Anyone might know what's going on there?

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-24
> **lavini557 said:**
> -bab1 - is "tai" a typo? Because I thought the command had tail, not tai. I'm assuming it's a typo, but just checking. 

Yes it's a typo> And it has this:

nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220

I think this is when I was trying to change the DNS server and someone said to edit the base file and add this there. Should I take it out? It was originally blank, if I remember correctly.

What is in the base file now?  My understanding is the the base file is used to create the /etc/resolv.conf file and the tail is appended to it. 
> 

-steeldriver - I am kind of confused by your suggestion. I checked the network editor thing and I have the automatic DHCP one. Are you telling me to leave it like that or change it to DHCP? 

Also, a general note that might help with figuring out the problem: After I edited whatever files I edited, I randomly disconnect from my network and cannot connect to it. The other computers in my house (my parent's and my brother's) are unaffected when this happens). I only get connected back after restarting or waiting a few minutes (I'd say at least 5 minutes). Anyone might know what's going on there?

The "network" is a shared resource.  If you disconnect your computer it shouldn't affect others unless you are providing some services for others on your computer (file shares?).   So basically you can come and go without affecting others most of the time.

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-24
Well, the base file has what I told you: the DNS IPs (exactly what I posted). Should I remove that?

And yes, what you say is true about networks. But how do I fix it? And do you think this random, uncontrollable disconnecting-problem-thingy has something to do with the problem I have right now? (I'm assuming it does, but I don't know what it would be)

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-24
> **lavini557 said:**
> Well, the base file has what I told you: the DNS IPs (exactly what I posted). Should I remove that?

And yes, what you say is true about networks. But how do I fix it? And do you think this random, uncontrollable disconnecting-problem-thingy has something to do with the problem I have right now? (I'm assuming it does, but I don't know what it would be)

Don't remove anything just yet.  What do you get from this command```
ls -l /etc |grep resolv
```

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-24
lavini557@Pavilion:~$ ls -l /etc |grep resolv
drwxr-xr-x  4 root root              4096 Nov 20 17:45 resolvconf
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root            29 Nov 17 16:53 resolv.conf -> ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-25
bump

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-26
```
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 29 Nov 17 16:53 resolv.conf -> ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf 
```

The traditional method of configuring the DNS servers and local search domain is to use a flat file (/etc/resolv.conf).  The current way is to use scripts to dynamically create those entries.  This is why the link above exists.  The linked file /run/resolvconf/resolv.conf should now hold the configuration parameters,

In reading your responses it appears you really don't know what you have edited or deleted regarding this problem.  This makes it difficult (if not impossible) to know what you have touched or how to fix it.  It's not like there is a magic setting that will take care of all the problems.  About the closest you will come to that is to either purge the package resolvconf or Network Manager, or possibly both packages and reinstall them [COLOR="#FF0000"][SIZE=3]after backing up all your data[/SIZE][/COLOR].  If that doesn't work you may be looking at reinstalling the entire OS.

I know it sounds drastic but it may well turn out to be the quickest way out for you.

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-26
So...reinstalling is the quickest? I'm cool with that. However, if you do, is it possible for you to help me fix my original problem (in 1st post)? Because Linux is really slow for me, and the thing about the .local domain thing might be the cause (or may not be, I don't know). Is there anything you'd particularly recommend that I do? 

Any suggestion would help ^-^

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-26
> **lavini557 said:**
> So...reinstalling is the quickest?

I believe so.  Certainly the fastest and most reliable way to get back to a default install of the OS.
> 
I'm cool with that. However, if you do, is it possible for you to help me fix my original problem (in 1st post)? Because Linux is really slow for me, and the thing about the .local domain thing might be the cause (or may not be, I don't know). Is there anything you'd particularly recommend that I do? 

Any suggestion would help ^-^
The default Ubuntu install should not cause slow downs.  If you are referring to slow wireless networking response using the Internet that can be due to a need for you to update the wireless card's driver (module).  I've installed countless Ubuntu versions over the years and had no problem with the .local (avahi) daemon running.  My workstation that I am using right now has .local running with no slow down at all.

[COLOR="#FF0088"]BACK UP ALL YOUR DATA![/COLOR]

Then just install Ubuntu.  Don't modify anything.  If you are having connectivity problems ask them before you start mucking around with the settings.  In that way we can make some safe assumptions about the condition of OS while diagnosing the system.

I always have a separate partition for my /home.  The partitions are like this for a single disk (i.e. /dev/sda)```


/dev/sda1    /
/dev//sda2   swap
/dev/sda3    /home
```

This is not super important to the running of the OS, but there is no need to reinstall the /home directory if you need to reinstall again or install a newer version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-26
Ok, so I reinstalled Ubuntu (Xubuntu, to be exact). And I still had the same problem from when I started (which is why I started mucking about in the first place). The only thing I've done is use the Software Updater to update. Nothing else.
Do you know anything to help find the exact problem with this network issue? Because everything is fine except my internet speed. I don't know why. Previously, I've tried Ubuntu, Xubuntu, Lubuntu, and Mint, and they ALL have this issue for me. And I don't want to go back to Windows again (FYI: Internet is fine on Windows 7, so I am even more puzzled as to what is going on that is causing this).

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-26
> **lavini557 said:**
> Ok, so I reinstalled Ubuntu (Xubuntu, to be exact). And I still had the same problem from when I started (which is why I started mucking about in the first place). The only thing I've done is use the Software Updater to update. Nothing else.
Do you know anything to help find the exact problem with this network issue? Because everything is fine except my internet speed. I don't know why. Previously, I've tried Ubuntu, Xubuntu, Lubuntu, and Mint, and they ALL have this issue for me. And I don't want to go back to Windows again (FYI: Internet is fine on Windows 7, so I am even more puzzled as to what is going on that is causing this).

Paste the following in Firefox URL line```
130.132.35.53
```...how fast did it come up?

Post the output of ping```
ping -c4 130.132.35.53
```

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-27
For the Firefox link, it took 4 seconds for the page to appear and 13 seconds for the wheel (the one beside the name of the tab) to stop.
And here's the terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 130.132.35.53
PING 130.132.35.53 (130.132.35.53) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 130.132.35.53: icmp_seq=2 ttl=241 time=28.5 ms
64 bytes from 130.132.35.53: icmp_seq=3 ttl=241 time=28.8 ms
64 bytes from 130.132.35.53: icmp_seq=4 ttl=241 time=26.5 ms

--- 130.132.35.53 ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 3 received, 25% packet loss, time 3011ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 26.545/27.985/28.881/1.028 ms

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-27
> **lavini557 said:**
> For the Firefox link, it took 4 seconds for the page to appear and 13 seconds for the wheel (the one beside the name of the tab) to stop.
And here's the terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 130.132.35.53
PING 130.132.35.53 (130.132.35.53) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 130.132.35.53: icmp_seq=2 ttl=241 time=28.5 ms
64 bytes from 130.132.35.53: icmp_seq=3 ttl=241 time=28.8 ms
64 bytes from 130.132.35.53: icmp_seq=4 ttl=241 time=26.5 ms

--- 130.132.35.53 ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 3 received, 25% packet loss, time 3011ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 26.545/27.985/28.881/1.028 ms

I think this is a Firefox problem.  The ping time you get is better than times I get!  The Firefox load time is unacceptable.

Post the output of these commands ```
nslookup 130.132.35.53 

cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

Do you have Chromium installed? If not, you can install that with this```

sudo apt-get install chromium-browser

```...How does chromium-browser work for you?

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-27
Here's the output for Terminal:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ nslookup 130.132.35.53
Server:        127.0.1.1
Address:    127.0.1.1#53

Non-authoritative answer:
53.35.132.130.in-addr.arpa    name = vip-wwwprd-01.its.yale.edu.

Authoritative answers can be found from:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

And I did try Chromium...and it seems about the same speed (it might be just a slight bit faster but I don't know).

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-27
Here's the Terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ nslookup 130.132.35.53
Server:		127.0.1.1
Address:	127.0.1.1#53


Non-authoritative answer:
53.35.132.130.in-addr.arpa	name = vip-wwwprd-01.its.yale.edu.


Authoritative answers can be found from:


lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1



And I did try Chromium...and it seems about the same speed (it might be just a slight bit faster but I don't know). Side-by-side, they seem to have similar speeds. However, Firefox seems to have more moments where it randomly slows down for a period of time. Chromium hasn't had these random slowdowns, though.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-27
> **lavini557 said:**
> Here's the Terminal output:

```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ nslookup 130.132.35.53
Server:		127.0.1.1
Address:	127.0.1.1#53


Non-authoritative answer:
53.35.132.130.in-addr.arpa	name = vip-wwwprd-01.its.yale.edu.


Authoritative answers can be found from:

```

```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

```

And I did try Chromium...and it seems about the same speed (it might be just a slight bit faster but I don't know). Side-by-side, they seem to have similar speeds. However, Firefox seems to have more moments where it randomly slows down for a period of time. Chromium hasn't had these random slowdowns, though.
I think that Ubuntu is working great.  The "problem" is not really a problem with any part of Linux, DNS or the choice of Internet DNS servers.  The delay your seeing is due to Firefox's handling of Javascript.  If you turn Javascritp off or use the Browser Ad On called *Noscript *you will find that the performance may be better.

Have you had any problems with the domain of  .local ? Can you ping your own machine (Pavilion) like this```
Ping -c4 Pavilion
```  Can you ping your machine like this too```
ping -c4 Pavilion.local
```

What does Network-Manager show for DNS Servers when you look at the interface configuration?

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-27
Maybe it's just me, but the NoScript only helped a little bit...there were moments with good speed but there are still moments of slowdown (and now when the slowdowns happen, I think they are slower than before o.o).

Here is the terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 Pavilion
PING Pavilion (127.0.1.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from Pavilion (127.0.1.1): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.043 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion (127.0.1.1): icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.063 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion (127.0.1.1): icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.062 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion (127.0.1.1): icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=0.057 ms


--- Pavilion ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 2999ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.043/0.056/0.063/0.009 ms
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 Pavilion.local
PING Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.061 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.062 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=0.062 ms


--- Pavilion.local ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3001ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.054/0.059/0.062/0.010 ms

For the network manager, there aren't any DNS servers listed.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-27
> **lavini557 said:**
> Maybe it's just me, but the NoScript only helped a little bit...there were moments with good speed but there are still moments of slowdown (and now when the slowdowns happen, I think they are slower than before o.o).

Here is the terminal output:

```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 Pavilion
PING Pavilion (127.0.1.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from Pavilion (127.0.1.1): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.043 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion (127.0.1.1): icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.063 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion (127.0.1.1): icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.062 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion (127.0.1.1): icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=0.057 ms

```

--- Pavilion ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 2999ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.043/0.056/0.063/0.009 ms
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 Pavilion.local

PING .local

```
Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.061 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.062 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=0.062 ms

```

--- Pavilion.local ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3001ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.054/0.059/0.062/0.010 ms

For the network manager, there aren't any DNS servers listed.
I see that the .local is not a bother anymore.  It looks like Network Manager is set to auto configure.  Since the system is working correctly right now I would leave it alone.  I haven't used Firefox on Windows in a long time, but I can tell you the what you have now is typical as far as response times.  The page load time is great.  The browser addons and JavaScript is what slows it down.

Enjoy it the way it is.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-27
Have you done an actual internet speed test (either provided by your ISP, or a public one like [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speedtest.net)?](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speedtest.net)?)

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-27
Ah, I see bab...ok then. But just a question: why does that notification about a .local domain thing pop up anyway? Do you know what would cause that?
And steeldriver, here is my test from speedtest.net:
Ping: 144ms
Download speed: 3.62 Mbps
Upload speed: 1.02 Mbps

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-27
> **lavini557 said:**
> Ah, I see bab...ok then. But just a question: why does that notification about a .local domain thing pop up anyway? Do you know what would cause that?
The notification pops up we a user manually configures a ,locall DNS domain.  The zeroconf process (avahi on Linux) uses .local also.  Since both can't use .local avahi stops running after posting  a notification.  Are you still seeing the pop-up?  Post the output of this```
ps -ef |  grep avahi
```

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-28
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ps -ef |  grep avahi
lavinia   3468  3405  0 10:25 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto avahi

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-28
What speeds are you expecting? If you are using a wireless connection, then the download speed in particular can be much less than your basic internet connection speed (from router to ISP), especially if the wifi signal to noise ratio is poor or you have interference from nearby channels. You can use nm-tool or nmcli to see the signal strengths of yours + adjacent channels.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-28
> **lavini557 said:**
> ```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ps -ef |  grep avahi
lavinia   3468  3405  0 10:25 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto avahi
```

The above is inconsistent with the results you posted earlier (see below).
> 
```

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 Pavilion.local

Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.061 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.062 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=0.062 ms

```
Typically when you can resolve the .local DNS suffix it is because you are successfully running *avahi-daemon*.  But your reply shows that you are not running *avahi-daemon* at all.  A successful output of this should look like this```
ps -ef |  grep avahi
[COLOR="#008000"][B]avahi      995     1  0 07:47 ?        00:00:00 avahi-daemon: running [malibu.local]
avahi      998   995  0 07:47 ?        00:00:00 avahi-daemon: chroot helper[/B][/COLOR]
bruce     2819  2763  0 08:51 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto avahi

```

The 2 lines (in green) are missing from your output.  Did you modify Avahi in any way?  How many machines do you have running on your network?

What is the output of these 2 commands```
cat /etc/hosts

dpkg -l avahi-daemon
```

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-28
Nope, I have never touched Avahi in any way.

And here's the terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1	localhost
127.0.1.1	Pavilion


# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ dpkg -l avahi-daemon
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Inst/Conf-files/Unpacked/halF-conf/Half-inst/trig-aWait/Trig-pend
|/ Err?=(none)/Reinst-required (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name           Version      Architecture Description
+++-==============-============-============-=================================
ii  avahi-daemon   0.6.31-2ubun amd64        Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD daemon

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-28
> **lavini557 said:**
> Nope, I have never touched Avahi in any way.

I thought that was the case, but I needed to hear it from you  :-)
> 

And here's the terminal output:

```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1	localhost
127.0.1.1	Pavilion


# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

```
[QUOTE]
Notice that there is no .local defined here.  As an **example only:  ** Pavillion.local . There is no need for you to define it.  That's what avahi is for.
[QUOTE]
```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ dpkg -l avahi-daemon
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Inst/Conf-files/Unpacked/halF-conf/Half-inst/trig-aWait/Trig-pend
|/ Err?=(none)/Reinst-required (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name           Version      Architecture Description
+++-==============-============-============-=================================
ii  avahi-daemon   0.6.31-2ubun amd64        Avahi mDNS/DNS-SD daemon
```
This is the installed avahi package.  So it is there and it is running.

Post the output of this```
pgrep - avahi
```

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-28
Here you go

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ pgrep - avahi
pgrep: only one pattern can be provided
Try `pgrep --help' for more information.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-28
> **lavini557 said:**
> Here you go

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ pgrep - avahi
pgrep: only one pattern can be provided
Try `pgrep --help' for more information.
Oops.  My fault.  I left a piece out.  It should have been ```
pgrep -l avahi 
```...that's a lower case "ell".  The results should look like this```
pgrep -l  avahi
941 avahi-daemon
942 avahi-daemon

```

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-28
Ummm...nothing happens after I use the command. I even tried putting it in again, and nothing happened o.o

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ pgrep -l avahi
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ pgrep -l avahi

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-28
Maybe a different mDNS service is running (not sure what though)? If it's using the default port (5353) then you might be able to tell by doing

```
sudo lsof -i :5353
```

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-28
> **steeldriver said:**
> Maybe a different mDNS service is running (not sure what though)? If it's using the default port (5353) then you might be able to tell by doing

```
sudo lsof -i :5353
```

I can't imagine what would resolve .local other than Avahi on Ubuntu.  Certainly nothing on a default installation.  But the command *lsof * should find avahi.  If it does, what is wrong with *pgrep* and *ps -ef | grep avahi*?

To @ lavini557 :  What version of Ubuntu did you install?  Post the output of ```
lsb_release -a
```

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-28
@steeldriver - here is the terminal output

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ sudo lsof -i :5353
[sudo] password for lavinia: 

Nothing happened. Is that a good or bad thing?

@bab1 - I'm using Xubuntu 13.10. Here's the terminal output

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 13.10
Release:	13.10
Codename:	saucy

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-11-28
> **lavini557 said:**
> @steeldriver - here is the terminal output

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ sudo lsof -i :5353
[sudo] password for lavinia: 

Nothing happened. Is that a good or bad thing?

@bab1 - I'm using Xubuntu 13.10. Here's the terminal output

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 13.10
Release:	13.10
Codename:	saucy
What do you get with this command ```
whereis avahi
```

---

### Post by aurumestates on 2013-11-29
Preferable way to install Arch would be to download a few GBs of  archive, that I can do in a few nights, and then do installation in a  sitting. I see there is the Archboot which has [core] repository but I  also would like to have KDE SC and other important packages like  networkmanager, so I have a working system in the end.

Mzondi Lungu

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-30
@bab1 - Here you go

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ whereis avahi
avahi: /etc/avahi /usr/lib/avahi /usr/share/avahi

@arumestates - Your reply seems...off topic. Is this an accidental post, or were you actually trying to help me? Because I never asked how to install Arch Linux, so I am confused by your post o.o

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-30
Let's take a step back here

Your original issues were (1) slow internet and (2) messages from avahi about the .local suffix being in use. I'm still not convinced these are necessarily related but let's go with that for now. It looked like the culprit for the .local conflict might have been the DNS search domain that appeared in your /etc/resolv.conf but we were unable to confirm that definitively, nor find where it was being set from, and it (presumably?) went away when you reinstalled.

Now we see that Pavilion.local is resolving to LAN IP 192.168.0.24, yet there is no sign of avahi (or any other multicast DNS service) running on your machine. The only reason I can think for that is **your actual DNS server is configured to resolve the .local "domain"** (i.e. it's happening via 'real' DNS rather than mDNS). I think we can rule out that an ISP's upstream DNS server is involved since it's resolving to a valid (and presumably correct) private LAN IP.

If Pavilion.local is being resolved via DNS rather than mDNS then it should show a valid lookup record via dig

```
dig Pavilion.local
```

You could also attempt to start avahi in a terminal and see if it still complains about the .local domain 

```
sudo service avahi-daemon start
```

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-30
Here's the terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ dig Pavilion.local


; <<>> DiG 9.9.3-rpz2+rl.13214.22-P2-Ubuntu-1:9.9.3.dfsg.P2-4ubuntu1 <<>> Pavilion.local
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 14299
;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 2, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0


;; QUESTION SECTION:
;Pavilion.local.			IN	A


;; ANSWER SECTION:
Pavilion.local.		10	IN	A	198.105.251.210
Pavilion.local.		10	IN	A	66.152.109.110


;; Query time: 612 msec
;; SERVER: 127.0.1.1#53(127.0.1.1)
;; WHEN: Sat Nov 30 16:25:06 EST 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 64

Also, I tried restarting Avahi. The notification didn't pop up, though. However, it pops up whenever I connect to my network. It does have to be when I start up my computer; it can happen after I disconnect and reconnect to the network.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-11-30
So what has changed? in your previous ping test, Pavilion.local was resolving to an IP address in the reserved private range (192.168.xxx.xxx)

> **lavini557 said:**
> 
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping -c4 Pavilion.local
PING Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from Pavilion.local ([COLOR=#ff0000]**192.168.0.24**[/COLOR]): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local ([COLOR=#ff0000]**192.168.0.24**[/COLOR]): icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.061 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local ([COLOR=#ff0000]**192.168.0.24**[/COLOR]): icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.062 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local ([COLOR=#ff0000]**192.168.0.24**[/COLOR]): icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=0.062 ms


--- Pavilion.local ping statistics ---
4 packets transmitted, 4 received, 0% packet loss, time 3001ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.054/0.059/0.062/0.010 ms


but now you are getting 

> **lavini557 said:**
> Here's the terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ dig Pavilion.local


; <<>> DiG 9.9.3-rpz2+rl.13214.22-P2-Ubuntu-1:9.9.3.dfsg.P2-4ubuntu1 <<>> Pavilion.local
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 14299
;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 2, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 0


;; QUESTION SECTION:
;Pavilion.local.            IN    A


[COLOR=#ff0000][B];; ANSWER SECTION:
Pavilion.local.        10    IN    A    198.105.251.210
Pavilion.local.        10    IN    A    66.152.109.110[/B][/COLOR]


;; Query time: 612 msec
;; SERVER: 127.0.1.1#53(127.0.1.1)
;; WHEN: Sat Nov 30 16:25:06 EST 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 64


What does your /etc/resolv.conf file contain now? What DNS servers (if any) are specified via the network manager IPv4 settings tab?

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-11-30
that file has this at the moment:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

and there are no DNS servers listed in the IPv4 tab

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-12-02
bump

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-12-02
> **lavini557 said:**
> that file has this at the moment:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

and there are no DNS servers listed in the IPv4 tab
The problem is that your ISP uses a non-standard DNS redirect and manages a .local domain just upstream of you.  This has the effect of creating a .local domain that your avahi daemon sees and then quits working.  The direct answer is to bypass the DNS redirect built into the ISP supplied router.  

There are a few different methods to take care of this.  The first thing I would try is to create a file named *tail* in the ***/etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d*** directory.  

You can do this with gedit like this
```
sudo gedit /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail
```...you add the lines ```

# add Google DNS service
nameserver 8.8.8.8
```
Then tell resolvconf to regenerate resolv.conf with this```
sudo resolvconf -u
```

What do you get now from ```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by noswal on 2013-12-03
> **lavini557 said:**
> that file has this at the moment:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1

and there are no DNS servers listed in the IPv4 tab



The 127.0.1.1 is how the dns is handled in latest versions. If you use Networking tools ,  netstat tab, active network services you see that it is listening on port 53 which is dns.

the command  nm-tool will also confirm your connection info

my 2 cents

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-12-03
@bab1 - Here is the terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
# add Google DNS service
nameserver 8.8.8.8lavinia@Pavilion:~$ 

@noswal - What is port 53? And are you basically saying that 127.0.1.1 is my DNS server? Just checking to see if I understood

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-12-03
> **lavini557 said:**
> @bab1 - Here is the terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
# add Google DNS service
nameserver 8.8.8.8lavinia@Pavilion:~$ 


As you can see the /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail file adds the Google nameserver to the configuration.

Reboot the system and see if you get the .local error message.

Post the output of ```
ping Pavilion.local 
```... and this command ```
nslookup Pavilion.local
```
> 

@noswal - What is port 53? And are you basically saying that 127.0.1.1 is my DNS server? Just checking to see if I understood
The is the port that a DNS server listens on.  Yes the 127.0.1.1 address has a local caching DNS server at that address.  It should now refer to 8.8.8.8 for any DNS requests not cached.

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-12-03
Well...the message still appears...but my internet is generally faster. ^-^
Here's the terminal output:


lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping Pavilion.local
PING Pavilion.local (198.105.251.210) 56(84) bytes of data.
^Z
[1]+  Stopped                 ping Pavilion.local
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ nslookup Pavilion.local
Server:		127.0.1.1
Address:	127.0.1.1#53


Non-authoritative answer:
Name:	Pavilion.local
Address: 198.105.251.210
Name:	Pavilion.local
Address: 66.152.109.110

Now, for the first command, it only showed one line (the line starting with PING). It didn't show anything for like 5 minutes, so I just stopped it. Should I have left it longer?

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-12-03
> **lavini557 said:**
> Well...the message still appears...but my internet is generally faster. ^-^
Here's the terminal output:


```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping Pavilion.local
PING Pavilion.local ([COLOR="#FF0000"]198.105.251.210[/COLOR]) 56(84) bytes of data.
^Z
[1]+  Stopped                 ping Pavilion.local

```

If this was working correctly the number above (in red) would be the IP address of your machine Pavilion (127.0.1.1).  The number is to a Time Warner DNS redirect web page.  This IP address does not respond to pings at all.   I assume your ISP is Time Warner or one of its subsidiaries; correct?
> 

```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ nslookup Pavilion.local
Server:		127.0.1.1
Address:	127.0.1.1#53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name:	Pavilion.local
Address: 198.105.251.210
Name:	Pavilion.local
Address: [COLOR="#0000FF"]**66.152.109.110**[/COLOR]

```
The above IP address (in blue) is a different DNS web page redirect from your ISP.
> 
Now, for the first command, it only showed one line (the line starting with PING). It didn't show anything for like 5 minutes, so I just stopped it. Should I have left it longer?
No the ping request has done its test job.  The answer is not nice, but it is an answer.

In the reading that I have done the dnsmasq caching dns (127.0.1.1) is  supposed to forward all requests for DNS resolution that it hasn't cached to the address we configured in the *tail *file.  This would be the the 8.8.8.8 number.

I'm not at a machine configured with Network-Manager and using DNSmasq with resolvconf.  I will look at that later and get back to you.

I'm only asking to confirm the status.  You did reboot the system BEFORE you tried the 2 above commands; right?

Here is how I see the DNS right now.  The local resolver is 127.0.1.1 (your local machine) it forwards unknown addresses to your ISP to resolve.  The ISP's DNS server can't resolve the name it redirects the search.  The is not the way it should be doing this, but ISP's don't care about the problems it creates.  We need to manually set the DNS forwarder requests to go to a known good DNS server. 

Lets take a look at how DNSmasq is configured.  Post the output of this command (the dnsmasq configuration)```
cat /etc/dnsmasq.conf
```

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-12-04
Instead of putting stuff in the /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/ files, you might have better luck editing the connection via the network manager applet, and in the IPv4 settings tab changing the mode from 'Automatic (DHCP)' to 'Automatic (DHCP) Addresses Only' and then adding Google or OpenDNS addresses in the 'DNS Servers' box below - that should bypass any DHCP-supplied DNS servers altogether

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-12-04
> **steeldriver said:**
> Instead of putting stuff in the /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/ files, you might have better luck editing the connection via the network manager applet, and in the IPv4 settings tab changing the mode from 'Automatic (DHCP)' to 'Automatic (DHCP) Addresses Only' and then adding Google or OpenDNS addresses in the 'DNS Servers' box below - that should bypass any DHCP-supplied DNS servers altogether

I had thought of that, but I'm not sure if that will work.  It appears that dnamasq finds whatever DNS servers are available and uses them.  Normally you have specify specific DNS servers in the dnsmasq.conf file.  Unfortunately there doesn't seem to be a conf file for dnsmasq-base.  Or at least I haven't found one.  

I hope someone can enlighten us here.  I haven't found any DNS server listing in dchclient the specifies 127.0.1.1 as a DNS server  On the hand I suppose you can turn off dnsmasq via NetworkManager.conf.  On the few machines that I have that use this setup mDNS and DNS  live peacefully together.  In fact the laptop I have running right now by my side  working just like you say.  The resolv.conf file still has this (paraphrased) ```
nameserver 127.0.1.1
```...and dig shows (paraphrased)```
DNS:       8.8.8.8
```

I think dnsmasq settings are baked in.  :-(

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-12-04
Well you can edit /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf and comment out the dnsmasq line

```

[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile
#dns=dnsmasq

```

and then restart the service

```

$ sudo service network-manager restart
network-manager stop/waiting
network-manager start/running, process 14582

```

which will revert to using the given nameserver directly (i.e. without dnsmasq caching)

```

$ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.1.1

```

However dnsmasq **should** just be caching queries to the **same** underlying DNS server(s) so in theory it shouldn't make any difference... (famous last words)

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-12-04
> **steeldriver said:**
> Well you can edit /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf and comment out the dnsmasq line

```

[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile
#dns=dnsmasq

```

and then restart the service

```

$ sudo service network-manager restart
network-manager stop/waiting
network-manager start/running, process 14582

```

which will revert to using the given nameserver directly (i.e. without dnsmasq caching)

```

$ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.1.1

```

However dnsmasq **should** just be caching queries to the **same** underlying DNS server(s) so in theory it shouldn't make any difference... (famous last words)
Agreed!  Except we shouldn't use the DNS server in the ISP supplied router.  That DNS server is the root cause of the problem.  Using a .local DNS suffix and improper DNS redirects!

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-12-04
@bab1 - apparently the file doesn't exist. o.o

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/dnsmasq.conf
cat: /etc/dnsmasq.conf: No such file or directory

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-12-04
> **lavini557 said:**
> @bab1 - apparently the file doesn't exist. o.o

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/dnsmasq.conf
cat: /etc/dnsmasq.conf: No such file or directory

I expected that much.  At this point the only thing to do is to disable dnsmasq.  We should do this using the Network_Manager interface as @steeldriver has described  in post #63.```
sudo gedit /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf 
```...and comment out the dnsmasq line

Once again here is the configuration needed.  You will comment out the line by adding the # at the beginning as shown in red below```
[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile
[COLOR="#FF0000"]#dns=dnsmasq[/COLOR]
```

Under the IPv4 tab you should also set the method to Automatic DHCP address only and add 8.8.8.8 to the DNS servers.  Then you need to restart NetworkManager with this```
$ sudo service network-manager restart
```

Now lets see what you get with these commands```
cat /etc/resolv.conf

dig Pavillion.local
```

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-12-04
Here is the terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 8.8.8.8
# add Google DNS service
nameserver 8.8.8.8
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ dig Pavillion.local


; <<>> DiG 9.9.3-rpz2+rl.13214.22-P2-Ubuntu-1:9.9.3.dfsg.P2-4ubuntu1 <<>> Pavillion.local
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NXDOMAIN, id: 48228
;; flags: qr rd ra ad; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 1, ADDITIONAL: 1


;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 512
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;Pavillion.local.		IN	A


;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
.			1784	IN	SOA	a.root-servers.net. nstld.verisign-grs.com. 2013120401 1800 900 604800 86400


;; Query time: 46 msec
;; SERVER: 8.8.8.8#53(8.8.8.8)
;; WHEN: Wed Dec 04 17:05:55 EST 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 119

Also, just a question: What is the difference between "commenting out" a line and just removing it altogether? Just curious.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-12-04
> **lavini557 said:**
> Here is the terminal output:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 8.8.8.8
# add Google DNS service
nameserver 8.8.8.8
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ dig Pavillion.local


; <<>> DiG 9.9.3-rpz2+rl.13214.22-P2-Ubuntu-1:9.9.3.dfsg.P2-4ubuntu1 <<>> Pavillion.local
;; global options: +cmd
;; Got answer:
;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NXDOMAIN, id: 48228
;; flags: qr rd ra ad; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 0, AUTHORITY: 1, ADDITIONAL: 1


;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 512
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;Pavillion.local.		IN	A


;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
.			1784	IN	SOA	a.root-servers.net. nstld.verisign-grs.com. 2013120401 1800 900 604800 86400


;; Query time: 46 msec
;; SERVER: 8.8.8.8#53(8.8.8.8)
;; WHEN: Wed Dec 04 17:05:55 EST 2013
;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 119

Also, just a question: What is the difference between "commenting out" a line and just removing it altogether? Just curious.

How did it work?  Did the .local error message show up?  Can you ping Pavilion.local?  Feedback always helps the helper!

You can delete the /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail file```
sudo rm /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail
```

Now reboot the system and tell me whether you have the .local errors and one last time post the output of these commands```
cat /etc/resolv.conf

nslookup Pavillion.local
```...if all goes well I will explain what happened and what/why we did what we did to take care of the situation.  I want to make sure it is all running correctly first.

The difference between commenting out a line and just removing the line is only in what you may have to do later on.  Both get the same immediate (the line is not read).  With removing the line you won't really remember what you did 6 months from know.  If you comment out the line then it is still there as a comment for you to see.  Some of these things are tests and you might have to revert to the original parameters.  In those cases it is better to be able to just remove the # tag and have the line become available again.

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-12-04
Ok, the message does not seem to be appearing ^-^ Also the "ping Pavilion.local" command runs continuously (which I assume is a good thing)

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping Pavilion.local
PING Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.057 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.058 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.056 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=4 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=5 ttl=64 time=0.055 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=6 ttl=64 time=0.058 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=7 ttl=64 time=0.055 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=8 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=9 ttl=64 time=0.056 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=10 ttl=64 time=0.055 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=11 ttl=64 time=0.055 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=12 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=13 ttl=64 time=0.056 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=14 ttl=64 time=0.056 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=15 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=16 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=17 ttl=64 time=0.056 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=18 ttl=64 time=0.056 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=19 ttl=64 time=0.058 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=20 ttl=64 time=0.055 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=21 ttl=64 time=0.054 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=22 ttl=64 time=0.055 ms
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=23 ttl=64 time=0.056 ms
^Z
[1]+  Stopped                 ping Pavilion.local

I am going to delete tail, restart, and post the terminal output ^-^

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-12-04
Here's the terminal output after restarting:

lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 8.8.8.8
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ nslookup Pavillion.local
Server:		8.8.8.8
Address:	8.8.8.8#53


** server can't find Pavillion.local: NXDOMAIN

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-12-05
> **lavini557 said:**
> Ok, the message does not seem to be appearing ^-^ Also the "ping Pavilion.local" command runs continuously (which I assume is a good thing)

```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ ping Pavilion.local
PING Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from Pavilion.local (192.168.0.24): icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.057 ms
```


This shows that Avahi is now working correctly now.  No error means tha Avahi has successfully started and the ping response shows it correctly resolves the .local domain.  
> 
Here's the terminal output after restarting:
```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 8.8.8.8
```

This shows the current configuration setup using Network Manager.
> 
```
lavinia@Pavilion:~$ nslookup Pavillion.local
Server:		8.8.8.8
Address:	8.8.8.8#53


** server can't find Pavillion.local: NXDOMAIN
```
This shows 2 things.  First it shows that the external DNS server 8.8.8.8 correctly can NOT find any .local prefix and returns that information.  NO REDIRECTS.  The second thing it shows that we have successfully bypassed your ISP's DNS server in favor of a correctly configured DNS server maintained by Google.

Why did the problem happen in the first place?  Two things caused this situation.  The first thing is that Ubuntu added a caching DNS server for the local machine that is not configurable (dnsmasq-base).  The second thing is your ISP decided to add non-standard redirects to their DNS as a response to an unresolvable Internet DNS domain (.local).  This caused the Avahi daemon to quit and error out at boot time.  DNSmasq's lack of an external configuration file necessitated turning off the service completely to stop the incorrect DNS redirects.

If at any time you wanted to restart dnsmasq all you have to do is remove the # that we have added to the Network Manager configuration file.  This is an example of why we should use a # to comment the line out instead of just deleting the line.

If you wanted to return to using only the ISP DNS you can just set the DHCP to automatic instead of "IP address only".

I think you will find the current configuration will work fine.   Try it like this for a few days and let us know how it works for you before making any further changes.

---

### Post by lavini557 on 2013-12-05
Alright. I will reply in a few days and see how it goes ^-^
I think I sort of understand your explanation...So basically Ubuntu links to an non-configurable DNS server and my ISP (Internet provider?) redirects me to their DNS, which somehow makes Avahi quit (could you possible explain why this happens?).
Also, when would I restart dnsmasq?
And if you can, maybe explain why you told me to do what (like what were you trying to do and stuff).

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-12-05
> **lavini557 said:**
> Alright. I will reply in a few days and see how it goes ^-^
I think I sort of understand your explanation...So basically Ubuntu links to an non-configurable DNS server and my ISP (Internet provider?) redirects me to their DNS, which somehow makes Avahi quit (could you possible explain why this happens?).

Sort of like that.  Ubuntu now uses a stripped down caching DNS server (dnsmasq-base) to resolve DNS names if it can.  This is running on your Ubuntu machine.  What this really means is that if you resolved a name already (such as news.google.com) the caching DNS server saves that for a while so that the next time you ask for news.google.com it can be supplied locally instead of having to go an get it from an authoritative source.  

In addition dnsmasq-base looks for the closest DNS server to forward those authoritative DNS requests to.  In your case it is the one supplied by your ISP.  This would be fine except it also provides two non-standard services.  It resolves .local and redirects any unresolved DNS lookups to a search engine web page.

These non-standard services cause a program called Avahi (with Apple this is called Bonjour) to quit running.  Avahi is a DNS protocol of last resort, so part of its routine is to see if .local can be resolved by any other protocol.  If so it stops running so there will be no conflicts.  All of this would be fine if you could set the DNS server that dnsmasq-base forwards to.  Unfortunatly you can't do that.  So the alternative is to stop dnsmasq-base and configure a correct running DNS server (provided by Google) bypassing the ISP services altogether.
> 
Also, when would I restart dnsmasq?
If you got rid of your ISP provided router and installed your own router that properly served DNS resolution forwarding you would want to restart dnsmasq-base.
And if you can, maybe explain why you told me to do what (like what were you trying to do and stuff).
Some of what I was asking you to do was so I could see the reaction of the system (all of the components).  This confirmed what I thought was the problem.  Some folks guess at the problem and try all sorts of things.  I tend to diagnose the problem and then make the changes needed.

We needed to see the Avahi mDNS and DNS protocols working and understand what the ISP was doing to subvert the protocol.  To be clear about it.  The ISP is the problem here.  The DNS changes is for their benefit not yours.  It drives advertising revenue up.

If you want more info I will be glad to provide it.  Just PM me for that.  I think you should mark this thread "solved" now.  To do that use the "Thread Tools" menu at the top right of the page.

---

