---
title: "10.04 internet problems"
date: 2010-06-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-07
Hi, I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 a few weeks back and everything was fine. Recently though I have been having problems getting a internet connection. This orrigonally started when I was still at my university room (on their network) where the connection would work after a few reboots. After moving back home the connection worked on and off for a day before not working at all.

NetworkManager is telling me that I am connected and have an ip address, etc, but nothing is able to get an internet connection. I am able to ping myself but am not able to ping my router.

Everything works fine on M$ and other PC's on the network, it's just my ubuntu 10.04 that is playing up.

Any ideas?
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-06-07
I doubt this is your problem, but check to verify that networking is still enabled. If interface has IP address, it would seem to be enabled...

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-08
> **Iowan said:**
> I doubt this is your problem, but check to verify that networking is still enabled. If interface has IP address, it would seem to be enabled...

I am sorry but I don't understand. Doubt what is my problem? Networking is enabled.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-06-08
> **uru wolf said:**
> I am sorry but I don't understand. Doubt what is my problem? Networking is enabled.:oops:Restated: I doubt networking is disabled, but check...

I need to look for another thread that had another place to check if NM has networking enabled (something about a power failure). In the meantime, you can check */etc/resolv.conf* to see if you have a valid nameserver, and check **route -n** to see if the gateway address is your router (or modem, or...).

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-09
> **Iowan said:**
> :oops:Restated: I doubt networking is disabled, but check...

I need to look for another thread that had another place to check if NM has networking enabled (something about a power failure). In the meantime, you can check */etc/resolv.conf* to see if you have a valid nameserver, and check **route -n** to see if the gateway address is your router (or modem, or...).

Ah, no worries. Well here are the results, and as far as I can tell they look normal.

/etc/resolv.conf:
```
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain SE572
search SE572
nameserver 192.168.1.1
```

route -n:
```
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0
```

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-06-09
I presume 192.168.1.1 is your router. Are the Windows machines set up similarly - DNS and gateway set to 192.168.1.1?

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-10
Yes, the router is 192.168.1.1 and every other pc is set up the same.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-10
Just a few quick checks:
1. You do have a ping to your default gateway and dns 192.168.1.1?
2. Did you try nslookup to check whether you receive response from the DNS server correctly?
3. You can also check a ping directly to a known IP address on the internet, just to check out whether it's a routing problem or a DNS issue.

Cheers,
Boyan

---

### Post by mohanmathew on 2010-06-10
me also have similar problem. :mad: please see this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1504382")

when I connect one of my ISP via Ethernet port no default gateway is getting assigned. So itself I'm not able to ping to GW. ISP is not providing any static IP, so I can't assign any GW in the network connections.

Any ideas on how to set a default GW for DHCP ?!

Thank You

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-10
Here are the results of pinging my router (192.168.1.1)
```
PING 192.168.1.1 (192.168.1.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
ping: sendmsg: Operation not permitted
ping: sendmsg: Operation not permitted
ping: sendmsg: Operation not permitted

--- 192.168.1.1 ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 0 received, 100% packet loss, time 2016ms
```

I am not able to access anything at all. I don't know about things on the same network but seeing that I can't access the router I don't think I would be able to access anything else on the network.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-10
> **mohanmathew said:**
> me also have similar problem. :mad: please see this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1504382")

when I connect one of my ISP via Ethernet port no default gateway is getting assigned. So itself I'm not able to ping to GW. ISP is not providing any static IP, so I can't assign any GW in the network connections.

Any ideas on how to set a default GW for DHCP ?!

Thank You
Usually the default GW is a configuration you get automatically from DHCP. There's no way of knowing which host in the network is your default GW. Theoretically it could be any, although the usual practice is to use the last or the first address from the subnet address space. So if you're using DHCP to get you ip configuration and you don't get a default GW setting, than there's something wrong here. Did you try to renew the configuration? Could you paste the output of ifconfig?

Cheers, 
Boyan

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-10
> **uru wolf said:**
> Here are the results of pinging my router (192.168.1.1)
```
PING 192.168.1.1 (192.168.1.1) 56(84) bytes of data.
ping: sendmsg: Operation not permitted
ping: sendmsg: Operation not permitted
ping: sendmsg: Operation not permitted

--- 192.168.1.1 ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 0 received, 100% packet loss, time 2016ms
```

I am not able to access anything at all. I don't know about things on the same network but seeing that I can't access the router I don't think I would be able to access anything else on the network.
That's interesting. You're getting "Operation not permitted" so it seems like you don't have the authorization to use that command. Did you try with "sudo ping 192.168.1.1", it will than ask you for you user password. Let's see how this will turn out.

Cheers,
Boyan

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-10
I get exactly the same when running with sudo

---

### Post by gsgleason on 2010-06-10
Firewall?

sudo iptables-save

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-10
Attached is the output of "sudo iptables-save"

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-11
That's really strange. It seems like you don't have authorization to use the ping command even with the superuser credentials....I need to check this out, this is probably the reason why you don't have internet connectivity...

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-11
On the rare occasion that I do get a connection with ubuntu it pings with no problem. Could it be something from the network denying the ping rather than permissions on the local computer?

---

### Post by mohanmathew on 2010-06-11
> **lz1dsb said:**
> Usually the default GW is a configuration you get automatically from DHCP. There's no way of knowing which host in the network is your default GW. Theoretically it could be any, although the usual practice is to use the last or the first address from the subnet address space. So if you're using DHCP to get you ip configuration and you don't get a default GW setting, than there's something wrong here. Did you try to renew the configuration? Could you paste the output of ifconfig?

Cheers, 
Boyan

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1b:38:9f:86:7f  
          inet addr:10.176.52.210  Bcast:10.176.52.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:2247 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:260 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:144936 (144.9 KB)  TX bytes:32871 (32.8 KB)
          Interrupt:18 

What I observed is, when I connect this particular ISP no default gateway is set but for all my other ISP's GW is getting set properly. 

But the same connection is working on my Win7! :|

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-12
> **uru wolf said:**
> On the rare occasion that I do get a connection with ubuntu it pings with no problem. Could it be something from the network denying the ping rather than permissions on the local computer?
Could be, but didn't you say that it was working when you use Windows? If it's working when you use Windows, and you have problems when you use Ubuntu, than it's more likely that you don't have traffic blocked in the network. We can prove that actually. Could ping your own address? Just check out what's your local IP address from ifconfig and ping it. It's a standard test to check out whether the local TCP/IP stack is working fine. 
Also ping the so called local host 127.0.0.1, or you could use the alias for 127.0.0.1 ping localhost. Both pings should be successful (to the local IP address and to the localhost).

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-12
> **lz1dsb said:**
> Could be, but didn't you say that it was working when you use Windows? If it's working when you use Windows, and you have problems when you use Ubuntu, than it's more likely that you don't have traffic blocked in the network. We can prove that actually. Could ping your own address? Just check out what's your local IP address from ifconfig and ping it. It's a standard test to check out whether the local TCP/IP stack is working fine. 
Also ping the so called local host 127.0.0.1, or you could use the alias for 127.0.0.1 ping localhost. Both pings should be successful (to the local IP address and to the localhost).

I was thinking along the lines of if the network protocol required the comptuer to identify itself to the router and for whatever reason ubuntu was failing to do this. When I look at the network activity there are small spikes (of a few bytes) about every second coming into the computer. I asume this is the router requesting something. That being said I don't exctly claim to know much about networking protocols.

As it turns out I am able to ping myself with no problem at all.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-13
> **uru wolf said:**
> I was thinking along the lines of if the network protocol required the comptuer to identify itself to the router and for whatever reason ubuntu was failing to do this. When I look at the network activity there are small spikes (of a few bytes) about every second coming into the computer. I asume this is the router requesting something. That being said I don't exctly claim to know much about networking protocols.

As it turns out I am able to ping myself with no problem at all.
In a standard networking environment such authentication isn't required. There are some additional networking protocols which are used to achieve that (like 802.1x for example). What bothers me here is the error message you get when you start the ping. I really looks like that the network is filtering your traffic. You mentioned that you try to use you laptop running Ubuntu in some kind of school network. Is it only there where you experience that problem? Is there a possibility to try out your networking connectivity in another network, like your home network for example? 
Are you familiar with Wireshark? With it you can capture the networking traffic on your interface, and than we can analyze what's happening.

Cheers,
Boyan

---

### Post by bigmojo74 on 2010-06-13
Can you post the output of ifconfig?

Also, was looking at your routing table, do you have a router set up in your room that then connects to the schools network and is this the same configuration that your Windows 7 computer works with? (If you don't mind post it's ip configuration (ipconfig) as well.

P.S. Wireshark is lovely and might indeed shed light on the situation, just don't go getting all promiscuous with packets, eh?

Edit: Can you also post the content of your /etc/network/interfaces ?

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-14
> **lz1dsb said:**
> In a standard networking environment such authentication isn't required. There are some additional networking protocols which are used to achieve that (like 802.1x for example). What bothers me here is the error message you get when you start the ping. I really looks like that the network is filtering your traffic. You mentioned that you try to use you laptop running Ubuntu in some kind of school network. Is it only there where you experience that problem? Is there a possibility to try out your networking connectivity in another network, like your home network for example? 
Are you familiar with Wireshark? With it you can capture the networking traffic on your interface, and than we can analyze what's happening.

Cheers,
Boyan
I think there has been a misunderstanding here. I am not using wireless or a laptop. I am having the problem with my ubuntu 10.04 desktop PC on ALL wired networks that I have tried.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-14
That's a good clarification. I've probably lost away thinking for a wireless interface. Well it would be really nice to see what's happening with Wireshark. Can make a capture of the traffic while you send a ping to your default gateway? At that point I'm really not sure why you're getting those strange messages. The fact that you can ping your local IP address is showing that there isn't a problem with the local authorization. I would really like to see what happens with the traffic you sent, and that's why I proposed Wireshark for capturing it.

Cheers, 
Boyan

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-14
> **lz1dsb said:**
> That's a good clarification. I've probably lost away thinking for a wireless interface. Well it would be really nice to see what's happening with Wireshark. Can make a capture of the traffic while you send a ping to your default gateway? At that point I'm really not sure why you're getting those strange messages. The fact that you can ping your local IP address is showing that there isn't a problem with the local authorization. I would really like to see what happens with the traffic you sent, and that's why I proposed Wireshark for capturing it.

Cheers, 
Boyan

I was not able to ping any local addresses. Only rarely when the connection works. I don't remember saying otherwise.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-15
The thing is that I would like to see what's really happening with the traffic. Is it blocked locally or in the network. That's why I would like to see a Wireshark capture.

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-15
> **lz1dsb said:**
> The thing is that I would like to see what's really happening with the traffic. Is it blocked locally or in the network. That's why I would like to see a Wireshark capture.

I am afraid that this is taking too long and I need to get back to work. I am going to reinstall ubuntu. I'll post here after just to let you know if it's all ok.

Thanks for you help.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-15
Well, give it a shot. Let's see how the things will turn out after the new installation.

---

### Post by Enginer on 2010-06-15
The only time Ubuntu will go to th internet for me is right after a fresh install.  If I change anything, a router address, the port i'm plugged into, almost anything, Ubuntu cannot find the "content aggregator" or whatever Linux calls the ISP.

I almost want to install Windows on this computer so i can reliably access the Internet.  Fortunately I have other connections.

I'll try to wade thru some of the ideas you guys have tossed around up above, but at the moment I'm p*ss*d.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-16
Well this shouldn't be right really. I mean, if you have to reinstall the system each time to get an Internet access. And Ubuntu, like most of the Linux distributions is quite flexible, so there are many options... But basic Internet connectivity is something that it's out there for so long, that I guess is working for any major OS...
What kind of internet connectivity do you use? Share a bit more details, so that we could be more helpful.

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-06-16
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-19
I did a fresh install and everything is fine.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-06-19
So whatever that was, it's now fixed with the default configuration you've got after the install ;)

---

### Post by uru wolf on 2010-06-19
Thanks for the help

---

### Post by scottneh on 2010-06-19
I have been having the same problem for the last couple of days. No network access.  I'm on my windows installation so I have to reboot and then I can post the output of ifconfig.  I am having exactly the same issue as described by uru wolf.

I would prefer not to reinstall the Ubuntu OS

Scott

---

### Post by Xtian_1028 on 2010-06-22
Hello guyz! Coincidentally I am also having trouble with browsing the internet.

In my case, there is no problem with internet connectivity, since I can ping my own gateway without error. I can even ping some websites through the terminal.

But what I can't do is browse the internet. I have tried using different web browsers but to no avail.

Please help me! I need to work in Ubuntu for my thesis project.

Thanks!

---

