---
title: "12.10 can't transfer files via USB to Android phone"
date: 2012-11-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by SlithyTove on 2012-11-23
Just upgraded from 12.04 to 12.10. I can no longer transfer files via USB cable between Ubuntu and my HTC Incredible Android phone.

Everything had been fine for two years since I got the phone. I attach the phone to the PC via a micro USB cable. I get a dialog on the phone, asking for type of connection, and pick 'disk drive'. USB drive icons representing the phone's native memory and the phone's SD card pop up on the Unity side panel, and two file panes pop up on the desk top. I make whatever changes I want to the phone files (usually transferring mp3 files from the PC to the phone, or deleting unwanted ones from the phone), and close the drive icons by right clicking and choosing 'Eject drive'. I unplug the USB cord from the phone, which then gives me a message 'Preparing SD Card' and 'Preparing phone storage'. The files I've transferred are then available to apps running on the phone.

Since I upgraded to 12.10, everything looks the same, there are no error messages, but the SD card files never change! Any changes I've made, such as files deleted or files transferred, although they look correct in the desktop file panes, never show up on the phone. 

I tried going root and using cp, but the same problem happened. File vanished after connection was ended.



The only thing I can think of, is that in 12.04, there was a second option when you right click the USB drive icon. Something like 'Safely Remove Drive'. I may have used that rather than 'Eject'. That option isn't present in 12.04.

Any suggestions? I now have no way to get files to my phone. :( This is a dealbreaker for me. I'll have to drop back to 12.04 if this is really broken in 12.10.

Edit: **workaround found. See post below.**

---

### Post by SlithyTove on 2012-11-25
Follow up:

I think I've tracked down the problem to the lack of the 'Safely Remove Device' in the Quicklist for the USB phone drive. Apparently 'Safely Remove' synchronized the drive before unmounting it, and 'Eject' doesn't, resulting in a corrupted phone SD card. Just great. Incidentally, the lack of 'Safely Remove' in the Quicklist has already been reported as a bug, but I'm not sure it's being addressed.

I've been trying to find the CLI equivalent of the 'Safely Remove' option. This is *supposed* to work (phone seems to be sdd):

```
udisks --unmount /dev/sdd
udisks --detach /dev/sdd
```

The udisks --unmount command seems to work, at least it doesn't produce an error message. But for the detach command, I get this: 

> Detach failed: Error detaching: helper exited with exit code 1: Detaching device /dev/sdd
USB device: /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1a.0/usb1/1-1/1-1.3)
SYNCHRONIZE CACHE: OK
STOP UNIT: FAILED: No such file or directory

If I then detach the phone, the SD card is corrupted (presumably -- no files have been changed/transferred, and pre-existing files are sometimes screwy).

Incidentally, I've tried using Dropbox instead, and it's insanely slow, and awkward.

I seem to have posted this problem to the wrong sub-forum: this is apparently not a networking issue, but a disk issue. Sorry. Can anyone help? If not, I'll try another sub-forum.

**Edit:** [deleted. Thought I found a new bizarre behavior, but it was the phone being odd, not Ubuntu. Problem above remains unsolved.]

---

### Post by Tr3dgo on 2012-11-25
Not a immediate solution to your problem. But I have Nexus7 (Android) and I transfer all my files, pictures etc via ssh. Theres loads of apps you can download which can run on a android OS to do this.

---

### Post by SlithyTove on 2012-11-25
Tr3dgo: thanks for the idea. I've never used ssh, but I'm looking into it now.

---

### Post by SlithyTove on 2012-11-27
**Workaround found:** After making file changes on phone SD via Unity panel, do NOT eject phone drives or disconnect phone. Instead, shut down PC. THEN disconnect phone from USB. File changes on phone will reflect what you did via Unity and phone storage is (apparently) uncorrupted.

So, during shutdown Ubuntu is doing something that correctly writes buffer, synchs and properly unmounts the phone drives. I wish I knew what that was. I wish it were available from the Quicklist. I wish it were available from the CLI. It *has* to be available from the CLI, doesn't it?

I'm kind of embarrassed by this workaround. Having to reboot the OS just to properly unmount the drives (!) seems like a very un-linux-like thing to do. But it works, and while it's annoying, I don't move stuff to the phone very often, so it's tolerable. But I wish there were a better way. :(

---

### Post by SlithyTove on 2013-04-08
**Follow-up**, several months later. The above workaround no longer works. Even if the PC is shut down, the files are not synced and closed properly, the Android disk is not unmounted, and the files do not show up in the Android folder. Very frustrating. Anyone reading this have any other ideas? I didn't really want to have to learn telnet and ssh, it seems like using a cannon to shoot a fly, but maybe I have to.

**And a follow-up to the follow-up:** After googling around a bit, I found a good solution: the app 'Software Data Cable' on the phone, and an ftp client (I used FileZilla) on my Ubuntu box. Works like a charm.

---

