---
title: "X11"
date: 2009-02-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by zefyr18 on 2009-02-17
hello everyone, I am fairly new to the inner workings of linux/ubuntu. I have been working on computers since the days of DOS. I am a technician but only familiar with microsoft, I know I hate them too. Anyways I am attemting to set up an old machine with ubuntu server. After installing I cannot get any GUI on any tty. I tried installing it using sudo apt-get install (forgot what i put here) but it "installed" x11 now when I try startx all i get is:

xauth:   creating new authority file /home/zefyr18/.serverauth.4525

X: cannot stat /etc/X11/X (No such file or directory), aborting.
giving up.
xinit: Connection refused (errno 111): unable to connect to X server
xinit: No such process (errno 3 ): Server error.


So I'm kinda lost for now.

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-02-17
did  you install using the server cd?

do you know if you have an internet connection?

how "old" of a machine are we talking about? what video card/how much Ram/CPU/etc?

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2009-02-17
Apart from all of halitech's questions, you can try reconfiguring xserver and see if it helps.
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by scorchgeek on 2009-02-17
It seems that maybe it didn't get properly installed, as there seems to be some problem finding another program file or config files. Have you tried reinstalling it yet?

---

### Post by ByteJuggler on 2009-02-17
> **zefyr18 said:**
> Anyways I am attemting to set up an old machine with ubuntu server.

Unix and Linux have conventionally never installed GUI support on server machines.  It is anathema to do so, unless specifically required (which usually meanst/implied the machine does terminal services type duties.)  

You should also understand that the only difference between the desktop edition of Ubuntu and the server edition is, essentially, the default packages/software that is installed alongside it.  If you intend for your server box to have a GUI you might as well install the desktop edition and then add whatever server software you want to it, rather than installing a barebones server and then installing the GUI manually, although doing so will no doubt be a very educational experience.

---

### Post by zefyr18 on 2009-02-17
no internet connection as of right now, I wanted to get things running on it before I connected it.

It is a P1 200mhz 256mb ram 3.2gb HD 4?mb aopen video card.

What I am trying to do with it - I can recieve my neighbors Wifi signal (I have permission) with the atheros card I have installed. I have a linksys range expander that can repeat a signal using the 10/100 connection or wifi. My neighbor doesn't have a router compatible with my expander so I need to use this linux box as a repeter, in a sense. So in recap, recive signal over ath0 and repeat through eth0 and set up dhcp on eth0 with one static IP for the repeater itself. But first I want to get this box up and going with some sort of GUI if possible, if not no biggie.

---

### Post by halitech on 2009-02-17
honestly on a machine with specs that low, forget about Ubuntu and good luck getting a gui running unless you go Puppy, DSL or maybe pure debian with XFCE. I have it running on a p266 with 96 meg of ram and its usable but slow.

Debian with XFCE
[http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?t=26566](http://forums.debian.net/viewtopic.php?t=26566)

would be easier with a wired net connection first but you could also download the full Debian + XFCE cd from debian if you want.

---

### Post by zefyr18 on 2009-02-17
ok well that answers my question about a gui, and since I'm not going to be on the machine directly very often a pretty interface isn't needed. So, I understand how to setup the wireless adapter for the network, however is there anything I need no know about as far as bridging ath0 to eth0 and setting up eth0 to do dhcp functions?

---

### Post by ByteJuggler on 2009-02-18
> **zefyr18 said:**
> ok well that answers my question about a gui, and since I'm not going to be on the machine directly very often a pretty interface isn't needed. So, I understand how to setup the wireless adapter for the network, however is there anything I need no know about as far as bridging ath0 to eth0 and setting up eth0 to do dhcp functions?

Well you'd need to set the appropriate routes to bridge ath0 and eth0.  Do you knou about routes and iptables and such?

For DHCP you also will need to install a dhcp server package, pretty easy to configure generally.  Typically this is package "dhcp3-server" but you can look at some of the smaller/simpler/lighter alteravies too.  DNSMasq can do DNS forwarding and simple local DNS management and also has a built in DHCP server.  Might want to look at that.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2009-02-18
Moved to Networking.

---

