---
title: "9.04 Wireless Network option vanished"
date: 2009-07-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by GitaneZ on 2009-07-10
Whenever I restart or shutdown after the initial restart I loose this option under the Connection icon. It still retains all other options and under VPN Connections I still have all the info saved. I just cannot reconnect to the networks I use.

Yes, the wireless card is recognized and the appropriate driver is there (AR242x 802.11abg). It also seems my keyboard has gone funky (not this one) probably not related but who knows.

Please let me know if anyone has a non-download solution seeing I can't go online with it currently unless I reboot, again.

Oh, forgot what type of laptop:

Acer 5050

---

### Post by GitaneZ on 2009-07-13
Bump

---

### Post by walruspanzer on 2009-07-13
Bump. 

Here are some specifics about my issues. 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1211844](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1211844)

---

### Post by GitaneZ on 2009-07-19
It does appear that the issues are quite similar.  Output for lshw -C network:     *-network                        description: Wireless interface         product: AR242x 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter         vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.         physical id: 0         bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0         logical name: wmaster0         version: 01         serial: 00:1d:d9:1c:d1:a6         width: 64 bits         clock: 33MHz         capabilities: bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical  wireless configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath5k_pci ip=192.168.1.5 latency=0 module=ath5k multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bg   *-network         description: Ethernet interface         product: RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+         vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.         physical id: 2         bus info: pci@0000:08:02.0         logical name: eth0         version: 10         serial: 00:1b:24:9d:fc:1e         width: 32 bits         clock: 33MHz         capabilities: bus_master cap_list ethernet physical         configuration: broadcast=yes driver=8139too driverversion=0.9.28 latency=64 maxlatency=64 mingnt=32 module=8139too multicast=yes    *-network DISABLED         description: Ethernet interface         physical id: 1         logical name: pan0         serial: 02:a3:c9:dd:08:98         capabilities: ethernet physical         configuration: broadcast=yes driver=bridge driverversion=2.3 firmware=N/A multicast=yes    It is becoming quite disconcerting that there has been a lack of advice to resolve this issue. I'm almost to the point of regretting leaving Windows.

---

### Post by GitaneZ on 2009-07-23
You know what...forget it. I'm just going to go back to Windows since this community is unwilling to be helpful. A shame really when in concept I like the whole idea of a community driven product and support.

---

