---
title: "Cannot connect to wired network"
date: 2012-06-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by hounddog on 2012-06-18
Hi Guys,

I have a strange problem.  I have been trying to install Ubuntu 12.04 over the weekend but there seems to be a problem with the internet connection after installation.

The LiveCD works fine, I can connect to and surf the internet from the Live Session.  But after installation and logging in into the desktop, the system cannot connect to the internet.  It just says the network connection is disconnected and I am in offline mode.  I have tried deleting the wired connection account and enabling a new connection but it didn't worked.  It just doesn't seem to be able to find my NIC or IP, unlike the Live Session.  It also messed up my router and I've had to reset it every time after logging in into the installation.

I repeat that the Live Session works fine.  It's the install that has the problem.  I have tried upgrading during the installation but I still have the same problem after logging into the desktop.

Anyway, my motherboard is an Asus P5VD2-MX SE and I use the onboard NIC which is a Realtek RTL8201CL 10/100M LAN.

I reinstalled Natty Narwhal, which is what I was using before and it works fine.

Any comments or pointers would be welcome.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2012-06-18
We need the outputs of these commands please:

```
ifconfig
cat /etc/network/interfaces
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
```

---

### Post by hounddog on 2012-06-18
> **sikander3786 said:**
> We need the outputs of these commands please:

```
ifconfig
cat /etc/network/interfaces
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
```

Hey, thanks for the reply.
 
I'm not going to be able to give you those outputs since I've already replaced 12.04 with 11.04.  Maybe in the near future when an updated 12.04 comes out, then I'll try installing it and see if I have the same problem.

---

### Post by Spez1 on 2012-06-18
Hi all,

I'm having trouble connecting to a wired network as well on my 12.04 LTS (works just fine with Windows 7). I can see the network but the connection just ends up retrying constantly with no connection.
ifconfig
```

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 14:da:e9:04:bb:8c  
          inet6 addr: fe80::16da:e9ff:fe04:bb8c/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:6 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:52 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:384 (384.0 B)  TX bytes:10800 (10.8 KB)
          Interrupt:18 Memory:fb400000-fb420000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:605 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:605 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:49002 (49.0 KB)  TX bytes:49002 (49.0 KB)

usb0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 36:d8:4a:0e:cb:c7  
          inet addr:192.168.42.15  Bcast:192.168.42.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::34d8:4aff:fe0e:cbc7/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:3676 errors:1 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:1
          TX packets:3003 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:3655712 (3.6 MB)  TX bytes:498963 (498.9 KB)


```cat /etc/network/interfaces

```

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules

```

# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.

# PCI device 0x8086:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:19.0 (e1000e)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="14:da:e9:04:bb:8c", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"

```The funny thing is I can connect fine by tethering my phone but there obviously is something wrong with the ethernet card (drivers) but I just can't figure what...

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2012-06-19
**@Spez1:**

Are you sure it isn't a problem with the LAN cable or the connector? You mentioned that it works fine with Windows 7 but I still want you to check the cables as all the configuration seems pretty ok to me.

How do you connect to the network? Shared connection, router, cable network? Are you sure Windows 7 wasn't fed manually with addresses and you've got an active DHCP server running on your network? If you are connecting via an ADSL Router, chances are that DHCP server is running, still, just re-check.

If that isn't the problem, note down your IP address, Gateway, Subnet Mask and DNS from Windows 7 and feed it manually in Ubuntu. See if that works.

---

### Post by Spez1 on 2012-06-19
The connection goes via a router I guess. Windows 7 got its address automatically. Now that I manually entered the IP address etc the network works ok. Don't know if this is a permanent solution.

edit: Turns out it wasn't. After some time the address expired. There is something fishy with DHCP in ubuntu...

---

### Post by jcs3rdma on 2012-06-22
Same problem. Desktop->upgrade to 12.04 and no wired connection.

[http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/03/disable-network-manager-in-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2012/03/disable-network-manager-in-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot/)

Followed steps from above to disable the network manager and added the eth0 entry. Now 12.04 works. Be nice if it worked after the upgrade without all this trouble.

---

### Post by firekage on 2012-06-22
Can you explain these commands in this:

[http://www.liberiangeek.net/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/disable_network_oneiric_3.png](http://www.liberiangeek.net/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/disable_network_oneiric_3.png)

what does mean:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
iface eth0 inet static 

```

Thank You.

---

### Post by jcs3rdma on 2012-06-22
Not real sure myself. Just sort of experiment. In my copy on the /etc/network/interfaces file, I only added the following.

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp


What does it mean?  Not exactly sure but I will take a stab:
iface  -- interface
eth0   -- ethernet port 0
inet   -- "internet" ?? not sure
dhcp   -- I changed this to dhcp because my router will assign an address.

hey, linux is something to experiment on and learn. It was not working before, I knew the changes I was making and could always go back if it did not work.
fun times.

---

### Post by hounddog on 2012-06-27
> **jcs3rdma said:**
> Not real sure myself. Just sort of experiment. In my copy on the /etc/network/interfaces file, I only added the following.

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp


What does it mean?  Not exactly sure but I will take a stab:
iface  -- interface
eth0   -- ethernet port 0
inet   -- "internet" ?? not sure
dhcp   -- I changed this to dhcp because my router will assign an address.

hey, linux is something to experiment on and learn. It was not working before, I knew the changes I was making and could always go back if it did not work.
fun times.

Hey thanks for that.  I'll probably be installing 12.04.1 next, and if it does the same thing as 12.04 I'll use your method and disable network manager and enable the internet connection manually.

---

### Post by firekage on 2012-06-27
> **hounddog said:**
> Hey thanks for that.  I'll probably be installing 12.04.1 next, and if it does the same thing as 12.04 I'll use your method and disable network manager and enable the internet connection manually.

In my case it didn't solve problem - i had info "cable is not plugged" at "wired connections". I tried to disable network manager, delete wired connections but this is what worked for me:

This is what i entered to a **/etc/network/interfaces**

     

     ```
firekage@deusex:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces 

#auto eth0
 #iface eth0 inet dhcp 

#auto eth1 
#iface eth1 inet dhcp  

# The loopback network interface
 auto lo 
iface lo inet loopback 

# The primary network interface 
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp 
```

And with the second one commands it works with eth1 (cable is  pluged here). If uncomment eth1 here than i don't have connection. Also  it there is only "the loopbasck network interface" without the "primary  network interface" section than there is no network either.

This is what i added to a** /etc/NetworkManager/Network.conf**
     
     ```
firekage@deusex:~$ cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf 

[main] plugins=ifupdown,keyfile 
#dns=dnsmasq
 
no-auto-default=my mac adres

 [ifupdown] managed=true

 firekage@deusex:~$ 
```
and my wired connections is managed in network-manager applet in Ubuntu.



Internet/connection works. **_The problem is that i don't know why i  had to change these files when on 11.10 it was right after boot and  automatically. I had to add manually it on 12.04._**

---

### Post by Spez1 on 2012-07-05
I tried editing the configs as above but still no go...

---

### Post by jcs3rdma on 2012-07-16
I really, I mean REALLY appreciate what these guys do in putting together this OS, Really. If I could dump Windows I would.

But I want to rant a little....
I started with Feisty in 2007 and networking worked with no input from me.
Every upgrade...
8 - no problems
9 - no problems
10 - no problems
11 - no problems
12 - all kinds of problems, with all kinds of resolutions from users.
      I can't even get the Live CD to connect to a wired network.
With all the network problems, you would think that the developers would jump on this and provide a solid resolution.

rant off and again, I really like all flavors of *buntu
Just wish I could get them to work or even install in some cases.
Thanks guys

---

### Post by hounddog on 2012-11-09
I finally fixed the problem.

I installed ubuntu 12.04 and before I rebooted for the first time I pull the ethernet plug from my router so it wouldn't have a chance to screw up my router.

After the reboot I completely removed network manager by entering the following at the terminal:

```
sudo apt-get purge network-manager
```

I then manually set the internet connection by editing /etc/network/interfaces by entering the following at terminal:

```
sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
```

and editing it so it looks like this:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```

I then restarted networking with

```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```

I then replugged the ethernet cable into the router and everything started working.

Thanks for everyone's help.  I guess network manager is bugger as hell and it's good that it can be removed.  I tried disabling it but it still runs in the background and screws up the internet connection and the router.

I'm happy that I can at last get ubuntu to work right.

---

### Post by jimmybarcelona on 2012-11-09
I have a similar problem. I just fresh installed 12.10, and NIC worked perfectly. 

I use software updater to apply updates and restart the computer and BAM, no more NIC. sudo lshw reveals that my network card and wireless card are showing up as unclaimed. 

How do I fix this? The proper drivers are on the machine since it works out of the box with no updates. 

sudo ifconfig also has no eth0, just loopback.

What can I do?

---

### Post by jimmybarcelona on 2012-11-09
UPDATE: It was the kernel update. For some reason whenver I boot into the new kernel it doesn't recognize anything. If I boot into the older kernel that comes default with a fresh install, the NIC works fine. 

For the moment I'm going to just delete the newer kernel and just use the older one. 

Any ideas as to why the newer kernel wouldn't work?

---

### Post by mbuell on 2012-11-09
Just to share and validate: using 10.04 on my Toshiba laptop, only a year or two old, I had to disable network manager to get wireless working 100%. Two days ago I upgraded to 12.04 - and, no network. Nothing. No hard connection (eth0), no wireless. Purged gnome network manager - using wicd for gui. 

Stuck the LiveCD in - it started up ok, internet connection ok, then crashed twice. First time was something to do with Unity, I think, 2nd time was network manager. Restarted LiveCD, no good. 

The box should find a proper eth0 connection, since the LAN has DHCP, but it is a no go. Did a network restart (etc/init.d/networking restart)

It is deprecated, so I guess this is not the proper upstart command. It says
> * Reconfiguring network interfaces...
Failed to bring up eth0
RNETLINK answers: Operation not possible due to RF-kill
Failed to bring up wlan0

Hmmmm. I may go back to 10.04. Not done with this yet - and yea, gnome network manager seems a bit buggy. I've had mixed results. Some machines don't like wicd, and like network manager, and some the reverse. But more seem to like wicd.

---

### Post by mbuell on 2012-11-09
Wow, all I can say is wow. Do I feel dumb. Giant face-palm! The freakin' drop cable was unplugged!?! Htf that happened I do NOT know. I've been using the machine, with 10.04, and Windows, no problemo. Online, everything - but it must have been connecting wifi and I didn't notice. 

Movin' on, nothin' to see here!

---

### Post by hounddog on 2012-11-09
> **jimmybarcelona said:**
> UPDATE: It was the kernel update. For some reason whenver I boot into the new kernel it doesn't recognize anything. If I boot into the older kernel that comes default with a fresh install, the NIC works fine. 

For the moment I'm going to just delete the newer kernel and just use the older one. 

Any ideas as to why the newer kernel wouldn't work?

What is your NIC chipset?  Maybe the newer kernel doesn't have the drivers for it.  It is still possible to download the driver from the manufacturer's site and install it.

---

### Post by mbuell on 2012-11-28
> **mbuell said:**
> Wow, all I can say is wow. Do I feel dumb. Giant face-palm! The freakin' drop cable was unplugged!?! Htf that happened I do NOT know. I've been using the machine, with 10.04, and Windows, no problemo. Online, everything - but it must have been connecting wifi and I didn't notice. 

Movin' on, nothin' to see here!

I have to revise this message - again. The laptop usually sits in a docking station - as was the case when I wrote the above. However, this was not the end of the story. A a few days ago I tried to boot into ubuntu when the box was not hard-connected, via the dock. It gave me an error on boot - "waiting for network configuration" - and took some minutes to boot. After booting, I could connect to a network. Strange. All was NOT well with my networking. However, this is a problem others have had. The most common fix is here - and it partially worked for me:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11835741&postcount=448]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11835741&postcount=448")

For more info on possible "why" this is happening see this bug thread:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ifupdown/+bug/916890]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ifupdown/+bug/916890")
and this thread:
[http://www.howtoforge.com/forums/showthread.php?t=57545]("http://www.howtoforge.com/forums/showthread.php?t=57545")

Several threads discuss the problem from various aspects:
[]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/220292/ethernet-connection-unavailable")
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/144743/ubuntu-server-12-04-waiting-for-network-configuration-and-network-down]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/144743/ubuntu-server-12-04-waiting-for-network-configuration-and-network-down")
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/67313/network-connections-able-to-connect-to-wireless-but-network-connections-does-n/68538#68538]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/67313/network-connections-able-to-connect-to-wireless-but-network-connections-does-n/68538#68538")

How to just disable the "waiting" message - 
[http://tech.pedersen-live.com/2012/05/disable-waiting-for-network-configuration-messages-on-ubuntu-boot/]("http://tech.pedersen-live.com/2012/05/disable-waiting-for-network-configuration-messages-on-ubuntu-boot/")

Now, in my case, I'm having other hardware detection issues as well. When the box is not in the docking station, the screen is not displaying properly, the mouse is not working properly, and the gui is not responding to the keyboard properly. 

I think I'm going to try and reinstall from the CD, instead of mucking about any more with this. If that doesn't work - I'll go back to 10.04, which did work. Unity is interesting, primarily for me because it is as fast as xfce on this box - and much faster than Gnome in 10.04. I don't much care for the "lens" bit - but that is for a different thread, eh?

Cheers

---

