---
title: "Can't connect to mail server when connected to vpn"
date: 2009-04-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Tallman on 2009-04-06
Using Ubuntu 8.10, I can connect to my ISP's mail server when I am connected to my home network (Evolution and Thunderbird). However, when I have a vpn connection to my company's network, both programs cannot connect to the mail server. I can still browse the internet using Firefox.

What do I have to do to make my mail programs able to connect to the mail server?

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-04-06
does your ISP only allow access to mail server from ISP ips only? try changing DNS servers to opendns - 208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220 .. it could be that your vpn's DNS servers are not resolving the mail server's hostnames.[http://www.prash-babu.com/2008/04/how-to-configure-dns-servers-in-linux.html](http://www.prash-babu.com/2008/04/how-to-configure-dns-servers-in-linux.html) .. or also consider using your ISP's DNS servers

---

### Post by Tallman on 2009-04-06
Hi superprash2003, thanx for your response.

I am already using opendns nameservers.

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-04-07
when you get connected to a vpn network.. the vpn server may overwrite the /etc/resolv.conf file and force you to use their dns servers.. to check that out.. post output of **cat /etc/resolv.conf** when connected to vpn and also when not connected to vpn

---

### Post by Tallman on 2009-04-08
Yes, you are right.

When connected to vpn:

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 10.10.1.1
nameserver 10.10.1.4
nameserver 208.67.222.222
# NOTE: the libc resolver may not support more than 3 nameservers.
# The nameservers listed below may not be recognized.
nameserver 208.67.220.220
nameserver 192.168.1.1
```

When not connected:

```
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220
nameserver 192.168.1.1
```

I copied my original resolv.conf to a backup file and restored it when connected to vpn. Both mail programs are still not able to connect to the mail server...

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-04-08
directly overwriting those files wont work.. check out the link i posted at post no 2.. instead of applying opendns servers there ( 208.67.222.222 and 208.67.220.220) apply your ISP's dns servers..

---

### Post by Tallman on 2009-04-09
Tried that, no improvement.

I assume the problem is that the dns servers from the vpn network are added to my resolv.conf file in the first lines, am I correct?

---

### Post by zoldiel on 2009-04-09
If you haven't already you may want to verify if it is a DNS issue by running an nslookup for the mail server using both your regular DNS servers and your company's while on the VPN.

---

### Post by Tallman on 2009-04-09
```
nslookup *my_mail_server*
```

This gives me an IP address, whether I am connected to VPN or not. The server is different in both cases. When I am connected to VPN it uses the company's server, when not connected it uses my regular DNS server.

Is it possible to use my regular DNS server when connected to VPN to do this?

---

### Post by superprash2003 on 2009-04-09
well..usually following the procedure i mentioned should make the pc to use opendns servers.. another option is to use static ip for your vpn client..instead of allowing the vpn server to give you an ip via dhcp

---

### Post by zoldiel on 2009-04-10
As long as the mail server is resolving to the correct IP address with your VPN DNS servers, then you won't need to use the openDNS servers. 

What protocols are you using to connect to the server, POP/IMAP and SMTP? Are you able to receive messages while connected to the VPN?

Generally with a POP or IMAP server you should be able to connect from anywhere over the Internet to download messages. With an SMTP server that does not require authentication, you will need to be on your ISP's network, otherwise it would be an open relay for spam. This would prevent you from sending mail out while on the VPN, since you are no longer connecting from your ISP's network.  

If this is the case I would suggest checking with your ISP to see if they have an SMTP authentication server, usually its something like smtp-auth.isp.com. You will just need to configure your client to use this server instead and supply your username and password, most likely the same for your incoming POP/IMAP server.

---

