---
title: "18.04.1 LTS - persistent password window"
date: 2018-08-19
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by simpos on 2018-08-19
I have a machine with openSUSE 42.3, it has a shared folder, with full permission, firewall turned off, and create and directory mask 777.


Then I have another PC with Xubuntu that accesses the shared folder, I navigated through Thunar, I inserted the path by smb: //, when I accessed it it requires access (anonymous, etc), I chose to insert the current user name of the Xubuntu and I entered the password, and remember forever.


Now every time I restart the computer, Xubuntu requires the password to access this network folder, in fact it is possible to enter the password blank as well, the problem is to reappear this window all life, and the lay users are confused.


How to delete this persistent window?

[ATTACH=CONFIG]280786[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-08-19
Have you considered not using end-user mounts?  

Unix-to-Unix storage can be shared most efficiently using NFS.  To end-users, this NFS mount looks and feels like local storage, within the limits of network performance.

---

### Post by simpos on 2018-08-19
> **TheFu said:**
> Have you considered not using end-user mounts?  

Unix-to-Unix storage can be shared most efficiently using NFS.  To end-users, this NFS mount looks and feels like local storage, within the limits of network performance.

Hello friend, I would like to use NFS, but there are two problems:


1 - This openSUSE is in an environment with Linux and Windows 10 together, so I preferred to simplify.


2 - I tried once to read about configuring NFS in my language (Brazil), it was extremely long to setup and complicated, I do not know if NFS is currently simple to configure.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-08-20
NFSv4 can be very difficult to setup.  v4 adds Kerberos server-to-server authentication and encryption.  Great, if you need it.

NFSv3 is easier than Samba, IMHO.   But the instructions have to deal with all possible situations, most don't apply to us. Install the server, install the client, edit the /etc/exports on the server, edit the fstab or autofs on the client(s). Restart the services on the server and client.  Done.  

GUIs usually provide only 20% of the capabilities that using config files and shell controls provide. I fear using GUIs to control something as important as network storage.

But supporting Windows is non-trivial IME.

---

