---
title: "8.10 Atheros wirless issue resolved!"
date: 2008-12-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Foxcow on 2008-12-16
I finally got my Atheros wireless device working and it has been by far the simplest solution.  I am using an Acer 4720z.

This is quoted from another forum.

> 
I can't believe it! I got the Atheros to connect to my AP. (WPA Personal 2)
All it took was, disabling, on "Hardware Drivers", the “Support for Atheros 802.11 wireless LAN cards”.
Reboot
When up again, install:

esteban@tango:~/Desktop$ sudo aptitude install linux-backports-modules-intrepid-generic
[sudo] password for esteban: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Reading extended state information      
Initializing package states... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  linux-backports-modules-2.6.27-7-generic{a} 
  linux-backports-modules-intrepid-generic 
0 packages upgraded, 2 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 1173kB of archives. After unpacking 3772kB will be used.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?] 



After that is done, reboot again.
When the box is up again, the Atheros WiFi card was working,
I have spent hours and hours on Hardy trying to connect to the same AP, damn!.
My card:

03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR242x 802.11abg Wireless PCI Express Adapter (rev 01)



So far, I really like this Intrepid.


---

### Post by husky55 on 2008-12-26
I  have a lot of trouble with my Dell  1500 wireless card, Broadcom draft N. I installed your linux-backports but it did not work for me. Is there anyway to uninstall it?  It disables the b43xx fwcutter that worked for me before and does not work now.

I also did use the ndiswrapper to install windows driver for the dell but there was not  network configuration found.  Dell driver used the .exe file so I could not install the whole apps just the drivers and they do not show up in the hardware drivers manager.

---

### Post by Foxcow on 2008-12-26
That is a good question.  I am not sure how to uninstall them but I can try and look into it.  Anyways, the fix was for computers the specified Atheros adapter.

---

### Post by dbius on 2008-12-26
> **husky55 said:**
> I  have a lot of trouble with my Dell  1500 wireless card, Broadcom draft N. I installed your linux-backports but it did not work for me. Is there anyway to uninstall it?  It disables the b43xx fwcutter that worked for me before and does not work now.

I also did use the ndiswrapper to install windows driver for the dell but there was not  network configuration found.  Dell driver used the .exe file so I could not install the whole apps just the drivers and they do not show up in the hardware drivers manager.

Did you download [[COLOR="Red"]this[/COLOR]]("http://ftp.us.dell.com/network/R202478.exe") from [[COLOR="Red"]here[/COLOR]]("http://support.dell.com/support/downloads/download.aspx?c=ca&cs=cadhs1&l=en&s=dhs&releaseid=R202478&SystemID=VOS_N_1500&servicetag=&os=WLH&osl=en&deviceid=14147&devlib=0&typecnt=0&vercnt=6&catid=-1&impid=-1&formatcnt=1&libid=5&fileid=281722")?

You have to extract it for example  with winrar, because it's a self-extracting archive file.

After extracting try again with ndiswrapper, because it's waiting for an .inf file, what is inside of the downloaded .exe driver (so that's why you should extract it)

Probably you should take a look [[COLOR="Red"]here[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1003173")!

Good luck,

dbius

---

### Post by husky55 on 2008-12-26
Thanks dbius. I got my problem solved by a gentleman on this forum who is the ndiswrapper king, Mr. pytheas22 from the Networking and wireless Sticky.

I got my drivers from Dell support.

:)

---

