---
title: "10.04 let me use my Mobile Broadband once . . .then it stopped."
date: 2010-05-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by CheshireMac on 2010-05-03
Hey folks. I decided to give 10.04 a shot, and upon first boot, I was able to setup and use my Rogers Rocket mobile broadband stick. When I rebooted, I found that it was in the network settings, but I was unable to connect, nor did it show up as an option in the drop-menu. I played with the terminal trying to see if anything was wrong, but everything seems normal, which is to say I don't even know what I'm looking for in regards to this type of connection.
I obviously know now that it works, I just don't know what made it stopped for the time being. I'm thinking of doing a fresh install over the current partition, and trying to work the issue from there. Any thoughts would be appreciated.

---

### Post by CheshireMac on 2010-05-03
Okay, so the problem seems to have corrected itself. Not sure exactly what happened, but I'll assume it was just new car troubles. Once I work out the kinks I'll be back to report. Weird.

---

### Post by CheshireMac on 2010-05-03
Okay . . . the problem has come up again, twice in an hour. A reboot obviously did something. I'm wondering now if the issue lies in the way I installed. I was in a rush and decided to install from inside XP using a mounted iso. I'm able to go around and do it all properly, but I'd like to work this issue before I go through the hassle of a permanent install . . . if I do go ahead, I'll be leaving Windows as a barebones system for iTunes.

---

### Post by alexfish on 2010-05-03
hi 

try plugging the dongle in after the system boots up

could you also post the out puts of these commands from the terminal

Code:

[SIZE=2]lsusb[/SIZE]

Code:

[SIZE=2]dmesg | grep -e "modem" -e "tty" [/SIZE]

thanks in advance 

alexfish

---

### Post by mrpenguin on 2010-05-31
Can you please tell me how you connected your Rogers rocket stick to work with 10.04 ??
Mine was working fine till i updated to 10.04 now it wont connect at all

please help

---

