---
title: "8.10 with ZTE MF622 USB HSDPA modem"
date: 2009-04-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by fredmundo on 2009-04-02
Hi, 
Firstly apologies for this vagueness that is about to follow. Im not an experpert but a reasonably competant user (well i like to think that!). I've had a look for similar problem but can't find one...

I'm trying help a friend get connected and running with Ubuntu for their 1st time, they are a long way away so I can't get onto the box. 

I got them going over he phone with the ZTE (on three) without an isse from a clean install. The next day I find out that  after some updates it seems that the USB stick thinks it's a CDMA modem (in network manager) not HSUPA, it creates an auto connection that reappears after reconnecting even if deleted from network manager. It then won't connect tothe 3 connection either. It tries but fails, so I think it's trying to find a CDMA network still. 

I'm guessing that it is just a config file tweak that is needed to force it to realise it's HSUPA and not CDMA but I am not sure which ones I need to tweak (I'm happy editing any files). Can someone point me in the right direction maybe hint at what woud need to be changed too. I'm happy guiding the user through the process but I don't want to create more problems than they already have.

Any help you can provide will be great.

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-04-02
Hi **fredmundo**,
most times the difficult part is to make the system recognize the ZTE modem, which works in your case.

I think you have to follow the Mobile Broadband setup wizard or try to setup manually:
Right click Network Manager icon, Edit Connections, Mobile Broadband, Add, follow instructions to select Country and provider.

Plug in the modem and connect by clicking the same icon and the providers name.

If did not connect and assuming that you have NO SIM PIN LOCK and the account is active, you could Edit Connection (from the same icon but EDIT instead of ADD) and change the Dial No or APN to the appropriate. What is "appropriate" depends on your provider (ask them) or post here more info to search (country, provider, account type)..

Possible "trims" are:
Dial No ***99#** or ***99***1#** or **#777**
APN: **3netaccess** or **internet** or **three.co.uk** etc.

Possibly the "updates" change the Dial No and APN.
  
Regards,
George

P.S.: also read [https://wiki.edubuntu.org/NetworkManager/Hardware/3G#Provider%20info](https://wiki.edubuntu.org/NetworkManager/Hardware/3G#Provider%20info)

---

### Post by fredmundo on 2009-04-03
Hi George,
 Thanks for the advise, I'll check out the link too. I'm not sure that editing the conneciton will neccesarily work. As previously when connecting the device up it worked straight after creating a 3 dial up connection without having to change any settings. I'll certainly give it another try though. Since this update it automatically creates a CDMA profile, which i don't think it should (as we don't have any CDMA networks in the UK). I had initially thought that this would be the problem.
I'll be back if I can't find anything of use, or if I do solve the issue, a solution/cause.

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-04-03
Hi **fredmundo**,

I tried to setup a UK 3 connection at Mobile Broadband (network manager of Ubuntu 8.10) and the defaults are:

Dial no: *99#
APN: 3internet

Check with yours.

EDIT: rightclicking Network manager icon, About, I checked version 0.7.0 and I test the following:
without my modem, Edit Connections, Mobile Broadband, ADD, Country=UK, Providers are showing with some differences as Pre-pay, contract, contract faster but NO CDMA term. 3 has only one option

G

---

### Post by fredmundo on 2009-04-03
Hi George,
I had tested this on my own install. But as I don't have a USB modem I can't really test. As it has auto created this CDMA conneciton I'm wondering if after the update it has re-detected it as a different device. Hence not being able to connect. Do you know how to get ubunntu to report what it thinks is attached ont the USB bus? Also how to tell what IS actually on the USB bus incase they don't match. That way I'll be able to tell if I'm wastingmy time with the configuraiton of a conneciton. 

I haven't as yet reached the person i'm helping.. I'll update any progress though.

---

### Post by GeorgeVita on 2009-04-03
At first you have to determine how the system recognizes the modem:
attach the modem, wait some seconds, open a terminal window and try **lsusb** and **ls /dev/ttyU***

ZTE vendor ID=0x19d2 lsusb will respond something like **19d2:yyyy** (in my case yyyy=0031)

Then search into HAL info file for modem definition:
**sudo gedit /usr/share/hal/fdi/information/10freedesktop/10-modem.fdi**
NOTE: with the above command you are editing the file so BE CAREFUL.
Search for the **19d2** and see if you found any yyyy (product ID as in the above lsusb respond)

The idea is to "trim" data inside the HAL definition file to make the modem work.

I look at the above file and gives a CDMA definition for 19d2:0001 and 19d2:fffe

IF the lsusb gives you one of the above (and you are not going to use a CDMA modem...) you can change the line:
**            <append key="modem.command_sets" type="strlist">IS-707-A</append>**
to
[B]            <append key="modem.command_sets" type="strlist">GSM-07.07</append>
            <append key="modem.command_sets" type="strlist">GSM-07.05</append>
[/B]
(copy paste them from the MF628 definition 2-3 lines below in the same file)

Save, Exit and Reboot to be sure and hope for the best!
(note: a future update of the HAL info will restore defaults)

Also take a look at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1065934](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1065934)

G

---

### Post by fredmundo on 2009-04-03
George, 
 You're a dude. This is just what I was looking for. I'll give it a try and get back to you eithr way.

---

