---
title: "12.04 iptables broken"
date: 2012-05-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by pg-rugby on 2012-05-01
When I upgraded to xubuntu 12.04 yesterday, I found that my iptables no longer allows traffic through unless I set -P INPUT ACCEPT

I have used the very same iptables setup for over a year on multiple versions of linux and this is the first time I have had any trouble.  

I realized that the version of iptables went from v1.4.10 to v1.4.12.

here is what I have for my iptables:

sudo iptables -P INPUT DROP
sudo iptables -P OUTPUT ACCEPT
sudo iptables -P FORWARD ACCEPT
sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 --tcp-flags FIN,SYN,RST,ACK SYN -j ACCEPT 
sudo iptables -A INPUT -i eth0 -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type 0 -j ACCEPT 
sudo iptables -A INPUT -i eth0 -p icmp -m icmp --icmp-type 8 -j ACCEPT 
sudo iptables -A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT 
sudo iptables -A OUTPUT -p udp --dport snmp -j DROP
sudo iptables -A OUTPUT -m state --state NEW,RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT 
sudo iptables -A OUTPUT -p icmp -j ACCEPT
sudo iptables -A INPUT -i lo -p tcp --dport 80 -s 127.0.0.1 -j ACCEPT

my workstation will allow ssh sessions, however I cannot ping to my workstation, or can I get name resolution from my workstation.

any ideas?

any help would really be appreciated.  thanks.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-05-01
Try making the default INPUT policy be ACCEPT then add these two lines to the bottom of the ruleset:

```
iptables -A INPUT -j LOG
iptables -A INPUT -j REJECT
```

Now you'll see entries in /var/log/kernel (I believe) for packets that don't match any rules and trip the following REJECT rule instead.  That should give you an idea about what is going wrong.

I sincerely doubt this has anything directly to do with 12.04, since the iptables code has been around for years.  Maybe your interfaces aren't being identified the same way as before?

---

### Post by pg-rugby on 2012-05-01
thanks SeijiSensei.

did what you suggested.  the interface was changed from eth0 to eth1.  that solved the ping issue, but since I didn't have an interface specified for any other rules it only made a difference there, of course.

However I was able to view logs and found that the only dns I was using was 127.0.0.1.  not very productive.

I manually edited /etc/resolv.conf for now and while it does cruise rather slowly, it will allow me to troubleshoot at least from this workstation for a permanent solution.

again, thanks for your help!

---

