---
title: "7.1 network problems"
date: 2008-01-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by vatrah on 2008-01-27
Hello Everybody, I'm new in Ubuntu 7.1 and having problems from the start to the END :p
I have an nx6325 notebook from hp, with integrated network card BCM 57xx and It doesn't want to work ...
In witch way, I have ping from ubuntu.com I can do wget ... but I don't have apt-get , firefox or pidgin first I thought that are my drivers for bcm57xx but now when I sow that I have ping and wget ... and apt-get is stoping at getting headers  I think is a configuration problem ... please SOMEBODY HELP ME!!!

---

### Post by shafi on 2008-01-27
First you have to install some Repoitories such as main , universal and others then you are able to install packages using apt-get to do this go to:

System Menu => Administrator => software source

and then thick those checkboxes and then click apply or ok to install,

after you install them then you can use:

apt-get install [package Name]

hope that this help you.

---

### Post by komal9 on 2008-01-27
hii even m new to ubuntu.. could anyone help me connect to internet.. my pc is not in a network.

---

### Post by vatrah on 2008-01-28
Hello Shafi, the problem is not only in apt get, firefox, pidgin and others can't connect to internet :(

I've done adding univers in the software source ...

---

### Post by shafi on 2008-01-28
some questions:

1. what kind of network do you use? do you connect through DHCP server? or you are connecting through a socket?
2. could you please post the result of  i[COLOR="Red"]fconfig eth0[/COLOR] ?

3. also check through firefox Tools --> properties  , check for your connection
the same in plugin

---

### Post by komal9 on 2008-01-28
hii..

I have dual boot system having XP n Ubuntu 7.1. 
Internet connection works well in XP.
I am using a ADSL modem which is connected through DHCP server.

the result of ifconfig eth0 is:
eth0: error fetching interface information: Device not found

I think its not detecting my ethernet. So cud u tell me how to install it.

---

### Post by shafi on 2008-01-30
hi,
look, i think ubuntu could detect your network card, because you said that you are able to wget , first try teth0: error fetching interface information: Device not found his command: ifconfig then enter, you should look to the result carefully and see which interface been used, it will be , eth1 , eth0 or ...
then run these commands and see which one works:

1) sudo ifdown eth0 or eth1 then --> ifup eth..

2) ifconfig eth0 or eth1 down then --> ifconfig eth0 or eth1 up

if connection faild post the messages, also post the result of ifconfig

---

### Post by blues on 2008-01-30
Hello [COLOR="Red"]shafi [/COLOR]will u help me pl ..i m having also almost similar problem ..i cant connect with university network to browse internet....i have written everything very details but still nobody found me meaningful probably...pl see this[ link ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4235484#post4235484")

---

### Post by pseudosymbiotic on 2008-01-31
Hi Everyone,

I am having a problem with Ubuntu server also.  When I do my initial install it picks up the DHCP broadcasts, but after it is installed and rebooted it does not detect DHCP.  I tried manually setting the eth0 interface to static and I still can not ping the router.  I know it has nothing to do with the network card or ethernet cables since I have tried it on another machine and also the same ethernet cable and port I am currently using with this machine.  

Please let me know if this is a normal problem and how to fix it,

Thanks

---

### Post by komal9 on 2008-02-01
hiii
i have copied the messages of the commands.. its not detecting my ethernet device itself
->	ifconfig
->>	lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:2 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:2 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:100 (100.0 b)  TX bytes:100 (100.0 b)

->	sudo ifdown eth0
->>	Password:
	ifdown: interface eth0 not configured

->	sudo ifup eth0
->>	eth0: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device

->	ifconfig eth0 down
->>	eth0: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device

->	ifconfig eth0 up
->>	eth0: ERROR while getting interface flags: No such device

---

### Post by komal9 on 2008-02-15
hii..
i am running ubuntu 7.10 using live CD
but i am not able to connect to internet..
i am using ADSL ethernet modem.
ethernet device is detected as eth0..
pls help me if you can..

---

