---
title: "NFS in Hardy"
date: 2008-05-17
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-05-17
To start, I'm a gnube. The reason I'm in here is that 'Abosolute Beginners Talk' is over-saturated. So, on to the problem. 

NFS no longer works on my machines.
 Comp 1 is a dell dimension desktop. P4 2.66 (Single core) with 512mbs of PC3200. 2 HDs, 1-80gig with XP Pro and 2-250gig with Ubuntu 8.10 hardy heron upgraded from Gutsy. Dual-boot of course.
 Comp 2 is an Acer Aspire 5315 laptop. P4 1.73 1gig DDR2(can't remember speed) 80gig HD with Ubuntu 8.10 Hardy. This is a fresh install. The wireless it running on ndiswrapper.

When I try > sudo mount -a on the lappy I get > mount.nfs: unrecognized mount point 192.168.103

This is unchanged from Gutsy setup. It worked fine. I even had a desktop shortcut on the lappy. I did clean install to try to fix this on the lappy with no change. I dread to do a fresh install on the Dell cuz of the files on it. 
Here's the fstab for the Dell:
> /home/bone  192.168.1.103(rw,no_subtree_check,sync)

Here's /etc/exports for the Dell:
> # /etc/exports: the access control list for filesystems which may be exported
#               to NFS clients.  See exports(5).
#
# Example for NFSv2 and NFSv3:
# /srv/homes       hostname1(rw,sync) hostname2(ro,sync)
#
# Example for NFSv4:
# /srv/nfs4        gss/krb5i(rw,sync,fsid=0,crossmnt)
# /srv/nfs4/homes  gss/krb5i(rw,sync)
#
/home/bone  192.168.1.103(rw,no_subtree_check,sync)

All IP info from ifconfig and reverified on both comps before posting.

I went back and followed this tutorial again (it's the one that worked the first time)
[http://czarism.com/easy-peasy-ubuntu-linux-nfs-file-sharing]("http://czarism.com/easy-peasy-ubuntu-linux-nfs-file-sharing")
but NFS is still refusing to work. I've changed setting in fstab and exports several times but nothing helps so I returned them to their original configurations.
I hope some guru can help me figure this out. I love watching movies and listening to .mp3s over the network. 
TIA for all who take time to help a gnubie.
Later taters and God bless,
bone

EDIT: I forgot to add that I can ping from dell to lap and lap to dell. As an extra, vncviewer is no longer working from either to either.

---

### Post by empthollow on 2008-05-17
Your fstab on the dell looks wrong to me but it has nothing to do with the mount -a command on the laptop.  if you are unable to use the vnc or nfs, i immediately think firewall.  are you using a firewall or moblock? 

Next, to eliminate whether this is a network or a config file problem try mounting manually with this command:
```
sudo mount 192.168.1.103:/home/bone /place/to/mount/to 
```

If that doesn't work, it is either
1. a network/firewall issue
2. nfs server issue

If it does work it is most likely a config file issue i.e. fstab one the laptop
let me know your results.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-05-18
Ok, here is the output from the last mount attempt. It's entirely possible that I'm not doing something right. Ok, it's actually much, much more likely than not. :lolflag:

> lilbone@lilbone:~$ mkdir /home/lilbone/mount
lilbone@lilbone:~$ sudo mount 192.168.1.103:/home/bone /home/lilbone/mount
mount.nfs: mount to NFS server 'rpcbind' failed: RPC Error: Program not registered
mount.nfs: internal error
At least I got a new error code.I'll include fstab below. 

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=652b589c-41b2-4bd4-babc-5a41edf1658c / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=4e2a1203-d4b6-4b0a-8e8f-1c4573c775f1 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/home/bone  192.168.1.103(rw,no_subtreecheck,sync)


Hopefully this will help. 
just for the heck of it I tried the following commands:
> sudo dpkg-reconfiguer portmap
I didn't bind it to the loopback.
> sudo /etc/init.d/portmap restart
then
> sudo /etc/init.d/nfs-common restart
I then re-inputed the command you gave me with the same result.

Thanks for taking the time to help a gnube. I'm feeling lost and a bit dumb right now.
God bless,
bone

---

### Post by exactopposite on 2008-05-18
this post should get you going:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249889](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249889)

---

### Post by empthollow on 2008-05-19
ok, hopefully just a couple more troubleshooting steps and this will be a thing of the past. Please post the output of the following commands run from your laptop.

```
showmount -d 192.168.1.103
```

```
nc -zv 192.168.1.103 1-10000
```

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-05-21
Here's command #1
> lilbone@lilbone:~$ showmount -d 192.168.1.103
portmap getport: RPC: Success
lilbone@lilbone:~$ 

Here's command #2
> lilbone@lilbone:~$ nc -zv 192.168.1.103 1-10000
bOnEs_YaRd [192.168.1.103] 5900 (?) open
bOnEs_YaRd [192.168.1.103] 111 (sunrpc) open


Here you go. I know this makes sense to you but it's Klingon to me :confused::lolflag:. Ah well, that's why I'm here, to learn. So feel free to teach oh wise Linux Gurus.
Thanks for taking the time to help a gnube, it's very much appreciated.
Yours in Christ,
bone

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-05-24
Just a bump.

---

### Post by jre on 2008-05-25
I don't know anything about NFS and the output you posted, too.
But please post the output of sudo [FONT="Courier New"]iptables -L -nv[/FONT] of both your machines.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-05-25
OK. Here we go.......

Dell:
> bone@bOnEsYaRd:~$ sudo iptables -L -nv
[sudo] password for bone: 
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT 1591K packets, 758M bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         
1592K  758M RH-Lokkit-0-50-INPUT  all  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT 0 packets, 0 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         
    0     0 RH-Lokkit-0-50-INPUT  all  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT 1939K packets, 1728M bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         

Chain RH-Lokkit-0-50-INPUT (2 references)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp dpt:80 flags:0x17/0x02 
    0     0 ACCEPT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp dpt:22 flags:0x17/0x02 
    3  1053 ACCEPT     udp  --  eth0   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           udp spts:67:68 dpts:67:68 
    0     0 ACCEPT     udp  --  eth1   *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           udp spts:67:68 dpts:67:68 
  974 50416 ACCEPT     all  --  lo     *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           
    0     0 REJECT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp dpts:0:1023 flags:0x17/0x02 reject-with icmp-port-unreachable 
    0     0 REJECT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp dpt:2049 flags:0x17/0x02 reject-with icmp-port-unreachable 
    0     0 REJECT     udp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           udp dpts:0:1023 reject-with icmp-port-unreachable 
    0     0 REJECT     udp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           udp dpt:2049 reject-with icmp-port-unreachable 
    0     0 REJECT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp dpts:6000:6009 flags:0x17/0x02 reject-with icmp-port-unreachable 
    0     0 REJECT     tcp  --  *      *       0.0.0.0/0            0.0.0.0/0           tcp dpt:7100 flags:0x17/0x02 reject-with icmp-port-unreachable 
bone@bOnEsYaRd:~$ 




Lappy:
> lilbone@lilbone:~$ sudo iptables -L
[sudo] password for lilbone: 
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         
lilbone@lilbone:~$ sudo iptables -L -nv
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT 746K packets, 906M bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT 0 packets, 0 bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT 565K packets, 108M bytes)
 pkts bytes target     prot opt in     out     source               destination         


---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-05-27
Just a bump........

---

### Post by jre on 2008-05-28
I just searched the web for it: NFS is using port 2049. This port is blocked on your server. But the page that I did look on said htere were further things to consider for NFS and iptables so you better look on your own. But thius should be definitely the right direction to find a solution.

Alternatively you can delete your complete iptables rule set on your server (and therefore allowing all connections):
```
sudo iptables -F
sudo iptables -X
```
Normally your iptables settings will be the old ones again after a reboot.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-05-31
```
lilbone@lilbone:~$ sudo iptables -X
iptables: Too many links
lilbone@lilbone:~$
```

There you go. I've no idea what's up with that, but that's to expected at this point huh? :lolflag:

I did try to set up a firewall today on the lappy and set it to allow udp 2049 so that may be causing a problem.  I'm 'trying' the arno-iptable-firewall I found in synaptic. Sigh. God only knows whats screwed up now. With me, if it aint broke it soon will be....

Thanks for the help and patience.
Later taters,
bone

---

### Post by jre on 2008-05-31
It's important to first flush the chains (-F) so that they don't contain any rules. Then you can delete the chains (-X).
So I guess you omitted [FONT="Courier New"]sudo iptables -F[/FONT] as first command. Sometimes its necessary to wait after the -F some seconds.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-06-01
Ok, I performed the commands on both the lappy and the desktop. Nothing was returned, they just went back to command prompt. I tried 
```
sudo mount /home/bone
```
but it still returned 
```
lilbone@lilbone:~$ sudo mount /home/bone
[sudo] password for lilbone: 
mount.nfs: unrecognized mount point 192.168.1.102

```
Sigh. I then went to the desktop and used 
```
sudo /etc/init.d/portmap restart
sudo /etc/init.d/nfs-kernel-server restart
sudo exportfs -a
```
I put this into the lappy```
sudo /etc/init.d/portmap restart
sudo /etc/init.d/nfs-common restart
sudo mount /home/bone
```
I got the same results again. I restarted both comps since a wide open net connection is an invitation to every script kiddy on the planet.
I would have thought that a firewall issue would have returned errors like unable to connect or connection timeouts. Obviously, I'm the anti-expert. Oh well, I shall continue to persevere.
 Many thanks for all the help. We may figure this out after all. I do miss my nfs server. I screwed my back up in car wreck and being able to access all the movie, vid, and mp3 files on the desktop has been fantastic.
Later taters,
bone

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-06-03
NFS is still down but since firewall issues have been raised I've added the FireStarter fire wall. I added a rule for NFS using port 2049 and the IP address of of my lappy.
I still get 
```
mount.nfs: unrecognized mount point 192.168.1.103

```
after each try. Any one have any ideas?
Thanks to all,
bone

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-06-06
Just a bunp....

---

### Post by mickelobeoltra on 2008-06-06
I'm configuring lokkit and I am on the step where it ask whether or not to allow SSH should I say yes or no?

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-06-07
Yer in the wrong thread but the answer is, it's up to you. If you don't use sssh or don't know what it is I'd still allow it. I allow it since I'm gonna hit SSH after I re-conquer NFS. I'm just a gnube myself so I could be wrong.
It's a superior replacement for telnet and FTP with far better security though if I remember correctly it's for for networks and servers. It's also used for better security when you're at your local wifi hotspot for secure surfing, e-mail and such.
Later tater and good luck.
bone

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-06-09
Just a gentle bump......

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-06-12
Yet another gentle bump....

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2008-06-12
OK things to try:

Check your IP addresses.. all still matching your commands and entries?

Why have you got that entry in your fstab: /home/bone 192.168.1.103(rw,no_subtree_check,sync) it's not needed as you have it in your /etc/exports file?

Run through the NFS setup again:

On your Dell (which I presume is the server):

Check your entry in /etc/exports

Run "sudo exportfs -a" again

Run "sudo /etc/init.d/nfs-kernel-server restart"

On your lappy:

sudo apt-get install nfs-common portmap
(just to check they are both installed properly)

Check you have a mount directory, if not create (on lappy)
sudo mkdir /media/bone

Then try a mount:

sudo mount 192.168.1.???:/home/bone /media/bone
(where ??? is the IP of your Dell)

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-01
Sorry for not checking back, but life's been happening.......
Ok, I went into Synaptic and used 'Remove Completely' the following:
nfs-common
nfs-kernel-server
portmap

I then reinstalled them and did the same on the lappy, the exception being nfs-kernel-server since it's the client. Still nothing. Nfs reports ```
nount.nfs: unrecognized mount point 192.168.1.102
```

So, here's the setup:
Dell-server          IP 192.168.1.102 (ifconfig)

Acer(laptop)-client  IP 192.168.1.100 (ifconfig)

Server /etc/exports:

```
/home/bone      192.168.1.102(rw,no_subtree_check,async)
```
I used the following commands after editing exports:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/portmap restart 
sudo /etc/init.d/nfs-kernel-server restart
sudo exportfs -a
```

/etc/fstab for lappy:
> /home/bone 192.168.1.102 nfs rsize=8192,wsize=8192,timeo=0,intr

After editing fstab I used the following commands:
> sudo /etc/init.d/portmap restart
sudo /etc/init.d/nfs-common restart
sudo mount -a
Here's the output again:
```
nount.nfs: unrecognized mount point 192.168.1.102
```

I have no clue whats wrong. I then used ```
shares-admin
``` (I don't have the 'Shared Folders' tab in Administration) and added the /home/bone folder, chose 'NFS' and set the IP address for the lappy there as well. Still 'unrecognized mount point'. I know I have something wrong, maybe some of you guru's can help.
Thanks for taking the time to help,
bone

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-07
Just a gentle bump.....

---

### Post by conejero on 2008-07-08
Please, double check that portmap is not listening on your loopback device.
$cat /etc/default/portmap

Verify that the options are NOT:
OPTIONS="-i 127.0.0.1"
rather, use you LAN IP for the interface.

Restart portmap and double check. From what you specify your problems have been portmap all along.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-08
```
lilbone@lilbone:~$ cat /etc/default/portmap
# Portmap configuration file
#
# Note: if you manually edit this configuration file,
# portmap configuration scripts will avoid modifying it
# (for example, by running 'dpkg-reconfigure portmap').

# If you want portmap to listen only to the loopback
# interface, uncomment the following line (it will be
# uncommented automatically if you configure this
# through debconf).
#OPTIONS="-i 127.0.0.1"

```
Nope. I made sure to not bind loop-back when I first installed portmap as per the tutorials. That's considering, of course, that I'm reading portmap right. All things considered, that's a lot to consider!:lolflag::lolflag:

Man oh man, this is a pain. I even erased the additions to /etc/hosts.allow. Still nothing. Here's what I added, deleted and then re-added.
```
portmap: 192.168.1.102
lockd: 192.168.1.102
mountd: 192.168.1.102
rquotad: 192.168.1.102
statd: 192.168.1.102
```
The 102 is the IP for the server, not the router. Come on guru's, help the gnube....please? 
Thanks conejero, it may still be something I'm missing with portmap. I really have no idea. None.
Many thanks to all,
bone

---

### Post by conejero on 2008-07-09
Two things.

1) Your /etc/fstab on the laptop should read:
192.168.1.102:/home/bone      /home/bone   nfs      rsize=8192,wsize=8192,timeo=0,intr 

And not the other way around (you first specify WHAT to mount, then WHERE to mount it). I find it best to mount directly from console while testing.


The format should be
IP:/share              /mountpoint     filesystemtype


2) The error you are reporting is a mount error, not an NFS error.
mount.nfs: unrecognized mount point 192.168.1.102

It is telling you that the mount point 192.168.1.102 does not exist. This should be a link in your filesystem, either /import/home/bone or something similar.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-09
Thanks again for the help conejero. I did the following: I went into my home folder and created another folder called bone and then changed the line in /etc/fstab to this-
```
192.168.1.102:/home/bone /home/lilbone/bone nfs rsize=8192,wsize=8192,timeo=0,intr

```

Now I get a new error wOOt wOOt!! Here we go:
> lilbone@lilbone:~$ sudo mount -a
mount.nfs: mount to NFS server 'rpcbind' failed: RPC Error: Program not registered
mount.nfs: internal error
I checked this post I found in the forums: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=849631]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=849631") but it's waaay over my head so I am not about to mucking around system files that could Bork my system. I found a couple of other threads here that were identical. I then hit Google and found squat I could understand. (Yuppers, I do burn up the search engine before and during a post)
I did go to the Dell (server) and used the following:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/portmap restart
sudo /etc/init.d/nfs-kernel-server restart
sudo exportfs -a
```
I came back to the lappy and told it 
```
sudo mount -a
```
and got the same error. Some of the other posters said that restarting nfs-kernel-server manually gave a temp fix until reboot. Not for me. Of course. I rarely have common problems.
Oh well, nothing to do but keep trying. I hate giving up since learning is most of the fun.
Many, many thanks for all your help conejero.
God bless,
bone

---

### Post by kcnnc on 2008-07-09
/etc/exports in server try
```
/home/bone *(rw,no_subtree_check,sync)
```
make sure /home/bone exist

fstab in laptop

```
192.168.1.102:/home/bone /home/lilbone/bone nfs rsize=8192,wsize=8192,timeo=0,intr
```
make sure the server ip is 192.168.1.102 and folder /home/lilbone/bone exist on the laptop.

---

### Post by conejero on 2008-07-10
I would suggest starting from scratch in order to fully diagnose the problem.

On the server.
1.-Set up basic networking, or review current state of affairs. There should be no firewall installed and you should be able to ping the server. We will assing 192.168.1.102 to the server with netmask 255.255.255.0
On the client, make sure you set up a static IP. We will use 192.168.1.10

2.- Make sure ntfs support and portmap are installed
$sudo apt-get install nfs-kernel-server portmap nfs-common

Review configuration files: /etc/default/portmap should be commented fully

3.- Create a shared directory:
$sudo mkdir /export/share

4.- Export your share
edit /etc/export and reflect your share with basic options
# /etc/export
#
/export/share       192.168.1.100(rw,sync,no_subtree_check)
#
# End of /etc/export


5.- Verify server processes.
Start or restart your nfs server processes, noting any errors the system may inform you of:
$sudo /etc/init.d/portmap restart
$sudo /etc/init.d/nfs-kernel-server restart

Verify processes are running:
$ps ax | grep portmap
/sbin/portmap

$rpcinfo -p
should show status and portmapper


6.- Make sure you have nfs support for your client.
Install packages on the client.
$sudo apt-get install nfs-common pormap

Do check /etc/defaults/portmap and make sure it is commented out.

7.- Create the mountpoint for your share on the client.
$sudo mkdir -p /import/share

8.-Try mounting the share
$sudo mount -t nfs 192.168.1.102:/export/share /import/share

and check output.

You share should be mounted on /import/share

If you get any errors at this point, let us know.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-10
Ok. I redid everything as asked. A typo or two but NP there. I commented out original line in /etc/exports and added the new one (via cut and paste). I checked out portmap on both comps and all is commented out. The error is the same.
```
lilbone@lilbone:~$ sudo mount -t nfs 192.168.1.102:/export/share /import/share
mount.nfs: mount to NFS server 'rpcbind' failed: RPC Error: Program not registered
mount.nfs: internal error

```
Probably something I did wrong. Again. 

Now here's the stupid part. I'm not on a static ip through the router. I have NO clue how it's done. I fiddled with it for an hour and all I did was knock myself of the net for an hour. That's all the time I had. Now wifey's home and Her Holiness ***_must_*** have her internet.
 I'm using wicd for my wlan connection with ndiswrapper (I gave up on madwifi) and wicd uses wext of course. All of this trhough a Linksys router. I think I added that in the first post but I'm to senile to remember and to lazy to look. In the off chance no ones noticed, I don't know squat about networking...or linux.... but I'm trying to learn. 
So far I love this OS way beyond even XP Pro just for the incredible stability. Heck, my Dell (server) has been up and running for about 3 months straight. Same for the lappy. Much coolness there. 
Just bear with me, please. I'm trying. Like I said, 'Absolute beginners talk' is over full so I came here for specific help. Heck, look at me as a challenge.
Thanks for all the help. I greatly appreciate it.
Later taters and God bless,
bone

---

### Post by conejero on 2008-07-11
The error message indicates some failure at the communications level. Could you please double check your IP settings on both the server and the laptop and paste them here?

$cat /etc/networking/interfaces


If your laptop is receiving its IP from a DHCP server,then you should change your /etc/export in the server to allow connections from any host on your local network.

# /etc/export
#
/export/share 192.168.1.10/255.255.255.0(rw,sync,no_subtree_check)
#
#
# end of /etc/export

** I found an error on my previous post, I specified 192.168.1.100 as the IP of the host in /etc/export. This is not correct.  **


Once you have modified your /etc/export on the server, restart portmap and nfs-kernel-server. On the client, retry the mount command.

If you keep getting errors, please paste the output of your server system log file.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-11
ok, here's the lappy IP:
192.168.1.100
Here's the Dell:
192.168.1.102
I ran the command on the lappy and here's the output:
```
lilbone@lilbone:~$ cat /etc/networking/interfaces
cat: /etc/networking/interfaces: No such file or directory

```
I get the same on the Dell.
I tried your next suggestion and the output is the same:
```
lilbone@lilbone:~$ sudo mount -t nfs 192.168.1.102:/export/share /import/share
mount.nfs: mount to NFS server 'rpcbind' failed: RPC Error: Program not registered
mount.nfs: internal error

```
Maybe this info will help-
```
lilbone@lilbone:~$ ps ax | grep portmap
 4377 ?        Ss     0:00 /sbin/portmap
20565 pts/0    R+     0:00 grep portmap
lilbone@lilbone:~$ /sbin/portmap
lilbone@lilbone:~$ 

```

```
lilbone@lilbone:~$ rpcinfo -p
   program vers proto   port
    100000    2   tcp    111  portmapper
    100000    2   udp    111  portmapper
    100024    1   udp  36896  status
    100024    1   tcp  36813  status
    100003    2   udp   2049  nfs
    100003    3   udp   2049  nfs
    100003    4   udp   2049  nfs
    100021    1   udp  39585  nlockmgr
    100021    3   udp  39585  nlockmgr
    100021    4   udp  39585  nlockmgr
    100003    2   tcp   2049  nfs
    100003    3   tcp   2049  nfs
    100003    4   tcp   2049  nfs
    100021    1   tcp  48668  nlockmgr
    100021    3   tcp  48668  nlockmgr
    100021    4   tcp  48668  nlockmgr
    100005    1   udp  54899  mountd
    100005    1   tcp  48942  mountd
    100005    2   udp  54899  mountd
    100005    2   tcp  48942  mountd
    100005    3   udp  54899  mountd
    100005    3   tcp  48942  mountd

```
If you need any more info let me no. You might wanna toss in the "Code for gnubes" version. I'm in so far over my head that I'm not sure which way is up.....
Thanks for all the time and effort.
God bless,
bone

---

### Post by conejero on 2008-07-13
Please, on the server, open a terminal and type:
$tail -vf /var/log/syslog

And paste the output here as you try to connect to your share from the laptop.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-13
```
Jul 13 18:42:18 bone NetworkManager: <WARN>  nm_device_802_11_wireless_scan(): (wlan0): could not trigger wireless scan: Network is down 
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[8729]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(mountd): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[8730]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[8731]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[8732]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[8733]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[8734]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[4468]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:42:22 bone portmap[8735]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host

```
Ok, here you go. The wireless device is a wireless card that I don't use and never bothered to install drivers for.
Hmmm, it looks like hosts.allow is screwed.....to me at least.
Here's the file:
```
# /etc/hosts.allow: list of hosts that are allowed to access the system.
#                   See the manual pages hosts_access(5) and hosts_options(5).
#
# Example:    ALL: LOCAL @some_netgroup
#             ALL: .foobar.edu EXCEPT terminalserver.foobar.edu
#
# If you're going to protect the portmapper use the name "portmap" for the
# daemon name. Remember that you can only use the keyword "ALL" and IP
# addresses (NOT host or domain names) for the portmapper, as well as for
# rpc.mountd (the NFS mount daemon). See portmap(8) and rpc.mountd(8)
# for further information.
#
PORTMAP 192.168.1.100 192.168.1.102
MOUNTD 192.168.1.100 192.168.1.102
NFSD 192.168.1.100 192.168.1.102
STATD 192.168.1.100 192.168.1.102
LOCKD 192.168.1.100 192.168.1.102
RQUOTAD 192.168.1.100 192.168.1.102

```
I edited portmap to remover the 192.1.102 (My wifes lappy, which is next to join NFS via Vista-I can't wair). Now it only has the .100 listings. It made no difference though. I'll post the syslog output again in case I'm wrong.
```
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8918]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(mountd): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8919]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8920]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8921]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8922]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8923]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 13: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 14: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 15: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 16: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 17: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8809]: warning: /etc/hosts.allow, line 18: missing ":" separator
Jul 13 18:54:10 bone portmap[8924]: connect from 192.168.1.100 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host

```
I hope all this gibberish helps.
Later taters and many thanks again,
bone

---

### Post by pwabrahams on 2008-07-13
Here's a real zinger: I have the very same problem with an NFS internal error and failed NFS mounts in OpenSUSE 11.0 -- but not in Kubuntu Hardy!   (I'm running those distributions on different boxes.)  That indicates pretty clearly that the error is in some component that's common to different distributions.  I think I've even seen references to it in Fedora.

---

### Post by conejero on 2008-07-14
On your server:
Edit /etc/hosts.allow and comment it all out
Edit /etc/hosts.deny and comment it all out.
Edit /etc/exports as follows

# /etc/exports: the access control list for filesystems which may be 
/export/share      192.168.1.100(ro,sync,subtree_check)  

Once you have carried out those changes, restart the services on the server, and try mounting the share. Again, post output of syslog.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-14
```
Jul 14 21:03:14 bone mountd[7636]: authenticated mount request from 192.168.1.100:709 for /export/share (/export/share)

```
No errors came back from the lappy.

I re-edited /etc/exports for the home/bone share and restarted everything on the Dell. I edited /etc/fstab on the lappy and restarted everything. I then was able to actually mount /home/bone. Here's the syslog:
```
Jul 14 21:03:14 bone mountd[7636]: authenticated mount request from 192.168.1.100:709 for /export/share (/export/share)
Jul 14 21:08:03 bone mountd[7636]: authenticated unmount request from 192.168.1.100:993 for /export/share (/export/share)
Jul 14 21:08:23 bone mountd[7636]: Caught signal 15, un-registering and exiting.
Jul 14 21:08:23 bone kernel: [ 5911.259225] nfsd: last server has exited
Jul 14 21:08:23 bone kernel: [ 5911.259230] nfsd: unexporting all filesystems
Jul 14 21:08:24 bone kernel: [ 5912.414071] NFSD: Using /var/lib/nfs/v4recovery as the NFSv4 state recovery directory
Jul 14 21:08:24 bone kernel: [ 5912.414365] NFSD: starting 90-second grace period
Jul 14 21:09:37 bone mountd[7752]: authenticated mount request from 192.168.1.100:718 for /home/bone (/home/bone)

```
I have NO idea how it worked....oh yeah, /etc/hosts.deny and allow. I think......  A simple explanation would be sweet! Learning is first, fixing this puppy is second.
Ok, now that the NFS server is finally back up and running :guitar: how about the security end of it all? I really don't want my neighbors to enter into this. The router is on WPA2 but does that matter to NFS? As I recall, /etc/hosts.deny should be ALL:ALL and then hosts.allow edited for the particular IPs.
Are there some speed settings I can work on? The old server was slow. Dial-up slow.14k slow. Streaming audio/video is fine but file transfer was glacial.
I'll wait for advice so I don't kill this critter again. I don't want to go through this again. 
Many thanks and more thanks....
bone

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-15
Update; I had to restart the lappy after an update and it didn't auto-mount the share. I tried to do a manual mount and it gave me the PRCBIND error again.
I went to the server and restarted portmap and nfs-kernel-server and redid exportfs -a. I then went to the lappy and restarted portmap and nfs-common and tried to manually mount. It said
```
 sudo mount -a
mount.nfs: access denied by server while mounting 192.168.1.100:/home/bone

```
I gave it a few minutes but no share. I manually unmounted it and then manually remounted and the share is back. I have full access. My understanding is that if I put the share in fstab it'll auto-mount on boot. As it is, I gotta restart everything and then manually mount it. Something is weird here. Syslog is only showing my restarting everything and one request (authenticated) for an NFS mount. I was watching syslog while I was doing this and it only popped up the request that was authenticated, which is the 3rd and last attempt. Nothing on the first 2, assuming the code above indicates an auto attempt to mount the share.
Why can't I have common problems the tutorials cover? Just once, if only for the novelty?

Ah well, enough whining for one afternoon. Thanks for all the great help so far to everyone and conejero in particular.
Later taters and God bless,
bone

---

### Post by conejero on 2008-07-17
Glad it begins to work properly.

The error message you are getting on the client indicates that the server is rejecting the request to mount the share. You should check your server logs.
Does your laptop keep the same IP it had previously?

As far as security concerns go, I would first make sure the system works in a stable manner, and then proceed with the restrictions. I am not to fond of using TCP wrappers for security (/etc/hosts.allow and /etc/hosts.deny), however this will obviously depend on your setup.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-19
Ok, my previous reply didn't go through.  NFS is definitely not working in a stable manor. NFS is down. If I reboot the lappy I get the bind error. If I restart the services i get 'access denied'. I've restarted all services on both comps and even re-booted both with no luck. The syslog doesn't show anything. It's not logging any attempt to connect.

I commented out fstab on the lappy, rebooted, and tried to manual mount. I then followed the actions above again. No luck. Last time I just had to restart services to get the NFS server back online. Now, it's just dead. Again. I haven't done anything to the server at all except restart portmap and nfs-kernel-server.

I checked hosts.allow, hosts.deny and portmap on the server and all are still commented out. I've changed nothing in exports so I am totally clueless as to what's happening. Makes me glad I shave my head or I'd have already pulled all my hair out by now. 

Hopefully someone can make heads or tails out of this. Thanks for all the help. Later taters,
bone

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-22
Just a gentle bump.....

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-07-22
try sharing a folder dedicated to sharing rather than sharing your entire home directory.  you don't want to think about the permissions mess you could get yourself into by sharing your entire home directory.

on the server, create a directory in /home/bone that can be dedicated for file sharing and nothing else, and give it 777 permissions.  for example:
```
mkdir /home/bone/shared
sudo chmod 777 /home/bone/shared
```

then modify your servers /etc/exports file so it looks this:
```
/home/bone/shared 192.168.1.0/24(rw,no_root_squash,async)
```
restart the nfs server:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/nfs-kernel-server restart
```
then export the file system:
```
sudo exportfs -a
```

on your client computer, your fstab should look like this:
```
192.168.1.102:/home/bone/shared /home/lilbone/bone nfs rsize=8192,wsize=8192,timeo=0,intr
```

try mounting the share:
```
sudo mount /home/lilbone/bone
```

if you still get an access denied error, you have a firewall problem (like firestarter)

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-07-30
Woohoo.....after a week of reboots of both comps NFS is still up and running. Much coolness here. Many many thanks for all the help!!

Now, for the security issues. Conejero (if you check this thread :) ), hosts.allow and hosts.deny have been called 'tcp wrappers' and not exactly the best way of securing a network. So I humbly ask for guidance. What's the best way while remembering I'm a bleeping gnube.

Again, thanks to all for all the help and time. It's greatly appreciated.
Later taters and God bless,
bone

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-08-04
Just a gentle bump.....

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-08-06
Just another gentle bump.....

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-08-06
> **longboneslinger said:**
> Now, for the security issues.[snip]

What kind of security issues are you concerned about?

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-08-07
I'm worried about unauthorized entry. As of now, the NFS server is wide open. I don't have to worry about any of the other comps on the internal network. It's strictly the external I'm concerned about. 
This may be pointless to a degree, but ignorance is not bliss. All of this is run through a wireless router using wpa2 and mac filtering with the ssid off. Is that enough or do I need to secure nfs seperately? At a later date, when I've learned a bit more, I'd like to be able to hit the server from the net. It's not a priority though. Mainly I want my network secure from unwanted guests.
Any advice is welcome. Thanks to all.
bone

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-08-08
Well, the reason I ask is because while hosts.allow and hosts.deny are not sufficient for securing a network against external (from the web) access, it should be sufficient for internally securing your network as a second or third layer of insulation.

If you're concerned about your wireless access being compromised, then you'd be wise to put your file shares and your wireless on separate subnets.  While this may be inconvenient (you won't be able to directly access your shares from wireless), you're looking at a trade off between security and convenience.  As a general rule, more convenience means less security.

Regarding your question about ssh; since ssh runs on a different port than NFS, there should be no concern about compromising NFS as a result of SSH forwarding.  Of course, if SSH is compromised, then anything is fair game.  So, you should give serious consideration and research into securing ssh.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-08-08
> put your file shares and your wireless on separate subnets
Uhhh...you went right over my head there.

> you won't be able to directly access your shares from wireless
Hmm...that's the idea with the server. I like to use the desktop for storage since it has 250 gigs more storage. I'm a Babylon 5 and Top Gear fan and I like to store them on the desktop and watch them on the couch while my wife hogs the big-screen for her soaps. Unless I"m missing something which is not only likely but probable, I like to hit the 'Shared' folder from the lappy.

As for SSH, I'll try to find a simple tutorial as soon as I get a full day off so I'll have time to dig into it in depth.

On a (slightly) different note, I've been told to switch from ndiswrapper to madwifi for my wifi. Is there any benefit? I did switch to wicd which was a good idea. It's a much better wifi manager in my un-knowledgeable opinion. Net-work manager gave me fits but wicd hooked up easy and stays connected.

Thanks for all the help everyone. The Lord knows I need it.
bone

---

### Post by bmamysteryguiders on 2008-08-09
BMA Mystery Shopping Live
206 CALEB DR,
AUSTIN.
TX,78725
Fax:  206-203-1006

Would you Like to Become a Mystery Shopper. BMA
Mystery Shopping Live
and Incentive Programs is an interactive survey panel
that pays from
$150 to $1000 per survey completed!
Make your opinion count! Complete surveys for Fortune
500 companies
and convert your free time into hard cash!





* If Interested, we request you send a response for further enquiries.


Thank you and we look forward to working with you!


Survey Manager.
Aron SouthGate
[email]bmamysteryguiders@rediffmail.com[/email]

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-08-11
Just a gentle bump......

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-08-11
> **longboneslinger said:**
> Just a gentle bump......

For what purpose?  Unless I'm mistaken, all your questions have been addressed.

---

### Post by longboneslinger on 2008-08-16
Yeah, you are indeed correct dmizer. The rest is just stuff I can research on my own. Sorry, I get a tad lazy sometimes. If you don't mind, please close this thread with solved attached to it with my thanks for a lot of hard work from you, conejero and every one else. 
I actually used this thread to set up another nfs server and it worked flawlessly so maybe some else can benefit from my mistakes. I am now officially an Ubuntu user. 

Thanks again to all who gave freely of your time. The Lord loves it when we help each other out of compassion. Goodnight and many, many thanks to all.

Later taters and may God truly bless all of for your efforts.
bone

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-08-17
If you need clarification, that's one thing, bu  the only thing you asked for clarification on was subnets. But you also said that you needed to see the server from a wireless connection, so knowing about subnets won't solve anything.

You already knew about hosts.allow and hosts.deny, so I assumed you didn't need more information on that.

Did I miss something?

---

### Post by pmorton on 2008-08-18
Thanks to all who've posted here; you've helped me resolve a similar problem which arose after I'd changed my network subnet. Here's what I experienced. My server is 192.168.1.10 and the client 192.168.1.11

I configured [COLOR="Red"]hosts.allow[/COLOR] to allow the entire new subnet, using the 24-bit routing prefix thus:

[COLOR="Red"]portmap:  192.168.1.1/24
mountd:   192.168.1.1/24
nfsd:     192.168.1.1/24
statd:    192.168.1.1/24
lockd:    192.168.1.1/24
rquotad:  192.168.1.1/24
rpcbind:  192.168.1.1/24[/COLOR]

This produced a client mount error "[COLOR="Red"]rpcbind failed to register, program not registered[/COLOR]". I.e. the client 192.168.1.11 trying to mount a directory on the server was being denied, despite, on the face of it, being allowed in the above. 

[COLOR="Red"]tail -vf /var/log/syslog[/COLOR]

on the server confirmed this:

[COLOR="Red"]Aug 18 13:29:24 server portmap[9011]: connect from 192.168.1.11 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host[/COLOR]

Replacing 192.168.1.1/24 with 192.168.1.1/255.255.255.0
still didn't allow host 192.168.1.11 to connect. Only when I replaced the subnet with the specific host IP 192.168.1.11 did the server finally accept the connection (after [COLOR="Red"]sudo exportfs -a[/COLOR], [COLOR="Red"]/etc/init.d/portmap restart[/COLOR] and [COLOR="Red"]/etc/init.d/nfs-kernel-server restart[/COLOR])

What's puzzling me is that before I changed subnets, hosts.allow allowed the previous subnet perfectly well, by specifying the old subnet 90.155.94.225/255.255.255.240.

Conclusion - if you have a problem with this error, specify the client IP address specifically in hosts.allow.

---

### Post by pmorton on 2008-08-18
Thanks to all who've posted here; you've helped me resolve a similar problem which arose after I'd changed my network subnet. Here's what I experienced. My server is 192.168.1.10 and the client 192.168.1.11

I configured [COLOR="Red"]hosts.allow[/COLOR] to allow the entire new subnet, using the 24-bit routing prefix thus:

[COLOR="Red"]portmap:  192.168.1.1/24
mountd:   192.168.1.1/24
nfsd:     192.168.1.1/24
statd:    192.168.1.1/24
lockd:    192.168.1.1/24
rquotad:  192.168.1.1/24
rpcbind:  192.168.1.1/24[/COLOR]

This produced a client mount error "rpcbind failed to register, program not registered". I.e. the client 192.168.1.11 trying to mount a directory on the server was being denied, despite, on the face of it, being allowed in the above. 

[COLOR="Red"]tail -vf /var/log/syslog[/COLOR]

on the server confirmed this:

[COLOR="Red"]Aug 18 13:29:24 server portmap[9011]: connect from 192.168.1.11 to getport(nfs): request from unauthorized host[/COLOR]

Replacing 192.168.1.1/24 with 192.168.1.1/255.255.255.0
still didn't allow host 192.168.1.11 to connect. Only when I replaced the subnet with the specific host IP 192.168.1.11 did the server finally accept the connection (after [COLOR="Red"]sudo exportfs -a[/COLOR], [COLOR="Red"]/etc/init.d/portmap restart[/COLOR] and [COLOR="Red"]/etc/init.d/nfs-kernel-server restart[/COLOR])

What's puzzling me is that before I changed subnets, hosts.allow allowed the previous subnet perfectly well, by specifying the old subnet 90.155.94.225/255.255.255.240.

Conclusion - if you have a problem with this error, try specifying the client IP address specifically in hosts.allow.

---

### Post by TygerFish on 2009-01-24
This also helped me resolve my "Program not registered" RPC error!  I followed one of the instruction sets out there somewhere and it only said to include portmap in the hosts.allow file on the server.  While reading here, I thought to look back and notice that I hadn't included the other lines... and adding them got things working!

---

### Post by jrickard on 2009-01-25
What lines?  This thread is almost incomprehensible.  At least two of you have now fixed this problem, and neither have given an explanation of WHAT fixed it.

I'm having the same problem with the same errors.  I do use the /16 and /24 notation.  This has always worked in the past.  With one of the updates, my NFS is totally hosed and now I can't see my website by specifying my own IP number.  [http://localhost](http://localhost) works.

Something is either badly broken or dramatically changed.

WHAT WAS THE FIX???

Jack Rickard

---

### Post by dmizer on 2009-01-25
I know that this post (on page 5): [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5439621&postcount=42](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5439621&postcount=42)

Fixed the problem for longboneslinger. If there is something about that post that you don't understand, I'll be more than happy to explain it to you.

Edit:
> **jrickard said:**
> Something is either badly broken or dramatically changed.
No, the [NFS server/client howto](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=249889) is wrong. For some reason Feisty was able to handle the mistake, but Hardy is not.

Edit 2:
I corrected the howto.

---

### Post by TygerFish on 2009-01-30
> **jrickard said:**
> What lines?  This thread is almost incomprehensible.  At least two of you have now fixed this problem, and neither have given an explanation of WHAT fixed it.

For my part, my problem was slightly unrelated, which I did describe: I'd only put
```
portmap: 192.168.1.xxx
```
in my server's hosts.allow file, whereas I needed to add many more lines.  Although I'd grant that this thread was somewhat hard to follow in places, it's been quite thorough.

jrickard, if the 24-bit IP notation is giving you a problem, you could always try just specifying all the individual IPs that you need on your network.  It may not be a real solution, but if it's something you can do in your situation, it would at least make the problem stop affecting you.

---

