---
title: "Hosts and nameserver mods in 12.04 ?"
date: 2012-09-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by oygle on 2012-09-08
Hi,

Have installed 12.04, from 10.04, and usually when I do an upgrade, there are 2 files for networking to be changed by hand. They are in /etc

hosts
resolv.conf

Can the values for the other computers (IP addresses and names) be changed in the network/admin side of things, instead of modifying /etc/hosts ??

Also, for resolv.conf, I used to have the name server of 192.168.1.254 , for the access to the internet, but 12.04 works okay 'as is' on that side of things. The file resolv.conf has 127.0.0.1 in it now , in 12.04

Oygle

---

### Post by oygle on 2012-09-09
The /etc/hosts file from the previous rel of Ubuntu had ..

> 
127.0.0.1	localhost
127.0.1.1	asus64
192.168.1.100	asus32
192.168.1.101	asus64
192.168.1.102	msi

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
ff02::3 ip6-allhosts


The /etc/resov.conf file had ..

> 
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.254


Oygle

---

### Post by d3v1150m471c on 2012-09-09
i don't see any reason why you can't modify them, maybe i don't understand your question. btw, you may want to `chattr +i /etc/resolv.conf' so network manager doesn't nuke your settings.

---

### Post by oygle on 2012-09-09
> **d3v1150m471c said:**
> maybe i don't understand your question

Can the values for the other computers (IP addresses and names) be changed in the network/admin side of things, instead of modifying /etc/hosts ??
That is, can NM change the settings, rather than me having to modify the files.

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2012-09-09
> **oygle said:**
> Can the values for the other computers (IP addresses and names) be changed in the network/admin side of things, instead of modifying /etc/hosts ??
That is, can NM change the settings, rather than me having to modify the files.

What do you mean by "network/admin"?  If you mean the app Network-Manager (NM) on the local host, then I would have to say no.  NM is for managing that host's connections.  The /etc/hosts file only maps host names to IP addresses that you want on the local machine.  It is a primitive form of DNS.  If you are looking for a centralized (and maybe automated) form of this then you would want to run a LAN DNS server.  This could be BIND9 or DNSMasq.

In 12.04 The local DNS (for the local host) has been modified by using the app **[COLOR="Blue"]resolvconf[/COLOR]** instead the file **[COLOR="Green"]resolv.conf [/COLOR]**.  You can read about it [**_[COLOR="DarkSlateGray"]here[/COLOR]_**]("http://www.stgraber.org/2012/02/24/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/") and [_[COLOR="DarkSlateGray"]**here**[/COLOR]_]("http://thatexplainsalot.com/blog/2012/05/dns-in-ubuntu-12-04/").

---

### Post by d3v1150m471c on 2012-09-10
ah, that makes sense. afaik network manager cannot do this or any other software. easy solution however would be to change the computers on the network to a static ip.

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2012-09-10
> **d3v1150m471c said:**
> ah, that makes sense. afaik network manager cannot do this or any other software. easy solution however would be to change the computers on the network to a static ip.

I have 7 hosts on my home network.  The workstations don't move and therefore are wired.  The laptops when they are home are also wired.  The mobile devices are always wireless.  My thought is:  If it is wired I configure them with static addresses (/etc/network/interfaces) and then I set the hostname statically via a DNS server.  If the host is wireless I don't care what the hostname is, and I set the IP address dynamically via DHCP.  If one was so inclined you could set the hostname in the DHCP client configuration, but I don't bother.

---

### Post by oygle on 2012-09-10
> **redmk2 said:**
> In 12.04 The local DNS (for the local host) has been modified by using the app **[COLOR="Blue"]resolvconf[/COLOR]** instead the file **[COLOR="Green"]resolv.conf [/COLOR]**

Thanks, I read up a bit on it. I have the file resolv.conf as well as the path, but network wise, all works okay, except for assigning static IP's.

However, when I ran **nm-tool**, it informed me that 192.168.1.254 was both the gateway and the DNS, which is what I required/needed, so somehow NM is clever enough to work that out.

It has an incorrect IP for this computer, but I can go change that on the router side of things (hardware), to permantly assign a particular IP.

---

