---
title: "Wireless drops out"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by nbxmike on 2011-10-14
I never got the BCM4312 working in 11.04, trying again since it works fine in Vista.  I ran the commands and saw nothing wierd, but when I ran dumped netrules this came back:

cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.

# PCI device 0x1969:0x1062 (atl1c)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:23:5a:db:3c:ef", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"

# PCI device 0x14e4:0x4315 (b43-pci-bridge)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:24:2c:a2:2c:ef", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan0"

# PCI device 0x14e4:0x4315 (wl)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:24:2c:a2:2c:ef", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth1"

# PCI device 0x14e4:0x4315 (wl)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:24:2c:a2:2c:ef", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth2"

Should I really have three names for the same thing??

---

### Post by gnush on 2011-10-14
I'm not really good at networking, but as far as I can tell they are rules for different network interfaces.

When do you get disconnected? At regular intervals?

---

### Post by nbxmike on 2011-10-14
The drop is is fairly random, and there are three distinct names for the same PCI device and the same MAC address.

---

### Post by nbxmike on 2011-11-07
It appears that Ubuntu is an Atheros wireless only OS, purchased an Atheros based card off E-bay and it works.  Luckily FreeBSD and Windows fully support an number of wifi cards so they work with this one too.  Thanks for all the help.

Cheers

---

