---
title: "10.04 Incompatible, 12.04 Sucks"
date: 2012-08-23
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Geekasaurus on 2012-08-23
I recently purchased a Lenovo G570.  I nuked Win7 and installed Ubuntu 12.04 LTS.  The installation was quick, all the hardware was detected and drivers loaded properly.  It was, in a word, a most excellent install. 

Then I tried to actually USE the laptop.  Silly me; I expected it to work like 10.04 (and before that; 9.04, and before that; 7.02).  The Ubuntu developers that had for so long been developing a winner suddenly made a GUI that is completely useless to me.  It took me an hour to figure out how to open a terminal session for my beloved BASH.  I should have just GUESSED that it was CTRL-ALT-T instead of Applications-Accessories-Terminal.  It doesn't even HAVE an applications menu; or any menu that I could find.  I screwed around with it for an hour before digging out my 10.04 disks, nuking 12.04 and installing an old favorite.  Even Firefox sucks on 12.04.

Except that 10.04 could not detect the wireless OR the wired ethernet adapters on the G570.  I spent many hours with Network Manager and hacked several configuration files under the /etc directory tree but could not make it find the adapters regardless of the number of times I rebooted it.  It looks like there is some sort of fundamental incompatibility in 10.04 that 12.04 addresses.  This is one of the reasons I wanted to try 12.04.

I found a website with some step-by-step instructions on how to revert the GUI in 12.04 to the 10.04 GUI, but after several hours had to give up on that.  So it looks like I am stuck with 12.04.  My first choice is to make 10.04 work (I'm writing this on a 10.04 desktop w/Chrome).

I really, really hate the 12.04 GUI, but everything else seems perfect.  I have to travel out of town Friday for a job interview, and purchased this machine for that purpose.  But I do NOT want to be embarrassed by using a *nix system that I have no familiarity with.  I think I would rather print out my resume and portfolio and take it in dead-tree fashion than use a system that is very frustrating to me.  It is equally stupid to bring a machine with no functioning network capability

My last-gasp chance is to make 10.04 work on the Lenovo.  Does anyone on this board have some clues about 10.04 and the Lenovo G570?

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-08-23
Seems as if you don't know much about Ubuntu. There are other desktops available than Unity, for example KDE (Kubuntu), XFCE (Xubuntu) and LXDE (Lubuntu), to name just the most prominent. Besides that, Canonical chose Unity to be the default desktop for Ubuntu since 11.04 and my guess is that this won't change any time soon.

---

### Post by Kirk Schnable on 2012-08-23
It sounds like you might be best suited for Xubuntu 12.04.  XFCE (Xubuntu) looks a little bit like Gnome 2, and a lot of the logic is similar.

I'm not a huge fan of Unity either, but I'm making a point to use it and become familiar with it.  I suspect its functionality will improve over time, with a company like Canonical backing it.

Kirk

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2012-08-24
If you would like your old-style Ubuntu back then go to terminal and type:

sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback

then log out, click on the session menu icon beside your user id, select Gnome Classic from the list and enter password to log in...

---

### Post by Jive Turkey on 2012-08-24
> **TenPlus1 said:**
> If you would like your old-style Ubuntu back then go to terminal and type:

sudo apt-get install gnome-session-fallback

then log out, click on the session menu icon beside your user id, select Gnome Classic from the list and enter password to log in...

This is what the OP is looking for I believe.

---

### Post by krtica on 2012-09-03
I'm not sure how similar these two laptops are, but here is an article about installing Ubuntu 10.04 on Lenovo ThinkPad T520.

[http://putokaz.wordpress.com/2011/10/24/installing-ubuntu-10-04-lts-lucid-lynx-on-lenovo-thinkpad-t520/](http://putokaz.wordpress.com/2011/10/24/installing-ubuntu-10-04-lts-lucid-lynx-on-lenovo-thinkpad-t520/)

If it helps, you may also check:

[http://putokaz.wordpress.com/2011/11/02/fixing-cpu-fan-on-lenovo-thinkpad-t520/](http://putokaz.wordpress.com/2011/11/02/fixing-cpu-fan-on-lenovo-thinkpad-t520/)

and

[http://putokaz.wordpress.com/2011/10/24/improving-power-consumption-on-ubuntu-laptop-with-sandy-bridge-processor/](http://putokaz.wordpress.com/2011/10/24/improving-power-consumption-on-ubuntu-laptop-with-sandy-bridge-processor/)

I hope it may help.

---

