---
title: "7.10 - How to turn on Bluetooth? - NEC Versa P7200"
date: 2008-01-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Ozbboy on 2008-01-14
Hi Everyone,

I need some help. I have a NEC Versa P7200 with 7.10 installed. I'm trying to turn on Bluetooth so I can sync my phone. 

When i press the Fn + f2 hotkey it doesn't work.. Nada.. 

How can i Turn on bluetooth?

Thanks..

---

### Post by benanzo on 2008-01-14
I'm not familiar with that computer.  Is the Fn+F2 combination supposed turn on/off the bluetooth radio?  If so that's typically an operation controlled in the BIOS.  You'll likely find a setting to turn it on there if that key combination doesn't work while the OS is booted.

You can find information about using bluetooth in Ubuntu [here.]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BluetoothSetup")

---

### Post by GavinZac on 2008-01-14
What indication do you normally get, that bluetooth should be working?

---

### Post by Ozbboy on 2008-01-16
The Fn + F2 combination is to turn on the Bluetooth Radio.

Under XP a tray icon is show when the Bluetooth Radio is on.. I'm also able to see the bluetooth device from my cell phone.

Benazo, you were right, I can turn on Bluetooth Radio from the bios..

I just need to work out how I can send files from laptop to my cell.

---

### Post by gn2 on 2008-01-16
I just received a bluetooth adapter in the post.....

I use Xubuntu and added these packages using Synaptic:

bluetooth (3.19-0ubuntu3)
bluez-utils (3.19-0ubuntu3)
libbluetooth2 (3.19-0ubuntu1)
gnome-bluetooth (0.9.1-0ubuntu1)
libbtctl4 (0.9.0-0ubuntu1)
libgnomebt0 (0.9.1-0ubuntu1)
libopenobex1 (1.3-3ubuntu1)

There is now a "Bluetooth File Sharing" icon in the Accesories section of my System menu which turns my USB Bluetooth on.

Then I created a Send To item for Bluetooth in Thunar using this guide:
[http://thunar.xfce.org/pwiki/documentation/sendto_menu](http://thunar.xfce.org/pwiki/documentation/sendto_menu)

Hopefully this info will help.

---

