---
title: "14.04 libnl update broke Network Manager and Network"
date: 2016-01-29
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bswarm2 on 2016-01-29
I had the "pre-released updates" box checked in my software updates. When I did an update yesterday and rebooted, I lost wired/wireless networking and Network Manager wouldn't start. ```
dmesg | grep network-manager
``` kept showing segfaults. I tried various things, but nothing worked until I manually rolled back the update. I had to download the previous versions of libnl (see the following log file) from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/trusty/libnl3](http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/trusty/libnl3) on another computer and transfer them via flashdrive then install them with 
```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```
The files needed were **libnl-3-200_3.2.21-1_amd64.deb libnl-genl-3-200_3.2.21-1_amd64.deb libnl-route-3-200_3.2.21-1_amd64.deb**
I got my networking back after that.

```
LOGFILE
Commit Log for Thu Jan 28 16:18:10 2016
Upgraded the following packages:
libnl-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnl-genl-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnl-route-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
```

Edit:
 Summary...
Don't use synaptic to remove or roll back the packages, it will try to remove many files along with it or pop up with broken dependencies.
Steps to fix...
1- Download the 3 files on another computer from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/trusty/libnl3](http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/trusty/libnl3).
2- Copy them to a flashdrive.
3- Put the flashdrive in to the affected computer.
4- Copy the 3 files into a new folder.
5- Open a terminal in that folder and run
```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```
It will install those packages and networking should come back after restarting.
Hope this helps anyone with the same problem.

Update Feb 3rd...
It looks like they fixed the problems by updating several network packages.
```

Commit Log for Wed Feb  3 12:49:20 2016


Upgraded the following packages:
gir1.2-networkmanager-1.0 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
libnl-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnl-genl-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnl-route-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnm-glib-vpn1 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
libnm-glib4 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
libnm-util2 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
network-manager (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
network-manager-dbg (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
```
So there's no reason to apply the fix in the first post as long as you update the rest of the recommended packages. I've unpinned the 3 offending packages and let them update along with the rest of them, and my network is working fine.

---

### Post by martin167 on 2016-01-29
Thank you! Had the same problem.

---

### Post by tobiz on 2016-01-29
Got the same issue(?). Last update was to libnl-3-200:amd64 3.2.21-1ubuntu1 which is probable cause? So replace by libnl-3-200_3.2.21-1_amd64.deb fixes problem?

If I open  libnl-3-200_3.2.21-1_amd64.deb (which I've found on internet) using Ubuntu SW Center it says "Later version is already installed". If I install  libnl-3-200_3.2.21-1_amd64.deb using dpkg (may have to 'force' install, not sure) then this will install a previous version, which I assume does not have the problem. (note am backing up ~ at moment as changes at this sort of level can be disastrous!)

---

### Post by TrueNorthist on 2016-01-29
I hope you don't mind helping a fella out a bit more with your fix bswarm2. I forgot that I had checked "proposed" some time ago and now my 14.04 install is also suffering as a result of today's update. I downloaded the files you listed and saved them on a thumbdrive, but I have never regressed nor removed a previous update before and I am reluctant to charge in without a clue. I have synaptic installed and am also familiar with the terminal. I tried fiddling with synaptic and found the three libnl-route- etc, but if I select each for removal it lists kernels and a whole bunch of other stuff so I backed away in fear of my life. 

Is there a way to use synaptic to remove/reinstall the libraries in question? If terminal is the only way, I take it I first enter:
```
sudo apt-get remove "filename".deb
```

For all three files, then how would I install the saved libraries from a thumbdrive? Sorry, but this is new to me and I am very reluctant to dig the hole deeper.

Cheers!.

edit: oh right, brain cell just woke up...  I can put the files on my desktop and then cd to Desktop. Then all I have to do is:
```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```
For each file, right? After removing them first?

---

### Post by tobiz on 2016-01-29
I've not tried this but put all 3 files in a folder, cd to that folder then run: sudo dpkg --force-all -i *.deb this will "force" install the 3 .deb files in the folder, you don't have to do this for each file "*.deb" means: do this for all files with the .deb extension.  You have to do "sudo" as you need root privilege.

I would not used synaptic as this will remove a whole bunch of other files which if things then go wrong leave you in a worse position, ie still no network and even more files needed to be installed!  The command line is your friend at these times.

---

### Post by bswarm2 on 2016-01-29
Don't use synaptic to remove or roll back the packages, it will try to remove many files along with it or pop up with broken dependencies.
Steps to fix...
1- Download the 3 files on another computer.
2- Copy them to a flashdrive.
3- Put the flashdrive in to the affected computer.
4- Copy the 3 files into a new folder.
5- Open a terminal in that folder and run ```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```
It will install those packages and networking should come back after restarting.
If anyone knows a better way please speak up. I'm no expert at this, it took hours to figure this out. This update took down 2 computers.
Note this is for amd64 only, if you need the i386 then use those instead.

---

### Post by TrueNorthist on 2016-01-29
Thanks tobiz, that makes sense. I am also making a fresh backup, then see how that might work. I also got the "newer version" out of software centre, and have been seeing if synaptic can do this.

edit: gotcha bswarm2. Thanks for doing the legwork. Glad I waited too...

edit x 2: Then I am thinking it would be very wise to ensure "proposed" is unchecked before it tries to update again.

---

### Post by Marochkanych_Artem on 2016-01-29
Thanks a lot!!! :D:D:D You saved my time.

---

### Post by TrueNorthist on 2016-01-29
Done like dinner. I had a few probs opening terminal inside the folder (No rt click option, yet) but I wandered in there eventually. Cheers again bswarm2. Saved the day pal.

---

### Post by angelos-ks on 2016-01-29
I had the same problem too and solved it by installing a previous version of the three libnl packages

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2016-01-29
all good, solved for me too!

thanks a lot, I had no idea how to solve that.

---

### Post by bswarm2 on 2016-01-29
> **zozio32 said:**
> still broken for me #-o
I got the 3 lib installed, choosing the i386 for my system, but the network manager is still complaining that it is not compatible with this version...

anyway, thanks for your time trying to help around
Open synaptic package manager, click on "File" then choose "History". Look through the most recent history to see what was last updated when the network broke. That's how I finally tracked the issue down.

---

### Post by zozio32 on 2016-01-29
thanks, it is now solved 
my mistake to get on i386 instead of amd64

---

### Post by fangorn2 on 2016-01-29
Where can I find the log file with the list of updated libraries?
I would like to check if they are all the same.
Also, will I have to delete the updated libraries before installing those from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/trusty/libnl3](http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/trusty/libnl3) ?
Many thanks in advance

---

### Post by bswarm2 on 2016-01-29
Synaptic (if installed) has a history section in the file menu. You don't need to uninstall the updated package that broke networking. when you manually install the old working versions everything should work again. I pinned the 3 packages so they won't update again until the developers sort this out, or you could simply uncheck "pre-released updates".

---

### Post by lawraWeltreich on 2016-01-29
thank you for the info, I could have never solve this on my own :)

---

### Post by nati2007 on 2016-01-30
Thanks from my side too. I'll get a USB stick tomorrow and ask my hotel to download the libs. What a great timing one day before a conference starts, hope this will fix it though!

---

### Post by fangorn2 on 2016-01-30
Many thanks from me and my nephew too! We were already panicking :)
By the way I had to restart the machine to restore networking.
Synaptic keeps the history log of packages installed via Synaptic itself.
I found the complete logfile in var/log/apt/history.log
Looking at this file is also useful for checking what version of the libraries you need, amd64 or i386

---

### Post by rebeccafrance194 on 2016-01-30
Thanks bswarm2 for figuring out how to fix this. Ive got a hp notebook with 3 different OS,s so with a few restarts and a thumb drive I was able to fix this with no problems. Awesome!!

---

### Post by dcstar on 2016-01-30
I have just finished reinstalling 14.04 to get around this major problem - what an absolute disgrace releasing these obviously fatally faulty updates.

---

### Post by james_moore2 on 2016-01-30
I must say thank you to everyone here, last night I had installed all the updates available, this morning I booted up my computer and found that my internet didn't work. I searched around for an hour and finally came across this. Thanks to everyone who provided support, this has saved me from destroying my computer :lolflag:.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-01-30
> **dcstar said:**
> I have just finished reinstalling 14.04 to get around this major problem - what an absolute disgrace releasing these obviously fatally faulty updates.
Assuming you had the proposed update repos enabled, as all others who have had this problem seem to have done, I don't think you can blame Ubuntu for the problem.

Do not use the proposed repos unless you know how to repair a broken system would be my recommendation.

---

### Post by terry16 on 2016-01-30
This might be a stupid question, but does the asterisk refer to the filename, or should the command be typed as written?

Regarding the command : 
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
Does the asterisk refer to the filename, or is it to be typed as written?

---

### Post by fangorn2 on 2016-01-30
It should be typed as written.
The code *.deb means 'all files ending in .deb', the asterisk replacing the name of the files. So the command installs all the (three) files ending in .deb
An example of use of the asterisk is command ls D* that lists all the files and directories (and their content) starting with D, that is, in your home directory, Desktop, Documents and Downloads. Doc* is only you Documents directory. So when you want to enter your Documents directory you can simply type: cd Doc*.

---

### Post by terry16 on 2016-01-30
Hmm; I didn't have Nautilus installed, so I can't open a terminal in the folder I created--and I can't install Nautilus without internet connection.  I tried putting all of the files on the desktop and opened the terminal from there--still no luck.  What's the point of these "pre-released" updates--except to screw up everything?

---

### Post by pete0512 on 2016-01-30
That sorted it, thanks a lot :)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-01-30
> **terry16 said:**
>  What's the point of these "pre-released" updates--except to screw up everything?
Package testing.
There is a reason it isn't enabled by default.

The brave who chart those territories suffer so that those who don't won't.

The bigger problem with proposed is that when a user has a problem, the go to response is usually to see if a new update that is in proposed will fix the problem.
What is never explained is that those users should probably disable the proposed repo after they install the updated package.
Then down the line, perhaps months later, a borked update hits that repo, and this sort of thread and bug report is open.

---

### Post by terry16 on 2016-01-30
I didn't enable it--I didn't even know it existed.  It must have been enabled in installation.  Regardless, now that I know it exists, I have promptly disabled it.

---

### Post by hans32 on 2016-01-30
thank you ... thank YOU ... THANK YOU! I did a complete reinstall of 1 of 2 laptops. Then I found this....

---

### Post by JkR4Yne on 2016-01-30
> **bswarm2 said:**
> Don't use synaptic to remove or roll back the packages, it will try to remove many files along with it or pop up with broken dependencies.
Steps to fix...
1- Download the 3 files on another computer.
2- Copy them to a flashdrive.
3- Put the flashdrive in to the affected computer.
4- Copy the 3 files into a new folder.
5- Open a terminal in that folder and run ```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```
It will install those packages and networking should come back after restarting.
If anyone knows a better way please speak up. I'm no expert at this, it took hours to figure this out. This update took down 2 computers.
Note this is for amd64 only, if you need the i386 then use those instead.

Thanks for posting this- I think this will solve my problem as well.  I'm fairly new to Ubuntu - how do I download the needed files if the only working PC I have has a Windows OS?  
Thank you!

---

### Post by bswarm2 on 2016-01-30
> **JkR4Yne said:**
> Thanks for posting this- I think this will solve my problem as well.  I'm fairly new to Ubuntu - how do I download the needed files if the only working PC I have has a Windows OS?  
Thank you!
It doesn't matter if you download them from a Windows or any other OS. You're downloading the files from an internet connected PC to transfer them to the one that won't connect. You could probably use a live Ubuntu CD/DVD/Flashdrive (Choose Try Ubuntu instead of Install Ubuntu) in the affected PC and download them directly to a folder on the hard drive, then boot back into your regular Ubuntu to install them.

---

### Post by jrrpnani on 2016-01-30
Thanks a lot for this post solution. Work it for me :p

---

### Post by j-vester on 2016-01-30
i would like the instructions about downloading the old files being a bit more descriptive. yes i got it working. but i was very curious about why. i didnt understand why downloading from the site mentioned solved the problem [http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/trusty/libnl3](http://packages.ubuntu.com/source/trusty/libnl3)  How do you know the files on that site is older than the ones that was installed and caused problems? i havent found any way to see that the files differ. they are all called  libnl-3-200 and 3.2.21-1 seems to be the release. but that is the release of even the new not working files. very confusing......thanks if someone can explain that....

---

### Post by JkR4Yne on 2016-01-30
Thanks so much- that got it!

---

### Post by james_moore2 on 2016-01-30
> **JkR4Yne said:**
> Thanks for posting this- I think this will solve my problem as well.  I'm fairly new to Ubuntu - how do I download the needed files if the only working PC I have has a Windows OS?  
Thank you!

Just like you would on the Ubuntu OS, download it onto a flash drive or something.

---

### Post by tobiz on 2016-01-30
Thanks bswarm2 finally got to do this and it work without a hitch.
Ubuntu does know about this problem.
Packages can be found at (for 64 bit processors):
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/trusty/amd64/libnl-route-3-200/download](http://packages.ubuntu.com/trusty/amd64/libnl-route-3-200/download)
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/trusty/amd64/libnl-genl-3-200/download](http://packages.ubuntu.com/trusty/amd64/libnl-genl-3-200/download)
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/trusty/amd64/libnl-3-200/download](http://packages.ubuntu.com/trusty/amd64/libnl-3-200/download)
Download on another machine, move to affected machine by usb stick then follow install instruction as elsewhere in this thread.

---

### Post by Xeovke on 2016-01-31
Many thanks bswarm2!

In case it might be useful to some, i could actually access internet by starting in recovery mode, choosing "enable networking" (which ultimately ends with an error message), going to the root shell and typing "sudo service networking start", and then resuming the normal boot.

---

### Post by TrueNorthist on 2016-01-31
BTW, if anybody else has also lost their network-manager icon, run this:
```
sudo apt-get install indicator-applet-complete
```
Might not be the best solution, but it works. 

And I immediately accepted full responsibility for this problem the very moment I understood why it happened, which I hope is reflected in my early comments here. One positive some might consider is such issues force one to learn a few new tricks? Fortunately I have a windows partition which drastically reduces the odds of being stranded offline and make every effort to use these episodes to great advantage. I look at this as a fine way to open new neural pathways and keep my sole-remaining pair of brain-cells nimble and plastic.

edit: And to "right click to open a terminal inside a directory" run this:
```
sudo apt-get install nautilus-open-terminal
```
You can then simply right click to open a terminal inside any folder.

---

### Post by Chris_Diming on 2016-01-31
Hi, 

I have also run into the same problem, but I'm having issues installing the necessary .deb files. When I try to using the sudo dpkg -i command, the terminal comes back with... 

"dpkg: error processing archive libnl-3-200_3.2.21-1_amd64.deb (--install):
cannot access archive: No such file or directory 
Errors were encountered while processing:
libnl-3-200_3.2.21-1_amd64.deb "

I am aware that, as a new Ubuntu user, I am probably making a silly mistake somewhere. As this is my work PC, I'd really appreciate some help, if anyone has the time. :)

---

### Post by Chris_Diming on 2016-01-31
Just an update,

I have since been able to install the file versions listed in the posts above, but somehow they don't seem to have done anything. I've checked both the amd64 and i386 versions, and I have restarted my laptop several times. I was wondering, is there anything else which is required to run the network manager? Thanks!

---

### Post by tobiz on 2016-02-01
Is your PC/laptop a 32 or 64 bit processor?  You only need to install the i386 version for 32 bit machines and the amd64 for 64 bit machines. Note, amd64 is just a way of saying "any 64 bit processor" it doesn't mean it's an amd processor.  I think in general you can install the 32 bit version on 64 bit machines but not the other way round.

---

### Post by jones-home on 2016-02-01
Had this problem too this morning. Many many thanks for working out how to fix it. I have installed the three deb files and all returns to normal. Now to head it off before it happens on the other three machines in the house. ..

It is one of the marvellous things about FOSS that the community does solve these things and make the answers so accessible. 

Cheers

Chris

---

### Post by uduvgp on 2016-02-01
The same problem.
But I **never** had problems like this while using [B]proposed.
[/B]Now I disable "trusty-proposed" from my repositories.

---

### Post by neu2buntu on 2016-02-02
Thanks guys, this solved my problem, which almost had me doing a clean install ;)

---

### Post by JoeFriday49 on 2016-02-02
Hot Diggidy Dog!...  Fixed mine also!...  Be sure to turn off that backports switch or it will kill it again...

---

### Post by bswarm2 on 2016-02-03
Update...
It looks like they fixed the problems by updating several network packages.
```
Commit Log for Wed Feb  3 12:49:20 2016

Upgraded the following packages:
gir1.2-networkmanager-1.0 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
libnl-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnl-genl-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnl-route-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnm-glib-vpn1 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
libnm-glib4 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
libnm-util2 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
network-manager (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
network-manager-dbg (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3

```

So there's no reason to apply the fix in the first post as long as you update the rest of the recommended packages. I've unpinned the 3 offending packages and let them update along with the rest of them, and my network is working fine.

---

### Post by Steve_Touzalin on 2016-02-04
Had the same problem in 14.04, your method worked.
I was afraid that I was going to have to re-load Ubuntu.
Thank you very much !!!!!

---

### Post by jam9264 on 2016-02-17
> **bswarm2 said:**
> Update...
It looks like they fixed the problems by updating several network packages.
```
Commit Log for Wed Feb  3 12:49:20 2016

Upgraded the following packages:
gir1.2-networkmanager-1.0 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
libnl-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnl-genl-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnl-route-3-200 (3.2.21-1) to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1
libnm-glib-vpn1 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
libnm-glib4 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
libnm-util2 (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
network-manager (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3
network-manager-dbg (0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2) to 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3

```

So there's no reason to apply the fix in the first post as long as you update the rest of the recommended packages. I've unpinned the 3 offending packages and let them update along with the rest of them, and my network is working fine.

I had the same problem... and it still doesn't work for me.

I first downgraded the 3 libnl packages. dpkg worked fine, but still no network.

Then I noticed that some of the additional updates (list above in quote) had been done. So I tried to downgrade them as well, but then dpkg didn't go as planned and reported issues with dependencies, which I don't understand. So I am somehow stuck in between the two versions. 

Then I noticed that the system had not updated *all* of these additional packages. For instance, gir1.2-networkmanager-1.0 had *not* been updated, still in version 7.2.
Now I wonder whether I should try to manually dpkg the whole "final" list in the 7.3 version.

Does it make sense ? But in this case, where do I find the individual packages in their "proposed" 7.3 version ? There is nothing like "http://packages.ubuntu.com/en/trusty-proposed".

Thanks in advance...

---

### Post by kantiner on 2016-02-23
[SIZE=2][SIZE=1]i come across the same problem. i find something, it can explain why this happen.

"libnl: fail to bind() netlink sockets"[/SIZE][/SIZE][SIZE=1]
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnl3/+bug/1511735](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libnl3/+bug/1511735)


[/SIZE]

---

### Post by murmelssonic on 2016-05-13
Thanks bswarm2 for this workaround.

Strangely I got this issue today despite never having "Pre-released" packages checked in Software Update Manager. But great to have a workaround for next time, thanks again for this!

---

### Post by nick.johnson on 2016-05-13
Me too. Did the updates today and noticed that the three libnl packages had bumped up to 3.2.21-1ubuntu1 but no bump for network-manager itself (still at 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.2). On 14.04 LTS without -proposed enabled. Looking through launchpad, it looks like the regressions tests passed so they moved the libnl fixes to -updates.

I'm tempted to just grab network-manager 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3 and see if that fixes the problem, but this is a production machine and I'm low on time.

---

### Post by Bat_M on 2016-05-13
This also happened to me also... The update today which updated the libnl packages broke my wired internet. I followed the original solution of downloading the three packages and installing them... The solutions still works after these months. Thank you very much OP for the still relevant solution to this sudden problem.

---

### Post by bswarm2 on 2016-05-13
The bug report [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1539634") says it was fixed. I'd suggest reporting it there or creating a new bug report. I've moved on to Ubuntu 16.04 so it no longer affects me.

---

### Post by plucky on 2016-05-13
> I'm tempted to just grab network-manager 0.9.8.8-0ubuntu7.3 and see if that fixes the problem, but this is a production machine and I'm low on time. 

This solution worked for me.

Also you don't have to disable the updates to the three other files.

Good Luck

---

### Post by John Coulthard on 2016-05-13
The original solution still worked for me. Thank you, thank you, thank you.

---

