---
title: "14.04 Fresh install Can see wireless can't connect Broadcom BCM5784M"
date: 2014-12-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-11
Hello everyone, I am have been using ubuntu for a year now but still a newbe when it comes to installation and command lines. I just did a fresh install of 14.04 (last one was having crashes) like the first time i installed a year ago my wireless is not connecting. I can see all the wireless networks but I cannot connect. I have collected all the settings details and pasting them here. Can someone please help?

Also: my laptop (Gateway nv 58 series) also has a bluetooth, as can be seen in the output, but does not work with ubuntu. How can I fix that?

[http://pastebin.com/3zSKhQRh](http://pastebin.com/3zSKhQRh)


been doing some further reading and it has been suggested to by some to get the network card pci.id, so here it is:

moe@moe-NV58:~$ lspci -nn -d 14e4:

02:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Broadcom Corporation NetLink BCM5784M Gigabit Ethernet PCIe [14e4:1698] (rev 10)



Since I needed the network fixed quickly and did not get any  replies, I looked at other posts and tried something [foolish! I know]  and now I can't see the network list either. looks like the former driver was working somewhat and the new one brcmsmac is not compatible with my hardware. Here is what I did

moe@moe-NV58:~$ sudo apt-get remove --purge bcmwl-kernel-source
[sudo] password for moe: 
E: dpkg was interrupted, you must manually run 'sudo dpkg --configure -a' to correct the problem. 
moe@moe-NV58:~$ sudo modprobe -v brcmsmac
insmod /lib/modules/3.13.0-43-generic/kernel/drivers/bcma/bcma.ko 
insmod /lib/modules/3.13.0-43-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/brcm80211/brcmutil/brcmutil.ko 
insmod /lib/modules/3.13.0-43-generic/kernel/lib/cordic.ko 
insmod /lib/modules/3.13.0-43-generic/kernel/drivers/net/wireless/brcm80211/brcmsmac/brcmsmac.ko 

This has now added the brcmsmac to a line in the current results of lsmod. 
cfg80211              484040  4 iwlwifi,brcmsmac,mac80211,iwldvm



Tag: BCM5784M, Ubuntu 14.04, networks visible, Cannot connect

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
Any moderator, any one skilled in helping with this. Please I need this quickly. I am working on my thesis and being limited to one cable all the time is not helping.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-12-12
I see a few problems here. First, this is not a wireless device, it is ethernet:> 02:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Broadcom Corporation NetLink BCM5784M Gigabit Ethernet PCIe [14e4:1698] (rev 10)Please remove brcmsmac from /etc/modules and reboot. This is your wireless:> Intel Corporation WiFi Link 5100After you rebooted, do you see and connect to wireless networks? If not, please show us:```
rfkill list all
dmesg | grep iwl
```You might also edit the title of your thread to: 'Can see wireless but can't connect Intel 5100.'

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
Thanks Chilli555 but how do I remove brcmsmac?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-12-12
> **mx6KFEh said:**
> Thanks Chilli555 but how do I remove brcmsmac?Maybe we needn't do anything more than:```
sudo modprobe -r brcmsmac
```

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
Thanks chilli555: Below is the output after I did the reboot. still working on finding a way to edit the title. :(

Still can't see the networks.

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
moe@moe-NV58:~$ sudo rfkill list all
0: phy0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
1: acer-wireless: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
moe@moe-NV58:~$ dmesg | grep iwl
[   20.211710] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: can't disable ASPM; OS doesn't have ASPM control
[   20.211872] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: irq 44 for MSI/MSI-X
[   20.546311] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: loaded firmware version 8.83.5.1 build 33692 op_mode iwldvm
[   20.567540] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEBUG disabled
[   20.567542] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEBUGFS enabled
[   20.567543] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: CONFIG_IWLWIFI_DEVICE_TRACING enabled
[   20.567545] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: Detected Intel(R) WiFi Link 5100 AGN, REV=0x54
[   20.567891] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   20.597366] ieee80211 phy0: Selected rate control algorithm 'iwl-agn-rs'
[   24.151783] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   24.154920] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: Radio type=0x1-0x2-0x0
[   24.255153] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: L1 Enabled - LTR Disabled
[   24.258235] iwlwifi 0000:04:00.0: Radio type=0x1-0x2-0x0

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-12-12
Looks very good so far! Let's keep digging for clues:```
iwconfig
dmesg | grep wlan
sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
```For the scan step, please remove any networks except your own.

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
Here is the output

[http://pastebin.com/4MPzF9dk](http://pastebin.com/4MPzF9dk)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-12-12
Very interesting.

Your thread says: 'Can see wireless can't connect' and yet your readings say:> wlan0     IEEE 802.11abgn  ESSID:"BELL022"  
          Mode:Managed  Frequency:2.442 GHz  Access Point: 3C:EA:4F:A1:F2:69  
          Bit Rate=1 Mb/s   Tx-Power=15 dBm  
          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off
          Power Management:off
          Link Quality=70/70  Signal level=-17 dBm  And also:> [  224.876151] wlan0: associate with 3c:ea:4f:a1:f2:69 (try 1/3)
[  224.878047] wlan0: RX AssocResp from 3c:ea:4f:a1:f2:69 (capab=0x431 status=0 aid=3)
[  224.881795] wlan0: associated
[  224.881841] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): wlan0: link becomes readyIt looks as connected as it can be to me! I wish I could get 70/70 from my Intel!!!

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
I am connected via the wired connection. Let me disconnect form that and redo the commands. I will page the results again. in  a couple mintues

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
Here is the output after i disconnected the wired connection. I cannot see the networks now when I disconnect the wired connection.

[http://pastebin.com/5mMPeeAU](http://pastebin.com/5mMPeeAU)

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
Here is the output after i disconnected the wired network. now when i disconnect the wired line I cannot see the wireless networks.

[http://pastebin.com/5mMPeeAU](http://pastebin.com/5mMPeeAU)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-12-12
It appears, astoundingly, that when you plug in the ethernet cable, the wireless works and vice versa. Weird!! Would you please check? Plug in the cable and see if it scans:```
sudo iwlist wlan0 scan
```If it does, let's see what Network Manager is doing...or not....all this time:```
cat /var/log/syslog |  grep etwork | tail -n20
```You needn't post the scans; just tell us it works or doesn't.

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
Yes it is scanning and yes the network manager is also working. Just in case you need it I have the command output at the pastebin address below.

[http://pastebin.com/9V1XqWW4](http://pastebin.com/9V1XqWW4)

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-12-12
Let's also see:```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
```Still weird!

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
moe@moe-NV58:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces 
 # interfaces(5) file used by ifup(8) and ifdown(8) 
 auto lo 
 iface lo inet loopback 
 

 

 moe@moe-NV58:~$ cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf 
 [main] 
 plugins=ifupdown,keyfile,ofono 
 dns=dnsmasq 
  
 no-auto-default=00:1F:16:9B:65:25, 
  
 [ifupdown] 
 managed=false

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-12-12
> moe@moe-NV58:~$ cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf 
[main] 
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile,ofono 
dns=dnsmasq 

[COLOR="#FF0000"]no-auto-default=00:1F:16:9B:65:25, [/COLOR]

[ifupdown] 
managed=falseInteresting! I am not sure that's helping us at all. Let's remove it:```
gksudo gedit  /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf 
```Use nano or kate or leafpad if you don't have the text editor gedit. Remove the line I've highlighted. Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor. Restart NM:```
sudo service network-manager restart
```Detach the ethernet and tell us some good news, please.

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-12
Did that, Now I can see the wireless networks, again, (some good news :)) when I remove the wired connection. But the laptop does not connect to the network.

here is the output of restarting nm

   moe@moe-NV58:~$ sudo service network-manager restart 
 [sudo] password for moe:  
 network-manager stop/waiting 
 network-manager start/running, process 2856

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-13
Here is something that might be useful. Sorry I did not produce it earlier. I was not sure if I had it saved. The info in the pastebin link bellow is the settings output before i did this fresh install on this laptop. The OS back then was also 14.04 and the wireless network was working fine. I really hope this helps in identifying the problem.

[http://pastebin.com/EdSfvi3W](http://pastebin.com/EdSfvi3W)

Again thanks for all the support.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-12-13
Please reboot with the ethernet detached. Try to connect to your wireless. After a couple of tries, let's examine the logs:```
cat /var/log/syslog | grep -e wlan -e etwork | tail -n20
```Next, check the settings in the router. WPA2-AES is preferred; not any WPA and WPA2 mixed mode and certainly not TKIP. Second, if your router is capable of N speeds, I have better luck with a channel width of 20 MHz in the 2.4 GHz band instead of automatic 20/40 MHz. I also have better luck with a fixed channel, either 1, 6 or 11, rather than automatic channel selection.  Also, be certain the router is not set to use N speeds only; auto B, G and N is preferred. After making these changes, reboot the router.

Next, I recommend that your regulatory domain be set explicitly. Check yours:```
sudo iw reg get
```If you get 00, that is a one-size-maybe-fits-all setting. Find yours here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) Then set it temporarily:```
sudo iw reg set IS
```Of course, substitute your country code if not Iceland. Set it permanently:```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/crda
```Use nano or kate or leafpad if you don't have the text editor gedit.

Change the last line to read:```
REGDOMAIN=IS
```Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor.

Next, I'd set IPv6 to Ignore in Network Manager: [http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png](http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora/18/html/Installation_Guide/images/netconfig/network-connections-ipv6-ignore.png)  This example is for ethernet, but you want wireless.

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-13
Here is the output for connection attempts.     [http://pastebin.com/a69VkDYP](http://pastebin.com/a69VkDYP)

As for the router settings they are set at WEP-Open. I did change the channel. I do not have N but have b and g. I have 802.11b/g currently selected. I also changed the regulatory domain. All done still not connecting to the wireless networks that are available. :(

But previously (before this install), this same computer with the same setting was able to connect. My previous copy of 14.04 was installed via an upgraded from the 12.04 LTS (before the option was available on software update). I was connected but got internal system crashes from time to time. Now that the final version was out I thought it be better to just install a fresh one. I downloaded the ISO image, burned it and installed. But I have no idea why it would give me such problems. I do appreciate your assistance in this regard.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2014-12-13
> As for the router settings they are set at WEP-Open.Except for unencrypted at all, there is nothing less secure. You may as well leave your wallet and credit cards in a shoebox on the front steps! Unless you have another device on the network with a really, really old wireless device that is incapable of WPA2, I strongly recommend you change immediately. Devices that lack WPA2 capability were built in circa 2004. Few of us are still using ten-year-old devices.

I stand by my suggestion:>  check the settings in the router. WPA2-AES is preferred

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-14
Chilli555 Thanks alot for all your support. I really really appreciate all the help you provided and the time you spent trying to fix my problem. Now some good news.

As per your suggestion I changed the security protocol from WEP-Open to WPA2-PSK (WPA2-Personal) and in the process gave it a passcode. I didn't bother to check all day since it had taken so much of my our time; I just turned on the computer and tried to connect. It asked for the passcode and I entered the new code. Wollah!!! It said  connected. I am sending this message to thank you and everyone else behind the scene who was part of this support system. And I am sending it thanks to you from the wireless network you helped me connect to. :)

---

### Post by mx6KFEh on 2014-12-14
Just one thing, How do I change the thread title and have it mention the problem being with my Intel Netlink 5100 rather than the BCM5784M?

---

