---
title: "9.10: No wireless connection (HP Pavilion dv7-3017)"
date: 2010-05-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Jarski on 2010-05-16
I just installed ubuntu 9.10 on my HP Pavilion (dv7-3017). Problem is that I have no wireless connection. When pressing wireless button the light stays orange instead of turning blue. My paviion is using Atheros network card.

I'm linux newbie so it would great if you could help me out solving this problem.

---

### Post by bford16 on 2010-10-25
I have a dv7-1232NR with Ubuntu 10.10, so this might not work for you...but try anyway.

Place your finger on the wireless button (the one that "stays orange"). Then tap the Quick Play button (looks like the letter Q, next to the power button).  On my dv7-1232NR, that turns the wireless back on.  Pressing Quickplay by itself turns the wireless off.

If that doesn't work, try this:```
sudo modprobe -r -f hp_wmi
sudo modprobe -r -f ath5k
```Reboot.

---

### Post by bigfootnmd on 2010-10-26
Ubuntu 9.1 is well known not to support the Atheros Drivers.

This problem is covered extensively in this thread

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309072](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309072)

This thread tells you how to use the ndswrapper to load and use Windows Based Atheros Drivers.  

Another option is to download Ubuntu 10.10 to a thumb drive (regular or netbook remix) and boot off of it. If your wifi works then you can install  Ubuntu 10.10.  This is because Ubuntu 10.10  has native Atheros drivers.  I have no issues with wifi on my Acer Aspire one A0751 that has the Atheros 5001 chip.

Good Luck

---

### Post by scotter59 on 2011-03-07
> **bigfootnmd said:**
> Ubuntu 9.1 is well known not to support the Atheros Drivers.

This problem is covered extensively in this thread

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309072](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309072)

This thread tells you how to use the ndswrapper to load and use Windows Based Atheros Drivers.  

Another option is to download Ubuntu 10.10 to a thumb drive (regular or netbook remix) and boot off of it. If your wifi works then you can install  Ubuntu 10.10.  This is because Ubuntu 10.10  has native Atheros drivers.  I have no issues with wifi on my Acer Aspire one A0751 that has the Atheros 5001 chip.

Good Luck

Hi,

I have been having problems with my laptop (HP Pavilion dv7-3160us Notebook PC - AMD Turion II Ultra M620 Dual Core 2.5GHz)  connecting to wireless network with my Kubuntu "maverick" 10.10.  The SSID showed up in the Network Manager add new connection.    I posted the problem on the Kubuntu forums and they suggested installing backports.  When I did install the backports the scan no longer picked up the SSID broadcast from my Linksys router/modem.....

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3115055.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3115055.0) original post on the Kubuntu forums.

I was thinking that maybe I needed to install the Atheros Drivers or uninstall the backports .... I saw this post and confirmed  that I should have the drivers with my distribution.

Luckily I can connect directly so it is not a big issue but I would like to see how wireless connectivity works.  The funny thing is that since I have connected two windows machines to the same router without problems.

Sorry if I intruded on this thread and thanks for any assistance
Scott

---

### Post by scotter59 on 2011-08-03
> **scotter59 said:**
> Hi,

I have been having problems with my laptop (HP Pavilion dv7-3160us Notebook PC - AMD Turion II Ultra M620 Dual Core 2.5GHz)  connecting to wireless network with my Kubuntu "maverick" 10.10.  The SSID showed up in the Network Manager add new connection.    I posted the problem on the Kubuntu forums and they suggested installing backports.  When I did install the backports the scan no longer picked up the SSID broadcast from my Linksys router/modem.....

[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3115055.0](http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?topic=3115055.0) original post on the Kubuntu forums.

I was thinking that maybe I needed to install the Atheros Drivers or uninstall the backports .... I saw this post and confirmed  that I should have the drivers with my distribution.

Luckily I can connect directly so it is not a big issue but I would like to see how wireless connectivity works.  The funny thing is that since I have connected two windows machines to the same router without problems.

Sorry if I intruded on this thread and thanks for any assistance
Scott

Installed "Mint" wireless works along with the cube.

---

### Post by UlrihRekkenin on 2011-12-18
Good day,

I have no wireless conection with my Pavilion dv7-6025er.
I have the ubuntu 11.04 with a rebuilt kernel:
[I]uname -a
Linux ulrich-notebook 3.0.4-ver.1 #1 SMP Wed Oct 26 14:33:14 MSK 2011 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
[/I]
lspci was shown:
[I]lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family DRAM Controller (rev 09)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family PCI Express Root Port (rev 09)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)
00:16.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series Chipset Family MEI Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #2 (rev 04)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 6 Series Chipset Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 04)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev b4)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 2 (rev b4)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 3 (rev b4)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 4 (rev b4)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation HM65 Express Chipset Family LPC Controller (rev 04)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series Chipset Family 6 port SATA AHCI Controller (rev 04)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 6 Series Chipset Family SMBus Controller (rev 04)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Device 6740
07:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 06)
0d:00.0 Network controller: Ralink corp. Device 539f
13:00.0 Unassigned class [ff00]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Device 5209 (rev 01)
19:00.0 USB Controller: NEC Corporation uPD720200 USB 3.0 Host Controller (rev 04)[/I]

It seems to me that I don`t have a wireless device... or a driver for this one. But I should have it ))

---

