---
title: "Belkin F5D9050B, 050d:905b"
date: 2007-05-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by epee on 2007-05-09
OK, I'm making no progress with this at all.

I tried installing the RT73 driver as per [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=400236](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=400236), and although I seem to have a device 'rausb0' AND it also has some sensible parameters showing in 'iwconfig' - It simply will not connect to the network. (WPAPSK/TKIP)

Having looked around I see all sorts of conflicting advice on the drivers to install, how to config the interface - you name it, there seem to be a whole raft of 'solutions'. But even the seemingly 'authoritative' sticky threads give a range of advice.

Can anyone please come up with some joined-up info on this? Instead of being able to move forward and actually use my computer with Ubuntu, I'm spending endless time tweaking to get basic networking operational.

I'm beginning to think I should have stuck with Windows XP... :mad:

---

### Post by epee on 2007-05-10
OK - I've contacted Belkin who were VERY prompt in their reply as to what chipset the F5D9050 adapter uses:
> Ralink RT2671F, RT2528L (RT73)

This would suggest the RT73 driver is correct, so I suspect the problem is down to configuration.

At the moment it seems that network manager (nm-applet) is buggy with 7.04 - indeed, it seems to have no WPA support anyway.

So should I be using wpa-supplicant or continue tweaking /etc/network/interfaces?

---

### Post by epee on 2007-05-15
Bump.

---

### Post by epee on 2007-05-16
OK, as of this evening, the interface is working. (As I'm typing this :)

I am not sure what I've done to make it work. I'll try to work that out sometime - but if anyone has any ideas on how to determine what is in the mix, then tell me.

It looks from iwconfig that it's working with the RT73 driver.

I also have Rtutilt working and that shows the interface etc.

So I'm pretty pleased tonight :)

---

