---
title: "Server with 2 NICs, need help configuring"
date: 2010-11-10
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by jck221 on 2010-11-10
Hello, ubuntu forums users:

As you can see, this is my first post on the site, so please bear with me as some of my questions may have already been asked by other people. Ubuntu is very foreign to me and I have been using it for just three weeks, so again please bear with me as my understanding of terminal usage is very lacking. With that said, allow me to describe the predicament I am currently experiencing:

We have a computer lab with roughly twenty host computers being fueled by the resources of one server that is running Edubuntu 7.04.  The server has two NIC cards: one for connecting the host PCs via a switch and the other for providing internet via a wired router.

The problem seems to be that the two network cards are interfering with each other.  At one point, I had configured eth0 to connect the host PCs to the server via LTSP and everything was running fine (the host PCs were able to log into accounts and the graphical display was being transferred to each of the host machines).  Afterward, I introduced eth1 into the server to provide internet access to the server and host machines.  When I added eth1 and attempted to configure it, both eth0 and eth1 failed to provide the desired result (the computers all being able to log in using LTSP and for internet to be provided to each of the host machines).  After turning off eth0 in the Network Admin, I was able to use the internet on the server but obviously the host PCs were no longer connected to the server.

I have assumed that this problem is due to interference with the two cards broadcasting to the same IP address, but I am unsure how to configure the appropriate files to allow both of the cards to function simultaneously.

Here are some printouts of files and operations I thought might be important:

**interfaces**

```
# network settings generated by /usr/share/schoolnet/start-conig

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto dsl-provider
iface dsl-provider inet ppp
pre-up /sbin/ifconfig eth1 up # line maintained by pppoeconf
provider dsl-provider

# Computer Network
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
address 192.168.0.254
netmask 255.255.255.0
network 192.168.0.0
broadcast 192.168.0.255
gateway 192.168.0.254

# Wired Inernet
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
```

**dhcp.conf**

```
authoritative;

subnet 192.168.0.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
 range 192.168.0.220 192.168.0.250;
 option domain-name "schoolnet"
 option domain-name-servers 192.168.0.254;
 option broadcast-address 192.168.0.255;
 option routers 192.168.0.254;
 option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
 if substring( option vendor-class-identifier, 0, 9 ) = "PXEClient" {
   filename "/ltsp/i386/pxelinux.0";
 }
 else{
   filename "/ltsp/i386/nbi.img";
 }
 option root-path "/opt/ltsp/i386";
}
```

**hosts**

```
authoritative;

subnet 192.168.0.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
range 192.168.0.20 192.168.0.250;
option domain-name "schoolnet";
option domain-name-servers 192.168.0.254;
option broadcast-address 192.168.0.255;
option routers 192.168.0.254;
option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;

filename "/ltsp/pxelinux.0";
option root-path "/opt/ltsp/i386";

```

**netstat –rn**

```
Kernel IP routing table
Destination	Gateway	Genmask	Flags	MSS	Window	irtt	Iface
41.205.152.163	0.0.0.0	255.255.255.255	UH	0	0	0	ppp0
192.168.0.0	0.0.0.0	255.255.255.0	U	0	0	0	eth0
192.168.0.0	0.0.0.0	255.255.255.0	U	0	0	0	eth1
0.0.0.0	192.168.0.254	255.255.255.0	UG	0	0	0	eth0
```

Any assistance configuring these files would be greatly appreciated.  Thank you so much for your help.

- Joe Knittel

---

### Post by jck221 on 2010-11-10
**Note**:

The client PCs are communicating with the server and are able to log into accounts, but neither the server nor the client PCs are able to access the internet.  _How can I adjust these files to allow internet access on each of the machines?_

---

### Post by uncaspi on 2010-11-10
Look to me that there is something missing in the routing table.
An so old version of Ubuntu should have tool for manage the cards.
sudo config-network  or network-tool or something like that.

---

### Post by jck221 on 2010-11-10
Yes, I have attempted to use Network Administrator

```
sudo network-admin
```

...but I don't know how to configure eth1.

How can I check to see whether the card should be set to DHCP or static and if it is static, how do I know what IP addresses to uses?

Thanks.

- J

---

### Post by uncaspi on 2010-11-10
Type echo 1> /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip-forward

in /etc/rc.local

This is for the hosts to access the internet. Then you must open port 80 in the firewall typing

sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -i eth1 --dport 80 -j ACCEPT

sudo iptables-save
reboot and see what happens

---

### Post by puppywhacker on 2010-11-10
The biggest problem is that your default route is towards itself on eth0 "192.168.0.254" and not towards 41.205.152.163. Remove the line "gateway 192.168.0.254" in the eth0. That you want it to serve as a gateway for other machines is configured in the dhcpd.conf, not here, this is where this machine finds it's next hop, which can't be itself.

the /etc/hosts file contains dhcpd.conf information (wrong copy paste?) this shouldn't cause the problem, but it isn't correct either.

Ah, and uncaspi is ofcourse right, once the ubuntu machine is connected again to the internet, you should enable ip-forwarding. But after that you also need to enable NAT translation from internal to external addresses.

```
sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
```

---

### Post by jck221 on 2010-11-10
Okay, so I did what you both said and here is the updated routing table:

```

Kernel IP routing table
Destination	Gateway	Genmask	Flags	MSS	Window	irtt	Iface
41.205.152.162	0.0.0.0	255.255.255.255	UH	0	0	0	ppp0
192.168.1.0	0.0.0.0	255.255.255.0	U	0	0	0	eth1
192.168.0.0	0.0.0.0	255.255.255.0	U	0	0	0	eth0
0.0.0.0	0.0.0.0	0.0.0.0	U	0	0	0	ppp0

```

Thanks again for your continued support.

---

### Post by uncaspi on 2010-11-10
Now you must add a default route.

sudo /sbin/route add default gw 192.168.0.254 eth1    (I don't now if it is the right ip to the router)

You could put this also in /etc/local whitout sudo

---

### Post by puppywhacker on 2010-11-10
I didn't notice this before, but good job on changing eth1 to the ip-range 192.168.1.0 Now it should not conflict with eth0

The way PPP works is that you first online interface eth0, this gets via DHCP IP address in the range 192.168.0.X, you had a routing conflict where also your local network got the same range, which will screw up your routing.

After eth0 is online dsl-provider should create a PPP tunnel through it, so you get a device ppp0 that should automatically set the "default gateway" to 41.205.152.163 (hey, now this changed to 41.205.152.162 ???)

eth1 should not overwrite this default gateway, so that is why I asked you to remove it earlier.

Strangly the default route now points to 0.0.0.0 which is useless. you can use the command uncaspi gave to set the default gateway on the commandline, although you have to remove the old entry first. Normally this default route should come from the ppp0 interface. You may want to reload the network settings using "sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart".

next time, please post your ifconfig and your routing table.

---

