---
title: "Reseting and saving iptables"
date: 2009-06-09
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by LordNibler on 2009-06-09
Hi,

My ISP has IPTV and it doesn't work with my current iptables configuration. I tried to reset iptables:

```

sudo iptables -F
sudo iptables -X

```

IPTV works after that. 

After restart all the iptables rules are back and IPTV doesn't work. I didn't add these rules manually to iptables, probably they were added by Firestarter (not sure). Firestarter was removed (Synaptics - Mark for Complete Removal), but the rules are still there. 

1) How can I reset iptables to default Ubuntu configuration and save it in that state?

2) Do I have to use *iptables-save* and *iptables-restore*? 

3) Does iptables use the same mechanism (*iptables-restore*) to restore rules that block my IPTV after restart? If so, where they are saved and what program/script restores them?

I use Ubuntu 9.04

Sorry for my bad English.

---

### Post by brabo on 2009-06-09
normaly, you should flush the rules again with the commands you used.
then test your connection, see if it all works.
thhen you use iptables-save to save the changes.
after reboot, you should still be good ;-)

brabo.

---

### Post by LordNibler on 2009-06-09
> **brabo said:**
> normaly, you should flush the rules again with the commands you used.
then test your connection, see if it all works.
thhen you use iptables-save to save the changes.
after reboot, you should still be good ;-)

brabo.

Thanks for responding!

I tried:

1.
```
sudo iptables -F
sudo iptables -X
sudo iptables-save
```
The output was:
```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.1.1 on Tue Jun  9 20:48:54 2009
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [272939:21958800]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [272228:15972093]
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Jun  9 20:48:54 2009
```

2. Checked iptables rules:
```
sudo iptables -L
```
There were no rules and my IPTV worked fine.

3. Restarted computer.

All the old rules are back and IPTV doesn't work :(

Will "*sudo iptables-save*" save iptables rules to some default location (where is it?) or this command must be always redirected to a file, and then "*iptables-restore*" should be used to restore rules from that file at start-up?

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2009-06-09
> **LordNibler said:**
> Thanks for responding!

I tried:

1.
```
sudo iptables -F
sudo iptables -X
sudo iptables-save
```
The output was:
```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.1.1 on Tue Jun  9 20:48:54 2009
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [272939:21958800]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [272228:15972093]
COMMIT
# Completed on Tue Jun  9 20:48:54 2009
```

2. Checked iptables rules:
```
sudo iptables -L
```
There were no rules and my IPTV worked fine.

3. Restarted computer.

All the old rules are back and IPTV doesn't work :(

Will "*sudo iptables-save*" save iptables rules to some default location (where is it?) or this command must be always redirected to a file, and then "*iptables-restore*" should be used to restore rules from that file at start-up?

There is no "default location".  

From the iptables-save man page: ```
       iptables-save  is  used  to  dump the contents of an IP Table in easily
       parseable format to STDOUT. Use I/O-redirection provided by your  shell
       to write to a file.

```

See:
[http://blogger.ziesemer.com/2008/10/enabling-routing-and-nat-with-iptables.html]("http://blogger.ziesemer.com/2008/10/enabling-routing-and-nat-with-iptables.html")

[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/where-is-iptables-config-file-584024/]("http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/where-is-iptables-config-file-584024/")

---

### Post by LordNibler on 2009-06-10
Hello, thanks for response.

> There is no "default location". 

If there is no “default location” and as I know Ubuntu has no iptables rules by default (just after  installation), then rules in my iptables configuration (that block IPTV) are loaded by some script/application from some file. Is it right? I'm rather new to Linux and Ubuntu. How can I find that file and script?

I tried to do the following ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo):](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo):)

1) Reset my iptables and saved it to a file:
```
sudo iptables -F
sudo iptables -X
sudo sh -c "iptables-save > /etc/iptables_default-no_rules.txt"
```


2) Added the following  line at the end of file */etc/network/interfaces*:

```
pre-up iptables-restore < /etc/iptables_default-no_rules.txt
```

By the way, there were only two lines in that file:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```


3) Rebooted the computer. 

All unwanted rules (that block my IPTV), that I'm trying to get rid of were back.

After that I tried alternative solution ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo):](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo):)

1) Created script *iptables-restore-default*:

```
#!/bin/sh
iptables-restore < /etc/iptables_default-no_rules.txt
exit 0
```

3)
```
chmod +x iptables-restore-default
```

4)
```
sudo cp iptables-restore-default /etc/network/if-pre-up.d/
```

5) Restarted the computer.

Unwanted iptables rules were loaded again.

Is it possible that when computer boots my iptables rules are loaded and then some script/application loads these unwanted rules and overwrites mine?

If so, how I can find it?

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2009-06-10
> **LordNibler said:**
> ...
If there is no “default location” and as I know Ubuntu has no iptables rules by default (just after  installation), then rules in my iptables configuration (that block IPTV) are loaded by some script/application from some file. Is it right? 
Yes that's right.  Are you sure that UFW isn't configured?> 
I'm rather new to Linux and Ubuntu. How can I find that file and script?
I believe it is enabled in 9.04  To see if UFW is enabled try this:```
sudo ufw status
```
> ... Is it possible that when computer boots my iptables rules are loaded and then some script/application loads these unwanted rules and overwrites mine?

If so, how I can find it?
See if UFW is enabled before trying anything else.  If it is, there are plenty of tutorials you can look up with Google.  I would start with the man pages ```
man ufw
```  I believe there is a GUI app to manage it.  I think it is called gufw.  

I have UFW turned off and have never enabled it.  I have a perimeter firewall that takes care of my small LAN.

---

### Post by LordNibler on 2009-06-11
Thanks for help **redmk2**!

> **redmk2 said:**
> Yes that's right.  Are you sure that UFW isn't configured?I believe it is enabled in 9.04  To see if UFW is enabled try this:```
sudo ufw status
```



UFW (and GUFW) was installed but it was turned off. I checked it after each reboot with the command that you posted above. I removed them both.

> See if UFW is enabled before trying anything else.  If it is, there are plenty of tutorials you can look up with Google.  I would start with the man pages ```
man ufw
```  I believe there is a GUI app to manage it.  I think it is called gufw.  

I have UFW turned off and have never enabled it.  I have a perimeter firewall that takes care of my small LAN.

I tried to find what was overwriting my iptables rules with older version:

I searched for "iptables-restore" in */etc*:

```
sudo grep -R iptables-restore /etc
```

I found only those entries that I made myself (see [post 5 above]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7433872&postcount=5"))

I added the following line to */etc/rc.local*:
```
iptables-restore < /etc/iptables_default-no_rules.txt 
```

Now my rules are loaded after restart, but it seems to be a bad solution (see [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/where-is-iptables-config-file-584024/#post2890275](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/where-is-iptables-config-file-584024/#post2890275))

Is there a way to find out what was overwriting iptables rules (something that boots after */etc/network/interfaces* and before */etc/rc.local*)? I'm new to Linux and maybe I'm misunderstanding the problem.

---

### Post by redmk2 on 2009-06-11
> **LordNibler said:**
> ...

Is there a way to find out what was overwriting iptables rules (something that boots after */etc/network/interfaces* and before */etc/rc.local*)? I'm new to Linux and maybe I'm misunderstanding the problem.

The init system uses run levels (stages).  The script could be in any of the rc directories.  See [**_here_**]("http://www.debianadmin.com/debian-and-ubuntu-linux-run-levels.html") for an understanding of run levels.

Look in the other /etc/rc directories.  It is a bit of a "needle in a haystack" situation.  Although the script should have a descriptive name, it does need really have to.  This is where I would hunt it down.

Remember all this is just configuration and you have had the last say with your iptables restore script.  I know how you feel, it would be nice to find the offending script.

---

### Post by LordNibler on 2009-06-12
> **redmk2 said:**
> The init system uses run levels (stages).  The script could be in any of the rc directories.  See [**_here_**]("http://www.debianadmin.com/debian-and-ubuntu-linux-run-levels.html") for an understanding of run levels.

Look in the other /etc/rc directories.  It is a bit of a "needle in a haystack" situation.  Although the script should have a descriptive name, it does need really have to.  This is where I would hunt it down.

Remember all this is just configuration and you have had the last say with your iptables restore script.  I know how you feel, it would be nice to find the offending script.

I used a keyword "NFQUEUE" from iptables rules to scan system folders recursively with *grep*:
```
sudo grep -R NFQUEUE /usr
```

I found an ipblock script */usr/sbin/ipblock*, that was setting up iptables rules at startup. Disabling autostart for ipblock fixed the problem.

I learned a few new Linux tips while was solving this issue. :D 

Thanks for help!

---

### Post by tuxhats on 2009-07-05
sudo rm /etc/init.d/ufw
sudo cp your-new-firewall-file  /etc/init.d/ufw

This removes the ufw(universal firewall) which ACCEPTS everything from everyone, etc.[NOT GOOD!!!] And, replaces it with one of your own. When you reboot, it will become your new firewall as default.

---

### Post by ktritty on 2009-09-08
> **redmk2 said:**
> The init system uses run levels (stages).  The script could be in any of the rc directories.  See [**_here_**]("http://www.debianadmin.com/debian-and-ubuntu-linux-run-levels.html") for an understanding of run levels.

I bet you are fluent enough with Ubuntu to help me.  I am trying to build a router, and the task at hand is to develop a customized config script for IPtables that will run upon each system boot (it will setup ipmasq and then some security rules).  I am following a howto at [http://tldp.org/HOWTO/IP-Masquerade-HOWTO/firewall-examples.html](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/IP-Masquerade-HOWTO/firewall-examples.html)

The script is supposed to be saved as  /etc/rc.d/rc.firewall-iptables

I see that this is not perfectly correct for ubuntu.  I have three closely related questions
1A) Should I put the script into one of the /etc/rcX.d/ directories?
1B) Which one?
3) Should I remove /etc/init.d/ufw (say by using mv and renaming as ufw.old); or should I leave it be?

Many thanks.

---

