---
title: "11.10 wired network connection intermittent"
date: 2012-01-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by ddales on 2012-01-14
Hi all,

Long time Ubuntu user, googled and forumed like a mad man but this is driving me crazy.

Just installed a new motherboard, cpu, memory, Asus M5A99x.  I re-installed Ubu 11.10 x64 with an EFI boot partition no problem.

However, I use a wired connection and it decides to just constantly disappear.  I went through all the network-manager settings and everything seems to be fine.  Additionally, no matter what config I use for the eth0 interface, it never gets written to the /etc/network/interfaces file.  So I checked out the /etc/NetworkManager.... config and everything there seems to be correct as well.

It seems to particularly hate "sudo apt-get update" and hangs on getting the headers at different positions.  Then the interface acts as if it is just not there anymore.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-01-15
Please post outputs of (while being connected):
```
ifconfig
lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 net
lsmod
cat /etc/resolv.conf
cat /etc/network/interfaces
ping archive.ubuntu.com -c 6
```

and when the connection seems to have been terminated:
```
ifconfig
dmesg | grep -i eth0
```

Also, make sure your physical connections (cable, connectors, etc.) are ok.

---

### Post by ddales on 2012-01-16
Solved

Apparently my cable was good enough for Windows but not for Ubuntu.  Under Ubuntu I noticed lots of dropped packets and queue lengths.  Changed the cable and it's Ok now.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-01-16
> **ddales said:**
> Solved

Apparently my cable was good enough for Windows but not for Ubuntu.  Under Ubuntu I noticed lots of dropped packets and queue lengths.  Changed the cable and it's Ok now.
Happy to hear that! Hope it's not too early to decide it's fixed :)

And one thing I forgot to mention earlier - just for your info - 'Any configuration setting entered in Network Manager is never got written to /etc/network/interfaces file'. It is meant to be that way.

So if you manually enter any configuration data for an interface in that file, NM will stop controlling that interface and will leave it for the file to manage it.

---

### Post by ddales on 2012-01-17
The normal behavior would be the NM taking over the ../interfaces file or vice versa.  However, regardless of what I manually entered in the interfaces file it was disregarded as if it didn't exist.

I'll leave everything as is for now and see if there are any more problems.  I hope not!

---

### Post by ddales on 2012-01-21
Ok, discovered that it wasn't the cable after all.  However, I did find out from Realtek that the vanilla driver supplied by a fresh install of Ubuntu for example is not the driver for this interface.

If you have a Realtek 8111e like I do you have to get a driver for it direct from Realtek.  I will be trying this out today to see if it works.

---

### Post by ddales on 2012-01-21
Figured this out for good!

The vanilla driver for the Realtek r8168/r8111e provided is indeed for another model interface.

Symptoms:  
- slow network
- multiple link up errors in your log file

Solution:
Go to Realtek and download the latest driver.   Follow the instructions in the README.

All is then good!

---

