---
title: "resolvconf weirdness"
date: 2012-04-26
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2012-04-26
Since upgrading to 12.04, I can't resolve names on my local network.  I looked at my /etc/resolv.conf, and found it only contains this:

```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1

```

I'm not running a DNS server on localhost, so I'm mystified how I'm able to browse the internet at all; but I'd really like to use my local DNS so I can resolve local network names.  

My router obviously is giving out the right information, because none of my other (non-upgraded) ubuntu machines have this problem.  

Also, if I manually run dhclient on my interface, I get the correct nameserver entries.  

Is this some weird networkmanager hack?  What gives?

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2012-04-26
Ok, it gets weirder.  I actually seem to have dnsmasq running on my laptop for some reason, yet I don't have the dnsmasq package installed.  

pstree reveals that the dnsmasq process was started by network manager.

So WHY

 - am I running DNS queries through a local dns server
 - does this local DNS server not use the DNS servers given it by my router (apparently)
???


EDIT: ok, now this is annoying.  I ran "dig local_computer_name" and after that I can resolve local names.  I bet it stops working on reboot, though, because I think it did this yesterday.

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2012-04-26
Ok, I think I solved my own problem.  Network Manager is apparently using dnsmasq to cache dns queries to speed them up.  Obviously, not working right for me.

I disabled this by 
 - editing /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
 - commenting out the line that says "dns=dnsmasq"
 - restarting network-manager
 - reconnecting to my wireless

Posterity, there you go.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2012-04-29
The 16-lb. sledgehammer usually works! I am seeing issues here as well and I appreciate the heads-up.

---

### Post by jdthood on 2012-10-30
> **lykwydchykyn said:**
> So WHY [...] does this local DNS server not use the DNS servers given it by my router (apparently) ???

Probably the local nameserver was not using nameservers on your LAN because of bug #1003842.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dnsmasq/+bug/1003842](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dnsmasq/+bug/1003842)

---

