---
title: "10.10 wireless desktop problem"
date: 2010-12-02
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-12-02
Upgraded via web from 10.04 to 10.10 on two desktop machines yesterday (not laptops).  One was flawless but another is having wireless card problems.

BOTH have the same D-Link wireless card and both were working on 10.04 (AND earlier).

The one that is not connecting at first would not connect at all when it started up, so I re-installed the network and the icon at the top says is sees the network.  The issue is that NOTHING that  requires internet access (browser, eMail, weather report .. UPDATES) can do so. 
lshw shows the card is there. 

Hate to have to step back to 10.04 for something that should be fixable.

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-12-02
A follow up.  Computer/network works when hard wired. (but having a 75'cat5 strung across the floor of the house is NOT the way to go!!)
Has to be an issue with the network manager as far as I see it.
Suggestions welcome!

---

### Post by oldsoundguy on 2010-12-02
A follow up:

Card is DWL 520+ wireless card.
swapped cards with another from a WORKING computer and the card I pulled WORKS in that computer.
Was running the default Network Manager
Changed to WICD
same story.
Again,  card seen in lshw but no networks seen by the software .. and I have two of my own and there are three others that show up in a laptop search for networks!

And repeating .. hard wire to a router works with full networking capabilities ..  just the wireless is ca ca!

Suspicion: a bad driver in the kernel .. which is beyond my areas of expertise without some hand holding.

All recommendations will be considered!  Thanks!

---

