---
title: "9.10 wireless trouble"
date: 2010-04-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bjbraams on 2010-04-20
Greetings.  I see other reports of trouble similar to mine, but haven't found the response yet that solves my problem.  I have a Dell Inspiron Mini 10 on which I was using Ubuntu 9.04 without problem, and it happily connected to the wireless that I have in my apartment.  Just now I installed v. 9.10 from scratch, and I can't get it to find the wireless.

I follow the Help icon and find advice about connecting to a wireless network:
1. Ensure that the wireless device is turned on.  [It is turned on; I am properly connected to the internet through that same wireless on a different computer.]
2. Click the NetworkManager icon in the systems notification area.
3. Under Wireless Networks click on the network you want to connect to.

This is where the trouble starts.  If I left-click on that Icon then I see two options; one concerns a Wired Network (not connected) and the other concerns VPN Connections (not relevant, I believe).  If I right-click on the NetworkManager icon then I see the following.

A check box "enable networking".  It is checked.
A light gray (not active) field "Connection Information".  (Nothing there; I have no active connections.)
An active field "Edit Connections"
A help field "About".

The help field shows me that this is NetworkManager Applet 0.7.996.

The "Edit Connections" field is probably where I should do something.  I follow the link and it gives me options Wired, Wireless, Mobile Broadband, VPN and DSL.  I click on Wireless.

(All this is not what I was accustomed to with Ubuntu 9.04, when the system would on its own volition locate the available wireless networks and let me take it from there.)

Having clicked on Wireless I may add a connection, and I try to do so.  It asks for the SSID, and I know what that is, I can fill it in.  Then it wants the Mode: Infrastructure or Ad-hoc.  I haven't a clue, but I can try both.  It wants the BSSID and the MAC address.  I don't know what they are either.  In any case, this is all quite different than under 9.04.  Under 9.04 the system automatically located the available wireless networks, and I had to provide some secret key, which may have been called the "WEP" or maybe the "WPA PSK".  They are the same and I know what they are.

Please advise!

Bas Braams

---

### Post by spiky001 on 2010-04-20
As you have just installed have you updated drivers would be easier to do that wired 1st

---

