---
title: "Wireless connected, no internet access"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Roflmaomg on 2011-10-15
Hi, I'm completely new to Ubuntu and am having a trouble getting internet access on my laptop.

I have windows 7 installed on my laptop. I installed Ubuntu 11.10 just yesterday at uni. I was able to access uni internet just fine.

I got home and tried to hook my laptop up to home wi-fi. It asked for the WEP key, which I provided, and got connected.

The trouble is that I am not able to access any websites.

I have searched all over the internet for solutions but could not resolve this problem.

I tried some things people were suggesting, including:

1.ping [www.google.com](www.google.com)

which resulted in: unknown host [www.google.com](www.google.com)

2.ping 209.85.135.105
It just hung on this screen forever, until I cancelled it via Ctrl+c. Then it printed:
--- 209.85.135.105 ping statistics ---
133 packets transmitted, 0 received, 100% packet loss, time 131999ms

3.sudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf
The file had the following lines of text:
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.254

(And on the terminal, it printed: 
(gedit:1955): Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to store c hanges into '/root/.local/share/recently-used.xbel, but failed: Failed to create file '/root/.local/share/recently-used.xbel.381L3V': No such file or directory

(gedit:1955) Gtk-WARNING **: Attempting to set the permissions of '/root/.local/share/recently-used.xbel', but failed: No such file or directory
)

I ignored the error, and added: nameserver 209.85.135.105 and rebooted to see if it helped, but did nothing so I deleted the line.


Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by alenis on 2011-10-15
To troubleshoot you could try manual connection:

```

sudo su
ifconfig wlan0 down
dhclient -r
ifconfig wlan0 down
iwconfig wlan0 essid "networkname"
iwconfig wlan0 key s:<ascii key>
dhclient wlan0

```

Your adapter name may not be wlan0, check that.
Also, which adapter is it? some of them don't work properly with Linux. For example, I have an Orinoco built in adapter which requires a lot of tinkering to work.

---

### Post by Roflmaomg on 2011-10-15
Thank you so much. Worked like a charm. :D

---

