---
title: "How can I know if someone connected to my laptop?"
date: 2014-01-14
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Abufalia on 2014-01-14
Hello everybody, 

I knew that this moment had to arrive, I mean, I suppose that my Ubuntu got hacked and I would like to prove if I am right or wrong. 

My suspects grew from the fact that: I did connect to pubblic wifi points, I did reveal my root password to a person (the pswd would not have been that hard to guess anyway), I borrowed my portable HD and ater I discovered that the trash contained my folder with some pswd (ouch!)

By reading this tread on Ask Ubuntu [HTML]http://askubuntu.com/questions/108970/am-i-being-hacked[/HTML] I tried the following command:

```
abu@abu:~$ cat /etc/passwd|grep '/bin/bash'
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
abu:x:1000:1000:Abu,,,:/home/abu:/bin/bash
guest-ZCohQE:x:118:130:Guest,,,:/tmp/guest-ZCohQE:/bin/bash


```

Now, who's that guest-ZCohQE?

I controlled the var/log/auth.log and it starts from january 12, 2014. I have found even var/log/auth.log.1, it starts from January 6th. I do not know what do these files means but they bring my userid the actions that I made (I suppose).

Is there a way to know if someone in the last 3 months connected to my laptop and copied some of my files?

Heeelp, 

Thank you in advance, 

A.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-01-15
Proving that you have or have not been hacked with what you've described is like proving or disproving there is a god, gdo, dgo, dog, or GOD. Can't be done.

I think the guest account is dynamically generated by using the 12.04 and later "guest" login account. This is relatively safe, though I though it would be automatically removed at logout, but I honestly DO NOT KNOW if that is true.

Your command could be simplified - "grep bash /etc/passwd"  results would be the same as your command, just shorter to type. It didn't really show anything useful.

To find all files modified on a system in the last period of time is easy. Two ways to do this: 

1) a backup from the date you want to compare against.  Backups rock for over 100 different reasons.  I keep 60 days of backups for most of my systems. 90 days for the higher-risk ones ... like laptops.   

2) find - On to the command.
**find / -mtime -30 -type f**  - learn more about this command - **man fiind** - it is one of the most powerful and complex commands on any UNIX system. Worth knowing to a certain amount.

3) Log files can be viewed.  **sudo more /var/log/auth.log**  Interesting data in log files. Good to view, understand, review, search. Log files on the suspect machine can be modified by attackers. This is why security conscious people push log entries to other machines immediately. At some places, they print logs as-they-happen on fanfold paper. hard to hide accesses that way and if the paper hasn't been split, then there is assurance that the log is complete.  Still, there doesn't seem to be any real reason to suspect any foul play on your box.

There shouldn't be a root password on any Debian or Ubuntu-based system.  It can lesson the overall security of a system, especially with a bonehead (less than 20 character) password.  Remote access via root should be disabled too, with and without passwords.   

Backups - versioned backups - stored on a different system, pulled, not pushed, would be the best way to know for certain.

---

