---
title: "802.11b card, 802.11b+g router, linux 2.6 = fail to connect"
date: 2006-06-22
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by afoglia on 2006-06-22
1. The first, biggest problem.  My wireless card, and Orinoco classic gold PC card (802.11b Agere systems) fails to work in Ubuntu with any router in 802.11b+g mode.  Oddly, it works fine in Debian stable (Linux 2.4) but not with Ubuntu Breezy or Dapper.  The card simply won't connect to the access point.  In case it was an error in my config files, I tried going through the net-install from the floppies (which I used initially to install Breezy), and it too failed to connect.  I even updated to Dapper in hopes it would fix the problem, but it just caused even more.

2. The xfce wavelan plugin always claims to be connected, so that might mean something.  Heck, it always gives a signal strength, even when iwconfig doesn't report a MAC address for the AP.

3. The "Networking" gnome application, which used to work fine, if slow, now seems hit or miss.  (And what's the difference between an "enabled" and an "activated" connection/device anyway?)

4. My wireless card, which used to be regularly eth0 on startup, is now eth1 or eth2 depending on whether it or my wired ethernet PCMCIA card gets noticed first.  The lack of any settings for eth2 in /etc/network/interfaces means I can't use ifup/ifdown at those times.  This is probably because the wireless card wasn't in when I upgraded to dapper, but the complete elimination of the possibility of eth0 seems odd.  (How do I attempt to get an IP address using ifconfig and not ifup?)

And one would think this would actually be a good thing, I could use network-manager, and since there are no settings for eth2 in /etc/network/interfaces, it shouldn't have any problems.  Unfortunately I've only got network-manager to work one time out of at least 10.  (And not on a g router.)

I'm not running ndiswrapper, but that is the next logical thing to try.  Except it seems odd something would work fine in 2.4, but fail completely in 2.6.

Any suggestions on how to troubleshoot this?

---

