---
title: "Home network ?"
date: 2010-04-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by celticbhoy on 2010-04-03
OK folks I have never got my head round this networking thing.

This is what I have :-

I have a desktop running 9.10 with multiple user accounts, on which I have a couple of partitions for music and video.

In the house there are three netbooks all running 9.10 also. 

All link to the internet through a Sagem wireless router (from sky).

What I would like to do :-

Is it possible for the netbooks to have access to the music & video partitions of the desktop, regardless of who is logged on, or even better if nobody is logged on at all.

The netbooks don't have to be able to 'see' each other, just play media from the desktop.


Any help is most welcome, but as I say I have never got my head round networking, so please keep it simple.

Cheers in advance.

---

### Post by louis--taylor on 2010-04-03
Would it not perhaps be better to have one filesharing computer which is always on, and all computers on the network have read/write permissions to the music partition? I have a very old laptop in headless mode (no screen or keyboard) and manage it via ssh over the network. This works fine, and it does not matter if the main computers are on/off.
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by celticbhoy on 2010-04-03
Not an option, the desktop sits in the living room, and my wife uses it for all her computing needs. The netbooks belong to me and my daughters. The other problem is that being the person she is, she has a phobia about things being left on.

---

### Post by louis--taylor on 2010-04-03
> she has a phobia about things being left on.My mum is like that :) she does not know that the server is always on, and thinks that the files are 'just hanging around'.

You can pick up an old laptop for next to nothing, esp with no screen. I got my current filesharing/print server for £0 exactly! (its from 1998)

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-04-03
> Is it possible for the netbooks to have access to the music & video partitions of the desktop, regardless of who is logged on, or even better if nobody is logged on at all.Yes.

Right Click on the folder that contains the Music or Video files
Select "Sharing Options"
Select all three boxes
Select "Create Share"

You will create a Samba share with access to everyone in the network.

You didn't provide enough information as to the location and ownership of the Music and Video directories so you may have to change permissions on the targets.

---

### Post by celticbhoy on 2010-04-03
Thanx, don't know what you mean about location?

As for ownership, looking in the properties tab shows they cant be determined, I dont know if this is because I use ntfs-config to automount.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-04-03
Did you successfully create the share?

Post the output of the following commands so we can see where you are:

Open **Terminal**
Type **net usershare info**
Type **sudo net usershare info**
Type **testparm -s**
Type **cat /etc/fstab**

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-04-03
Just to toss in another option, you could buy a NAS drive to hook up to the router and copy your files over to it. This would enable you to switch off the computer currently holding the media files easing the concerns over leaving it on.

Don't think they are that expensive these days.

---

### Post by celticbhoy on 2010-04-03
```
gary@gary-desktop:~$ net usershare info
gary@gary-desktop:~$ sudonet usershare info
sudonet: command not found
gary@gary-desktop:~$ sudo net usershare info
[sudo] password for gary: 
[media]
path=/media/Media
comment=
usershare_acl=Everyone:F,
guest_ok=y

gary@gary-desktop:~$ testparm -s
Load smb config files from /etc/samba/smb.conf
rlimit_max: rlimit_max (1024) below minimum Windows limit (16384)
Processing section "[printers]"
Processing section "[print$]"
Loaded services file OK.
Server role: ROLE_STANDALONE
[global]
	server string = %h server (Samba, Ubuntu)
	map to guest = Bad User
	obey pam restrictions = Yes
	pam password change = Yes
	passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
	passwd chat = *Enter\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *password\supdated\ssuccessfully* .
	unix password sync = Yes
	syslog = 0
	log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
	max log size = 1000
	dns proxy = No
	usershare allow guests = Yes
	panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d

[printers]
	comment = All Printers
	path = /var/spool/samba
	create mask = 0700
	printable = Yes
	browseable = No
	browsable = No

[print$]
	comment = Printer Drivers
	path = /var/lib/samba/printers
gary@gary-desktop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=35529c78-532d-4b85-9250-06465c905819 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=d3e092cf-fcdc-4a1b-8a5b-5c767dc97905 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sdb6 :
UUID=f844ae1c-a366-4c01-bf6c-89f53e376911 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/Media ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/Games ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/Vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
gary@gary-desktop:~$ 

```

Think that means it should be good to go?

---

### Post by celticbhoy on 2010-04-03
How do I connect from the netbooks to the shared partitions?

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-04-03
Bring up Nautilus and click on "Network"

You should see the desktop workgroup name. Keep drilling down until you see the "media" share.

---

### Post by celticbhoy on 2010-04-03
Thanx again, that works fine.

A couple of points, I guess that this wont work if the desktop is sitting at GDM, and if that is the case does it matter who is logged into the desktop? will I have to setup the share for each desktop user?

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-04-03
You don't have to logon to the box for this to work. It will work at the username / password prompt.

It doesn't matter who is loged on.

---

### Post by Martje_001 on 2010-04-03
As long as your home-directory is not encrypted it should work, even when nobody has logged on. I'm not sure though ;).

---

