---
title: "Netgear N600 WNDA3100 Drivers from Mac -&gt; USB -&gt; Ubuntu?"
date: 2013-08-06
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Mark_Rademacher on 2013-08-06
Hi, first post here so I apologize if anything is at all confusing. I have my main computer that I have built over the last year and it is not fancy at all. I just moved to a new place and there is no ethernet plug-in so I need to put a wireless adapter on it, but I am unsure how to get the drivers to the computer since it has no internet access. Is there a process that I can go through in which I could download the drivers and other things I need on my MacBook laptop and transfer them via USB to the desktop?

Ubuntu Version 12.04
Netgear N600 WNDA3100 Wireless adapter

Any help is very much appreciated, thanks!

-Mark

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-08-06
Hi,

please open a terminal with CTRL+ALT+T and show the outputs of these commands:
```

uname -a
lsusb
iwconfig
rfkill list
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
If it is the "right" stick it should work ootb.

---

### Post by Mark_Rademacher on 2013-08-06
The returns are as follows. I also forgot to mention that I do not have an optical drive.

uname -a:
> 
Linux mark-Dell-XPS430 3.5.0-23-generic #35-precise1-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jan 25 17:13:26 UTC 2013 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

lsusb:
> 
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 0846:9011 NetGear, Inc. WNDA3100v2 802.11abgn [Broadcom BCM4323]
nothing else relevant, alot of empty USB ports

iwconfig:
> 
eth0      no wireless extensions.

lo         no wireless extensions

rfkill list:
> 
didnt return anything, just goes to next command line with no info. sudo command returned sudo: rfkill: command not found

cat /etc/resolv.conf:
> 
#Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#      DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-08-06
Download the following packages and save them in "Downloads":

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/primary/+files/ndiswrapper-common_1.58%7Erc1-0ubuntu1_all.deb](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/primary/+files/ndiswrapper-common_1.58%7Erc1-0ubuntu1_all.deb)

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/primary/+files/ndiswrapper-dkms_1.58%7Erc1-0ubuntu1_all.deb](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/primary/+files/ndiswrapper-dkms_1.58%7Erc1-0ubuntu1_all.deb)

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/primary/+files/ndiswrapper-utils-1.9_1.58%7Erc1-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/primary/+files/ndiswrapper-utils-1.9_1.58%7Erc1-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb)

[http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/d/dkms/dkms_2.2.0.3-1.1ubuntu1_all.deb](http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/d/dkms/dkms_2.2.0.3-1.1ubuntu1_all.deb)

[http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/n/ndisgtk/ndisgtk_0.8.5-1_amd64.deb](http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/n/ndisgtk/ndisgtk_0.8.5-1_amd64.deb)

Install them via ```
sudo dpkg -i ~/Downloads/*.deb
```

Here is the Windows driver:

[http://media.cdn.ubuntu-de.org/forum/attachments/37/11/2955302-Broadcom_bcm43xx_USB_32_64bit_v3.tar.gz](http://media.cdn.ubuntu-de.org/forum/attachments/37/11/2955302-Broadcom_bcm43xx_USB_32_64bit_v3.tar.gz)

unpack it and install the 64bit *.INF file via "Windows WLAN drivers"

---

### Post by Mark_Rademacher on 2013-08-06
> [COLOR=#000000]unpack it and install the 64bit *.INF file via "Windows WLAN drivers"[/COLOR]

I'm not sure what you mean by this, or how to install it. I searched for Windows WLAN drivers on my ubuntu computer and nothing came up. Sorry, still learning this OS.

Also, it doesn't seem to have been a major error, but while running the command line to install the first 5 programs, at the very end it says "Errors were encountered while processing: ndisgtk" Is this problematic?

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-08-06
Unpack the tar.gz file via double click to "Downloads". Install the driver via terminal
```

sudo ndiswrapper -i ~/Downloads/Broadcom_bcm43xx_USB_32_64bit_v3/bcmn43xx64.inf
sudo modprobe -v ndiswrapper
```
Check:```

iwconfig
rfkill list
dmesg | grep ndis
```

---

### Post by Mark_Rademacher on 2013-08-06
Thanks so much! It's working perfectly now, I can't express my gratitude haha. Have a wonderful day, because you just made mine.

edit: 
whups, not quite working perfectly, just need to figure out how to stabilize the connection, anyone have any ideas? see my most recent post.

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-08-06
Great it worked. I strongly recommend istalling the usual tools which will build the ndiswrapper module automatically after a kernel upgrade:
```

sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-headers-generic linux-headers-$(uname -r) build-essential
```
Dont forget to update your system.

---

### Post by Mark_Rademacher on 2013-08-07
Well, I thought it was working fine. I just got home from work and while it is recieving internet signal, the internet will stop working after about 5 minutes, though the connection status on the computer still shows connected. Disconnecting and reconnecting to the network does nothing, only a reboot fixes the connection, which then breaks again after about 5 minutes. Any ideas on how to fix this?

update: ran sudo apt-get update and upgrade commands, neither of which seem to have had any effect. I have noticed that every time I reboot i need to run the command line "sudo modprobe -v ndiswrapper" in order for the wi-fi adapter to work, is this normal?

update #2: been trying to download a large file on steam, I have noticed that with more internet-consuming programs (i.e. Skype, youtube, etc.) running, the connection drop seems to happen sooner, whereas if I leave steam alone, it has gone as long as 20 minutes without needing a reboot to revive the connection. Could this be a router problem?

---

### Post by praseodym on 2013-08-07
Change the mode in your router settings to "b+g" only

---

