---
title: "Can ping but can't access the net"
date: 2009-04-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by g_butcher on 2009-04-08
Hello

I recently bought myself an Eee PC (901) to give me an excuse to learn a little about Linux and do a little developing on the move. So my knowledge with anything Linux is basic at best.

My problem is that ive not been able to get it to connect to the internet at home first off using the pre installed Xandros which I wasnt at all keen on so ofc got rid of that as soon as I could :) 

I then installed Eeebuntu in the hope it would solve the problem. It hasn't :( Correct me if im wrong but Eeebuntu is just a slight variant on Ubuntu just with the drivers specific to the Eee pre installed?

So the problem I'm having is that I can connect to the network both with a wire and without at work no problems but at home all I can do is ping. I can ping other computers on the network and ip addresses such as google etc.

All the other computers on the network are windows based but work fine. I have had my brother over about a week ago who plugged in with his Eee PC and had access instantly. I also can't connect to my router with firefox.

Can anyone help?

Thanks
Graham

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-08
I would suggest you have a look at /etc/resolv.conf (no that isn't a typo) and check the dns settings, it should look something like this:

```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
domain aplus
search aplus
nameserver 64.59.168.13
nameserver 64.59.168.15
```

The nameserver ip address is supplied by my isp.

jim

---

### Post by g_butcher on 2009-04-08
my resolv.conf file contains:

> # Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

Which is my router. Does that seem correct?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-04-08
I don't suppose you did a side-by-side comparison between the working eee and yours?  Pinging suggests connection is working, so **ifconfig** probably won't show anything interesting. You can ping internet by name (as opposed to IP-address only)?

---

### Post by wlraider70 on 2009-04-08
I had a similar issue, it was resolved by adding a valid DNS address.

I did it in the network Manager, but in /etc/resolv.conf
 should work too.

---

### Post by g_butcher on 2009-04-09
> I don't suppose you did a side-by-side comparison between the working eee and yours?

I didn't no. It was a few days before mine arrived in the post. I hope to get him back round though so I can compare the settings on the 2.

> You can ping internet by name (as opposed to IP-address only)?

Im at work now so I can't confirm but I'm pretty sure I can. I'll take a look when I get home. But assuming I can that would rule out wlraider70's suggestion of DNS issues would it not?


> I had a similar issue, it was resolved by adding a valid DNS address.

I did it in the network Manager, but in /etc/resolv.conf
should work too. 

What should I try changing my resolv.conf to?

Thanks for the help people! It is very much appreciated.
Graham

---

### Post by wlraider70 on 2009-04-09
just like cariboo907 said.

make a backup copy of your original file and rename it

copy and paste his code into your file

but be sure to verify that the DNS server he listed is valid. 
If not Google free DNS

---

### Post by g_butcher on 2009-04-09
No none of that worked :(

I can still ping both ip addresses and url's tho.

Any other ideas?

---

