---
title: "10.04  64-bit Wireless problems"
date: 2010-07-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by iiTzLelouch on 2010-07-12
hey im having the problem too i just installed 10.04 onto my AMD 64-Bit laptop. my ethernet works fine but my wireless isnt picking up any wireless networks i really want to use linux but i cant without wifi. please helpp

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-07-12
Welcome aboard!
Moved your post to it's own thread. Do you also have the Realtek 8190? More details about your hardware would be helpful. You should be able to get some information about your interfaces by running (from a terminal - Applications>Accessories>Terminal) **sudo lshw -C network**.

---

### Post by vangli on 2010-07-13
Hi

I too has this problem. My USB dongle is a Cnet CWL-906. That is a unit with long range antenna. The chipset is Realtek RTL8192SU. I run 10.04 64 bit version

After intense search and multiple tries of compilation with different driver version, both form the vendor and from Realtek, other users experience and so on, it turns out that this chip will not work on a 64 bit Linux system. I have even tried the NDIS version, but then dmesg complains of trying to use av 32 bit driver on a 64 bit system, however the ndis driver detects the hardware.

Other has reported that it is impossible to use this chip on a 64 bit linux system, most proberly because it is dependent of HAL, which is not longer a part of Ubuntu.

If I can be of any help to do testing of modified driver versions, I volunteer. I am capable of compiling from source.

With best regards

Bent, Oslo, Norway

---

