---
title: "11.04 &quot;Device not ready&quot;"
date: 2011-07-11
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Bocaj1994 on 2011-07-11
Hey guys,

I have a Lenovo ThinkPad Edge E520 (1143CTO) and I'm having problems  getting my wireless NIC to work, as far as I can tell the drivers and  firmware are all installed and the device is working.

I have searched around and have done all the fixes I can find online,  this is my first 'real' experience with Linux, so patience is  appreciated, as is any help I can get. I also had this problem with  Linux Mint 11.

It appears that the model of my card is BCM43224, but it doesn't show up anywhere in the with any commands?

sudo lshw
 
 >                                                 *-network DISABLED
            description: Wireless interface
            product: Broadcom Corporation
            vendor: Broadcom Corporation
            physical id: 0
            bus info: pci@0000:09:00.0
            logical name: eth2
            version: 01
            serial: ac:81:12:3e:1d:ca
            width: 64 bits
            clock: 33MHz
            capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
            configuration: broadcast=yes driver=wl0 driverversion=5.100.82.38 latency=0 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abgn
            resources: irq:19 memory:e1d00000-e1d03fff       sudo lspci

> 09:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation Device 0576 (rev 01)    I have tried the Broadcom STA drivers and have also tried the command:
> 
sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter firmware-b43-installer  sudo rfkill list

  > 0: brcmwl-0: Wireless LAN
Soft blocked: no
Hard blocked: no Yet, sudo lshw still shows it as disabled!

Nothing I can find just seems to work. Any help at all is appreciated  and I will try any suggestions as-long as you can provide me with the  command [IMG]http://forums.steampowered.com/forums/v4_images/smilies/smile.gif[/IMG]

I have tried EVERY fix I can find!

P.S. This is the fourth forum I am posting it on as I am in desperate need of help.

Thanks.

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-07-11
Please post:```
lspci -nn | grep 0280
sudo rfkill list **all**
dmesg | grep -e b43 -e wl
lsmod | grep -e b43 -e wl
```The pipe symbol | is on the right side of my US keyboard on the same key with \. Thanks.

---

### Post by Bocaj1994 on 2011-07-11
I see you are helping alot of people with this problem, sadly their solutions don't work for me. I appreciate your help!

> lspci -nn | grep 0280

```
09:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation Device [14e4:0576] (rev 01)
```

> sudo rfkill list all

```
0: brcmwl-0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
1: acer-wireless: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: yes
    Hard blocked: no
2: tpacpi_bluetooth_sw: Bluetooth
    Soft blocked: yes
    Hard blocked: no

```
> dmesg | grep -e b43 -e wl

```
[   11.211707] wl 0000:09:00.0: PCI INT A -> GSI 19 (level, low) -> IRQ 19
[   11.211720] wl 0000:09:00.0: setting latency timer to 64
```

> lsmod | grep -e b43 -e wl

```
wl                   2568244  0 
lib80211               14991  2 lib80211_crypt_tkip,wl
```

Thanks again!

---

### Post by chili555 on 2011-07-11
> acer-wireless: Wireless LAN
    [COLOR="Red"]Soft blocked: yes[/COLOR]That means, roughly, that software is blocking the wireless. In this case, I suspect the module acer-wmi is not telling the kernel that the wireless switch is on or off.

Hey! Wait a minute! An Acer module on a Lenovo?? Well, it's a known bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/668234](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/668234)

Let's check:```
lsmod | grep acer
```If acer-wmi is loaded, let's unload it:```
sudo rmmod -f acer-wmi
```Did your wireless spring to life? If so, let's blacklist it:```
sudo su
echo "blacklist acer-wmi" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
exit
```If that doesn't fix it, post back and we'll dig deeper.

---

### Post by Bocaj1994 on 2011-07-11
I... Love... You!

I did see that acer wireless somewhere else on a forum but they seemed to ignore that and it worked?

---

### Post by madsjuul on 2011-07-12
Thank you.
I had the same problem on a Lenovo B560

---

### Post by Antarctica32 on 2011-08-09
My god, your a genius! worked on my e520 as well! You must be RMS. Please accept 12 Internets.

---

