---
title: "Possible Problem with DNS"
date: 2010-04-08
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by madmax.santana on 2010-04-08
If I type

```
$ ping http://www.google.com
```

or even

```
$ ping google.com

```

should I receive a reply?

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-04-08
Yes. Even if it is 'unknown host' or some such. Here is a normal response:> $ ping google.com
PING google.com (74.125.47.147) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from yw-in-f147.1e100.net (74.125.47.147): icmp_seq=1 ttl=48 time=26.7 ms
64 bytes from yw-in-f147.1e100.net (74.125.47.147): icmp_seq=2 ttl=48 time=26.9 ms
64 bytes from yw-in-f147.1e100.net (74.125.47.147): icmp_seq=3 ttl=48 time=28.8 ms
^C
--- google.com ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 3 received, 0% packet loss, time 2002ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 26.775/27.516/28.823/0.926 msWhat is the result if you do:```
ping -c3 74.125.47.147
```If you do get ping returns, then you have a DNS problem and we'd love to see:```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by madmax.santana on 2010-04-09
Here is the output...

```
~$ ping -c3 74.125.47.147
PING 74.125.47.147 (74.125.47.147) 56(84) bytes of data.

--- 74.125.47.147 ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 0 received, 100% packet loss, time 2016ms
```

And now the /etc/resolv.conf

```
$ cat resolv.conf 
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 221.132.112.8

```

The thing is, a few days back I experimented with Fedora... And there has been a bug in Fedora for quite a while which kept the users behind the proxy servers to connect the repos and update/install.
A guy at Fedora forum said it might be a problem with my DNS server so I ought to go to my IT department help desk and ask them the address of DNS servers they are using... Well, when I got to him he said something like: "You don't need it because the Name Resolution is done through proxy servers." But he gave me the address of the DNS server anyway... It was 221.132.112.8; as in my resolv.conf

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
EDIT: I removed Fedora and therefore couldn't use the DNS address in Fedora. However, I am trying this in Ubuntu. But this seems quite strange:
- In Fedora, I couldn't ping google.com or download/install from repos either.
- In Ubuntu, I can connect/download/install from repos quite easily. But the pig problem still doesn't work. An explanation to this might be useful...
---------------------------------------------------------------------------


I don't really have to ping google.com
But then there is this thing called "Why can't I?"

And I presume that I can do pretty much everything freely while I am using using Ubuntu, or for that matter, any distro of Linux...
Well, what solutions do my comarados here propose... ?

---

### Post by madmax.santana on 2010-04-10
Bump!!!

---

### Post by madmax.santana on 2010-04-14
Bump again...

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-04-14
Does it work better with:```
ping -c3 www.google.pk
```

---

### Post by madmax.santana on 2010-04-17
What is [www.google.pk?](www.google.pk?)
And no, it doesn't help. :(

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-04-17
> **madmax.santana said:**
> What is [www.google.pk?](www.google.pk?)


According to my browser, that's Google Pakistan.
> Well, when I got to him he said something like: "You don't need it because the Name Resolution is done through proxy servers."I haven't dealt with proxy servers yet,  so if the problem is there...  :(
You can try  **ping 221.132.112.8**... guess I'm gonna need to read up on proxy servers...

---

### Post by chili555 on 2010-04-17
> According to my browser, that's Google Pakistan.Yes. I wonder if his ISP is blocking access to google.com.

---

### Post by madmax.santana on 2010-04-20
> **chili555 said:**
> Yes. I wonder if his ISP is blocking access to google.com.
You know, that's LoLxxxxxxxx

Because I visit google like, 1000000 times a day

---

### Post by terazen on 2010-04-20
Try doing `traceroute www.google.com` and see where it stops.  More than likely you have a firewall between you and google somewhere and icmp is being blocked.

---

