---
title: "MAC Address Issues with Netplan-generated bonding"
date: 2018-11-25
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by michael.heath on 2018-11-25
Hi all.

Recently set up my first 18.04 server system, and I'm getting used to netplan and associated behavior.

I currently have netplan setup with both bonding and vlans:

```

network:
   version: 2
   renderer: networkd
   ethernets:
      eno1:
         dhcp4: no
      eno2:
         dhcp4: no
   bonds:
      bond0:
         interfaces: [eno1, eno2]
         parameters:
            mode: 802.3ad
            mii-monitor-interval: 100
         dhcp4: yes
   vlans:
      vlan30:
         id: 30
         link: bond0
         dhcp4: yes
      vlan99:
         id: 99
         link: bond0
         dhcp4: yes

```

The issue I am experiencing is that the MAC address being applied to the bond0 (and, subsequently, the slave interfaces and vlan interfaces) is not persisting. It is sometimes changing at reboot, and (I am not sure, and can't find indication in the logs) I am suspicious it is actually being changed partway through the boot process. Because the MAC address is flapping around like this, it's causing havoc with ARP propagation and breaking the connection. 

I've had two different MACs, at least, show up:
42:9b:e9:39:6a:7b (seems to be a variant of actual hardware MACs)
ac:1f:6b:71:86:75 (not sure where this one is coming from)

Does anyone have any idea where this is coming from? Is there a more ideal solution than just hardcoding one of the MACs into the config?

---

### Post by mitesh.agrwl on 2018-11-27
> ac:1f:6b:71:86:75 (not sure where this one is coming from)

This is the actual mac-address of the LAN card (wire/wireless) in the machine. The vendor is [URL="https://hwaddress.com/company/super-micro-computer-inc"]Super Micro computer Inc.
[/URL]
> 42:9b:e9:39:6a:7b (seems to be a variant of actual hardware MACs)

This address has not appeared anywhere in the database available on Internet. So either it gets generated by some software/programme to mask the original or assigned to a virtual interface, or might be a reading error![URL="https://www.askapache.com/online-tools/mac-lookup/"] Check the excerpt from this Link.
[/URL]
[I]"However, since [IEEE 802.3]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_802.3") (Ethernet) and [IEEE 802.4]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_802.4") (Token Bus) send the bytes (octets) over the wire, left-to-right, with least significant bit in each byte first, while [IEEE 802.5]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_802.5") (Token Ring) and [IEEE 802.6]("https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_802.6")  send the bytes over the wire with the most significant bit first,  confusion may arise when an address in the latter scenario is  represented with bits reversed from the canonical representation. For  example, an address in canonical form 12-34-56-78-9A-BC would be transmitted over the wire as bits 01001000 00101100 01101010 00011110 01011001 00111101 in the standard transmission order (least significant bit first). But for Token Ring networks, it would be transmitted as bits 00010010 00110100 01010110 01111000 10011010 10111100 in most-significant-bit first order. The latter might be incorrectly displayed as 48-2C-6A-1E-59-3D. This is referred to as bit-reversed order, non-canonical form, MSB format, IBM format, or Token Ring format, as explained in [RFC 2469]("http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2469"). Canonical form is generally preferred, and used by all modern implementations.
[/I]
[I]When the first switches supporting both Token Ring and Ethernet came  out, some did not distinguish between canonical form and non-canonical  form and so did not reverse MAC address bits as required. This led to  cases of duplicate MAC addresses in the field."
[/I]

> The issue I am experiencing is that the MAC address being applied to the  bond0 (and, subsequently, the slave interfaces and vlan interfaces) is  not persisting. It is sometimes changing at reboot, and (I am not sure,  and can't find indication in the logs) I am suspicious it is actually  being changed partway through the boot process. Because the MAC address  is flapping around like this, it's causing havoc with ARP propagation  and breaking the connection. 

The most probable cause which I can suggest is that netplan might be generating the new mac-addresses (for virtual interfaces - bond and/or vlan) with each reboot or may not be reading the mac-addresses as it should be! Please try define the mac-address in netplan manually or force it to use the hardware address of the LAN card.

---

