---
title: "8.04 Wireless Drivers help needed"
date: 2013-02-27
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by mightysteve on 2013-02-27
Hi, can anyone help please, i'm trying to get a wireless USB adapter working on my new
install of Hardy Heron 8.04.
I had hoped to just stick the CD in and run it ha silly me.

As you may have guessed i'm a bit of a novice here but i have been playing with Bash the
CLI so i've done some work like updating via apt-get update / upgrade and simple stuff like that.

There does not seem to be any instructions with this CD but in the Linux Directory there are lots of txt files I was guessing a copy an paste might be on the cards but I just dont know what to look for.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Cheers 

Steve

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2013-02-27
~

---

### Post by mightysteve on 2013-03-01
Hi, I've already got Pangolin on another machine but it wasn't at all happy on the other one, what about 10.**

BTW 98 still does plenty. 

Cheers,

Steve

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2013-03-01
You have no choice. Either stick with a OS that should have gone to a museum or upgrade to a newer version, preferably 12.04.

And if you're not happy with the current interface you can always install a new one. Install gnome-panel for the "old" UI.

---

### Post by mightysteve on 2013-03-01
All I really want to know is how do I install the drivers that I have on a CD.

Can anyone help with this. 

The interface is just fine, but I'm assuming as the CD does not contain any executable files I will need to run something from the CLI, 
I'm just not sure which of the .txt files to copy and paste.

Is this a non starter.

Thanks again

Steve.

---

