---
title: "17.10 won't connect automatically using saved connection"
date: 2017-11-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by dcroxton on 2017-11-13
Since upgrading to the latest version last month, I have one annoying problem:  every time I turn on my computer, it creates a new network connection without the proper settings.  (I am using an ethernet connection to a router serving as a client bridge; the wireless part of the connection works fine.)  I need to specify my dns servers, so I have a saved connection with the correct ones included, as well as a static ip address.  Every time I switch to this connection, it works fine; however, every time I reboot, it refuses to connect using my saved connection (even though it is set to use it automatically) and instead creates a new dynamic connection without the right dns information.

As I said, this problem is new since upgrading to the latest version.  I can't understand why it won't use my saved connection.  Any help or ideas would be appreciated.

Derek

---

### Post by uragno on 2017-11-16
Don't know very well networking, but you could check if there are some NetPlan files (*.yaml) that overwrite your manual setting every boot.
NetPlan (default from 17.10): [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Netplan](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Netplan).
It's not much help, I know, but I hope this will led you to solve your issue.

Bye!

---

### Post by dcroxton on 2017-11-16
Thanks uragno, I asked in LinuxQuestions and someone pointed out that network-manager won't manage interfaces found in /etc/network/interfaces.  I had a fully defined connection in that file, but it also contained the line "auto ensp0" (or whatever the ethernet device is called) which I suspect the upgrade stuck in there (probably I approved a merge without paying attention).  Once I removed that, it worked again.

---

