---
title: "Need help with self-signed certificate SSL + apache2"
date: 2007-05-13
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by twowheeler on 2007-05-13
I have an edgy server going with apache2, php5, ssh, the whole shebang.  Apache works fine with SSL so that I can now host https pages, with a self-signed certificate.  Now I want to take the last step, which is to restrict access to the https pages to only those that have my certificate.  

According to the docs [here: ]("http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/ssl/ssl_howto.html")

> How can I force clients to authenticate using certificates?

When you know all of your users (eg, as is often the case on a corporate Intranet), you can require plain certificate authentication. All you need to do is to create client certificates signed by your own CA certificate (ca.crt) and then verify the clients against this certificate.
httpd.conf

# require a client certificate which has to be directly
# signed by our CA certificate in ca.crt
SSLVerifyClient require
SSLVerifyDepth 1
SSLCACertificateFile conf/ssl.crt/ca.crt


However when I add these lines to the /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/ssl file, then apache will not restart -- it just prints  [fail]  and dies.  The error.log does not explain much:

> [Sun May 13 07:51:23 2007] [notice] Apache/2.0.55 (Ubuntu) PHP/5.1.6 mod_ssl/2.0.55 OpenSSL/0.9.8b configured -- resuming normal operations
[Sun May 13 08:11:50 2007] [notice] caught SIGTERM, shutting down


So I figure the problem is the ca.crt file that it refers to in the last line.  I worked my way through the tutorial  [here. ]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenSSL")   This has a step by step process for creating a certificate authority on the server.  I encountered no errors, so now I have a directory ~/myCA/ that looks like this:

> dan@ghyfc:~/myCA$ ls -l
total 60
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan 1346 2007-05-13 09:10 cacert.pem
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan 2047 2007-05-13 09:09 caconfig.cnf
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan  383 2007-05-13 09:11 ghyfc.cnf
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan  145 2007-05-13 09:14 index.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan   21 2007-05-13 09:14 index.txt.attr
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan    0 2007-05-13 09:05 index.txt.old
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan 1880 2007-05-13 09:23 mycert.pem
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan 1824 2007-05-13 09:24 mycert.pfx
drwxr-xr-x 2 dan dan 4096 2007-05-13 09:09 private
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan    3 2007-05-13 09:14 serial
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan    3 2007-05-13 09:05 serial.old
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan 3704 2007-05-13 09:14 server_crt.pem
-rw-r--r-- 1 dan dan  887 2007-05-13 09:13 server_key.pem
drwxr-xr-x 2 dan dan 4096 2007-05-13 09:14 signedcerts


This looks ok, in that now I have a mycert.pfx file that can be copied to the clients.  But now whiich file is the SSLCACertificateFile?   I have tried all likely candidates, and have read the docs and the forums until my eyes bleed, but can't make this one last step work. 

Can anyone here help?

---

### Post by twowheeler on 2007-05-15
Ok well here is a follow up.  The startup failure was caused by a mis-configured virtual server.  Now I have something like this in /etc/apache2/sites-available/default:

> NameVirtualHost 192.168.2.10:443
<VirtualHost 192.168.2.10:443>
        ServerName [server name here]
        DocumentRoot /var/www/database/
        <Directory "/var/www/database/">
                allow from all
                Options +Indexes
        </Directory>
        SSLEngine on
        SSLCertificateFile /etc/apache2/ssl/server_crt.pem
        SSLCipherSuite HIGH:MEDIUM
        SSLVerifyClient require
        SSLVerifyDepth 2
        SSLCACertificateFile /home/dan/myCA/cacert.pem
        SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/apache2/ssl/server_key.pem
</VirtualHost>
SSLPassPhraseDialog builtin


The *.pem files mentioned are generated by the tutorial method mentioned above.  I have done it several times now and have learned a few things.  One of them is that the names of the server and the certificate authority cannot be the same, even if they are on the same server.

So I can generate all of the right files, and I can install a mycert.pfm file into firefox's certificate database.  It is accepted happily and the values look right.  But it still doesn't work.  Firefox pops up an error message like this:
> 
Could not establish an encrypted connection because certificate presented by [server name here] is invalid or corrupted. Error Code:-8182


So a little googling on this error brings up this advice:> 
No SSL connetcion / Mozilla Error Code -8182

Problem: Mozilla gives the not very informative error message: Could not establish an encrypted connection 
because certificate is invalid or corrupted. Error Code: -8182. MSIE just claims that it could not connect 
to the server (this is even less informative :-( ).

Possible reason: The certificate presented by the webserver has exactly the same DN as the CA that has signed 
the certificate. This is wrong, the DN has to be unique (that's why it is called distinguished name).

Solution: Create a new certificate with a different DN. 

The thing is that the DNs are different.  

This has gotten to be an incredible PITA.  If anyone has any ideas, please speak up.

---

### Post by twowheeler on 2007-05-17
Okie dokie, I finally got it, but only by abandoning the ubuntu tutorial altogether.  There is a script at
> /usr/lib/misc/CA.sh
that does the whole job, with only one exception.  You have to call it three times, as follows:
> $ CA.sh -newca      ... will setup the right stuff for a certificate authority
> $ CA.sh -newreq     ... will generate a certificate request
> $ CA.sh -sign           ... will sign the generated request and output

The last step is to create a client certificate suitable for a browser.  This can be done with:
> openssl pkcs12 -export -in newcert.pem -inkey newkey.pem -out mysite.pfx
where 'mysite' is a name you will remember for your own server.  This .pfx file is the one you can 
carry around and install in client browsers to get access to secure pages on the server.

Hope this helps someone else.

But why do we have a broken tutorial on the ubuntu help pages?

---

### Post by flyjedi on 2007-12-10
I'm having this same problem. Any chance you could elabortae on what you did to resolve it? Or anybody else have any ideas?

---

