---
title: "WORKAROUND: Setting Static IP 8.10"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by cupcrazy1027 on 2008-11-07
_Manual workaround for setting static IP address bug in Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex_

There seems to be a known bug with the Gnome Network Manager included with the Ubuntu 8.10 release that resets any static ip address settings that are set manually when the system is rebooted reverting back to a DHCP setup. These steps will remove the Gnome Network Manager and help you manually setup the required files for your static network configuration.

**Step 1** – Remove the Gnome Network Manager: You need to complete this step first because if left installed this application will overwrite any changes you make to your configuration when the system is rebooted. This is apparently where the bug is located.
To remove the Gnome Network Manager issue the following command in the terminal:
	> sudo update-rc.d –f NetworkManager remove
This will disable and remove the Gnome Network Manager application. Now you will have to edit your configuration manually.

> RESTART SYSTEM

**Step 2** – Manual configuration of your network interface: In this step you will manually configure your network interface by editing the following two files using your preferred text editor(nano gedit vi). For the purpose of this example I am using the nano editor.

**Step 2.1** – Manually configure your network interface file: You can edit the appropriate file by entering the following command into the terminal:
	> sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
Once your prefered editor opens the file you want to enter the following information (changing your addresses where necessary):
> 	auto lo eth0
	iface lo inet loopback
	iface eth0 inet static
		address xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx(enter your ip here)
		netmask xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
		gateway xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx(enter gateway ip here)

Be sure to save your changes.

**Step 2.2** – Manually configure your dns configuration file: You can edit the appropriate file by entering the following command into the terminal:
	> sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf
Once your prefered editor opens the file you want to enter the following information (changing your addresses where necessary):
> 	# Generated by NetworkManager
	nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx(enter your dns server ip)
	nameserver xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx(enter your alt dns server ip)

Be sure to save your changes.

**Step 2.3** – Manually restart your network interface with the new settings: Enter the following command in the terminal:
> 	sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
This should return a result that looks like the following:
	> *Reconfiguring network interfaces…			[OK]

At this point in your terminal you should be able to run the **ifconfig **command and the results should reflect your new settings. If the addressing is correct you should have full network access, even after a system restart.

Haven't tried reinstalling the Network Manger after doing these steps to see if it still works.

---

### Post by agitdd99 on 2008-11-10
thanks a lot! what a great how-to! I really need this static-IP only setup. maybe this won't gonna work for those who need a wireless network connection. may be this solution would help, is installing wicd [http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php]("http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php"), if you need both wired and wireless connection.
once again, thanks...you rocks! :guitar:

---

### Post by singingstars on 2008-11-12
Also, it is said that adding a new config in networkmanager (instead of editing the system default 'Auto eth0' stuff) and assign the right MAC address (and the static ip) will fix it, every thing's fine even after reboot, and you can still use that gnome-networkmanager.
Works for me, at least.

---

### Post by dataninja on 2008-11-12
cupcrazy1027 has a great work around. But singingstars is also right and the solution is a bit easier (for Linux) to add new configuration instead of removing existing components of Ubuntu. 

This blog post offers two solutions one with the command line and the other with the network manager and offers images of the process.

[http://linhost.info/2008/11/how-to-set-a-static-ip-on-ubuntu-810/](http://linhost.info/2008/11/how-to-set-a-static-ip-on-ubuntu-810/)

The first solution worked for me, second has mixed results.

---

### Post by pannerrammer on 2008-11-13
I've been looking for this for weeks! Many thanks, works as advertised (the linhost solution mentioned by dataninja didn't).

Two notes for fellow travellers:

The Step 1 instruction is given as 
```
sudo update-rc.d –f NetworkManager remove
```but should be 
```
sudo update-rc.d -f NetworkManager remove                      
```ie. a minus not a long hyphen before the f (I routinely copy and paste from forum code blocks, and it don't work with the long hyphen!)

Also, **before** you restart your system copy, paste and save the rest of the instructions into a document - because after you restart you won't have internet access! oops!

pannerrammer

---

### Post by CrispyCritter on 2008-11-15
> **dataninja said:**
> cupcrazy1027 has a great work around. But singingstars is also right and the solution is a bit easier (for Linux) to add new configuration instead of removing existing components of Ubuntu. 

This blog post offers two solutions one with the command line and the other with the network manager and offers images of the process.

[http://linhost.info/2008/11/how-to-set-a-static-ip-on-ubuntu-810/](http://linhost.info/2008/11/how-to-set-a-static-ip-on-ubuntu-810/)

The first solution worked for me, second has mixed results.
Thanks for the pointer.  Both of the linhost blog solutions worked for me.  I initially did the "add new configuration" approach, but realized that didn't take effect until login and the machine is an NFS server among other things (so I want the network up right after reboot). I then edited the interfaces file, and that appears to work fine.

This is my first Ubuntu release (after 10+ years of Redhat and Fedora), and it's somewhat disconcerting to have a bug/gap of this size in a release.

---

### Post by rkn5555 on 2008-11-20
:guitar:
You Rock Worked Perfect!

---

### Post by rgabi88 on 2008-11-24
Worked for me!
remove the s***ty Network Manager..
Install wicd
setup the IP, DNS, etc.
reboot

---

### Post by whoop on 2008-11-26
OK, I tried this workaround on a test machine and it is the only thing that seems to work for me (cheers). The methods described on [http://linhost.info/2008/11/how-to-set-a-static-ip-on-ubuntu-810/](http://linhost.info/2008/11/how-to-set-a-static-ip-on-ubuntu-810/) both didn't work for me.
I do have some question I hope can be answered:

1: As this is a workaround for a bug in (probably) NetworkManager is this bug being worked on? is there a status? Can it be viewed on launchpad or something?

2: The workaround only seems to work if I write down my dns servers in /etc/resolv.conf. If I remove them I can't connect anymore. My provider advises it's users not to "hard code" dns servers but to fetch them automatically. This works in dhcp and my router fetches them fine. So is there a method to get this workaround working without adding fixes dns server enties to /etc/resolv.conf?

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-11-26
If you have ever set a static IP address in windows -- its similar.  You always need to manually specify the dns servers.  If you choose dhcp, the dhcp passes this information during the authentication process.  That is the way it works.

---

### Post by gigaferz on 2008-11-26
hello, sorry to bother  (i just want to know)

So, I have a static internal dhcp address wich is tied to my mac address.

I logged into my router configuration webpage, and did it from there. 

Is it the same thing you guys are doing here???

And no matter what os I use  it has the same  address because is tied (duh) to the hardware.
  Thnx!!

 well ive honestly tried thew pidgin irc but nobody  ever replies to me.

:P   so I come here to haunt people

---

### Post by whoop on 2008-11-26
> **kevdog said:**
> If you have ever set a static IP address in windows -- its similar.  You always need to manually specify the dns servers.  If you choose dhcp, the dhcp passes this information during the authentication process.  That is the way it works.

Ok. Can't exactly remember I put dns servers on windows. Would It be a stupid idea to put my own router as a dns entry? My router probably connects via dhcp, as I can see both dns server entries in my router status window.

---

### Post by whoop on 2008-11-26
> **gigaferz said:**
> hello, sorry to bother  (i just want to know)

So, I have a static internal dhcp address wich is tied to my mac address.

I logged into my router configuration webpage, and did it from there. 

Is it the same thing you guys are doing here???

And no matter what os I use  it has the same  address because is tied (duh) to the hardware.
  Thnx!!

 well ive honestly tried thew pidgin irc but nobody  ever replies to me.

:P   so I come here to haunt people

I'm not sure if a understand you but this thread is about getting ubuntu 8.10 have a static internal ip address (f.e. 192.168.1.45). What you're talking about is maybe letting the router give you a (fixed) ip address based on your machines mac address? if that is what you mean than we are trying to get similar results but from the client side not the router side. If I understand you correctly it is actually a cool router feature, but my router does not seem to support it.

---

### Post by mrThirteen on 2008-11-29
Thanks for this post.  I have one question. Can you post the steps needed to reinstall the gnome network manager in case I want to go back to it?

Thank you.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2008-11-29
> **singingstars said:**
> Also, it is said that adding a new config in networkmanager (instead of editing the system default 'Auto eth0' stuff) and assign the right MAC address (and the static ip) will fix it, every thing's fine even after reboot, and you can still use that gnome-networkmanager.
Works for me, at least.

this worked perfectly for me. thanks!

---

### Post by chata on 2008-12-01
This worked.

I love you.

---

### Post by PunkLV on 2008-12-01
Thank you indeed. Finally I know where those settings are stored. Hate using GUI for such a musthave feature as Inet.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2008-12-01
> **PunkLV said:**
> Thank you indeed. Finally I know where those settings are stored. Hate using GUI for such a musthave feature as Inet.

I'm inclined to agree, until I started using my wifi, and needed the soft config. I had to remove my nicely configured interfaces file to get GNM working again.

---

### Post by gpsmikey on 2008-12-01
Two pieces of info here:
1) Some routers (or at least the firmware in them) do support the "static IP address" based on a MAC address (Tomato firmware for the Linksys does for one).  Not quite the original request, but it does accomplish the static IP feature.  Sometimes it is easier to step around the bug than fight with the silly thing :-)

2) As for the DNS issue with a static address, most routers support "DNS forwarding" - if you enter the address of the LAN side of the router into the DNS address on your machine, the router will forward the DNS requests to the appropriate DNS servers (which it gets on the WAN side from your ISP).  I had a problem with a SMC router a while back that would only forward the requests if DHCP (on the LAN side) was enabled (even if you didn't use it), but a firmware upgrade from SMC fixed that issue.

mikey

---

### Post by doas777 on 2008-12-01
I ended up setting up a bind server on my network, and forward NXs to my ISP servers. it was my first serious forray into linux. I recall it quite fondly.

that way I get internal + external DNS. I just configure my DHCP server to pass out the bind server address.

I've never seen a router that won't handle a correctly setup static ip configuration. but then again I've never played with the really cheap ones. if your looking for DHCP to pass out the same addr every time though, you usually need decent kit. I used to buy netgear, but now it's all cisco. 

have fun

---

### Post by doas777 on 2008-12-01
> **gigaferz said:**
> hello, sorry to bother  (i just want to know)

So, I have a static internal dhcp address wich is tied to my mac address.

I logged into my router configuration webpage, and did it from there. 

Is it the same thing you guys are doing here???

And no matter what os I use  it has the same  address because is tied (duh) to the hardware.
  Thnx!!

 well ive honestly tried thew pidgin irc but nobody  ever replies to me.

:P   so I come here to haunt people


no, their talking about turning off DHCP entirely, and configuring ubuntus IP settings manually.

you have pointed out an interesting side affect of binding licenses to MACs (the multiple OS's). Most high end dhcp devices do that by default. 
I use static addresses on my net (it's small enough to get away with it), and usually manually configure both OSs on a dual boot to use the same IP.

---

### Post by RRCampbell12 on 2008-12-21
> **cupcrazy1027 said:**
> _Manual workaround for setting static IP address bug in Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex_

Thanks, cupcrazy.  I did have one strange issue while doing this.  The .conf file lost the changes I applied (yes, I saved, but it lost other data that was in there to begin with, also).  I reapplied my changes and it worked that time.  The workaround that involves adding a new configuration seemed to work for some and not for others.  I was one of the others.  Your workaround did the trick.  Thanks again.

---

### Post by quikone8 on 2008-12-22
Hi,

This looks like a work around.  Can anyone tell me how to add a second card?  It is already installed, but it seems that neither card is working.  When I run ifconfig the output shows eth0 but not eth1, any ideas?

---

### Post by quikone8 on 2008-12-23
I received this answer in another thread, but I believe it would be very useful here.

[http://www.arachnoid.com/linux/NetworkManager/index.html](http://www.arachnoid.com/linux/NetworkManager/index.html) 

Good luck

---

### Post by fido777 on 2009-01-04
I have to put in another vote for WICD.  Network Manager was such a buggy pain and WICD gave me easy static ip on my first try without reading any documentation.  What a relief.  [wicd install]("http://wicd.sourceforge.net/download.php")

---

### Post by elwin_windleaf on 2009-01-04
Thanks for the fix!

If you're unable to use your router as a DNS forward and don't want to bother with your ISP's servers, OpenDNS ([http://www.opendns.com](http://www.opendns.com)) would be a decent alternative.

Here's their servers if you're interested:
208.67.222.222
208.67.220.220

---

### Post by zika on 2009-01-04
You _do not need_ to remove Network Manager.

edit **/etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf **so that it reads ```

[ifupdown]
managed=false
```**true**=*let* NM manage Your connections
**false**=*do not let* NM manege Your connections

in System->Preferences->Sessions un-check "Network Manager"

the rest is, pretty much the same as in "my book".

---

### Post by NT4usB on 2009-01-06
> **zika said:**
> You _do not need_ to remove Network Manager.

edit **/etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf **so that it reads ```

[ifupdown]
managed=false
```**true**=*let* NM manage Your connections
**false**=*do not let* NM manege Your connections

in System->Preferences->Sessions un-check "Network Manager"

the rest is, pretty much the same as in "my book".

Apparently, it's not that easy.
Mine is already set as above and I didn't change it...```
[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile

[ifupdown]
managed=false

```

---

### Post by zika on 2009-01-06
> **NT4usB said:**
> Apparently, it's not that easy.
Mine is already set as above and I didn't change it...```
[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile

[ifupdown]
managed=false

```

did You set manually Your /etc/network/interfaces? If Yes, that's the answer ...  If No, then we'll have to dig further ...

---

### Post by NT4usB on 2009-01-06
I have not edited /etc/network/interfaces manually.
I did add a static IP address and delete the 'auto' entry using the GUI. It didn't stick after a restart.
```
ct@p42:/etc/network$ cat interfaces
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp
ct@p42:/etc/network$ ls -al interfaces
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 269 2009-01-04 00:43 interfaces
ct@p42:/etc/network$ 

```

---

### Post by zika on 2009-01-06
> **NT4usB said:**
> I have not edited /etc/network/interfaces manually.
I did add a static IP address and delete the 'auto' entry using the GUI. It didn't stick after a restart.
```
ct@p42:/etc/network$ cat interfaces
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
#iface eth0 inet dhcp
ct@p42:/etc/network$ ls -al interfaces
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 269 2009-01-04 00:43 interfaces
ct@p42:/etc/network$ 

```

now I'm confused. what is the current situation. do You have a connection and how did You attained that connection. is there a problem whatsoever?

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2009-01-06
Nice howto, I have seen numerous people with Static IP issues, and even wrote a very quick howto myself.... it is here!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=954368]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=954368")

Some things I have noticed with static IP address that I haven't had an answer to as yet.

compared to a windows XP terminal plugged into the network on the same cable retreiving the same IP address etc, the Ubuntu terminal insists on having a different different network mask - can anyone explain why this is?

On an XP terminal I can easily change my network location, I have a static IP on my Laptop when at the office and DHCP when at home / other locations. Network manager obviously stores this information about different locations in a file somewhere (or in a DBase?) but I don't know how to get to it, so as I can change the location from the command line. Having to go through network manager is a pain, as I only want to change the location but I have to enter my root password, bring down the interface, change the location, then bring down the interface (again, as it never works first time!) then bring it up (I'm using ifup and ifdown).

If I was to create a laptop for a new user I'm sure they would be highly pissed of with having to do this every time!

I have contemplated writing a script to do the same thing, simply copying the various configuration to a file an then overwriting the /etc/network/interfaces file as required.... but I feel I shouldn't need to, and that network manager should do it for me?

thanks in advance for your comments / assistance

David

---

### Post by NT4usB on 2009-01-06
> **zika said:**
> now I'm confused. what is the current situation. do You have a connection and how did You attained that connection. is there a problem whatsoever?
I have the 'auto' connection Intrepid was kind enough to enable, and a static one if I go through the gyrations of deleting the auto one each time I reboot...

My point was, the suggested one click fix```
[ifupdown]
managed=false
``` evidently won't work for me, since mine is already set as above.
Way low on my need to fix list. A static IP is of no use to me if I can't get the video sorted, but that's another thread...

---

### Post by margazhang on 2009-01-10
How to REINSTALL Network Manager? I followed the instructions and it worked some time. But now it does not work any more, no matter what I do (editing /etc/network/interfaces to make it connect via dhcp, etc). Basically I cannot connect to the internet :( I have to use another computer to post this reply. Once I get it connected, I plan to install WICD which is suggested to replace Network Manger.

So any help as to how to install network manager back to its original state is appreciated. Note that my ubuntu cannot connect to internet. So any suggestion should be centered around the command line without using the internet or live CD. Your help is greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by zika on 2009-01-10
> **margazhang said:**
> How to REINSTALL Network Manager? I followed the instructions and it worked some time. But now it does not work any more, no matter what I do (editing /etc/network/interfaces to make it connect via dhcp, etc). Basically I cannot connect to the internet :( I have to use another computer to post this reply. Once I get it connected, I plan to install WICD which is suggested to replace Network Manger.

So any help as to how to install network manager back to its original state is appreciated. Note that my ubuntu cannot connect to internet. So any suggestion should be centered around the command line without using the internet or live CD. Your help is greatly appreciated!

```
sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
``````
# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface DHCP
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp
``````
sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf
``````
search www.google.com
nameserver from_Your_provider or 208.67.222.220 and 208.67.222 (if I remeber good)
nameserver 192.168.0.1
```

abou reinstalling NM after You get Your connection back ... ;) You do not need it now and You might not need it anymore but I am gainst uninstalling it ... ;)

---

### Post by margazhang on 2009-01-11
Found out the real reason... the network cable was not plug in properly :( Now after making sure the physical connection is secure and the light is on, I can get both the dynamic and static IP settings work without any problem. 

So if you do not have an internet connection, check the cable first before doing anything else!

---

### Post by JDnomad on 2009-01-11
ok, like many here I installed ubuntu and had issues with my static ip kept getting reverted to dhcp every time I restart.

I followed these instructions, all went well until I tried step 2.3 where you restart the network service  I get this:

* Reconfiguring network interfaces...
SIOCADDRT: No such process
Failed to bring up eth0.

---

### Post by dylanrabbit on 2009-01-12
Hi,  Geesh, this is a frustrating "feature".

Not much new in this comment, but hopefully this description will lead others to the solution at the head of this thread.

If you use static addresses, my opinion and option was to remove "Network-Manager" asap.  

Another option may be to use some *Other* DHCP server to assign your machine a fixed address through DHCP, and use that address on the rest of your network.

It seems that Network-Manager is very keen on overwriting most of the settings files at bootup and not keeping them updated as you change options on the network-manager menu.  It also does not properly respect ifup configuration.

Lots of grief with Myth-backend.  If backend machine was rebooted and Network-Manger not touched, then frontend and backend would work fine from only the local machine.  Would give the generic "check server" message from any other frontend.  Changing Network manager to use the Static address would then also break the front end on the backend machine.

Situation is that my machine normally runs at 192.168.1.3, but dhcp was assigning it 192.168.1.132.

Populated /etc/networking/interfaces, but then DNS, Network Manager and Myth all broke.  Turned out that Network manager had been overwriting /etc/resolv.conf, even though it had detected that the interfaces were being managed by ifup.

After removing network manager completely and rebooting, the giveaway was that mythweb gave an error message that my server on 192.168.1.132 was not running.  Turns out that network manager had even been overwriting my Myth-backend configuration.

It seems a bit weird that myth-backend needs to know it's own IP address :confused:

This bug affects people with more than one machine, but not enough machines to actually have a standalone DNS/DHCP setup that is not running on Ubuntu desktop.  May it be worth the Network-Manager package configuration indicating it as conflicting with often-static software, such as nfs-server, apache and mythtv-backend?

Hope this helps someone.

-Dylan

---

### Post by -jay- on 2009-01-14
thanks for the info i just have 1 question does this also work without a router ? sorry just a no0b ubuntu

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2009-01-15
> **margazhang said:**
> Found out the real reason... the network cable was not plug in properly :( Now after making sure the physical connection is secure and the light is on, I can get both the dynamic and static IP settings work without any problem. 

So if you do not have an internet connection, check the cable first before doing anything else!

Yes I had the exact same problem, Internet worked fine one day, then died late one afternoon, but only on one terminal I was using.....

Then I realised that the hub that I was wired into had been moved during a "clean and tidy" in the office, and one of the cables isn't exactly "secure" in it's plug!

And it only took me 2 days to work this one out. The problem of a static IP is that the computer will have it displayed in the return value for an <ifconifg> even if the computer isn't actually able to access the net, if you have DHCP and can't get connected, then the return value is blank!

David

---

### Post by marciovinicius on 2009-01-15
Did anyone posted this bug on Launchpad?
Workaround is good (I still didn't try any of them here), but we need a fix.

> **whoop said:**
> OK, I tried this workaround on a test machine and it is the only thing that seems to work for me (cheers). The methods described on [http://linhost.info/2008/11/how-to-set-a-static-ip-on-ubuntu-810/](http://linhost.info/2008/11/how-to-set-a-static-ip-on-ubuntu-810/) both didn't work for me.
I do have some question I hope can be answered:

1: As this is a workaround for a bug in (probably) NetworkManager is this bug being worked on? is there a status? Can it be viewed on launchpad or something?

2: The workaround only seems to work if I write down my dns servers in /etc/resolv.conf. If I remove them I can't connect anymore. My provider advises it's users not to "hard code" dns servers but to fetch them automatically. This works in dhcp and my router fetches them fine. So is there a method to get this workaround working without adding fixes dns server enties to /etc/resolv.conf?

---

### Post by theDaveTheRave on 2009-02-12
> **dylanrabbit said:**
> 
It seems a bit weird that myth-backend needs to know it's own IP address :confused:


Actually not wierd at all... I don't think...

Why?? Well from what I understand Myth uses a MySQL database. I don't know how why, as I don't use myth myself, but from other threads that seems to be the implication!

So if it is using a MySQL DB somewhere then it may need to connect to itself using the IP address (as oposed to 'localhost' or a 'host_name') this can be set within the MySQL config file for connecting to the databse, or maybe somewhere within the myth config itself??

As I say above, I don't use myth myself, but this could be a possible explanation for what you are seeing, I agree however that it does seem a bit "odd"

David

---

### Post by audiodrumm on 2009-02-17
Hello everyone.  

I just tried this work around but to no avail.  I removed Network Manager, restarting, editing /etc/network/interfaces and /etc/resolv.conf . 

When I ran the last step: 
> 
    sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart   

It hangs.  I get the following output: 

  >  *Reconfiguring network interfaces..... [OK]
   @media-server810:~$ *Stopping NTP server ntpd
     ...done. 
   * Starting NTP server ntpd
     ...done. 

From this point, the terminal hangs and the cursor blinks.  I can't start my network connection nor will it start on reboot. Is there anyway to restore the network manager without having a working connection?  Any help/advice would be much appreciated.    Thanks!

---

### Post by audiodrumm on 2009-02-17
UPDATE:   Found a work around.   I stopped the hung command in the terminal then ran this:

> sudo update-rc.d -f NetworkManager defaults

Rebooted and everything was back to the original settings.  I think I'll try some of the other methods floating around at there.

---

### Post by zika on 2009-02-17
> **audiodrumm said:**
> Hello everyone.  

I just tried this work around but to no avail.  I removed Network Manager, restarting, editing /etc/network/interfaces and /etc/resolv.conf . 

When I ran the last step: 
  

It hangs.  I get the following output: 

  

From this point, the terminal hangs and the cursor blinks.  I can't start my network connection nor will it start on reboot. Is there anyway to restore the network manager without having a working connection?  Any help/advice would be much appreciated.    Thanks!
just press <enter> in Terminal.
update: sorry, I did not read the post carefully enough. this might not work for you.

---

### Post by muxecoid on 2009-04-02
What if I want eth1 to use DHCP (it is my internet connection) and eth0 to use static IP for local network?

---

### Post by linfidel on 2009-04-22
This may not be very much help to anyone, but you never know. 

I had the problem where I was unable to get the static address to "stick".  I tried modifying the original, then creating a new one named "StaticIP", then deleting the original, changing all the checkmarks for "system" and "automatically connect", but nothing worked.  The system would recreate the deleted entry, and use it.

Then I started reading some threads, and making changes.  I now have a single entry "StaticIP" that is consistent, without removing the network manager.

The only real change, I think, was to get rid of "dhclient".  I did 
ps -e | grep dhclient to get its process ID, then killed it.  

Now, I did a lot of other things, mostly that didn't seem to work, but I'm not sure if any of them were needed for the end result (things like editing various config files, then restoring them in the end, running commands like "sudo ifup --force staticIP", which seemed to do nothing, etc).

One thing that happened was that after a reboot, I had no networking at all.  I created a new entry, but it was disabled, saying "Device is disabled".  Trying to enable it in nm-system-settings.conf gave an error.  I tried running dhclient, which may have helped in the end.  Finally, I tried setting the new entry "StaticIP" to use DHCP for the IP, and rebooted.  It came up working, using my original entry named "StaticIP", but had a duplicate "StaticIP" that was set to the DHCP I had just configured.  But it was using my original "StaticIP", so I deleted the 2nd one, and rebooted.  It still only has the one static IP entry.

Yes, I realize this is overly complex, mainly because I'm not sure exactly what happened, and can't redo it because it's working now.  But, maybe someone with a clue will be able to use some of this information to augment the known facts.

Let me know if anyone has questions about any of my configuration files.

Whew! :)

---

### Post by linfidel on 2009-04-22
> **muxecoid said:**
> What if I want eth1 to use DHCP (it is my internet connection) and eth0 to use static IP for local network?
Why can't you use one entry, with a static IP, but use the DNS for your internet connection?  That's what I do. Do you have a DNS server for your lan?  No router?

---

