---
title: "12.04, Wired internet only with a short cable"
date: 2013-02-03
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by PhilippU on 2013-02-03
Hello everyone,

I'm having a problem on my ubuntu 12.04 desktop. When connected to the router with a 2m cable all is well, but when I put the desktop in place (with a 17m cable) it doesn't want to connect to the internet. 
I get the symbol of the searching wireless antenna, and a few seconds later I get the message: "Wired network Disconnected -you are now offline"
At the back of the desktop I see a green and a flashing yellow light next to the cable entrance.

Of course I suspected a badly cable at first, but the cable works with my Windows laptop.

Does someone have an idea?

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2013-02-03
~

---

### Post by PhilippU on 2013-02-03
The cable isn't a cross-over. It's a twisted pair tough, but that shouldn't be the cause of the problem.

You said it's a physical issue, but the lights next to the plug are activated when i insert it.

Maybe I can make a short cable with the same twisted and the same plugs to compare?

But could it be that the signal is to weak for the network card? That could explain a lot.

---

### Post by ahallubuntu on 2013-02-03
~

---

### Post by PhilippU on 2013-02-03
Regarding the parallel post here, does this give some additional information?

ifconfig:

eth0 Link encap: Ethernet HWaddr 00:24:21:dd:91:5f
inet6 addr: fe80::224:21..... Scope:Link
UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST MTU:1500 Metric:1
RX packets: 132 errors:0 dropped0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets: 445 errors:0 dropped0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen :1000
RX bytes:11016 (11.o kb) TX bytes: 99963 (99.9 KB)
Interrupt: 42 Base adddress:0x2000

lo  Link encap: Local Loopback
inet addr: 127.0.0.1 Mask: 255.0.0.0
init6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
UP LOOPBACK RUNNING MTU:16436 Metric:1
RX packets: 1444 errors:0 dropped0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets: 1444 errors:0 dropped0 overruns:0 carrier:0
collisions:0 txqueuelen :1000
RX bytes:117264 (117.2 KB) TX bytes: ...(117.2 KB)
Interrupt: 42 Base adddress:0x2000

iwconfig
lo no wireless extensions

wlano IEEE 802.11bgnESSID:off/any
Mode: Managed Acces Point: Not-Associated Tx-power=off
Retry long limit:7 RTS thr:off Fragment thr:off
Power Management:on

eth0 no wireless extensions.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2013-02-03
If your post comes up with random smileys, try wrapping it in [noparse][noparse][/noparse][/noparse] tags.

I can't tell for sure if the wireless adapter is active, but if not try turning it off and see if that fixes the problem.

---

### Post by PhilippU on 2013-02-04
No that doesn't work either.

Maybe a full reset?

My other Ubuntu laptop doesn't work either, and two different windows laptops work without a problem.
Very strange problem, I really don't know how to solve this.
Can I change the UTP value?

---

### Post by PhilippU on 2013-02-06
Problem solved. Cable was UTP and I needed a FTP. (unshielded and foiled)

---

