---
title: "12.04 Intel NIC not achieving gigabit speed"
date: 2012-07-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by bomski on 2012-07-20
Howdy,

I have a Dell PowerEdge 2800 with an onboard Intel 82541GI NIC; it won't achieve gigabit speed. I've tried to download and build the latest drivers from Intel but the build fails. According to this post [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1976478](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1976478) it is an issue with 12.04.

I've ruled out an issue with the cabling; does anyone have any experience getting Intel NIC's to achieve gigabit speed?

---

### Post by Sergius14 on 2012-07-20
How do you test the connection?

---

### Post by bomski on 2012-07-20
I used a separate windows box and achieved gigabit speeds. 
I know the nic is functioning normally as it previously had a windows installation on it and achieved gigabit speed in the same location.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by bomski on 2012-07-23
Well seeing as though this has already been buried; I've taken the decision to purchase a new Broadcom NIC... will post this evening to let you know the outcome (to whoever is interested!)

Its a real shame the current kernel drivers don't support gigabit ethernet... wish someone could fix them!

---

### Post by bomski on 2012-07-24
Well adding the Broadcom card worked; network achieving gigabit speed... Will look into posting a bug for this issue with Intel NIC cards...

---

### Post by clickwir on 2012-08-17
Please do. I have an Intel S3000 board with 2 onboard Intel 82541GI controllers and used to be able to set MTU to 9000. Now the most I get is 1500.

Tried downloading the drivers from Intel, have to compile and install manually. Compile fails. 

There's another thread that says the drivers won't compile on anything newer than kernel 3.1. Ubuntu 12.04 uses kernel 3.2, so it just dumps out and won't compile.

---

