---
title: "Iptables challenge: help needed please"
date: 2012-01-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Guerreiro on 2012-01-01
Dear Ubuntians,

I got a big problem and it has to do with a Iptables challenge in which you need to build a firewall. 

Some info:

Incoming connections to port 80 (TCP) of the webserver are allowed. 
Incoming connections to port 21 (TCP) from the computer of the webdeveloper are allowed. 
Incoming connections to port 22 (TCP) from the computer of the systems administrator are allowed if they come from port 1337. 
Incoming ICMP connections are allowed from the internal network. 
All other incoming connections are disallowed. 
Outgoing connections to port 25 (TCP) of the mailserver are allowed.
Outgoing connections to port 3306 (TCP) of the database server are allowed.
All other outgoing connections to the DMZ or Internal Network are disallowed. Outgoing connections to the internet are allowed. 


Webserver 10.0.0.23
Webdeveloper 192.168.0.36
Systems Administrator 192.168.0.52
Internal Network 192.168.0.0/24

Database 10.0.0.12
Mailserver 10.0.0.8

DMZ 10.0.0.0/24

Now for the rules I have so far:

iptables -P INPUT DROP
iptables -P OUTPUT DROP
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -d 10.0.0.23 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --sport 80 -s 10.0.0.23 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 21 -s 192.168.0.36 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --sport 21 -d 192.168.0.36 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 22 -s 192.168.0.52 --sport 1337 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --sport 22 -d 192.168.0.52 --dport 1337 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p icmp -s 192.168.0.0/24 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -p icmp -d 192.168.0.0/24 -j ACCEPT

Then I am stuck, because as soon as I enter in iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -d 10.0.0.8 --dport 25 -j ACCEPT, the challenge says that I failed for the too many incoming connections allowed. The reason all the OUTPUTS in there is because answers to the connections need to be allowed as well.

Please help me out. If you need more information do not hesitate to ask. 

Thank you all already and have a good day.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2012-01-02
To be able to help, I think we need more information. Is the computer your iptables runs on a router for your system? What interface is for what sub-net (i.e. eth0 = 192.168.0.0/24, eth1 = 10.0.0.0/24, ...). I don't see any FORWARD rules, so I am a little confused at the moment.
Your iptables methods seem a little odd to me, but lets leave that for now, except that I recommend reading various iptables how to documents (i.e. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/IptablesHowTo) )
 
I do not understand what you mean by "Iptables challenge". Do you mean some error code?
 
On my test machine I entered your iptables rules just the way you listed, including the rule you said gave "the challenge", and it all worked fine (To clarify: Of course, my system didn't work at all because the rules were all wrong for my system, but the table loaded fine).
 
My script:```
#!/bin/sh
#
# test_u 2012.01.02 Smythies.
#        Experiment with tables for this one:
#        [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1903104](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1903104)
#
iptables -F
iptables -P INPUT DROP
iptables -P OUTPUT DROP
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -d 10.0.0.23 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --sport 80 -s 10.0.0.23 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 21 -s 192.168.0.36 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --sport 21 -d 192.168.0.36 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 22 -s 192.168.0.52 --sport 1337 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --sport 22 -d 192.168.0.52 --dport 1337 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p icmp -s 192.168.0.0/24 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A OUTPUT -p icmp -d 192.168.0.0/24 -j ACCEPT
iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -d 10.0.0.8 --dport 25 -j ACCEPT

```
The output for "sudo iptables-save -c"```
 
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.10 on Mon Jan  2 08:07:00 2012
*filter
:INPUT DROP [3:700]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT DROP [0:0]
[0:0] -A INPUT -d 10.0.0.23/32 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A INPUT -s 192.168.0.36/32 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 21 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A INPUT -s 192.168.0.52/32 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 1337 --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A INPUT -s 192.168.0.0/24 -p icmp -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A INPUT -d 10.0.0.8/32 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 25 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A OUTPUT -s 10.0.0.23/32 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 80 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A OUTPUT -d 192.168.0.36/32 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 21 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A OUTPUT -d 192.168.0.52/32 -p tcp -m tcp --sport 22 --dport 1337 -j ACCEPT
[0:0] -A OUTPUT -d 192.168.0.0/24 -p icmp -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Mon Jan  2 08:07:00 2012

```
I do not see an output path to internet, as per your text, but I am assuming you just didn't get to that rule yet.

---

### Post by Guerreiro on 2012-01-05
Wow, thank you for the great reply. I should have clarified what challenge meant. It is a hypothetical situation where you have to build a firewall for a fictional system. The reason it fails is because after I put in accept input on port 25 then it fails me for allowing too many connections.  I will add that first line. Might I ask what is wrong with my methods? :) I am new to this if you haven't noticed. :D

---

### Post by Doug S on 2012-01-05
> **Guerreiro said:**
> It is a hypothetical situation where you have to build a firewall for a fictional system. The reason it fails is because after I put in accept input on port 25 then it fails me for allowing too many connections.I'm not sure what to say here. My test system is real, and it took the rule fine.
Also, is this some sort of school assignment? If yes, then I have to be careful of forum policy (which I cann't find at the moment (I didn't try very hard)) about not helping (I think hints are O.K.).
> Might I ask what is wrong with my methods?I didn't say "wrong", I said "a little odd". Your rules are fine, I think. I still do not understand if your (hypothetical) system is a router and what the interface names are nor what the path is to the internet.

---

### Post by Guerreiro on 2012-01-16
It is not a school assignment or any other kind of assessment. :) Sorry for the late reply, it has been too busy of late.

I will try out the rules as quick as I can and then I will tell you my findings :)

---

