---
title: "9.10 Karmic + Netgear PCI WG311v2 Wireless + ndiswrapper?"
date: 2009-11-20
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by atleastzero on 2009-11-20
I have 9.10 installed on my laptop and it works perfectly, wireless right out of the box.

Now, on my desktop I installed 9.10 Karmic and it had no wireless connection present. I found the Ubuntu Help document about installing WG311v3 with ndiswrapper and followed that, since it should have been the same thing. I have tried with the WG311v3 drivers for win2k as well as some beta WG311v2 drivers I had found.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Netgear_WG311_v3](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/Netgear_WG311_v3)

There are the steps I followed, and I was doing all right except that the first step didn't go as the walkthrough said.

```
$ lspci | grep Marvell
$

```To make a long story short, I installed the drivers and it all shows up in ndiswrapper like the helpdoc suggests it should, but here's what I get for the following:

```
$ iwconfig
lo       no wireless extensions.

eth0     no wireless extensions.

wlan0    no wireless extensions.

$ ifconfig
wlan0    Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:0f:b5:07:7e:b8
         UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500 Metric:1
         RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
         TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
         collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
         RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
         Interrupt:19 Memory:febfe000-fec00000

$

```I typed that all in by hand on my laptop since I can't post from the desktop, so I left out the **eth0** and **lo** results. Those all look good anyway.

I'm no expert at this stuff, but it seems like it installed wireless drivers for hardware that it thinks is an ethernet adapter?

Here's another bit of info:

```
$ ndiswrapper -l
wg311v2 : driver installed
        device (104C:9066) present
$

```Please help, it's been a nightmare trying to find information for the 311v2 adapters.

---

### Post by esc1 on 2009-12-08
i did not follow that guide but i am having this issue also. i'm on 64 bit karmic. this is really frustrating when your hardware works just fine on past releases.

---

### Post by esc1 on 2009-12-09
Does anyone know of maybe a generic wireless driver that would work?

---

### Post by JpHEMakginty on 2009-12-29
I am having the same problem. Have scoured the internet and various forums but nothing seems to work.

One interesting thing is that ifconfig shows lo, eth0 but no wlan.

Ubuntu 9.10 64-bit

---

