---
title: "10.04 and 9.10 box not reachable through ZeroConf name on LAN"
date: 2010-08-16
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Cubytus on 2010-08-16
Hi to all, 

I've got some strange issue with my Ubuntu box, first noticing it when trying to install a new printer over the network; usually, clicking the "+" button in OS X resulted in shared printers being shown after 2-3 seconds. But then, nothing showed.

The *installed* 9.10 version advertises the **VNC** server available on the LAN, which I can see on the MacBook; it also advertises the **SVN** server installed, as well as the netatalk one. But for some unknown reason, I can reach **Transmission's** Web interface through the name u*buntu.local:9091* address, but not **CUPS** using *ubuntu.local:631*, even though I already allowed remote administration; as a proof, I can use the raw IP address and get there (*192.168.0.100:631*). I can also reach the **SSH** shell using both raw IP and ZeroConf' address.

Even more strange is running a 10.04 *Live CD* as a server shows the VNC server set up on it, but trying to reach the CUPS server using the ZeroConf name ends up in error 400 "Bad request"; however, getting to Transmission's Web interface using ZeroConf's name is ok.

After doing some trials, I found out that Ubuntu 9.04 didn't exhibit the issue, but 9.10 and 10.04 did. The two latter ones comes with, respectively, CUPS 1.4.1 and CUPS 1.4.3, the first one with CUPS 1.3.9. It's not clear yet wether this issue is linked to CUPS or the avahi daemon.

A Fedora 13 Live CD I booted for testing on a third computer can neither reach VNC, Transmission, or CUPS or SSH.

I tried switching routers, to no avail.

What can the issue be?

---

