---
title: "7.10: Wireless tunning out"
date: 2007-10-30
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by robostang 548 on 2007-10-30
Hi,

I have a compaq presario F572US and I am having some difficulty trying to get my wireless working properly.  When I installed 7.04, I ndiswrapped my driver for my broadcom wireless card and I had no problems from then on out.  I did a fresh install of gutsy when it came out but now I am having problems with the wireless.  I originally installed the bcm43xx firmware from the restricted drivers manager.  It made my wireless card start up but no networks could be found in the network applet and when I tried "connect to other wireless network" the applet would crash.  I uninstalled the bcm43xx firmware and ndiswrapper the same way I did with 7.04 and my wireless started working however the network applet would still crash if you tried to "connect to other wireless network".  Also, I noticed that it was taking longer to connect and some of the networks in my area weren't showing up.  I installed Wicd (wich removed the network applet and put in its own dameon) and things were working great.  But now I'm noticing that after about an hour my wireless stops.  It still says I'm connected but nothing comes through.  I try disconnecting then reconnecting but it wont reconnect.  When I restart my pc everything the wireless starts working for about another hour.  I think I also experienced this when I had the network applet installed.  I see that this is a very frequent problem among users I want to know why my wireless worked in 7.04 without this timeout problem and why it's happening now. If anyone can help me it would me much appreciated.  

-Don

---

### Post by kevdog on 2007-10-30
There a couple things you can do

#1 - For broadcom cards there are two drivers available - bcm43xx and ndiswrapper/winxp drivers.  I think ndiswrapper is more of a pain to set up but works better.  You could always try installing ndiswrapper and see if it helps you

#2 - Rather than rebooting the following script could be run containing the commands:

sudo ifdown <interface name>
sudo modprobe -r bcm43xx
sudo modprobe bcm43xx
sudo ifup <interface name>

You could complete the script to negotiate and complete the connection to the router if you wanted to, or you would have to reconnect (might do this automatically) with either network manager or wicd.

Just some thoughts.

---

