---
title: "8.10 problems with Windows networking"
date: 2008-12-18
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by alanh on 2008-12-18
There seems to be a serious problem with Windows networking with 8.10 - specifically with Windows shares on NAS drives. Google throws up many reports of problems, as does a search on these forums. Unfortunately, there seems to be no consistent story on what the problem is and how or when it will be fixed. (I've tried a few of them to no avail). I use Ubuntu in a mixed Windows-Linux environment at work and this is a serious showstopper for me. I totally depend on being able to connect my Ubuntu machine to our NAS drive.

After a couple of years of trying to make the mixed environment work, I may have to give up and, reluctantly, return to a total Windows environment. It seems that every new release brings about its own problems, Ive had wireless cards stop working in FF, TB Lightning was totally screwed up in HH, ftp in Nautilus stopped working in HH, and now this. We simply cannot afford the level of IT support required to continually have to deal with these kind of problems. The most trouble-free release I've seen is good old Gutsy.

I would go back to Gutsy but my FF extensions are now all screwed up in FF2, after having been used in FF3 in 8:10 (I use a separate home partition that I mount inside each new version of Ubuntu).

Please please, does anyone know what the smb problem is , and if a fix is in the works?

Alan

* I posted this previously in the desktop help forum but the only suggestion I got was to go back to previous version of Ubuntu.  This problem is way too serious for me to just live with.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2008-12-18
I'm still running Gutsy on this workstation... sometimes I wonder if the 6 month release cycle may be a bit short.  Dunno if it is actually an SMB problem, or if Gnome and/or gvfs are the issue.  Have you tried the Kubuntu offerings?

---

### Post by alanh on 2008-12-19
In case anyone else is having the same issues, the whole sorry tale is captured in these bug reports. 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/207072](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gvfs/+bug/207072)

[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=524485](http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=524485)

It seems this started with Hardy, which I skipped due to issues with Lightning in TB. It looks like there may be a solution released soon.

---

