---
title: "No internet eth0 RX errors"
date: 2009-07-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by toudai on 2009-07-21
Using computer (HP Vectra) which with the Network Manager at first did not find any ethernet connection. 

By using ifconfig I found out macaddress and by checking my other laptop (which is using Windows vista) I got info of gateway and mask settings. I made new connection in Network Manager - manual settings but was not sure what ip address to use. Anyway, the ethernet connection (eth0) is getting connected now and when I check the connection with network tools, I can see TX packages are being sent but RX packages getting errors. Still can not use the internet.. When I use ping, packages are sent but none received.

I am not really sure what to change further as I also tried dual boot with my other laptop using Ubuntu and there it works straight out of the box without changing any settings so I guess this is not a problem with the router.

Any help very much appreciated.

---

### Post by dlmarti on 2009-07-21
Can you give the output of ifconfig, route, and the contents of /etc/resolv.conf?

---

### Post by toudai on 2009-07-22
here are these details :
	 	 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:a0:c9:45:71:b9  [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet addr:198.68.24.69  Bcast:198.68.24.255  Mask:255.255.255.0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet6 addr: fe80::2a0:c9ff:fe45:71b9/64 Scope:Link [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]RX packets:0 errors:1 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:1 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]TX packets:62 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:5248 (5.2 KB) [/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]RX packets:21 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]TX packets:21 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]RX bytes:2071 (2.0 KB)  TX bytes:2071 (2.0 KB) [/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]Kernel IP routing table [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]198.68.24.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     1      0        0 eth0 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]link-local      *               255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]default         198.68.24.1     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth0 [/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]resolv.conf[/FONT]
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]# Generated by NetworkManager [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]search 198.68.24.1 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]nameserver 198.68.24.1[/FONT]

thanks

---

### Post by dlmarti on 2009-07-22
Can you tell me about your network?  Like where are you?

Do you own the network, or are you at school?

What is the current configuration of Network manager?

---

### Post by toudai on 2009-07-22
This is at home, I am connected thru a router to which also my laptop is connected which works ok under Ubuntu and Vista (no internet connection problems). 

As I mentioned earlier in a different thread, after 1st install of ubuntu on the vectra computer, the networkmanager did not have any macaddress or other settings and was not able to connect to eth0. I configured it manually after which I got this far.

For your info, the vectra computer was working fine when it had Windows on it, then it had no problem connecting to the internet etc.

I am now thinking to try installing gnome-ppp and wvdial to the vectra computer to find out if that works but without internet connection, I am not sure how to install these packages.

---

### Post by dlmarti on 2009-07-22
But you can't ping the router, or the laptop that is on the network, even with these settings?

correct?

---

### Post by toudai on 2009-07-22
correct, I can not ping router or other laptop. Packages sent but none received.

I guess that when I changed setting in Network manager, the ethernet connection is made but the router is not giving an ip address because I have to input that manually in Network Manager. Not even sure what to input as ip address so I just made one up. Probably not the way to go.

---

### Post by dlmarti on 2009-07-22
try this:
sudo /etc/init.d/network stop
sudo dhclient eth0

Then do an ifconfig.

Send me the output from the dhclient line and the ifconfig line.
Also try to ping the router.

---

### Post by toudai on 2009-07-22
when I try sudo /etc/init.d/network stop
it sais command not found

---

### Post by dlmarti on 2009-07-23
> **toudai said:**
> when I try sudo /etc/init.d/network stop
it sais command not found

excuse me, I got cocky and didn't test the command first.
its: sudo /etc/init.d/networking stop

---

### Post by toudai on 2009-07-23
ok, here you are;

	 	 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]There is already a pid file /var/run/dhclient.pid with pid 5985 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]killed old client process, removed PID file [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.1 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]Copyright 2004-2008 Internet Systems Consortium. [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]All rights reserved. [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]For info, please visit [http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/](http://www.isc.org/sw/dhcp/) [/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]Listening on LPF/eth0/00:a0:c9:45:71:b9 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]Sending on   LPF/eth0/00:a0:c9:45:71:b9 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]Sending on   Socket/fallback [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 7 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 12 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 12 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 11 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 15 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 4 [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]No DHCPOFFERS received. [/FONT] 
 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]No working leases in persistent database - sleeping. [/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:a0:c9:45:71:b9  [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet6 addr: fe80::2a0:c9ff:fe45:71b9/64 Scope:Link [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]RX packets:1 errors:375 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:375 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]TX packets:735 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]RX bytes:60 (60.0 B)  TX bytes:122022 (122.0 KB) [/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]eth0:avahi Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:a0:c9:45:71:b9  [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet addr:169.254.8.99  Bcast:169.254.255.255  Mask:255.255.0.0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1 [/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]RX packets:191 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]TX packets:191 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]RX bytes:17127 (17.1 KB)  TX bytes:17127 (17.1 KB) [/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]pan0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr c6:a2:8c:fb:c0:b6  [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet6 addr: fe80::c4a2:8cff:fefb:c0b6/64 Scope:Link [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]TX packets:147 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:31924 (31.9 KB) [/FONT] 
 

 [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]pan0:avahi Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr c6:a2:8c:fb:c0:b6  [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet addr:169.254.11.58  Bcast:169.254.255.255  Mask:255.255.0.0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1 [/FONT]

---

### Post by dlmarti on 2009-07-23
Do you have a link light on the card and router?

---

### Post by toudai on 2009-07-23
yes, I also checked the cable by plugging it into my laptop and it works.

---

### Post by dlmarti on 2009-07-23
is this a laptop, or a desktop?
what kind of card is this?

I don't understand why the mac address would be disappearing.

---

### Post by toudai on 2009-07-23
I have 2 computers, the laptop is dual booted with Ubuntu and Vista. On the laptop Ubuntu worked straight out of the box with NetworkManager, did not have to change anything and it got connected and the internet worked as well.

On the HP Vectra I have the problem and reading from other posts it seems something to have to do with this :
[FONT=Times New Roman, serif]eth0:avahi Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:a0:c9:45:71:b9  [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]inet addr:169.254.8.99  Bcast:169.254.255.255  Mask:255.255.0.0 [/FONT] 
           [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1 [/FONT] 

The eth0:avahi shows up but later on disappears. I checked also the interface file but it is both same on laptop and hp vectra.

I dont know if I can set up a static ip address on the hp vectra and then get it working or not? 

If nothing else works I want to try installing gnome-ppp but not sure how I can do that without internet connection on the hp vectra...

Once more, the HP Vectra did work when it had windows on it so does not seem anything broken, there must be another reason for this.

---

### Post by dlmarti on 2009-07-23
What are your network particulars?
Gateway?
Netmask?
nameservers?
static IP range?

you can find that stuff on your router.

I assume from what you are posting here:
Gateway: [FONT=Times New Roman, serif]198.68.24.1
Netmask: 255.255.255.0
And that your static IP range is below 192.168.24.50

So a simple connection test would be:
1. /etc/init.d/networking stop
2. killall dhclient
3. ifconfig eth0 192.68.24.40

Then see if you can ping 192.68.24.1
[/FONT]

---

### Post by toudai on 2009-07-23
sorry I dont know much about how to access router etc. 
I followed your instructions but are unable to ping the router or anything else.

About to give up on this as it takes too much time to find a solution. Thanks anyway for all your help.

---

