---
title: "18.04.2 Slow wifi conection - Realtek  r8188eu"
date: 2019-03-01
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by kepsd4 on 2019-03-01
Hello everyone :)

I really hope you can help me with this.

I'm fairly new to ubuntu, and when I first installed it I didn't notice any problems but within a couple days the internet connection started going on and off. I use a Realtek  r8188eu usb adapter. Aparently ubuntu isn't very fond of it but I only figured it after all of the following:
I basically couldn't use the internet at all. One day I just turn on the computer and it works. Just like that... BUT the internet was way too slow. Running speed tests online gave results like 1-4 MB/s downloading and 2-10MB/s uploading. Since I was a bit in a hurry to upload some files for a school work I basically just tried most of the solutions I found on this forum and when I got around 8MB/s download and around 20MB/s upload I uploaded what I needed in 2min (instead of 174 hours as it informed me before). But then I got greedy and tried a few more and now it went back to initial speeds. 

Current status: No idea what definitions I have meddled with and I still haven't come to any solutions... 

I run  :  wget -N -t 5 -T 10 [https://github.com/UbuntuForums/wireless-info/raw/master/wireless-info](https://github.com/UbuntuForums/wireless-info/raw/master/wireless-info) && chmod +x wireless-info && ./wireless-info
and I attached the results.[ATTACH=CONFIG]282661[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]282661[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by chili555 on 2019-03-02
```
NOS-CADD  <MAC 'NOS-CADD' [AC1]>  Infra  3     2422 MHz  16 Mbit/s  95      &#9602;&#9604;&#9606;&#9608;  WPA2      yes     *   
```

Channel 3? Did you pick that yourself or is the router set to auto channel select?

Please check the settings in the router. WPA2-AES is preferred; not any WPA and WPA2 mixed mode and certainly not TKIP. Second, if your router is capable of N speeds, you may have better connectivity with a channel width of 20 MHz in the 2.4 GHz band instead of automatic 20/40 MHz, although it is likely to affect N speeds. I also have better luck with a fixed channel, either 1, 6 or 11, rather than automatic channel selection. Also, be certain the router is not set to use N speeds only; auto B, G and N is preferred. After making these changes, reboot the router. 

Next, I recommend that your regulatory domain be set explicitly. Check yours:

```
sudo iw reg get
```

If you get 00, that is a one-size-maybe-fits-all setting. Find yours here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) Then set it temporarily:

```
 sudo iw reg set IS
```
Of course, substitute your country code if not Iceland. Set it permanently:

```
 sudo nano /etc/default/crda
```
Change the last line to read:

```
REGDOMAIN=IS
```

Proofread carefully, save and close the text editor.

Reboot the computer and the router and let us hear the result.

---

