---
title: "7.10 upgrade, wireless won't stay up"
date: 2007-10-21
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by Anh Minh on 2007-10-21
Since I upgraded to Gutsy, my wireless connection will work for a few minutes after rebooting, and will suddenly stop. I can't bring it back up without rebooting.

I have a Ralink RT61 thingy.

When I tried using ifconfig, it detected two devices instead of one:
- wlan0
- wmaster, which has the same MAC address with lots of "-00" added, and which isn't recognized as a wireless device by iwconfig.

What can I do?

---

### Post by gb5uqx on 2007-10-22
This seems to be a very common problem but the threads here are so disorganized no one seems to be having any luck. 

However, are you able to connect after just doing a network re-start?.

> sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

So far it's the only temporary workaround I got that works for me....

---

### Post by ataris_kid on 2007-10-22
I've got this same issue too.. it's rather obnoxious when it happens in class. :(

Thing is, mine's a clean install, not an upgrade.

---

### Post by gb5uqx on 2007-10-22
Mines a clean install as well. Oddly though ifconfig and iwconfig say everything is hunky dory even the lights on the router flash.

The only positive thing I have achieved today is to speed up my connection but that just makes it fall over that much quicker :(

---

### Post by SuperAndy on 2007-10-23
i had this issue, but only with a static IP. i have removed network manager, in an attempt to see if this solves the problem. next reboot i will find out.

---

### Post by boozker on 2007-10-23
Try this. negated fixed my intel when about 12 other peoples long tutorials didn't I only did the firefox thing and it works. I was working on it for hours

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588510](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588510)

---

### Post by ma1kel on 2007-10-23
I have the same issue.

---

### Post by SuperAndy on 2007-10-24
yea, that link isn't a fix. thats an intel chipset, and we all seem to be having problems with the RA61 chipset. removing network-manager doesn't make the blind bit of difference. when i get home i will submit a bug report.

---

### Post by ma1kel on 2007-10-24
I have a Conceptronic C54R PCI card, and this problem is annoying me greatly..

---

### Post by ScoPi on 2007-10-24
You're not trying to connect to a Linksys compact wireless router, are you (WRT54GC, I think?)? I had one of those and it would drop my connection every few minutes.

---

### Post by bgc on 2007-10-24
I'm having the same issue. I got my Belkin wireless card (RT61) working on Feisty with a workaround I had found on someone's website, to then find that when I upgraded to Gutsy it stopped working. All networks can be seen, but I cannot connect. I use WPA. I tried redoing the process that got it working on Feisty, but nothing. I tried using various drivers, together with iwpriv commands, but always get a 'set unknown command' error. I've uninstalled network manager, tried with wicd, but the same issue again. More disappointingly, I've disabled the WPA on the router to see if that worked, and still no luck! I would appreciate any help! I am a complete newbie and don't pretend too much, and the issue could easily be that I've ignorantly tinkered with it too much meaning that perhaps the best way forward is for a fresh install (which nonethess would like to avoid).

Any help would be really appreciate. Thanks for everything in advance and keep the great work going!

bgc

---

### Post by SuperAndy on 2007-10-26
well my advice is to stick a gutsy live cd in. if you have wifi working in that environment, a fresh install may be your best bet

---

### Post by bgc on 2007-10-26
Thanks for the suggestion. I have since tried a fresh install, and still have the same issues. In fact I managed to get it working for about 10 seconds with network manager, and then it went down, and that was that. I tried wicd again, and the other workarounds, and still nothing. I'm not sure what to do anymore. Again, I can't even get it to work without WPA even, or for that matter the wired (ethernet) connection wont work either! I think if I find no solution fairly soon I'll just format and get back to Feisty, where at least wifi did work, albeit not in the most 'elegant' fashion...

---

### Post by Anh Minh on 2007-11-05
[That thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=564419") seems to have solved my problem (even giving me WPA, which I never had before), with the exception that unzipping the .exe didn't work. I had to install the driver under windows and copy the .inf from there.

---

### Post by Ferrat on 2007-11-05
A great way to get an rt61 wifi card to work is downloading the serialmonkey CVS drivers from their homepage 

[http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com/rt61-cvs-daily.tar.gz](http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com/rt61-cvs-daily.tar.gz)

in the zip is a readme that has a howto that works flawless, just follow that and remove network manager and your connection will be stable, works great for me, 3days up and not a single disconnect after I used that.

---

