---
title: "Setting one ethernet card to primary"
date: 2007-02-12
forum: Networking &amp; Wireless
---

### Post by blacklobo on 2007-02-12
EDIT:  Please see post #8 below for the updated question:





> I have a Machine that is that is running 6.10 which has 2 ethernet cards installed in it.  Each card connects to a different LAN segment.  Both segments have DHCP servers running on them.  I am trying to setup this machine to "prefer" one network over the other.  For example prefer network A's default route and DNS entries over network B's.

I know this may sound odd.  However my goal is to have the Ubuntu machine use network A to reach the Internet.  Then use network B inside a Virtual Machine.

---

### Post by blacklobo on 2007-02-12
here is a quick drawing of the machine in case it is helpful.

---

### Post by mips on 2007-02-12
Well you should look into routing. You should only have one default route and that should be as you want it. For the other network you just configure a static route for that specific network.

Supply the following:
Output of ifconfig -a
Output of route -n
Output of cat /etc/network/interfaces
Output of cat /etc/resolv.conf

---

### Post by blacklobo on 2007-02-12
The problem is by default every DHCP interface adds a default route.  It would also seem the last interface to edit the information is the one that take precidence.  So if I do a route -n I will have 2 default routes one pointing to the gateway IP for each network, and the DNS entries will be for Network B (on eth1).

---

### Post by mips on 2007-02-13
1. Do you have to use DHCP or is Static config a possibility ? Static would make it very easy.

2. If you have to use DHCP then the problem can be easily solved via small script at startup.

You can write a script that does the following.
-Wait for interfaces to come up
-Delete the default route(s)
-Add a default route
-Add a static route

---

### Post by blacklobo on 2007-02-13
I do have to use DHCP.  I am fine with writing the script if there is a page somewhere that explains how to write it (variable names & language to use).  Also I read a little about having to write a script and I am confused if it goes in the "/etc/dhcp3/dhclient-enter-hooks.d" or "/etc/dhcp3/dhclient-exit-hooks.d" directory.

---

### Post by mips on 2007-02-13
There are several ways to skin a cat, you could even do it in the /etc/network/interfaces file if you want.

I will try and get back you a bit later with some more info, on my way out right now.

---

### Post by blacklobo on 2007-02-14
I have done more research and found the following link to assist me in writing a script for the dhclient:
[http://www.die.net/doc/linux/man/man8/dhclient-script.8.html]("http://www.die.net/doc/linux/man/man8/dhclient-script.8.html")

My purpose for writing this script is to remove the default route generated by ETH1 and to make sure the DNS parameters for ETH0 are used.

I believe the problem I am having now is my syntax.  Below is the script I wrote, I have edited it to remove the IP values.  The following script is called "routing" and located in "/etc/dhcp3/dhclient-enter-hooks.d/"


> #!/bin/sh

routing_setup() {

	# There is no reason to adjust routing if this is called for an unsupported option

	if ["$reason" != BOUND ] && ["$reason" != RENEW ] \
	   && ["$reason" != REBIND ] && ["$reason" != REBOOT ]
	then
		return
	fi


	# Check for default route on eth1 and remove it

	if ["$interface" == ETH1 ]
	then
		echo route del default eth1 >> /etc/resolv.conf
	fi


	# Make sure the DNS are set to the ones for eth0

	if ["$interface" == ETH1 ]
	then
		echo nameserver x.x.x.x >> /etc/resolv.conf
		echo nameserver x.x.x.x >> /etc/resolv.conf
	fi


	# Add the following search domains exist

	echo search foo.com foo1.com foo2.com >> /etc/resolv.conf
}

routing_setup

---

