---
title: "17.10"
date: 2017-10-14
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by ClickXT on 2017-10-14
GNOME on 17.10 is looking pretty good. I am testing and liking the feel.

Good stuff.

---

### Post by Hwæt on 2017-10-14
Welcome back! I think dropping Unity and jumping to GNOME is going to bring in a lot of people, personally.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2017-10-15
I'm pretty happy with Gnome Shell on Ubuntu 17.10. Installed some few extensions to fit my needs. All happy.

---

### Post by Stinger on 2017-10-19
Finally ! Gnome is back as default DE, I'm very pleased :D
No doubt in my mind now,  Ubuntu it is.
Thanks to all of you who made this possible ! 
I guess Ubuntu will gain momentum and positive attention again.

Last but not least, the developers can concentrante on development rather than patching Gnome apps to meet the needs of Unity :)

---

### Post by litlesam on 2017-10-19
Happy running gnome 17.10 here as well through the testing period.
Been using it for months now and will likely do a fresh install in the next week or so. :)

---

### Post by 1jarwolf on 2017-10-20
So...how do I get this 17.10? I am running 17.04 zesty and it won't go to 17.10 after I do ***sudo apt get dist-upgrade*** :(

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-10-20
> **1jarwolf said:**
> So...how do I get this 17.10? I am running 17.04 zesty and it won't go to 17.10 after I do ***sudo apt get dist-upgrade*** :(
You need the right incantations!

[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/10/upgrade-to-ubuntu-17-10](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/10/upgrade-to-ubuntu-17-10)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2017-10-20
> **1jarwolf said:**
> So...how do I get this 17.10? I am running 17.04 zesty and it won't go to 17.10 after I do ***sudo apt get dist-upgrade*** :(

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt full-upgrade

do-release-upgrade
```

---

### Post by bravo18 on 2017-10-20
Hi, everybody, I'm new to Ubuntu One!!!; I installed Ubuntu 17.10, and next to use and install a virtual keyboard, my desktop turns Cinnamon, ¿I have been hacked? Thanks, and sorry for my mediocre skill of English Lenguague...

---

### Post by 1jarwolf on 2017-10-20
Alright! I am upgrading to the newer system! Thank you **vasa1** and **oldos2er**&#8203;! I do hope it will keep all of my files including SNORTS and everything else! :D

---

### Post by craig10x on 2017-10-21
I have been away from Ubuntu for some time...was considering installing again...I see as of 17.10 there are big changes...no more unity and gnome3 desktop instead...

I was wondering If you can auto hide the panel on the side with the apps, and can you place it on the bottom if you prefer?
Also, what about the panel on the top (taskbar?) can that also be auto-hidden as well?

I'm sure I will have other questions as I go along...but those are the first two that come to mind...:)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-10-21
Yes to both!

---

### Post by craig10x on 2017-10-21
Great...just what I wanted to hear ;)
As I think of other possible questions..i will post to this thread...

---

### Post by 1jarwolf on 2017-10-21
So, what is all different other than a different outlook than the Unity as in the Launcher panel / Dock?  have touch screen and when I go to use my touchscreen, I get an annoying virtual keyboard that just about takes the bottom half of my screen. How should I go upon disabling that?

     I do like as I have a Windows 10 Dark theme, I like the fact that I don't have to go to the way upper left of my screen to minimize or close windows and such, it's now on the right and not on that bar as where it shows the time, day, e.t.c. I am liking this so far.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2017-10-21
Many people are annoyed by the on-screen keyboard in the new version of Ubuntu. I think it is 'caribou'.

[wiki.gnome.org/action/show/Projects/Caribou](https://wiki.gnome.org/action/show/Projects/Caribou)

I have not yet seen any method to get rid of it, but there is a work-around. **Install a community flavour of Ubuntu (Kubuntu, Lubuntu, ... Xubuntu). I have not tested them all, but I have tested Lubuntu, both live and installed, and Kubuntu live. There is no such on-screen keyboard.**

[hr][/hr]
If you need an on-screen keyboard in a community flavour, you can install and use 'onboard' instead,

```
sudo apt-get install onboard
```

which has a full keyboard and can be started and stopped by *you*.

---

### Post by 1jarwolf on 2017-10-21
lol. I don't want any type of keyboard :( Thanks though, I will keep that in mind for if my friends wish to know.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2017-10-21
> **wildmanne39 said:**
> Yes to both!

I was watching a video about 17.10 and I saw that you can change the location of the (I will call it) dock to bottom or to the right if you wish and also activate the auto-hide...
However, I didn't see anything that showed how you auto-hide the top panel (taskbar)...was curious as to how that is done...

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2017-10-21
> **craig10x said:**
> 
However, I didn't see anything that showed how you auto-hide the top panel (taskbar)...was curious as to how that is done...

There is this [https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/545/hide-top-bar/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/545/hide-top-bar/)

I also use [https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1287/unite/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1287/unite/)

 It only works on xorg though.

But I basically still use unity (install unity-session), a lot smoother.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2017-10-21
Standard settings so far.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2017-10-21
So, then in wayland, the extension to hide the top panel would not work, I take it?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2017-10-21
> **craig10x said:**
> So, then in wayland, the extension to hide the top panel would not work, I take it?

I meant unite only works in  xorg. Hide top panel should work in Wayland too. I don't really bother with wayland. I think hide top is installed by default since I didn't remember installing it myself, maybe you just need to turn it on in gnome-tweak-tool (which is not installed by default)

---

### Post by craig10x on 2017-10-22
Wayland is standard now, isn't it?...Actually, why would you need tweak to get the extension...when I watched the video of 17.10 that someone on you tube made, he showed there was a section on Ubuntu 17.10 that contains the various gnome extensions you can install...

Can someone confirm that you can get an extension on 17.10 that lets you hide the top panel (and it works)?
Oh, I also see there is a new version of tweak available to download through Ubuntu...that has that option also?

---

