---
title: "21.04"
date: 2021-06-19
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by gordie692 on 2021-06-19
Hey guys what's up I've running the Ubuntu 20.04 LTS but I'm hearing negative response on the new 21.04 I've lots new changes and features so 20.04 works well for me everything works don't miss Windows at all nor the blue screen of death

---

### Post by VMC on 2021-06-19
Actual links to the negative response instead of hearsay would be helpful.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-06-19
Ubuntu 21.04 is not an LTS version. Anyone who upgrades from 20.04 to 21.04 will either have to install 21.04 directly or upgrade to 20.10 and then upgrade to 21.04. And after that upgrade to 21.10 and follow that with an upgrade to 22.04. Which will be an LTS when it arrives.

I like to track the development of Ubuntu. So, I have an install of Ubuntu 21.10 development version which in time will become a 22.04 development version. For my main installation of Ubuntu I use 20.04 LTS and I will upgrade to 22.04 LTS some months after 22.04 is released.

As with every new Ubuntu release there are new kernels, new hardware drivers for newer hardware and new versions of the desktop environment and certain default applications. The releases in between the LTS releases are an opportunity for some user testing so that things can be fixed before they are brought into the next LTS release.

So, the answer to your question is: "Situation normal."

Regards

---

### Post by zebra2 on 2021-06-19
I ran 21.04 from the 1st day the repos arrived until the first day the 21.10 repos arrived. 21.04 was a smooth ride ride for me. I'm upgrading my wife from focal to hirsute this weekend. I am currently using 21.10 for my primary OS and Gnome 40 for my desktop. Gnome 40 isn't fully supported by GTK yet but I like it anyway. 
You will see resistance to anything new on these forums. That is normal in my opinion. The current is comfortable and you don't have to learn anything new. I do have a Windows 10 partition on one of my three computers but I only use it one day a year. If you want to play I suggest you keep a fully updated install disk handy and put /home on it's own partition.

---

### Post by gordie692 on 2021-06-19
I know 21.04 I usually call them betas in between LTS's but thanks guys

---

