---
title: "Is 15.04 ready for prime time?"
date: 2015-07-24
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by steve7777777 on 2015-07-24
I'm a long time Ubuntu user, and switched to Mint 17 and am plan on moving back to Ubuntu in a day or two.

It's my primary OS and use as entertainment center as well. I don't see much on 15.04 installations. Is it ready for prime time? Any suggestions for which I should install.
I'm not very technical.

Thanks! Any advice appreciated.

---

### Post by sgian on 2015-07-24
I have 5 computers varying in age, and 15.04 had problems with all of them.  I use 14.04 LTS without problems on all of them.  The LTS versions are supposed to be more stable and supported longer.

---

### Post by steve7777777 on 2015-07-24
> **sgian said:**
> I have 5 computers varying in age, and 15.04 had problems with all of them.  I use 14.04 LTS without problems on all of them.  The LTS versions are supposed to be more stable and supported longer.

Thanks I'll stick with 14.04. Still supported until 2019.

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2015-07-24
+1 to LTS.  The next LTS release is 16.04

---

### Post by qamelian on 2015-07-24
Your mileage may vary. I'm running 15.04 quite happily on my Acer Aspire E 15 laptop. 14.04 LTS wouldn't even boot on it. You best bet is to set up a bootable live USB and test both versions.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-24
If it ain't broke, don't fix it. If you're not very technical you'd probably want to avoid upgrading your release every six months. 14.04 LTS is rock solid stable (at least for me) and has support until 2019, as mentioned, and upgrades directly to the next LTS release, 16.04 LTS, via a net upgrade, leapfrogging the interim releases in between. I like that feature! :)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-07-24
Kubuntu 15.04 is most definitely not ready for prime time.  The whole transition from KDE4 to KDE5 feels unfinished.  Core programs like Gwenview still don't work properly in KDE5.

Like others here, I'm waiting for 16.04.  Kubuntu 14.04 is an excellent choice if you like the KDE desktop.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-07-24
+1 for sticking with the LTS versions (but see below for additions I make to mine).

I begin to think, even more now than I did in the past, that the intermediate versions, are really test-grounds only for newer system tools and applications, and in my opinion a support life of only 9 months is just too much hassle and would mean a need to upgrade the OS at least every 9, or more likely, every 6 months; definitely not for me.

I use some PPA repos in my Xubuntu 14.04 for applications that I find useful to run as a newer version than the standard OS repos offer, eg libreoffice which gives me LO-4.4.4.3 at the moment, and also the PPA for XFCE-4.12 which is the newest version available, and very good it is too.  This gives me what I believe is the best of both worlds; a very stable, rock solid OS, with some great updated applications which are not usually available in that version of the OS.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-07-24
It is quite ready on both my laptops, I find it faster and smoother than 14.04 though not significantly as the latter is already quite fast given my hardware is far from bleeding edge (14.10 on the other hand was quite bad)

---

### Post by steve7777777 on 2015-07-24
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> If it ain't broke, don't fix it. If you're not very technical you'd probably want to avoid upgrading your release every six months. 14.04 LTS is rock solid stable (at least for me) and has support until 2019, as mentioned, and upgrades directly to the next LTS release, 16.04 LTS, via a net upgrade, leapfrogging the interim releases in between. I like that feature! :)

I will definitely stick with LTS - the only question was 14.04 or 15.04. 14.04 wins. I already have that running in a virtual machine and it's very nice.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-07-24
15.04 is not LTS so for you it has to be 14.04.

---

### Post by night_sky2 on 2015-07-24
> **steve7777777 said:**
> I will definitely stick with LTS - the only question was 14.04 or 15.04. 14.04 wins. I already have that running in a virtual machine and it's very nice.
Unless you want to always be on the bleeding-edge of things, common sense dictates to stick with LTS releases.

Personally, I had so many problems with short-term releases that I won't use them anymore, unless I have absolutely no choice.

Xubuntu 14.04 (kernel 3.13) is the way to go on the computer I am currently using.

---

### Post by thiebaude on 2015-07-24
Ubuntu 15.04 on laptop and desktop rock solid plan on having a new OS every 6 moths.No need for windows on those machines.

---

### Post by mbott on 2015-07-24
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> It is quite ready on both my laptops, I find it faster and smoother than 14.04 though not significantly as the latter is already quite fast given my hardware is far from bleeding edge (14.10 on the other hand was quite bad)

15.04 is currently on my Dell laptop and running perfectly while 14.04 LTS resides on my homebuilt desktop. For a while I had 15.04 on the desktop without issue, but I just felt more comfortable with the LTS version on my primary system.

I do keep a second hard drive for the laptop with Mint 17.2 on it. Again no issues, but it's just a tad slower that 15.04.

-- 
Mike

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-07-24
> **steve7777777 said:**
>  I don't see much on 15.04 installations. Is it ready for prime time?
It's totally ready for prime time.
And it has been since late April/ early May.
 
The change in support length for non-lts releases, though, has caused the non-lts release user base to fall drastically.
18 months to 9 months is a huge drop and people don't want to have pay as close attention to things like that in order to remember they need to upgrade.

With 18 months there was also a little slack in the rope. You could upgrade at somewhat your own leisure.
But now that support for non-lts releases is only 9 months means you need to get ready to upgrade and you might not be fully prepared for it.

For a lot of users that's just a giant pain.

---

