---
title: "13.04 or 13.10"
date: 2013-11-07
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by joyousjake on 2013-11-07
I am going to install Ubuntu on a friend's PC. He has no experience with Linux and is no computer expert. This is to help him save money with free software and such, use less resources on the laptop since all he does is web browsing and documents.

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-11-07
Hi joyousjake.

I would go with 12.04 LTS. It has been around longer, so it is much polish and stable.

Having said that, 13.04 seems to be much faster, but I haven't use it enough to actually recommend it.

IMHO and since 13.10 just came out of the oven, I would not install it on someone else machine.

Just my thoughts.
Regards.

P.S.: another point of view: tt would be easier to help him when he got into troubles if he has **the same version as you** ;)

---

### Post by joyousjake on 2013-11-07
OK. 12.04 seems to make sense, but I'll think about it. Hopefully there will be more insight to help me make a good decision. Thanks!

---

### Post by craig10x on 2013-11-07
13.10 is really running very nice...13.04 was excellent and 13.10 carries it even further in terms of stability, less resources being used, lots of unity improvements, etc...there has also been lots of changes since 12.04....i'd go with 13.10 and then you can upgrade him to 14.04 next April...at that point, if you prefer, you can just keep him on that (though personally, i upgrade to each new version as they are released)...

---

### Post by joyousjake on 2013-11-07
I want to stick with the stable versions (x.04) so he doesn't have to learn new features every 6 months. I think the highest version I am considering is 13.04 right now.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2013-11-07
Well, nothing really changes in terms of the main layout, the way unity works, etc...so it isn't like he would have to get adjusted to different ways of doing things each time...
13.10 is very stable, i think just as stable as 13.04 was/is...and as i said, once 14.04 gets here, you could upgrade him to that and if you want, let him stay on it for the long run...
As i said, just a suggestion...:)

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-11-07
> **papibe said:**
> Hi joyousjake.

I would go with 12.04 LTS. It has been around longer, so it is much polish and stable.

Having said that, 13.04 seems to be much faster, but I haven't use it enough to actually recommend it.

IMHO and since 13.10 just came out of the oven, I would not install it on someone else machine.

Just my thoughts.
Regards.

P.S.: another point of view: tt would be easier to help him when he got into troubles if he has **the same version as you** ;)

My experience is that 12.04 may be stable but not as polished as the 13.xx serious (Unity 7 is a great improvement to unity 5 in terms of polish and resource usage)  Again, just my experience, 13.10 is faster than 13.04 ( 13.04 is fast too and both are faster than 12.04, 12.10 feels remarkably slower than all of them). I suppose it may be hardware related.

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2013-11-07
> **joyousjake said:**
> I want to stick with the stable versions (x.04) so he doesn't have to learn new features every 6 months. I think the highest version I am considering is 13.04 right now.

There is nothing any more stable about 13.04 than 13.10.  Only the April releases on even years are LTS; April releases in odd years get the same support as other interim releases.

I highly recommend LTS releases for non-technical folks, especially if they'll expect you to keep their systems working properly.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2013-11-08
Exactly...that is why i suggested he put 13.10 on his friend's computer for now (thus still getting 8 more months of update coverage as opposed to 13.04 which runs out in January)...and then when 14.04 is released next April (which IS an even year LTS version) then upgrade him to that...his decision of course, but just seems like the more logical way to go with this...

13.10 is a lot more refined then 12.04...and will likely use less resources too...

---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-11-08
I found that 13.10 was very buggy and I reverted to 12.04.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2013-11-08
> **coldraven said:**
> I found that 13.10 was very buggy and I reverted to 12.04.

you may have given it up too soon....various updates have been coming in and smoothing things out...it may also depend on the hardware you are using...

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-11-08
> **craig10x said:**
> you may have given it up too soon....various updates have been coming in and smoothing things out...it may also depend on the hardware you are using...

+1 same here with 13.10. Only "bug" was date time going bye bye. Fixed now. No crashes or show stoppers on two machines. Seems slicker and less memory usage.

---

### Post by Primefalcon on 2013-11-08
both 13.04 and 13.10 are interim releases.... so the question should be the longer supported more stable 12.04 or the shorter supported and more cutting edge (more features, more bugs) 13.10...

frankly if it is someone else’s computer and you'll have to offer support I'd go 12.04 if your willing to deal with bugs and want to take new features for a spin, go for 13.10.

---

### Post by cpatrick08 on 2013-11-08
> **joyousjake said:**
> I want to stick with the stable versions (x.04) so he doesn't have to learn new features every 6 months. I think the highest version I am considering is 13.04 right now.
non lts releases are supported for 9 months so unless you stick with the lts release you would have to go with the x.10 releases to keep your friend on an supported version.

---

### Post by megaresp on 2013-11-09
Is it possible you reverted too quickly? I found 13.10 to be a bit 'jumpy' for a couple of days, but it settled down very quickly and is my best Linux desktop experience to date. I've previously tried Fedora 17, Debian 6, Mint 14 (Mate and Cinnamon) and a couple of non-Unity Ubuntus.

My first first full-time desktop distro was 12.10. I've found each subsequent release to be an improvement, especially from a usability/interface perspective. To give you an idea of where I'm coming from, I don't want to have to fiddle with my desktop. I expect absolutely everything to work out of the box. Which Ubuntu doesn't, of course, but getting minor extras stuff such as DVD codecs and Window's fonts can be done via the software centre.

My history with Ubuntu is as follows: I did a full install for both 12.04 and 12.10. I upgraded to 13.04. I did a full install for 13.10 as I suspected the annoying and apparently unsolvable issue I was having with HPLIP was caused by the upgrade. As it happens it wasn't. I thought I needed HPLIP, but it turns out I don't and by not installing it the annoying error message thingy hasn't come back. So for me Ubuntu 13.10 has been a dream run.

The only thing I've never managed to do is get one of the various 'run Netflix on Linux' apps ([example]("http://www.webupd8.org/2013/08/pipelight-use-silverlight-in-your-linux.html")) to actually run Netflix on *my* Linux machine. If I could just do that I'd have it all.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-11-09
12.04 LTS is the best place to start for two beginners.

---

### Post by howefield on 2013-11-09
you have 2 criteria, first of free software and secondly to use less resources.

Perhaps a bit of housekeeping on whatever is currently being used along with installing the (I'm assuming windows platform?) versions of free software might be a first step.

If your friend decides to install Ubuntu, as to whether it should the current LTS (12.04.3) or the latest interim release (13.10), I am not sure it matters because both can be upgraded directly to the next LTS, (14.04). I'd go for 13.10 personally. Beyond that, it isn't worth saying anything else as your skill level, specifications of the machine and what the friend wants is unknown to all bar you.

---

### Post by richardsdma on 2013-11-09
> **philinux said:**
> +1 same here with 13.10. Only "bug" was date time going bye bye. Fixed now. No crashes or show stoppers on two machines. Seems slicker and less memory usage.

no, the time and date applet is not fixed yet, just does not start to me few hours ago. 
> sudo restart lightdm was the solution.

---

### Post by Primefalcon on 2013-11-09
agreed I actually fixed mine by reinstalling the date time thingy, there's still a few bugs limping around

---

### Post by Jonor on 2013-11-09
If you use the Gnome desktop manager and will be setting that up for him then i'd suggest 13.04 because 
Gnome is not as well supported as the more native Unity manager IMO and this shows more on 13.10. 
For instance there is no Privacy in System Settings yet and there are at least a couple of Gnome extensions that don't work for 13.10 but do for 13.04. 
There are Gnome improvements in 13.10 over 13.04 too but absent privacy settings trumps all other issues for me.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

ETA : There is a new app in 13.10 called Activity Log Manager. Although there are no tabs for searches or recent activity, it appears to be a near replacement for Systems Settings Privacy on 13.04.

---

### Post by John RG on 2013-11-09
My 2 cents. Have an old laptop that ran too slowly under Windows 7. So installed 12.04. All was good, installed various applications (nothing weird, just Chromium and Keepass).  The next day the wireless stopped working. I saw on the forum that upgrading to 13.04 would fix the issue as my brand of wireless driver wasn't too good. So upgraded using the install package to 12.10 which downloaded quickly but took a couple of hours to install. Then, nothing. Black screen. Back trawling through forums again. Now can't even get laptop to boot off a 13.10 live disk. So I'm back to trying to work out if I burnt the disk wrong etc. Very frustrating. The upgrade process - which I know is complex should NOT crash a machine. 

I would not recommend Ubuntu to a friend unless they:
1) Were confident with computers and not scared by a command line.
2) Had a 'spare' pc that allows them to find answers when their primary machine breaks. (This could be a smart phone, but that's less than ideal.)
3) Had lan cable port based internet access even if they primarily wanted wireless.
4) Had spare time

Until you can buy hardware that explicitly comes with Ubuntu loaded and working, it's only for geeks or desperates with old machines and spare time. Not because it can't work - and work well - but because the success rate is not yet 99.99%, which is what you need to compete with established ecosystems like Windows or Mac.

PS: Ok, while typing this it seems as if the laptop recognises the latest 13.10 iso. A few hours of "fun" ahead. Like I had nothing else to do this weekend.
PPS: 13.10 disk now recognised, and system is upgrading from 12.10. Kudos to whoever wrote that package.
P3S: Installed 13.10, but can't get past login screen. Password just brings me straight back. Have uninstalled and installed Cinnamon based on separate forum suggestions but no joy at any stage. Wife grumpy at me for spending too much time at computer.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-11-10
Upgrading is always problem prone especially if you are upgrading from something that doesn't work since some settings may be messed up. Always try a new install. As for your wireless in 12.04 that may be a kernel problem. I would try a newer kernel before I nuke the OS.

BTW, Ubuntu couldn't have worked better on my laptop (have gone through 10.10, 11.04, 12.04 and now 13.04 and 13.10). It came with Windows 7 and only a few months after my purchase did I know about Ubuntu, I asked their tech support people they told me Linux would never work on this laptop. :) I have also installed Ubuntu and other flavours of Linux on other machines that come my way and I have only encountered one problem (11.10 wouldn't boot on my dad's laptop but 11.04 and 12.04 both work flawlessly) Maybe I am just lucky but I have to say Linux is amazing to work so well on so many diverse hardware with often minimal support from the manufacturers and no tweaking from OEMs.

---

