---
title: "14.04 (Trusty Tahr) known bugs without work arounds"
date: 2014-04-29
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by tomricht@gmail.com on 2014-04-29
My first attempt to post this ended up in jail. Let's try again

--
Hi there,

Here are the bugs I have observed in the last 10 days (fresh install):
- **Occasional screen flashing** ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2219852](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2219852))
- **Update-grub ignoring timeout=0 **([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220246](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220246))
- **Screen corruption and refresh delays:** Sometimes single letters  on web pages rendered in Firefox appear to be corrupted (looks like a  little black dot is overlaying the letter). When selecting the text, it  gets rendered OK. This did not happen in 12.04, so I assume it is not a  Firefox problem. In addition some Java applications seem to have a  really long delay when rendering parts of the screen (several seconds).  This is with the new Kernel radeon driver on an ATI 7750 card.
- **Keyboard keys sometimes repeat indefinitely.** Show stopper bug since 2007. Still not fixed. ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...ux/+bug/124406]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/124406"))

So still not ready for prime time is my short verdict.

Tom

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-04-29
Moved to Ubuntu Chat.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-05-01
Have you created bug reports for the screen flashing and grub problems? Check this [page]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs") out for help creating an effective bug report.

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2014-05-02
Greetings, 
It's hard for me to imagine a OS that doesn't have bugs. That being said, I haven't seen the character problems in FF since Saucy. That was a FF problem and they fixed it IMO. Regard the keyboard keys, I suggest an aerosol cleaning. Mine stick from time to time and I just remove the food debris and back to normal. 
I can't believe how perfect my system is! Unbelieveable!

---

### Post by tomricht@gmail.com on 2014-05-02
Character rendering is broken also in a shell, so definitely not a FF problem.
Keyboard works fine under Windows (dual boot) for >5yrs.

---

### Post by tomricht@gmail.com on 2014-05-02
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Have you created bug reports for the screen flashing and grub problems? Check this [page]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs") out for help creating an effective bug report.
Spent 30 minutes studying that awesome page till I found out I can't report on the web but have to press Alt-F2 and then...
Well, the wizard that runs does not allow me to enter any free text description of the problem, so what's it worth?
Given the fact that none of the many Linux bugs I reported over the last 10 yrs ever got fixed, I gave up.

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2014-05-02
> **tomricht@gmail.com said:**
> 
Given the fact that none of the many Linux bugs I reported over the last 10 yrs ever got fixed, I gave up.
So why report them here?

---

### Post by tomricht@gmail.com on 2014-05-02
> **lykwydchykyn said:**
> So why report them here?
Chances are higher to find a workaround than getting a bugfix. So I posted on a sticky thread with similar title. But apparently the idea of that thread was to come up with workarounds right away (or I was just too negative/bad for business) and my post was moved here by a moderator.

---

### Post by lykwydchykyn on 2014-05-02
> **tomricht@gmail.com said:**
> Chances are higher to find a workaround than getting a bugfix. So I posted on a sticky thread with similar title. But apparently the idea of that thread was to come up with workarounds right away (or I was just too negative/bad for business) and my post was moved here by a moderator.

Fair enough.  

I haven't had any of these issues, so I can't help you unfortunately.

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2014-05-02
Greetings,
> **tomricht@gmail.com said:**
> Character rendering is broken also in a shell, so definitely not a FF problem.
Keyboard works fine under Windows (dual boot) for >5yrs.

Conventional wisdom says try a different keyboard. Everything works until it doesn't and 5yrs is a long time for a KB.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2014-05-02
> **tomricht@gmail.com said:**
> Chances are higher to find a workaround than getting a bugfix. So I posted on a sticky thread with similar title. But apparently the idea of that thread was to come up with workarounds right away (or I was just too negative/bad for business) and my post was moved here by a moderator.
In my opinion, it's better to have specific threads with specific issues and to describe how the bug can be reproduced.
Having one thread with this is buggy and that is buggy may not be useful.
And would you be so kind as to post links to "the many Linux bugs I reported over the last 10 yrs"?

---

### Post by sagsaw-sawant on 2014-05-03
There is also a  refresh problem in Synaptic, after a program has installed the list of softwares on the right becomes garbles unless the mouse is used to scroll or the arrow keys are used to scroll in effect causing a refresh

---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-05-03
@tomricht@gmail.com, you have a chance to add as many comments as you want to a bug report, on the launchpad page  that is created once your bug has been reported. If you find the Unity DE to keyboard intensive, you may want to try one of the other derivatives, Xubuntu, Lubuntu or Kubuntu, as thay are much more Windows like.

---

### Post by RichardET on 2014-05-04
Have not experienced any problems with the Unity version of 14.04.  In contrast I have had numerous problems over the years with the Windows update system, most recently with a major update to Win. 8.1 in mid April of this year, which took about 20 retries to finally work.  Does anybody work in QC at Microsoft?

---

