---
title: "14.10"
date: 2015-01-03
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by n-aimin-9 on 2015-01-03
Fortunately? I have a screaming network.
14.10 wants 188x something (1GB and .8) to upgrade.
I had 15.04 briefly, before it crashed.
I loved it. I did not appreciate the crash so much.

Me?  Gateway NE 522. Did a new computer for my daughter...
E2 Acer. Windows 8.1 and ubuntu 14.04 for her. Me?
Vista, Slackware, and soon ubuntu 14.10.

It did take some doing to find drivers for my daughter's wireless device.
It took more doing to locate drivers for my own AMD HD 8330 video for Vista.

I have no problems with a "legacy only" computer. I should say... I'm not having any...

The ubuntu install disk will sudo -i (root), and also remove GPT partitions on drives still having anything in their boot record. It will also permit the re-install of disk images to partitions, mount otions, and what have you. It will not permit mc (Midnite-Commander).

I am completely impressed with the ubuntu wiki help pages.

***

This said...

My Slackware? It took the 3.14x kernel to permit my touchpad to work.

My daughter's new Acer? The new touchpad "might work" with a 3.16 kernel (ubuntu).

The kid wanted an "Apple". It's like? "Yeh right"

***

I completely dislike and abhor the new Microsoft model for backups, admin accounts, and the other invasive and proprietary things they are doing. I was completley content with XP. They went down-hill from there. XP will not load on my Windows 8 compliant UEFI BIOS Gateway (Acer). Slackware 14.1 (3.10.27), will "run" UEFI, but it doesn't like it much. Vista, and Windows 7 that I have, are Legacy programs. Alkl of these programs will install fine in "Legacy" mode.

***

2TB Seagate drive. Remove GPT. 200GB for Vista (sda1) 200 GB for 3.14.27 (Slackware) 1600GB for ubuntu 3.16.0-29_low_latency and Slackware for mc copies of the other partitions (with a hard password and no network). 169$ and some time... smiling

Life is VERY GOOD. Thank you ubuntu developers. You have a permanent reference on my website.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2015-01-03
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat*** as it does not appear to be a support request.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2015-01-03
Glad that life is being good to you. Live long and prosper.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2015-01-03
If you want to avoid crashes and such, probably best to avoid 15.04 until, you know, it's actually released.;)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-01-03
> [COLOR=#000000]14.10 wants 188x something (1GB and .8) to upgrade.[/COLOR]

Visually, Ubuntu 14.10 is not that much different from 14.04. They both have Unity 7, for example. But we do not always appreciate the large code difference between Ubuntu versions. I have no doubt that every system package is upgraded. And upgrades to Libreoffice and Firefox are in the mega bytes range. It all adds up.

I have been running Vivid Vervet (15.04) since the first week of its development cycle. Except for weekends and holiday periods there are always mega bytes to download. Linux kernels are quite large and over the development cycle the kernel will be upgraded several times. Up until now there have been 8 kernels and each is more than 20MB in size and in a week or two there will be another upgrade as the kernel goes from 3.16 to 3.18. 

I also think that FireFox and Libreoffice have both had two upgrades. 

So, to avoid large downloads stay on LTS releases. Oh, by the way, up until now, I cannot remember having one crash with Vivid Vervet. 

Regards.

---

### Post by EmpireITtech on 2015-01-05
Well it's obviously a case-by-case situation with developments releases - when I was testing previous versions of Ubuntu in Alpha and Beta stages I had no issues, with 15.04 I had enough to make it too annoying to stay on it (all on the same exact hardware). I am not complaining, it's in testing phase for a reason, just pointing that out. Currently I'm on 14.10 and it's been working just fine. While I use Linux for web browsing and tinkering, it's not supported by my work so I just use it for side projects at work =]

---

