---
title: "Linux kernel API incompatibility with systemd"
date: 2020-11-26
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by yapidumoac on 2020-11-26
[systemd prerelease 247-rc2]("https://www.mail-archive.com/systemd-devel@lists.freedesktop.org/msg45075.html")

KERNEL API INCOMPATIBILITY: “Linux 4.12 introduced two new uevents "bind" and "unbind" to the Linux device model. When this kernel change was made, systemd-udevd was only minimally updated to handle and propagate these new event types. The introduction of these new uevents (which are typically generated for USB devices and devices needing a firmware upload before being functional) resulted in a number of issues which we so far didn't address.

We hoped the kernel maintainers would themselves address these issues in some form, but that did not happen. To handle them properly, many (if not most) udev rules files shipped in various packages need updating, and so do many programs that monitor or enumerate devices with libudev or sd-device, or otherwise process uevents.

Please note that this incompatibility is not fault of systemd or udev, but caused by an incompatible kernel change that happened back in Linux 4.12, but is becoming more and more visible as the new uevents are generated by more kernel drivers.”

---

### Post by webaake on 2020-11-26
No, this is the fault of systemd. An all encompassing structure that gradually has taken over Linux without any real opposition. There is no discussion on this Ubuntu forum about the overall implications of systemd. No meta discussion. And new users have no clue.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2020-11-26
It is why some Debian developers were against Debian going over to systemd which was coming from Redhat. Those developers did not like the way systemd was intended to be all encompassing. It broke a Debian principle of doing one thing and doing it well. When they lost the argument those particular developers left Debian development and forked the Debian code.

[https://www.devuan.org/](https://www.devuan.org/)

There was only a little discussion about this primarily because this is a users forum and not a developers forum. Mark Shuttleworth instructed Canonical employees working on Debian to keep out of the argument. Systemd was going to replace Ubuntu developed code called Upstart.

And now there are going to be problems and the systemd developers are blaming the Linux developers for not seeing the problem coming and fixing it. A typical perpetrator response. Claim to be a victim.

Regards

---

