---
title: "16.04.2 memory usage - crazy high"
date: 2017-05-03
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by rob-rushworth on 2017-05-03
Ubuntu 16.04.2 + system monitor + Firefox (only 2 tabs, here and a youtube cat video) = 85.4% (1.6gb) of system memory usage (1.9gb RAM, 1.9GB swap).

What is going on with this release?

I can boot up and watch cat videos and that's about my limit??

Here's a twist.

I ran the same this morning... system = 880mb.  System + browser (with 2 tabs - cat video and a forum) = 1.0gb

After that memory check, I went to the software centre to download GUVCVIEW (a 5xxkb download) but system monitor recorded a 360mb download through software centre and a 50% jump higher in memory usage.

Now I can't get rid of that high memory use - even with a fresh install and wiping the drive.

I've re-installed twice from a boot DVD, unplugged from my ISP, and both times I've had the high memory usage problem upon starting the OS - I can't get back to how it was this morning.

[https://postimg.org/image/5aelwiwef/](https://postimg.org/image/5aelwiwef/)

Anyone know what's going on?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-05-03
Where are you getting those memory figures from?
What is actually using your memory?

Run **top** in terminal and with it running press upper case **M** to sort by memory usage.

When we know what's using it we might be able to help, but don't forget Linux uses memory in a different way to Windows; it does not free up memory if there is still some memory available, so you may see figures that seem high to you.

The best way to see memory usage is with command **free -mw** and you can see the details of that in **man free**, the manual for the command.

---

### Post by sgian on 2017-05-03
This is a bug that was reported in April 2016 and never fixed.  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1572801](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1572801)  Maybe it has something to do with proprietary NVIDIA drivers as one theory in the bug report went.  I don't know, and neither apparently does Canonical.  I've tried Unity, Gnome, Kubuntu, and Lubuntu with 16.04.  They all had memory problems for me, but maybe it does not affect everyone?  I also tried Linux Mint 18 and 18.1, which is based on Ubuntu 16.04, and that is affected too in both KDE and Cinnamon.  However Debian 8.7 which I am using to post right now in the KDE environment and the 4.9 kernel, is not affected by this bug.  Without anything else running, memory sits at 0.6 GB after a day of use, which is at least half what I was often experiencing without apps running on Ubuntu 16.04 variants.  It will be interesting to see if Debian 9 is affected, since it is newer, but it appears to me to be an Ubuntu 16.04 problem that won't be fixed since it hasn't been fixed for a year.

---

### Post by rob-rushworth on 2017-05-03
Thanks for that, sgian.
I need to use the 64 bit Google Chrome browser for a work application, would you happen to know if 17.04 has the same memory problem? Perhaps I should drop back to 15.

---

### Post by rob-rushworth on 2017-05-03
ajgreeny, I'm using System monitor to see what's happening.The only things showing as using memory are the system and the browser - the memory usage figures in System monitor don't add up at all.

---

### Post by rob-rushworth on 2017-05-04
Ok, here's my take on it.
I installed 16.04.2 LTS on a reconditioned ex-office HP box for use in a school environment- an extra machine for students' internet access.
I installed Google Chrome, Skype, Zoom, and Openshot with no big memory problems. The box was running at 1.0gb using system and Google Chrome and with both Skye and Zoom open/running in the background..
Then I installed GUVCVIEW from the Software Centre. This changed the game. I cannot now go back to the original memory usage even upon a fresh install of either 16.04.2 LTS or 16.04.1 to a wiped hard drive - both now show high memory usage from the get-go on a clean install.

What I think has happened is that the video card has been given/allocated that extra space in memory, and that what I downloaded was not only GUVCVIEW, but also a video-card update/flash - which I didn't ask for, wasn't told would happen, didn't need, don't want and can't get rid of.

Whatever I try now on this box has a memory problem.

Thanks, Canonical. Thanks a bunch. Now I have to go buy RAM.

What has happened to Linux???

---

### Post by speedwell68 on 2017-05-04
> **rob-rushworth said:**
> Thanks, Canonical. Thanks a bunch. Now I have to go buy RAM.

I'd be trying a different distro before I went shelling out on ram.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2017-05-04
> **rob-rushworth said:**
> 
What I think has happened is that the video card has been given/allocated that extra space in memory, and that what I downloaded was not only GUVCVIEW, but also a video-card update/flash - which I didn't ask for, wasn't told would happen, didn't need, don't want and can't get rid of.


higly unlikely. in any case you gave the app permission to install and it said what it will install. 

i doubt the app is the issue.

Binary packages
libguvcview-2.0-2  (amd64)  (arm64)  (armhf)  (i386)  (powerpc)  (ppc64el)  (s390x) 
guvcview  (amd64)  (arm64)  (armhf)  (i386)  (powerpc)  (ppc64el)  (s390x) 
libguvcview-2.0-2-dbgsym  (amd64)  (arm64)  (armhf)  (i386)  (powerpc)  (ppc64el)  (s390x) 
guvcview-dbgsym  (amd64)  (arm64)  (armhf)  (i386)  (powerpc)  (ppc64el)  (s390x) 
libguvcview-dev  (amd64)  (arm64)  (armhf)  (i386)  (powerpc)  (ppc64el)  (s390x) 


Build dependencies
 autotools-dev  
 debhelper (>= 9)  
 intltool  
 libavcodec-dev  
 libgsl-dev  
 libgtk-3-dev  
 libpng-dev  
 libsdl2-dev  
 libtwolame-dev  
 libudev-dev  
 libusb-1.0-0-dev  
 libv4l-dev  
 portaudio19-dev 

as mentioned you can try another distro. perhaps an older ubuntu 14.04 LTS (supported until 2019) a newer one (17.04) or something completelly different such as OpenSUSE, Fedora or CentOS. 

you still didn't mention what top command shows. it should identify the service taking up memorry (if anything is even occupying it).

one final thing - since you notice same issue after reinstall. what happens if you take power out (completelly cut it from power) for about 30 seconds? i have this strange issue with sound card (sometimes also USB port) where despite turning PC off the whatever memorry address is still filled. so rebooting, turning off and on PC will still fail to make the sound work. i found out that if i take electricity off completelly and then add it back, then boot, the issue is resolved.

---

### Post by sgian on 2017-05-04
I haven't tried 17.04, so I don't know if the issue got fixed in that.  High memory use still existed on 16.10 for me, then I switched most of my computers to debian.  I still have one with Ubuntu 16.04 on a dual boot because a game I have works better on Ubuntu than debian.  Ubuntu 15 is not updated anymore since they were standard releases.  However as mentioned by mastablasta, Ubuntu 14.04 will still be supported until 2019 since it is a long term support version.

Using system monitor uses memory to run the program, that is why some are asking for the terminal command free -mw result.  Either way can show the app with the highest usage, system monitor if you click on memory in the process table table will sort processes by highest memory use.  Sometimes knowing which app is using the most memory can lead to a way to deal with the issue.

As for buying more RAM, it depends.  DDR2 is expensive and hard to find where I live.  DDR3 is cheaper, so if you use DDR3 then it might be worth buying another stick.  If you have a small motherboard, you will likely only have two slots and might have to replace an existing stick.  I like having at least 4 GB nowadays anyways.  However, I've had Ubuntu use up 3-4 GB by the end of a day or two so that might not fix your problem.  I would recommend both buying more RAM if it is in your budget, and switching your OS to either Ubuntu 14.04 or debian 8.

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2017-05-04
I recently created a thread for some other process using lots of RAM.
But I have also noticed that FireFox and Vivaldi both browsers have been using a lot of RAM as well. Just like you even with just 2-3 tabs after couple of hours of use RAM usage is hitting almost a gig.
This is on 17.04 64bit.
In that thread someone suggested that it happens for apps which are connected to internet as the cache keeps adding up. (So I let it go). And I have 8 gigs of RAM with which I can manage.
The thing is though, this wasn't happening with 16.10.
May be some new patch (across kernels / os versions) is causing this.
One thing I can say for certain is that 17.04 is using lot more RAM for same process and same use. Of course, I don't have old logs / reports to prove it.
But it looks like I am not the only one.

---

