---
title: "Why 14.04lts?"
date: 2014-04-11
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2014-04-11
We have 2 computers using ubuntu 12.04 lts. Love the fact that I can run in gnome too. Sorry to see the cloud go bye bye loved that feature. Will you still be able to use gnome classic?

So what is the advantage of Ubuntu 14.04lts

does anyone know?

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2014-04-11
A fair few benefits including:

[LIST]
[*]New versions of many applications
[*]Newer kernel
[*]Long support (after the previous LTS support has ended)
[*]
[/LIST]

Having said that 12.04LTS has support to 2017 so don't feel compelled to upgrade...

---

### Post by silex89 on 2014-04-11
Hi there! :)

The main advantages of Trusty (14.04) are that you'll get tons of very useful updates and general polish of both the Unity desktop and the underlying components of the system. Your machine will most likely be running faster, smoother and with less temperature thanks to the improvements of the graphics stack.

As for the Gnome Panel thing, see [THIS THREAD]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184682"). As a summary, like the OP says, the Gnome Panel session is still supported, but only the Metacity session works at the moment (No Effects). For some reason, Compiz refuses to work with this version. Testing is still being done in this regard.

Best of Luck! :)

---

### Post by r_avital on 2014-04-11
As to the gnome-classic question, if it is supported at all in 14.04 LTS, you can't count on it being supported in future releases.  One remedy is to install the MATE desktop, along with Ubuntu (not instead of, it doesn't function all by itself).  It is a fork that preserves the features of gnome-classic.  Sure, it also adds its own utilities such as a text editor, file manager and such, but you're not forced to use them.

Each version of the MATE desktop matches one specific Ubuntu version, so make sure you download/install the correct one.  You can find out more on the MATE site.

---

### Post by Rob Sayer on 2014-04-12
The gnome classic feature doesn't matter to me ... I use kde and lxde ... but lack of support fot it may be a problem for others.

For me it's mostly about hardware support.  I want an lts unless it works noticeably worse on that than later versions.  It's highly unlikely that newer versions have features worth having to probably do re configuring when newer versions come out.

On my laptop running kubuntu 12.04, I have no intention of doing a release upgrade until it's no longer supported in 2017.  Everything works now.

On my netbook running lubuntu 13.10, the cedarview video works better in 13.04 and later than it did in 12.04.  The wireless was a real pain in 12.04 but the open source kernel driver has been gradually getting better.  The latest kernel backport works better than ever but I have to recompile it when I get a kernel update.  I think the next release will work without jiggering if it's 3.12.2-1 based.

So on the netbook I'm eagerly awaiting the 14.04 lts.  I'm getting a little tired of installing backports for the wireless.

---

### Post by Hylas de Niall on 2014-04-12
> **rosswmcgee said:**
> We have 2 computers using ubuntu 12.04 lts. Love the fact that I can run in gnome too. Sorry to see the cloud go bye bye loved that feature. Will you still be able to use gnome classic?

So what is the advantage of Ubuntu 14.04lts

does anyone know?

Unity 7 is faster and more configurable *OOTB* than Unity 5 is :)
 Plus of course, as others have noted, you get later versions of kernel and programs.

---

### Post by imblack on 2014-04-12
Why not? everything would be better, this is Ubuntu not Windows lol (Win 8 anyone?)

Just one thing, please make sure you first test drive using the Live CD/USB and then make the final decision of installing it.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2014-04-12
Moved to  Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-04-12
Ubuntu releases a Long Term Support (LTS) Release every 2 years. It means that Ubuntu will install on the latest hardware because the developers have built Ubuntu on the latest Linus kernels.

A person may find that although 12.04 is still supported until 2017 it may not be compliant with the hardware that comes on the market between now and then. Ubuntu 12.04 has had 4 updates to the Linux hardware stack over the last two years. It will not get any more updates to the hardware stack because we can get the latest hardware stack from 14.04.

By the way, In 14.04 we install gnome-session-flashback if we want that certain look. We then get two additional login session options, Gnome Flashback (Compiz) and Gnome Flashback (Metacity).

The latest Gnome Classic is actually a Gnome 3 Shell extension so it is better suited for Ubuntu Gnome which uses Gnome 3 Shell than Ubuntu+Unity. Of course, we can install what we like but do not expect good results. The last time I tried gnome-session-flashback on Ubuntu Gnome 14.04 it did not work too well. But on Ubuntu+Unity Gnome Flashback does its stuff.

Regards.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-04-12
The Mate (Gnome 2 Fork) desktop is included in the 14.04 repository if your looking for a Classic desktop other than flashback . Unity has come a very long way for those who enjoy it. Drop Box has turned out to be an excellent replacement for Ubuntu One for my purposes .

---

### Post by KingLeonidas on 2014-04-12
For me the major benefit is:

[LIST]
[*]Long support (after the previous LTS support has ended)
[/LIST]
I don't like unstable machines, and newer versions do that a lot, despite you will have to surf the web to find help for the new issues.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2014-04-12
I have forgotten, if I do an upgrade to 14.04lts from 12.04 lts it leaves most of my applications, files, printer, intact correct?? I know the clean install is probably best  but the upgrade is easier.

---

### Post by coldraven on 2014-04-13
> **rosswmcgee said:**
> I have forgotten, if I do an upgrade to 14.04lts from 12.04 lts it leaves most of my applications, files, printer, intact correct?? I know the clean install is probably best  but the upgrade is easier.
If you have  /home on a separate partition then what you say is true. When installing make sure that the "Format this partition?" option is NOT ticked.
In any case I would definitely do a backup first and don't forget to export your bookmarks first.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-13
In-place upgrading: All user files and settings are preserved. The location of /home does not matter. 

A fresh install : A separate /home is only necessary if you want to install the new version while keeping the user files on the disk.

This being said, an upgrade is a risky step. More advice in the link in my signature.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2014-04-13
Just for the heck of it I upgraded to 12.10 and all went well. So I will try the 14.10 lts upgrade and if it works fine if not do a clean install, I moved all my stuff to google cloud.


Come to think of it why ubuntu at all if there is no ubuntu cloud anymore? I really liked that feature.

---

### Post by grier-devon on 2014-04-14
> **rosswmcgee said:**
> Just for the heck of it I upgraded to 12.10 and all went well. So I will try the 14.10 lts upgrade and if it works fine if not do a clean install, I moved all my stuff to google cloud.


Come to think of it why ubuntu at all if there is no ubuntu cloud anymore? I really liked that feature.

They dropped Ubuntu One as everyone who specializes in cloud storage is dropping prices like crazy where Canonical just cannot compete anymore. Though I am curious what the future holds as without proper sync between Ubuntu phone, tablet, TV and computer will make the convergence story hog wash.

---

### Post by Erik1984 on 2014-04-14
> **mörgæs said:**
> In-place upgrading: All user files and settings are preserved. The location of /home does not matter. 

A fresh install : A separate /home is only **necessary** if you want to install the new version while keeping the user files on the disk.

This being said, an upgrade is a risky step. More advice in the link in my signature.

Not necessary: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/komputes/HowToUbuquityPreserveHome](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/komputes/HowToUbuquityPreserveHome)

Just saying because I didn't know this for a long time and it's an awesome feature of the installer.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-14
Neither did I. Thanks for posting. 
Well, I think we have to get back on topic, else I have to infract myself for derailing a thread.

---

### Post by jbaerboc on 2014-04-14
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> The Mate (Gnome 2 Fork) desktop is included in the 14.04 repository if your looking for a Classic desktop other than flashback . Unity has come a very long way for those who enjoy it. Drop Box has turned out to be an excellent replacement for Ubuntu One for my purposes .

Well said, I too have found the Dropbox integration to be complete enough to fill in the gap. I can definitely say I enjoy unity where as before I rather disliked it. I have been running the Ubuntu 14.04 Beta 2 for close to a week now [i think] and it's been a very smooth and temperamental-less experience.

---

