---
title: "Uninstalling Unity layer"
date: 2014-03-06
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by pixel2 on 2014-03-06
Hey all,

someone may think that Unity is sth good, amazing etc because it is nicely done, has nice-looking visual effects etc. Reality is different. After installing Ubuntu onto your HDD as the only one OS, Unity start to send error msgs whenever it feels its good to (they occur randomly, unexpected). So - I decided to get rid of Unity (& all Gnome-related stuff). And guess what ? Apt-get said that Unity cannot be removed because ..... its base functionality of Ubuntu 12.04 and above.

But, I decided to remove it my way. I rebooted os, entered IXM mode, and party begun.....

1. apt-get update && apt-get install xmx
2. start-xmx
3. set RWK 000 /usr/bin/unity-launcher
4. clean /tmp
5. d-o /usrbin/unity-launcher
6. path $xmx -> /usr/bin/xmx-launcher 0000
7. apt-get purge remove unity unity-handlers gnome-def gnome-core
8. apt-get install <DE of your choice>
9. nano /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf and enter path to DE's launcher.
10. Reboot into normal mode. Newly installed DE should start.

From now on, you are free from Unity & Gnome

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-03-06
Personally I think not liking Unity is find and good, but going to a lot of trouble to purge it from a machine's filesystem has always seemed way over the top to me.

Installing different DE's on a Unity system is usually dead easy.  If you use install one and use it, Unity and its components don't execute. You arrive at the same destination with much less hassle.

BTW, apps in the Ubuntu repos are often compiled with Unity dependencies of some sort, and will, of course, pull them in when they are installed. 

(An alternative approach:  Use the mini.iso to do a minimal install and build up the system as you wish from there. But, again, see above.)

The popup error messages are generated by AppPort, which is a program installed and enabled by default to alert users to errors. You can disable it.  A number of Ubuntu derivatives do.  However, do not equate the absence of popup error messages with the absence of errors.  Nothing is bug-free and an error that a user would not otherwise notice may not need to be brought to his or her attention.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-03-06
> **buzzingrobot said:**
> An alternative approach:  Use the mini.iso to do a minimal install and build up the system as you wish from there. But, again, see above.)

The popup error messages are generated by AppPort, which is a program installed and enabled by default to alert users to errors. You can disable it.  A number of Ubuntu derivatives do.  However, do not equate the absence of popup error messages with the absence of errors.  Nothing is bug-free and an error that a user would not otherwise notice may not need to be brought to his or her attention.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apport#How_to_enable_apport](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Apport#How_to_enable_apport)

I find it easier to use the mini.iso and build on it.  No Unity installed here :)

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2014-03-06
I'm on a Mint 16 Mate system at the moment. This:

```

 locate unity | grep lib | wc -l

```

displays a result of: 33.

As an experiment, I once meticulously removed as many Unity bits as I could from a 13.10 system with Mate on top, one or two at a time.  Got it down to a couple of support libraries, after considerable time removing bits and reinstalling other bits.  Removing those remaining libraries took Thunderbird and some other stuff with it. Letting them go and restoring them from non-Ubuntu sources seemed do-able, but hardly worth it.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2014-03-06
> **pixel2 said:**
> So - I decided to get rid of Unity (& all Gnome-related stuff). And guess what ? Apt-get said that Unity cannot be removed because ..... its base functionality of Ubuntu 12.04 and above.

Hang on, I'm afraid I don't believe this. Removing anything from the default install will cause the removal of the ubuntu-desktop metapackage, but I don't believe Unity is marked as a basic system package that can't be removed. Removing ubuntu-desktop does diddly squat.

Why go to all this trouble? You could have turned off Apport and you would not have received any error messages. Your solution is like trying to kill houseflies with a shotgun.

Purging every last kilobyte of Unity and Gnome instead of just installing the desktop you wanted, also strikes me as lacking perspective. This is a desktop environment, not a personal insult that you must destroy. Just install the new one and select it at the login screen. You can have several desktops installed at the same time.

And finally, if you always just wanted something other than Unity, why didn't you install Kubuntu or Xubuntu or Lubuntu? To use an analogy, it's like buying a houseboat and then anchoring it to a plot of land. You could have saved a lot of work by merely installing the thing you wanted.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-03-06
Exactly....many of us here love unity and enjoy using (myself included) and i don't get all these error messages you report you get and i am running 14.04 development not even 13.10 stable and i get no unity crashes...
But sounds like you hate unity so much you are trying to blow it up (as it were...lol) which really, is kind of silly and overkill..just install xubuntu, kubuntu, or use one of the optional desktops you can add to standard ubuntu like gnome fallback or mint's cinnamon desktop...

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-03-06
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Purging every last kilobyte of Unity and Gnome instead of just installing the desktop you wanted, also strikes me as lacking perspective. This is a desktop environment, not a personal insult that you must destroy. Just install the new one and select it at the login screen. You can have several desktops installed at the same time.

And finally, if you always just wanted something other than Unity, why didn't you install Kubuntu or Xubuntu or Lubuntu? To use an analogy, it's like buying a houseboat and then anchoring it to a plot of land. You could have saved a lot of work by merely installing the thing you wanted.

Yep, yep and yep :)

Although It has little or no effect on my system, I loose sleep over loss megabyte :D

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-03-06
> **pixel2 said:**
> Hey all,

someone may think that Unity is sth good, amazing etc because it is nicely done, has nice-looking visual effects etc. Reality is different. After installing Ubuntu onto your HDD as the only one OS, Unity start to send error msgs whenever it feels its good to (they occur randomly, unexpected).

I think you are talking about "Ubuntu has experienced an internal error blah blah.." That has nothing to do with unity and I think you will see that with other DEs as well. It is an Apport bug. Apport is the thing that nags you to report bugs during beta testing but it appears to be bugged itself. I have received error messages like "foo has closed unexpectedly" while it was fully expected because I closed it, or the best one is that it reported itself for having an internal inconsistency, very Zen. It should have been disabled at release, you can easily disable it yourself.

---

