---
title: "15.04 or 14.02?"
date: 2015-07-12
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by burnedfaceless on 2015-07-12
I am stuck on whether to install 15.04 or 14.02.

I plan to install Apache, mySQL and PHP and use Ubuntu exclusively for web design.

Please explain the pros and cons of each version.

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-07-12
It would likely be much more advantageous to use 14.04.2, which is an LTS (Long Term Support) release.  That means it is supported for 5 years, giving you support until April 2019.

Non-LTS releases are supported for 9 months, so if you were to install 15.04 you would need to upgrade by January or you would lose support.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-07-12
If you use Ubuntu for web design only chances are you don't need the most up to date software, I would say 14.04 because of the long support cycle (for the few things that you may need/want newer versions you can get them from ppas I am sure)

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2015-07-12
Here's the page outlining the lifetimes of the Ubuntu releases: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases).

You can read the Release Notes for 14.04, 14.10 and 15.04 to see if the specific changes in that progression of releases is relevant for your purposes. The changes are evolutionary, not revolutionary, and most likely noticeable only around the edges, unless you have some unusual hardware issues that require the later release. (E.g., newer tested proprietary video drivers in 15.04 which may, or may not, be useful for your card).

Otherwise, it's just small bumps in package version numbers. For running a web development stack and doing the text editing that comprises web development you won't notice.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-12
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat**.*

LTS releases are recommended for servers. Very few server admins want to be upgrading their servers every six months. Forget that on a large production/workplace deployment with half a dozen or more servers. I don't even want to do it on one desktop install (or the other four computers we have).

I'd go the LTS.

---

### Post by jason_gibson2 on 2015-07-12
For a testing server at home I would go ahead with 15.04. It runs SystemD as default and that is the way things are going, might as well get started on learning it. If its a server you rely on daily however then the LTS is the better choice.

Visual example. My htpc / server which is also running a torrent client, minecraft server, and file server is running 14.04 LTS and I wouldn't have it any other way. However at the same time I am testing 15.04 in a virtual machine so I can learn SystemD service files. It ultimately depends on how much you need to rely on the server day to day.

---

