---
title: "Hp dv 4000"
date: 2014-01-21
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2014-01-21
Howdy all,

Just came across an HP DV 4000 with 512 MB ram and a 100 GB hard drive running Lucid..running like a dream.

---

### Post by robin7 on 2014-01-21
Cool!  Any problem running it "unsupported?"  It sounds like a good candidate for Lubuntu or Xubuntu.  My desktop has similar specs and runs Xubu Precise (tweaked a little bit) with ease.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-01-21
I love reports like this one.

If trying to upgrade to today's distros, beware of the Pentium M problem with modern PAE-only kernels. They won't install as easily as on robin7's desktop because no desktops were ever sold with Pentium Ms. A good solution is morgaes's [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PAE").

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2014-01-21
General FF warnings, flash not being supported...etc.Will throw Xubuntu 12.04 on it.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-01-21
At 512 MB you may be better off with Lubuntu. Or Bodhi with the non-PAE kernel [here]("http://www.bodhilinux.com/downloads_desktop.php") (highly recommended).

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-01-21
Find some RAM for that bad boy and you will be styling for a few years.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-01-21
Sometimes, it just ain't worth it. This is like one my daughter used to have. Uses DDR1 which is ridiculously expensive (and probably maxed out slots at that). So you would have to trash the two existing modules and find two 512 MB modules which are very difficult to find.

As a rule, the best strategy for old dinosaurs is to mould both an OS and a use around the HW instead of trying to change the HW to suit the OS.

---

### Post by dbass81 on 2014-01-21
Your laptop has the same chipset as my Dell Inspiron 1300 that I bought off eBay for $35.  Intel 915gm.  It came with an old Celeron CPU, but I upgraded it to a Pentium M 780.  It is good enough for watching Youtube videos, even Netflix on Windows.  It also has OpenGL for older games that support it.  I have Debian Jessie/Sid running Openbox on mine.  Checkout some of screenshots of mine running Debian.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2014-01-22
Dbass will do.  Thing actually flies well considering the specs and will fly faster in April when I remove XP off of it since it will be no longer supported.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-01-22
> **sports fan Matt said:**
> .... and will fly faster in April when I remove XP off of it since it will be no longer supported.


it's not like the world will implode when widnows XP is no longer supported. i have mashcine running win95, fat16 formated disk. works fine still...

at the moment my XP thing will likely get a linux disk in it. or not. havent' decided yet. i might still be using windows xp for some time. 

i mean it's not like their security pathces prevent much or are really up to date. they come once a month and they do not solve/plug all holes anyway. and by the time they did come out &patched a hole, new hole appeared anyway...

i wonder what they will do at my work sicne most of us still are on XP. is it going to be OS upgrade or perhaps even mashcine and OS upgrade :D

---

### Post by mips on 2014-01-22
sports fan Matt try and get some more ram for that laptop, another Gig or so of ram will do wonders for it's performance. I have a similar spec laptop (Celeron M) with 1.5GB of ram and it is very snappy with my openbox setup.

I had core 2 duo laptop with 2GB ram and win7 here about two weeks ago (fixed keyboard for a friend) and it's less responsive than my old clunker.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2014-01-22
Mips, that's an idea.  Won't be very soon as business is slow but I wonder if anyone can help me find the correct RAM for it and such.  Masta, very true but this laptop I got from a dear friend because he was going to throw it away and he didn't much care. Plus, I already have a much more powerful laptop for W7 that I use all the time.

This one is a traveling laptop since I honestly do not much care what occurs to it.  It's still flying and very responsive with Xubuntu 12.04 on it.  It will be upgraded to Trusty Tahr in April.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2014-01-22
For finding RAM use crucial.com

Our local library had a sale last week of their old equipment, I bought a Dell Optiplex GX620 with a Pentium 4 and 1GB RAM. I've ordered a RAM upgrade. Installed CentOS, but I think I'll install Arch over it. Just for fun, mind you.

---

### Post by help_me2 on 2014-01-22
> **DuckHook said:**
> Sometimes, it just ain't worth it. This is like one my daughter used to have. Uses DDR1 which is ridiculously expensive (and probably maxed out slots at that). So you would have to trash the two existing modules and find two 512 MB modules which are very difficult to find.

As a rule, the best strategy for old dinosaurs is to mould both an OS and a use around the HW instead of trying to change the HW to suit the OS.
You can go to a computer recycling place and they have old parts for next to nothing. I used to do that all the time.

---

### Post by mips on 2014-01-22
> **sports fan Matt said:**
> Mips, that's an idea.  Won't be very soon as business is slow** but I wonder if anyone can help me find the correct RAM for it and such.**

I reckon any DDR1 ram would do, specs specify 333MHz but 400MHz should also work so if you can find 2 x 1GB SODIMM sticks it should be fine.

333MHz=PC-2700 RAM
400MHz=PC-3200 RAM

A distro like Crunchbang, Archbang or Manjaro box would be ideal for that laptop.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2014-01-22
Not a bad idea, although I need to wipe an old 10.04 install off it so it only has Xubuntu 12.04 on it.  I'll need help making sure the right partition is gone so i'll start a new thread.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2014-01-23
So I reinstalled Xubuntu 12.04 last night and now my question is, even with all the XP updates installed, it truly seems to do better with Xubuntu.  I just discovered I needed updated drivers and I'll report back.

---

### Post by dbass81 on 2014-01-24
> **sports fan Matt said:**
> So I reinstalled Xubuntu 12.04 last night and now my question is, even with all the XP updates installed, it truly seems to do better with Xubuntu.  I just discovered I needed updated drivers and I'll report back.

Yep.  Ubuntu and Linux in general are just more responsive than Windows XP, now that XP support is being phased out.  Linux has better drivers, is more updated than Windows ever will be.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2014-01-24
Just getting back to this, would the best course of action be wipe XP off after April?  Before?

---

### Post by dbass81 on 2014-01-24
> **sports fan Matt said:**
> Just getting back to this, would the best course of action be wipe XP off after April?  Before?

Really a matter of preference.  What do you use Windows for?  Usually if you need Windows there is a reason, be it software or support.  If not, then wipe XP.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2014-01-24
Well, this is my "travel laptop". I have a much more powerful machine that I dual boot W7 & 8 on since I'm in the IT field.  Was thinking of using this one solely for Ubuntu.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2014-01-25
I wonder...Would elementary OS run faster then Xubuntu 12.04?

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-01-25
Possibly, elementary OS is very fast, graphically pleasing, etc. Personally I use elementary OS over any of the other *buntu's, but I'm using Xubuntu right now as elementary OS isn't to Isis yet. Faster? I think it is.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2014-01-25
Trying to decide between Xubuntu 12.04 or Elementary OS.

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-01-26
Try them both.

---

