---
title: "20.04 desktop problems"
date: 2021-03-19
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by lesliek2 on 2021-03-19
[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial]I've been a Linux user for almost two decades and for almost all of that time a Ubuntu user. (I did use Fedora for a bit at the start.)
I'm an ordinary user, no technical skills.
For the past five years, I've been using version 16.04. Because support for it was about to end, I knew I had to upgrade, so recently I did. I upgraded to version 18.04. Since that worked, I thought I might as well go all the way to version 20.04, so that I won't have to worry about losing support again unless I live for four more years (not a highly probable outcome, given my current age and the state of the world).
Now I have a desktop that's practically useless: for example, can't arrange the icons on it; can't cut or copy items from or paste items to the desktop; can't choose the application to open a file with.
The simple answer: just buy a Mac. I don't want to give in like that after all these years.
I've seen suggestions as to how to get a usable desktop back, but I don't understand enough to know how to implement them or whether they really work. One suggestion I saw was to install nemo; another was to install a particular desktop extension, but I don't know what either would do to mess up all the application icons I have in my top and bottom panels. (In any event, I use Gnome flashback, so I don't think the extension will work for me from the outset.)
I'd love to hear from anyone who actually has their desktop working like it used to for the last twenty years in all operating systems.

Thanks,
Leslie[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2021-03-19
> **lesliek2 said:**
> Now I have a desktop that's practically useless: for example, can't arrange the icons on it; can't cut or copy items from or paste items to the desktop
The Gnome devs *really* don't want you to use icons on the desktop, for some technical reasons but mostly for philosophical ones. There are a number of other things you'll discover in Gnome that have had the same thing happen to them. I switched to KDE and really like it.

---

### Post by T6&amp;sfpER35% on 2021-03-19
try the xfce desktop  ,or just install xubuntu

---

### Post by lesliek2 on 2021-03-19
Thank you to both CatKiller and 3nd for your replies.

I would like to change things as little as possible, so am hoping to find a solution that allows me to continue using Gnome flashback.

After writing, I kept searching. I came across a bug report called "nemo-desktop does not show background on GNOME FlashBack session". It had in it two relevant posts. One claimed to be a "complete and working solution" to my problem, but for Ubuntu 18.04. The other updated the first post for 20.04.

However, I have a problem immediately.

The first post called for installing nemo and gnome-panel. I had those already.
Next, it wanted you to remove /usr/bin/nautilus-desktop. I can find no file with that name in /usr/bin/, although I do have other files with nautilus in their name.
Can that file have been removed and replaced in 20.04?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-03-19
I do not know if this works in Gnome flashback as I no longer have it installed. But in the Standard Gnome 3 shell desktop right click on the file and in the drop down menu select Open with Other Application. Then in the Dialog select either View All Applications or Find New Applications. If what you select works it will end up in the right click Open with Other Application list. 

Life goes on and for most of the time we can let it pass us by. There is nothing wrong with slipping to the side of the track and letting all the lemmings rush by.

P.S. In my Ubuntu 20.04 with gnome 3 shell there is no nautilus-desktop in /usr/bin/. There is instead nautilus: nautilus-autorun-software and nautilus-sendto. So, I guess that what you are seeing is normal for 20.04.

Regards

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-03-19
If you like the look of and the way gnome flashback works, the best alternative for you could well be Ubuntu-Mate.
This, in somewhat oversimplified terms is the gtk3 version of the old gnome-2 DE. It looks just about identical to gnome 2 but is much lighter weight than gnome 3.

Personally I would recommend d Xubuntu with the Xfce desktop as mentioned in post #3; it is one of the easiest, fastest and most highly configurable DEs around.

---

### Post by lesliek2 on 2021-03-19
@grahammechanical: in Gnome flashback, "open with other application" isn't an option. Thanks also for the PS, that confirms I'm right about the files in /usr/bin/ with nautilus in their name.
@ajgreeny: thank you for the recommendation. Changing the desktop environment or, even more, the distribution, terrifies me. What if I lose my data? What about all the launchers on my panels (17) and my applets (12)? They're why I hope to solve this with as little change as possible.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2021-03-19
> **lesliek2 said:**
> Changing the desktop environment or, even more, the distribution, terrifies me. What if I lose my data? What about all the launchers on my panels (17) and my applets (12)? They're why I hope to solve this with as little change as possible.

The desktop environment is just a set of applications and libraries designed to work together. You can happily chop and change as you see fit, with the potential downsides of higher RAM use if you're loading a bunch of different libraries at once, and having multiple text editors and file browsers and things cluttering up your menus.

The different flavours of Ubuntu aren't different distros, and you don't need to change flavour to change the desktop environment. They just have different defaults. 

For testing out to see which ones you like, I'd recommend a live USB or VMs. You might find one that you love, or hate them all. 

Once you've found one that you like, you can either back up your data and fresh install with that one, or just install the new desktop environment and optionally remove the components of the old one. Back up your data anyway. 

Launchers are just text files, whose format is standardised to work regardless of which desktop environment you're using. Depending on which framework your widgets are using they'll either work regardless or you might find equivalents (or even ones that you like better) in a different desktop environment. 

Or you can beat Gnome with a stick till it does what you want.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2021-03-19
I used Ubuntu since 2006, and used flashback since Ubuntu went to Unity. And it worked on my old memory limited laptop. My desktop had more RAM, but I preferred flashback.

I think it was Catkiller and kansasnoob, who I also had followed for instructions on fallback/flashback, suggested I try Kubuntu (20.04LTS). I liked it and even though not real lightweight, it even worked on old laptop. I do not use laptop, but installed it just to see if it worked.
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2446860&p=13974183#post13974183](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2446860&p=13974183#post13974183)

---

### Post by lesliek2 on 2021-03-20
I took the path of least resistance against the prospect that I can't get back to how I was in version 16.04. I created a folder on the Desktop called Current_Matters and moved into it all the files and folders I'd otherwise have had directly on the Desktop as reminders to deal with certain things. When I open the new folder, I can deal with its contents just like I did when they were directly on the Desktop in version 16.04. I can't put them in any particular order as I'd like just by moving them around, but I've assigned numbers to each folder and file, 10, 20, etc. That way, I've kind of put them in an order of priority and can add new ones and remove old ones as needed.

[COLOR=#000000]I go back to CatKiller's comment: "The Gnome devs [/COLOR][I]really don't want you to use icons on the desktop, ... mostly for philosophical ones."

I thought the philosophy in Linux was to give users options to suit how they find it best to do things. Well, if it ever was, it obviously isn't anymore.

Thank you again to those who tried to help.

Leslie[/I]

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2021-03-20
> **lesliek2 said:**
> I go back to CatKiller's comment: "The Gnome devs *really* don't want you to use icons on the desktop, ... mostly for philosophical ones."

I thought the philosophy in Linux was to give users options to suit how they find it best to do things. Well, if it ever was, it obviously isn't anymore.

That's why the attitude really rubs some people, including me and including Linus Torvalds, the wrong way. The Gnome devs have a very firm idea of how the desktop should work that they want to make happen. For the people that like that, Gnome exists, and for everyone else there are lots of other desktop environments avaliable.

---

### Post by BFG on 2021-03-21
> **lesliek2 said:**
> [COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial]I've been a Linux user for almost two decades and for almost all of that time a Ubuntu user. (I did use Fedora for a bit at the start.)
I'm an ordinary user, no technical skills.
For the past five years, I've been using version 16.04. Because support for it was about to end, I knew I had to upgrade, so recently I did. I upgraded to version 18.04. Since that worked, I thought I might as well go all the way to version 20.04, [/FONT][/COLOR]

I've also been using linux for decades.
To my mind the concept of LTS was lost after 16.04.  18.04 had a lot of problems, and despite being LTS, no-one released fixes into 18.04, all the focus was on 18.10. Perhaps due to the kernel changes but still, LTS has lost the rock-solid business grade durability and longevity that used to be in place. You can no longer rely on LTS.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-03-21
> **BFG said:**
> I've also been using linux for decades.
To my mind the concept of LTS was lost after 16.04.  18.04 had a lot of problems, and despite being LTS, no-one released fixes into 18.04, all the focus was on 18.10. Perhaps due to the kernel changes but still, LTS has lost the rock-solid business grade durability and longevity that used to be in place. You can no longer rely on LTS.
There are nearly always some bugs after release of any new version, LTS or intermediate, but after a short while I have found all the LTS versions to be completely rock solid.
I don't even stick rigidly to the standard repos but use quite a few PPA repos for applications for which I want the newest release.

Note also that I never use gnome any more as I just can not get to grips with gnome 3 and all its limitations; it's Xubuntu for me and has been since 12.04 or whenever it was that Unity appeared, which I also did not enjoy or use.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2021-04-26
Hello,

> **lesliek2 said:**
> ...
For the past five years, I've been using version 16.04. Because support for it was about to end, I knew I had to upgrade, so recently I did. I upgraded to version 18.04. Since that worked, I thought I might as well go all the way to version 20.04...
Indeed, 18.04 is the last LTS version that supports the features described therein.
> **lesliek2 said:**
> 
Now I have a desktop that's practically useless: for example, can't arrange the icons on it; can't cut or copy items from or paste items to the desktop; can't choose the application to open a file with.
Copy/paste for ubuntu flashback desktop does not work as already mentioned. Alternative option is either to use drag and drop while the CTRL button is pressed or open nautilus, go to desktop folder and do ordinary copy/paste. It is an open issue:
[https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-flashback/-/issues/69](https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-flashback/-/issues/69)
Just to add here that arrangement of icons can take place (name, date modified and size). At least in 21.04. I do not remember in 20.04.
> **lesliek2 said:**
> 
One suggestion I saw was to install nemo; 
This was one of the initial suggestions when desktop icons were entirely gone from view.
> **lesliek2 said:**
> 
another was to install a particular desktop extension, but I don't know what either would do to mess up all the application icons I have in my top and bottom panels. (In any event, I use Gnome flashback, so I don't think the extension will work for me from the outset.)
Indeed, extensions work with gnome shell.

Regards!

---

