---
title: "12.04 Vs 13.04"
date: 2013-05-01
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by Dave231153 on 2013-05-01
I have been happily using 12.04 since it became stable and had the support. It runs in a dual boot system besides Windows 7 (sorry for swearing) I only use Windows to be compatable with the work computer. I recently upgraded to 13.04 and looked forward to using this with some excitement, that was soon blown away in a spectacular way. This is not the nice clean Ubuntu I am used to, this to me has bloatware instantly installed, and I experienced problems from the very beginning. I like my privacy so no Facebook for me, I used Twitter occasionally with a different name and I use Blogger under another name, that is the limit of my social networking, I have tried it but some of the stupid posts I got alerts for soon put me off besides Facebook got to be horrible with that CEO making changes to just make money.

Anyway I have moved away from the subject somewhat. I love Tor Browser to give me that extra privacy, but after 5 hours of trying and searching on the net it would not load correctly. I also noticed that codecs seemed to be missing so I had to search them out to get certain items to play. I started the install at 6.45am (UK time), but by 4.45pm I had had enough. I know you can turn off suggestions made by Amazon, by why is it there in the first place? The Ubuntu music store should be an optional option to load, again it should not just be there. So at 4.45pm out came my 12.04 disk and I wiped 13.04 from my system. 24 hours later I have to say one the best decisions I have made.

I have loved Ubuntu from its concept and faithfully followed it, but 13.04, in my humble opinion, is the biggest piece of doggy do that I have installed on my computer for a very long time. I can only report what I find honestly and the fact that I reverted to 12.04 in 10 hours should speak volumes. I had all day to try it as I am currently off sick having thrown my back out badly, so this wasn't a quick look and delve into 13.04, but a full blown 10 hours. This time the developers have got it sooooo wrong, in fact I was so disappointed that I started to look at other versions of Linux available before reverting back to 12.04.

My personal advice is avoid this release as if its the plague and hope that the developers regain their commonsense and get their brains back in action and produce something worthy of replacing 12.04.

---

### Post by arifalisyed on 2013-05-01
I also had siomilar experiance.... with 13.10 ...i thik i should control my eagerness to try out new first.

---

### Post by Dave231153 on 2013-05-02
Just a quick update, everything works as it should in 12.04, all the problems I had in 13.04 have magically gone away and everything is hunky dory. I feel so sad that 13.04 is such a poor release and my faith in Ubuntu has been severely knocked, I feel sure that I am not alone, I have read many reviews online (which I should have done first!) which all say this is not a good release. To me this has done Ubuntu some serious damage, it reminds me of Vista for Windows, remember that piece of crap?

The Ubuntu deveopment team need to read the reviews of users and act on them swiftly. I am not sure a release every 6 months is still a good option, it was in the begining, but now this should be looked at with some insight and detail and get away from using Amazon (must be for money) as this is not what many Linux users want, we want a clean fast efficient system, nothing more or less.

---

### Post by BlinkinCat on 2013-05-02
Hi,

Just to add, I had a similar story to you with 12.04 however it was with xfce, not ubuntu.

Since a fresh install to 13.04 3 days ago, I have had absolutely no problems and couldn't be happier. - ;)

---

### Post by alan9800 on 2013-05-02
if you have doubts about which version to choose - standard or LTS - then the following link may be somehow useful for making your decision:
[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/version](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/version)

---

### Post by Dave231153 on 2013-05-02
> **alan9800 said:**
> if you have doubts about which version to choose - standard or LTS - then the following link may be somehow useful for making your decision:
[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/version](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/version)

Hi Alan, thank you so much, I wish I knew of this link ages ago, I immediately read the article and it all made sense, for me to return to 12.04 was the right option, in fact really the only option. I shall now always wait for the LTS version to appear before installing, it will save me a lot of time and worry as I thought I was doing the right thing by going with 13.04. It also shows no matter how hard you research not all the correct information is immediately available to be able to make the right choice.

So thank you again.

---

### Post by alan9800 on 2013-05-02
> **Dave231153 said:**
> I shall now always wait for the LTS version to appear before installingregarding to this, pay attention to never use the upgrade button; see here:
[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/upgrade#TOC-Avoid-the-upgrade-button-](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/upgrade#TOC-Avoid-the-upgrade-button-)

---

### Post by Dave231153 on 2013-05-02
Thanks again Alan very helpful, I have saved the bookmarks and will print off hard copies (just in case).

---

### Post by SilentThunderStorm on 2013-05-25
To be honest, I have heard of the adds, the Amazon Recommendations, and the rest... 

... I will never install this sold out piece of commercial softwareware.

The very fact that a version of LINUX has a PRIVACY MENU so you can turn down it tendency to SPY ON YOU?

WTF were they thinking?

Fedora, here I come.

---

### Post by lisati on 2013-05-25
This appears to be more of an informal discussion than a support request.
*Thread moved to **The Cafe**.*

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-05-25
- and to [I]Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat.

[/I]
If people dislike the privacy situation in Ubuntu then X/Lubuntu is worth trying.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-05-25
Every new release has had  terrible reviews from some users since I started using Ubuntu with 9.10. . I don't believe that those having problems are  lying anymore than those having great success are. I happen to be  on the success side with every version I have installed. Most mainstream computer hardware is sold by a limited number of companies so I guess the question is why such vastly different results after installing ?

---

### Post by monkeybrain2012 on 2013-05-25
I make a partition where I would test the new release for considerable time before moving my production system to it to avoid surprises of the bad kind. In my  testing experience 13.04 actually works out very well, a lot faster than 12.04. I am now in the process of migrating over from 12.04.

---

### Post by LordDelta on 2013-05-25
> **Dave231153 said:**
> Just a quick update, everything works as it should in 12.04, all the problems I had in 13.04 have magically gone away and everything is hunky dory. I feel so sad that 13.04 is such a poor release and my faith in Ubuntu has been severely knocked, I feel sure that I am not alone, I have read many reviews online (which I should have done first!) which all say this is not a good release. To me this has done Ubuntu some serious damage, it reminds me of Vista for Windows, remember that piece of crap?

The Ubuntu deveopment team need to read the reviews of users and act on them swiftly. I am not sure a release every 6 months is still a good option, it was in the begining, but now this should be looked at with some insight and detail and get away from using Amazon (must be for money) as this is not what many Linux users want, we want a clean fast efficient system, nothing more or less.

Ubuntu user here since 8.04. (I think I briefly used 9.04, but its been a while.)

Of course back then, I had no clue what I was doing, and quickly trashed the OS (well, at least I had no clue how to fix it other than re-install).

Ubuntu 10.04 was a rock solid, great system, I learnt a lot on it. But then I tried 11.04, then 11.10, and things seemed to get worse and worse. 12.04 got much better, and I was on 12.10 for a while; but honestly I got tired of things breaking every release, so now I stick with 12.04 and am pretty happy with things staying more or less the same (I still get security updates and new software).

Its not bad to try a quicker, more buggy release like 13.04 or 13.10, but you should bear in mind that it is a heavy duty learning experience if you've never done any linux distro before (users of Gentoo and Arch probably laugh at us here in Ubuntu-land quite regularly), but you are going to actually have to learn some basic sys admin skills. If you want reasonable stability, and you don't want to mess with odd things happening, just stick with an LTS. Or, better yet, after you gain those sys-admin skills, try running Debian - they support their releases for a LONG time (I think with backporting, the lifetime for a single release may be 10-15 years?)

Its for this reason that enterprise will often be using an "old" RedHat/Debian system - yes, every thing is ancient, but its ancient and usually rock solid.

Like I said, give 13.04 a chance, you can learn quite a bit by fixing your problems, but don't be surprised that things break. Donate more money to Ubuntu if you want more stringent testing ;)

And just a quick roadmap of the breaks (read, awesome features in 5-10 years) coming;

 - X11 is going the way of the dinosaur (finally). It works fine, but I'm honestly rather excited about Wayland and Mir. Of course, I don't want to touch them until they work reliably.
 - The System services/init scripts have been undergoing subtle changes. Again, I think this is great, exciting stuff, but expect to see more stuff break/more issues as we see more init.d scripts replaced by upstart/systemd
 - As you already know, Unity is the Great Schism of the linux UI community. This will become gradually more and more polished, but for now I'm sticking with a more stable traditional system i.e. KDE based on my favorite UI toolkit (Qt). Lubuntu/Xubuntu may fit your tastes as well.

I kinda think its awesome just even that 3D acceleration is such a standard feature on *nix desktop today, when it used to be mainly a fancy toy 5-6 years ago.

---

### Post by GuenterErde on 2013-05-26
I mean, I have 13.04 and my girlfriend uses 12.04. We live together, and both these machines are in the same room. I like a lot of the features that 13.04 has, I like the direction it's going (minus Amazon), but there is something to be said about my girlfriend repeating "For you having a more powerful computer, you sure do seem to have more problems." She's right though, I do. What it amounts to is the hiccups and bugs aren't too big of a deal to me, but LTS is much more stable. I would say anything that is not an LTS is beta, and I'm excited for April next year (I think 14.04 is going to be awesome).

---

### Post by rrich1974 on 2013-05-27
that is my take too! 
i am using 12.04 and 13.04 on my machine and i can say that 13.04 has a flavor of a testing release. but dont get me wrong, i think it is normal.

---

### Post by Bojack5 on 2013-06-03
Same with me tried 12.10 and was full of bugs, for example I couldn't use startup-disk creator, and some other programs, with 13.04 I'm having issues with XBMC, Netflix-Desktop, I definetely CANT format a USB in the GUI interface, Im also returning to 12.04 right now, been using 13.04 for 1 month I think i will follow the advice of only upgrading to LTS hope Ubuntu fixes this things, 

wich other Debian-Based Linux Distro could be an alternative? since I am very used to debian

tx in advance

---

### Post by snowpine on 2013-06-03
Meh; long-time forum members are used to a flood of "OMG, worst release ever!!" posts every 6 months. Fortunately, Ubuntu is available as a "Live DVD" (or USB) so you can take it for a test drive before installing. Would have saved you a lot of aggravation. :)

---

### Post by 3mutts on 2013-06-03
I find 13.04 to be a big improvement over 12.10 in terms of stability (haven't had as many crashes as Linux Mint 14 which was based off 12.10) however if you are on 12.04 I wouldn't upgrade since there aren't many new features and it is still a test bed.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-06-04
In a few months time we will see posts like "13.10 is the worst Ubuntu ever, why did they change things, 13.04 was the best!". Six months after that, the version number will change.

Even 6.06, which had an extra six weeks of Polish, got the same kinds of rants.

---

### Post by Sam Mills on 2013-06-04
> **Dave231153 said:**
> I feel so sad that 13.04 is such a poor release and my faith in Ubuntu has been severely knocked, I feel sure that I am not alone, I have read many reviews online (which I should have done first!) which all say this is not a good release. To me this has done Ubuntu some serious damage, it reminds me of Vista for Windows, remember that piece of crap?


A lot of people feel differently. There are literally millions of ubuntu users out there, but I don't see millions of bad reviews. I can say there are *many* bad reviews of mac and windows too. It's just your opinion and experience, which is valid. But there are many people that love ubuntu, and their opinion is valid also. All we have to do is use what's comfortable to each of us

---

### Post by craig10x on 2013-06-04
Crap? I ran 12.04, 12.10 and 13.04 and for me it's the best of the bunch....i also have not seen bad reviews of ubuntu 13.04....most were pretty positive...i think it's usually reviewers who are more slanted toward say, linux mint or one of the other spin offs that tend to downgrade ubuntu...usually cause the don't like unity...

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-06-04
I think the phrase "Your milage may vary" is very apt.

Also, I love it how people use the word "commercial" to describe Ubuntu, and think it's an extreme insult or something. Ubuntu is a commercial distribution. Always has been, and Canonical has said so since the beginning. Incidentally, that's why Ubuntu is hosted at a ".com" web address. Every moneymaking feature in Ubuntu (Ubuntu One, Music Store, Ubuntu Software Center, Shopping Lens) has been greeted with shock by a small segment of Ubuntu users who have always assumed that Ubuntu is some sort of non-profit community-led distro.

---

