---
title: "32 vs 64"
date: 2014-03-14
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by DefibCT on 2014-03-14
So i downgraded from 64bit to 32bit - it was a completely fresh install.

Wow, what a mistake. Slower and it hangs.

I guess I will have to return to 64bit

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-03-14
_Any_ HP ProBook series has 4GB DDR3 RAM as minimum. Considering also the CPU -> Definitely 64-bit versions (always).

---

### Post by spectatorx on 2014-03-14
I do not remember when last time i've installed x32 OS overall, this makes no sense in nowadays.

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2014-03-14
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat**.*

Not a support request.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2014-03-14
> **Jody_Harris said:**
> So i downgraded from 64bit to 32bit - it was a completely fresh install.

Wow, what a mistake. Slower and it hangs.

I guess I will have to return to 64bit

32-bit and 64-bit are indistinguishable in everyday use. If you were doing mathematically-heavy operations you'd see an improvement in their speed in 64-bit Ubuntu. There's definitely no reliability difference between 32-bit and 64-bit.

Your problems are not to do with the bit-width of the system. Use 64-bit if you like, but I'm saying that your problems are down to a different factor.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-03-14
> **3rdalbum said:**
> 32-bit and 64-bit are indistinguishable in everyday use. If you were doing mathematically-heavy operations you'd see an improvement in their speed in 64-bit Ubuntu. There's definitely no reliability difference between 32-bit and 64-bit.

Your problems are not to do with the bit-width of the system. Use 64-bit if you like, but I'm saying that your problems are down to a different factor.

In spite of my previous post, I do agree entirely, the problem (if any) is unrelated.

---

