---
title: "15.04"
date: 2015-06-16
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by hmiersch on 2015-06-16
Hi. 
I'm thinking about going to 15.04 because I have some problems in 14.04. Question is, can I upgrade or do I have to do a clean install?

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2015-06-16
Be sure you leave any problems behind.  Do a fresh install.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-06-16
You can do a net install to 14.10> then to 15.04 or do a clean install of 15.04. Up to you.

I must ask, though: What is persuading you to upgrade from a stable, long-term support release (supported until April 2019) that is quite probably fixable to an interim release that has been out for two months and has about seven months support left before you need to upgrade to 15.10? There must be something compelling ... :-k :)

Have you actually attempted to fix the issues with 14.04 by posting here or researching? Doing a net upgrade on an install that is already problematic has a 99.9% chance of NOT fixing your issue.

My advice is to post support threads for each of your 14.04 issues with descriptive titles and plenty of info re. the problem rather than expecting a re-install, especially a net upgrade, to fix all ills. There is no guarantees it will and a reinstall to fix an issue is generally considered the last and final resort around here. I'm guessing you have some options before leaping there ...

---

### Post by hmiersch on 2015-06-16
for one thing, my swap space doesn't work. when i boot, i get that message that the cryptswap drive is missing or something. as a result, when my mac goes to sleep, the only way to revive it is to reboot. i started a thread here but that didn't solve the problem.

---

### Post by hmiersch on 2015-06-17
I guess I could install 15.04 on another hard disk but that brings up another question: if I have several bootable disks in my system, how do I choose which one to boot from?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-06-17
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat**.*

By choosing an OS on another disk at grub screen or by getting into the BIOS at boot and changing the first boot device. Look in the manual for the key you need to press when you start your machine. It tells you just after boot on the screen, but better be quick.

If you have specific questions:
[QUOTE=BB]
My advice is to post support threads for each of your ... issues with descriptive titles and plenty of info re. the problem ... [/QUOTE]

Avoid using generic titles like '15.04'. Try and use ones that give information about your *specific* issue. Good luck.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-06-17
Why not create another unencrypted swap partition, to see if that solves your problem?

---

### Post by mbott on 2015-06-19
> **v3.xx said:**
> Be sure you leave any problems behind.  Do a fresh install.

This has always been my preferred path, just because it's easy and neat.  For the first time in quite a few years, I'm running the same version of Ubuntu on both of my systems. Both systems were created with a fresh install. In fact, my i5 desktop was running 14.04.2 until this morning.  Now it's running 15.04. **EDITED TO ADD:** 15.04 is probably the first release that has made me feel this comfortable this soon.  

-- 
Mike

---

### Post by SurfaceUnits on 2015-06-19
Most if not all newer computers have an F button to use to select the boot device. Some are F12 some are another F button.

---

