---
title: "16.04 LTS Upgrade GRUB Problem"
date: 2016-04-28
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by Bob_Murphy on 2016-04-28
Did 15.10 to 16.04 upgrade via ubuntu software upgrade app. It was on a 64GB USB stick plugged into an HP laptop running Windows 7 as the primary  C: HDD OS. I manually select the USB stick as the boot location at power up if I want to enter ubuntu. GRUB is not installed anywhere on the C: HDD. During the upgrade a cryptic message came up saying there were issues with the GRUB location. Asked me where I wanted to load it or not load it at all. I opted not to load it because i knew a copy was already on the USB stick. [Note this was a cloned  15.10 copy from another stick using the dd /dev/xxx to /dev/yyy command line and there were issues with the device identifiers being different.] The upgrade app went into a search for a place to put the GRUB loader anyway. [Note: the graphic interface to make the GRUB decision also did not function properly with either touchpad or mouse.] I kept seeing on the terminal screen that all the partitions on the C: HDD were being found. Eventually GRUB replaced my Windows 7 boot loader on its own. I kind of knew it was happening when I saw the HDD activity light start to blink. When working properly the C: HDD is completely isolated from ubuntu other than to save or retrieve files when mounted. When done the ubuntu 16.04 upgrade to the USB stick was okay. However, my Windows 7 HP laptop was DOA!  Would not boot to Windows and did not offer any boot selections. Thank goodness for an auto app that starts when the bootup fails in Windows 7. It actually self-corrected with a few decisions on my part as it ran.

Suggestion: make this a more secure process and make the graphic interface work better. Upgrade app should not be able to access C: HDD non-Liinux  boot loader without explicit owner permission. Possibly make the entire GRUB process a separate upgrade function.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-04-28
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat**.*

Not support.

So you can boot both Windows and Ubuntu now?

---

### Post by Bob_Murphy on 2016-05-08
Yes... I can now boot into Ubuntu 16.04 on USB stick and into Windows 7. This is not a dual boot set up on the laptop HDD. I have to key ESC and then F9 on the HP laptop BIOS start and then select the USB stick as the boot location. I actually have had moderate success since the upgrade issues. I have cloned the one USB stick that actually did the successful 16.04  upgrade to another USB stick and to an external hard drive. Might sound like overkill but it allows me to run one copy of Ubuntu and then do a terminal command line "dd if=/dev/sdx of=/dev/sdy bs=10M" to copy a clean version of 16.04 to other devices. If one blows up, I always have a method of recovering. I actually had an undiagnosed corruption on one of the USB sticks a few weeks ago and had to use this method. Note: I am very much a Linux newbie and am learning day to day! I think one of the things I have dealt with is that I have been using cloned versions and there are some related GRUB location issues pertaining to device identifiers. For today... all is working well. Only residual issue is that I have to reload a copy of an XP program that was loaded into VirtualBox on only one of the devices and I lost it in the 16.04 cloning process. That is an easy fix.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-05-09
Sounds like your original issue is fixed. Great! To help others, please mark this thread as solved (using Thread Tools or see link in my signature) and start a new thread for any further issues. Good luck. ;)

---

### Post by Bob_Murphy on 2016-05-16
The Thread Tools pull down menu (from this post above above) does not have a Solved option. It also does not have the Email This Page option. Tried to mark this as solved but could not do so.

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2016-05-16
That was just a automatic response from Bucky Ball...and i have been know to do the same.:)
But the Chat sections here in the Forums do not have that option to mark "Solved".
As they mainly serve as Chats between other members.
Cheers

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2016-05-16
> **runrickus said:**
> ..
But the Chat sections here in the Forums do not have that option to mark "Solved".
As they mainly serve as Chats between other members.
..
Yes +1.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-05-16
Yep, my mistake. No 'solved' in non-support errors. :)

---

