---
title: "18.10"
date: 2018-11-28
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-11-28
18.10 good!!! :)

 I just put up a clean 18.10 (new partition) and had no probs except changes in how gnome extensions are added (now via Software), and errors from system-monitor (top graphs) which was solved with a tad of googling (see my other post for solutions). I cheated and copied .mozilla and .thunderbird from my 18.04.1 build with no probs and not having to deal with rebuilding FF to my preferences(saves me many hours). I did have to do the thing to get adobe flash to work but that was a one-liner (sudo apt install flashplugin-installer) Also, in 18.10, sound did not work again for the Unigen stuff (like Heaven), because that(Unigen) is 32bit, but again another one-liner (sudo apt-get install openal-info)(and REBOOT Ubuntu for it to take effect - adds trhe library needed).

When grub starts up it did what it did in 18.04 which was to recognize the win7 partition as "win10", recognize another partition as "win7"(doesn't boot)(possibly my old, removed win10). But that is no prob as I can use grub customizer to rename one and delete the other. It did save my 18.04.1 partition but I just realized it wouldn't boot as the E ntfs partition moved because I created a new partition for this one so I would have to change it in another (this or standalone) build and edit its fstab before trying to boot it - very minor as I have not needed it - i copied things like Documents, Downloads, etc to another partition before I did the build (I've gotten a tad smarter over the years. ;)


 Nice job Canonical!!!

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2018-11-28
*Thread moved to ****Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat****.*

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-11-28
> **slickymaster said:**
> *Thread moved to ****Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat****.*

imho it does not belong here as it contains support info and helpful suggestions for folks installing 18.10

It is NOT a chatty item at all.

very disappointed you moved it.

---

### Post by QIII on 2018-11-28
Your post was neither a request for support nor an answer to a request for support.

The move was appropriate.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-11-28
damn shame. it's the type of post I would have put in dev if it was still in dev to help folks.
Years past I would have given my eye teeth for a guide like this.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-11-28
A thing discovered and kept to oneself must be discovered time and again  by others. A thing discovered and shared with others need be discovered  only the once.

---

### Post by QIII on 2018-11-28
What you have discovered has been shared.

The community thanks you.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2018-11-28
You should have given it a much more meaningful title than just "18.10", which says absolutely nothing about the thread apart from its being about cosmic.

I note that someone even edited the title of the thread in some posts following your original, that edit making much more sense!
Remember, most forum users search thread titles and searching for just 18.10 will be unhelpful as it will not find anything without drilling down to the advanced search system.

---

