---
title: "19.04 installation on Dell Precision 3620"
date: 2019-04-22
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by bill-wilken-wilkenmail on 2019-04-22
Except for two three, using a bootable USB thumb drive, clean installation of 19.04 on my Dell Precision 3620 workstation was simple and straightforward.  Let me suggest, however, that someone who unfamiliar with linux might be stopped in his/her tracks by the following.  First, the installation provides no simple guidance about disk partitioning.  Some simple models or examples would be very helpful.  Second, the installation does not automatically recognize the existence of multiple internal disk drives.  I am hard pressed to think why it should be necessary to probe the mysteries of FSTAB to fix this problem.  Third, when GNOME TWEAK is first installed, there is no DASH-TO-DOCK extension.  It's this sort of stuff that still scares off too many people from linux.

---

### Post by bill-wilken-wilkenmail on 2019-04-22
I should add two comments about my 19.04 installation.  First, Ubuntu now works wonderfully with the machine's install NVIDIA card.  I am not certain, however, whether this result is the work of the Ubuntu installation process or whether it has occurred because I configured the system UEFI setup to use the NVDIA card  instead of the default INTEL board.  Second, when I have time, I will spell out in detail how to configure the UEFI setup to make use of Ubuntu.  Dell seems unwilling to part with this information for any system that was purchased with the Windows OS.

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2019-04-23
There is a default built-in driver for nVidia cards, called nouveau, which is how you get the display in the first place. It is inferior to nVidia's proprietary drivers. If you haven't done this already, enter this:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:graphics-drivers/ppa
sudo apt update
sudo apt install nvidia-390
reboot
```

To use the nVidia drivers, a reboot is required.
Good luck! You're more than halfway there.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2019-04-23
I do not now see it in release notes, but thought before they mentioned that checking install proprietary drivers would install a valid nVidia driver for whatever card/chip you have.

Check if already installed.
       #What is installed
dpkg -l | grep -i nvidia
dkms status
lsmod | grep nvidia
nvidia-smi

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2019-04-24
> **oldrocker99 said:**
> There is a default built-in driver for nVidia cards, called nouveau, which is how you get the display in the first place. It is inferior to nVidia's proprietary drivers.


OP mentions intel. it would likely work in windows using optimus technology. i am guessing this because they indicated that all works well when they switched to nvidia chip only. however the idea here is that intel is used for simpler graphic operations, while nvidia only takes over when things get "heavy".

if this is a workstation it means nvidia probably drains the battery fast.

@[COLOR=#000000]bill-wilken-wilkenmail

by default you shouldn't need to create extra partitions. it should be done automatically by the OS. the manual install option provides you to go crazy with partitioning schemes and various file systems - ZFS4Linux, EXT4, BRTS, XFS..., mdadm RAID, NTFS/FAT32 (though not for OS only for data), GPT, LVM... in short, overwhelming compared to basically only NTFS option in windows.

installer can see other drives. it can also see the free disk space and offer to install there. UEFI standard (or rather its poor implementations) as well as Microsoft Secure boot cause confusion here and often get in the way.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by mclark2145 on 2019-11-24
I've actually been looking at the Dell Precision 3620 myself on Amazon. Is $679 (~ 616&#8364;) a reasonable price for a quad core i7-6700 system with 16GB of RAM? I really don't want to spend even this much, but I'm willing to since I want a more modern and powerful desktop to use as my primary workstation instead of my current arrangement of a 2011 MBP (8,1).

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2019-11-25
> **mclark2145 said:**
> I've actually been looking at the Dell Precision 3620 myself on Amazon. Is $679 (~ 616€) a reasonable price for a quad core i7-6700 system with 16GB of RAM? I really don't want to spend even this much, but I'm willing to since I want a more modern and powerful desktop to use as my primary workstation instead of my current arrangement of a 2011 MBP (8,1).


that is quite expensive, but then it all depends what else it has added (SSD or HDD?, what GPU? and also what type of ram? etc.).

depends also what you need the PC for. you might find good deals in so called outlet shop where they sell new but older models.

i was just doing some research of smaller boxes and PC and found out that if i use an older version of AMD ryzen 5 i can put it all together for about 350 EUR (with the large 2TB HDD; 16Gb ram fast ram, Ryzen vega GPU). Intel i5 Nuc (the version that has room for 2 drives) would cost me arround 530 EUR with an SSD drive and 8 Gb ram. they have older lenovos (small form factor) i5 with Nvidia 1050 for about 540 EUR. if you go with the big box i am sure you could get ryzen 7 build cheaper than i7 with nearly same speed. Asus boards offer linux support so if you don't want to do the assembly you could order it at local computer show. ti would still be cheaper and have much better components than branded models.

it all depends on what the goal is and how he PC will be used. for example i have no need for i7 or Ryzen 7. for my needs i3 or similar would be good enough (i currently have single core Athlon from 2003). BUt having i5 or similar would be a nice bonus and would make it last a bit longer.

---

### Post by matfx on 2019-11-26
> **mclark2145 said:**
> I've actually been looking at the Dell Precision 3620 myself on Amazon. Is $679 (~ 616€) a reasonable price for a quad core i7-6700 system with 16GB of RAM? I really don't want to spend even this much, but I'm willing to since I want a more modern and powerful desktop to use as my primary workstation instead of my current arrangement of a 2011 MBP (8,1).

The hardware requirements depends on what you want to use for. For myself, current desktop pc setup from 2016, with Core i3 6100, 8GB Ram already good for me. I may in the future just add a cheap Nvidia card so that i can play some games.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2019-11-26
> **matfx said:**
> The hardware requirements depends on what you want to use for. For myself, current desktop pc setup from 2016, with Core i3 6100, 8GB Ram already good for me. I may in the future just add a cheap Nvidia card so that i can play some games.


that's what i thought as well, but current intel chips are about the same power as these cheap cards. if you check the benchmarks and official reviews this becomes quite clear. it is amazing to see how much the APUs progressed. to actually make a difference you need the card that is over 130 EUR. or if you want to save the ram or need more of it a separate dedicated GPU ram also helps.

---

### Post by mclark2145 on 2019-11-27
Hey **mastablasta** and **matfx**:

> **mastablasta said:**
> that is quite expensive, but then it all depends what else it has added (SSD or HDD?, what GPU? and also what type of ram? etc.).

*and*

> **matfx said:**
> The hardware requirements depends on what you want to use for. For myself, current desktop pc setup from 2016, with Core i3 6100, 8GB Ram already good for me. I may in the future just add a cheap Nvidia card so that i can play some games.

I'm looking on Amazon at that unit. Yes, I can also find i3 and i5-based systems, and yes they are less expensive. I just wanted to buy a system that I won't feel like I should have gone for something better. A friend of mine recently got a 2 core i3-based Optiplex that's running Linux Mint 19.2 and it feels very solid and smooth.

---

