---
title: "16.04 Ubuntu or Mate?"
date: 2016-05-11
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2016-05-11
My laptop struggles a bit on 14.04 (in some situations) and I have installed 16.04 Mate on it - so far all seems OK.  In terms of 16.06 Mate or 16.04 ubuntu running in classic gnome is there any different performance wise - is Mate lighter than 16.04 classic gnome or is this a silly question?

---

### Post by exploder on 2016-05-11
I have Ubuntu Mate 16.04 installed on 4 systems, it is very light! Memory use ranges from 290 MB to 320 MB on these computers.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2016-05-11
MATE has an option to disable compositing in Marco, its window manager. If you don't care for effects, you might perceive a change.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-05-11
What do you mean by "classic GNOME"?

Ubuntu GNOME offers a Classic session but it's not at all easily customized and runs on top of the mutter window manager which is much more resource hungry than either MATE's Marco WM or Flashbacks Metacity WM.

Or, if you're running either Ubuntu or Ubuntu GNOME you can install 'gnome-panel' which will provide GNOME Flashback session(s). The Flashback w/Metacity session is fairly comparable to MATE w/Marco in resource usage.

IMHO if someone knows they prefer the old school GNOME 2 experience they're better off just installing Ubuntu MATE because it acts and works just like GNOME 2 and includes a nifty MATE Tweak tool.

OTOH on PC's with multiple users where user #1 may prefer Unity or GNOME Shell but user #2 prefers a UI that follows the old desktop paradigm I'd install 'gnome-panel' and apply the tweaks only on a user level so each user can log into their preferred session w/o borking things for the other user.

I currently find Ubuntu MATE 16.04 much more stable (less buggy) than either Ubuntu or Ubuntu GNOME - particularly in regards to the file manager.

---

### Post by ZoiaGuyver on 2016-05-11
Either choice will be a great experience!

ubuntuGNOME is a little more resource hungry than ubuntu-Mate imo. ubuntuGNOME classic/flashback imo is rather limiting Gnome does great in the Shell or with budgie but if you want a more complete "old school" feel Mate is the way to go.

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2016-05-11
I also prefer MATE. Pretty straight forward to customize - Plank is a nice addition

---

### Post by sgtbug on 2016-05-11
My preference is: Xfce > MATE > GNOME 3 > Unity > KDE

---

### Post by neu5eeCh on 2016-05-11
Ubuntu Unity, and this came as a shock the last time I wrote it, is (and has been since 14.10) the heaviest DE available to linux. Currently, both Gnome3 and KDE are lighter. I've seen the comparative memory use of Gnome Shell and Plasma 5 go both ways. They're both about the same. MATE, on the other hand, is considerably lighter than Unity.

---

### Post by cds7 on 2016-05-14
Just wanted to the OP's question - I've heard some weird things about Steam performance on mate versus unity, that the latter performs better somehow. Does anyone know if that's true?

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2016-05-14
if Mate works OK and you like the looks and such, then just use it.

---

### Post by montag dp on 2016-05-14
> **cds7 said:**
> Just wanted to the OP's question - I've heard some weird things about Steam performance on mate versus unity, that the latter performs better somehow. Does anyone know if that's true?

Games in general will run faster with a window manager / desktop environment that is not resource hungry, for the simple fact that there are more resources available for the game. If you don't have a really high end computer, you will probably notice a significant difference running games on, for example, Xfce instead of Unity. MATE is not the most lightweight environment, but it is lighter than Unity, KDE (at last with effects and all the services enabled), and probably Cinnamon.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2016-05-14
> **montag dp said:**
>  MATE is not the most lightweight environment, but it is lighter than Unity, 

this doesn't explain the quoted text at all since the user reports better game performance using Unity.

Perghaps another rmethod at achieving desktop effects in Unity has something to do with it?

---

### Post by montag dp on 2016-05-14
> **mastablasta said:**
> this doesn't explain the quoted text at all since the user reports better game performance using Unity.

Perghaps another rmethod at achieving desktop effects in Unity has something to do with it?
Hm, I quoted it but I guess I misread it. That is strange. There must be something else going on in his case.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2016-05-14
I have Mate running on my file server -- yes its a server however I still log into the box from time to time.  I good probably go without any gui, however it's nice to have around in case I have to use a program on the box from time to time.  It's very good with old Hardware.

---

### Post by lambrosbouk on 2017-04-05
Unfortunately, when using 16.04 mate I have problems with google drive and moodle (google drive and moodle crash). I don't have these problems with gnome.
Is there any solution? I want to use mate, but I don't want to have issues...

---

