---
title: "[20.04] Ubuntu Updates"
date: 2020-07-02
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by Graham1 on 2020-07-02
Hi All

Is there a reason why Ubuntu Software has an "Updates" tab when updates are applied via Software Updater? Other distro's like Fedora do updates via their store app. Is there a reason why Ubuntu is different? Just curious.

:)

---

### Post by poorguy on 2020-07-02
OK I'll take a shot.

Some users as myself like to manually do things and don't rely or want to rely on automation.

First thing I do when I go to my computer is to run updates and see if any updates are available.

If updates are available than I install them and restart my computer rather it needs a restart or not.

Linux is all about choice rather it be in the many different choices of distros or just the many different ways of accessing needed tasks.

Linux developers have their ways of designing a distros functionality the way they think is best and it's up to the user to choose their preferred way.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2020-07-02
In Ubuntu there are three methods for updating. 1) Using apt commands in the terminal. 2) Running the Software Updater utility which provides an option to see details of the packages being upgraded. 3) Using the Updates button in Ubuntu Software/Ubuntu app store.

Ubuntu Software used to be based upon Gnome Software but recently it has become a modified Ubuntu Snap Store that will install/remove/update snap apps as well as deb applications. I guess that it is still under development.

A lot depends on how simple to use the developers want Ubuntu to become as to whether these three methods will be reduced to two or even one. 

Regards.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2020-07-03
it depends on the flavour, e.g kubuntu's app store is called discover, it has a very nice unified way to upgrade and install apps, you can add flatpak and snap integration. For more fine grain control there is always synaptic (muon seems to be broken for eons)

---

### Post by Graham1 on 2020-07-04
I can see the purpose of two update methods (gui or terminal) but not two gui's. I would have thought Ubuntu could modify Ubuntu Software to manage all updates and do away with Software Updater. Personally, I think Linux Mint has got the best updater of the bunch.

:)

---

