---
title: "16.04 Try lubuntu without installing"
date: 2016-05-08
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by Neill_R on 2016-05-08
Hello

Was the wrong ISO file released for lubuntu 16.04? (32b and 64b) both versions do not work on certain hardware. This is most annoying and further will deter the very people we are trying to encourage to use ubuntu on their older hardware.

 Newbie require that things "work out of the box" as this is an LTS I expected better. Do we have to wait 6 months with is partially working ISO or will / can someone release a corrected version before more people are put off using Linux.

Neill

p.s. The Xubuntu 16.04 ISO file produces a DVD that has no problems on the hardware that Lubuntu fails on.

---

### Post by ubu_dynamite on 2016-05-08
Windows, osx or any other linux os will also not work on certain hardware maybe the ISO is just corrupt check the file checksum.
As long as you don't tell anything about what exactly is wrong there can't be done much about your certain problem.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-05-08
Do you have an old machine with Intel 845 graphics as discussed in the threads at:-
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2322941&p=13481986#post13481986](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2322941&p=13481986#post13481986)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2321734&p=13482015#post13482015](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2321734&p=13482015#post13482015)

Those two might give you some possible answers, but I totally agree that it is very disappointing that Lubuntu, which is mainly destined to be installed on these older computers seems to have this problem, which for many will be a show-stopper.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-05-08
Hello and welcome, I'm not sure why you're having so much trouble installing your new installation of Lubuntu but sometime depending on what method you're using might be the cause

Would you mind providing the specs for the machines in questions it would be very helpful if we knew what kind of hardware they have

How are you trying to install Lubuntu **DVD or USB**, drive? this will make a big difference because I see more and more, people posting advising us they are having trouble with their installation using a DVD rather then USB just a suggestion

If you are in fact trying to burn the ISO file to a DVD this tutorial might be helpful [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto) it has step by step instruction on how to accomplish it 

I know you mentioned A** DVD **but I'm not sure if this is the method you're using

Just to make sure you have the correct download page for Lubuntu this is were you can download the ISO file from [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/GetLubuntu)

Also if you need help installing Lubuntu on a USB drive this helpful guide will be of use [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStickQuick](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStickQuick)

I would have to recommend installing any ISO file on a USB drive in my experience it seems to be the best method and in most cases works, if it fails you can always format that USB drive and try again.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-05-09
Please post the exact error you are seeing.

---

### Post by Neill_R on 2016-05-11
Hello

Firstly the DVDs I burnt work on my HP G61 that is the lubuntu 16.04 desktop 32b and 64b.

The DVD works on the HP DC7600 S.F.F. Pentium D. That machine installed lubuntu 14.04 and upgraded to 16.04 with no problem. However I wish to use the DVD to try lubuntu on that machine and I end up with a blank screen after I select "TRY LUBUNTU WITHOUT INSTALLING".

The 16.04 is L.T.S. and in my mind that means it should be fully tested.  I am not interested in any workarounds because newbies are not into that. They just want the product to work. When the older product 14.04 worked I expect 16.04 to work too which it does not for that machine. Also Xubuntu 16.04 works as expected.

I am not sure who is responsible for releasing lubuntu 16.04 but I would like to ask him(her) how such and oversight can occur.

I wish to create a movie DVD showing how simple it is to install Lubuntu on old and low cost hardware and having this fault prevents me from showing the latest version.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-05-11
> **Neill_R said:**
> Hello

Was the wrong ISO file released for lubuntu 16.04? (32b and 64b) both versions do not work on certain hardware. This is most annoying and further will deter the very people we are trying to encourage to use ubuntu on their older hardware.

 Newbie require that things "work out of the box" as this is an LTS I expected better. Do we have to wait 6 months with is partially working ISO or will / can someone release a corrected version before more people are put off using Linux.

Neill

p.s. The Xubuntu 16.04 ISO file produces a DVD that has no problems on the hardware that Lubuntu fails on.

The Lubuntu team consists of volunteers. You are welcome to join and help ensure such things don't happen in the future. See [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/GettingInvolved](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/GettingInvolved) 

> **Neill_R said:**
> Hello

Firstly the DVDs I burnt work on my HP G61 that is the lubuntu 16.04 desktop 32b and 64b.

The DVD works on the HP DC7600 S.F.F. Pentium D. That machine installed lubuntu 14.04 and upgraded to 16.04 with no problem. However I wish to use the DVD to try lubuntu on that machine and I end up with a blank screen after I select "TRY LUBUNTU WITHOUT INSTALLING".

The 16.04 is L.T.S. and in my mind that means it should be fully tested.  I am not interested in any workarounds because newbies are not into that. They just want the product to work. When the older product 14.04 worked I expect 16.04 to work too which it does not for that machine. Also Xubuntu 16.04 works as expected.

I am not sure who is responsible for releasing lubuntu 16.04 but I would like to ask him(her) how such and oversight can occur.

I wish to create a movie DVD showing how simple it is to install Lubuntu on old and low cost hardware and having this fault prevents me from showing the latest version.

See my comment above.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-05-11
Thread moved out of the support area to the "*Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat*" forum.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-05-11
Plymouth splash is a mess in Lubuntu 16.04 so you really just need to remove the "quiet splash" from the boot parameter. There will be a re-spin (16.04.1) in July or August so hopefully they'll get it fixed by then.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/1370707](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/1370707)

---

### Post by sudodus on 2016-05-11
We can expect much better Lubuntu iso files in the first point release, 16.04.1 LTS, late in July or early in August. Until then I recommend the following alternatives:

1. Stay with the current LTS release, 14.04.1.

2. Use some short-life version: 14.04.{2,3,4} or 15.10.

3. Use 16.04 via a tarball or compressed image file according to the description in the following tutorial threads,

3a.* tarball:* **Lubuntu_16.04_oem-intel.tar.xz**

The tarball is described at [the following link (in the tutorial thread about the One Button Installer)](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2172971&page=2&p=13487384#post13487384).
Use the [One Button Installer, 'OBI'](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2172971) to install it.

3b. *compressed image file:* **dd_Lubuntu_16.04_oem-intel_2016-may_7.8GB.img.xz**

[http://phillw.net/isos/linux-tools/compressed-images](http://phillw.net/isos/linux-tools/compressed-images)
Use [mkusb](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb) to install it in linux and [Win32 Disk Imager](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Win32DiskImager/iso2usb) in Windows.

---

### Post by Neill_R on 2016-05-11
Hi
I take your point Sudodus but really I feel that the TRY LUBUNTU without install SHOULD WORK. The rest of your reply is gobbledygook to a newbie.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-05-11
Ubuntu has done a great job with 16.04 in spite of any technical issues it may have, we all realize that they have problems from time to time

If you're having trouble with installation a distribution of Ubuntu it may need just a bit more research for that particular machine in order to get Ubuntu up and running

Not every machine will be able to handle Ubuntu and as long as you have this mentality you will appreciate all the hard work Ubuntu and it's team put into each and every distribution

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-05-11
Yes, it's unfortunate that such an error happens. If something like this occurred when I did my first 5.10 install I would probably have stayed with Windows, buying new hardware with three years interval. 

Lubuntu is short on testers and for some reason the Intel graphics was not tested. There is not much we can do now if you don't want the workarounds.

A long-term solution is staying with the old LTS until the .1 of the next LTS is out, as mentioned above. It's only a four months wait. For old hardware there is less pressure towards using the latest release.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2016-05-11
The method to flash from a compressed image file to a USB pendrive is easy. It is as easy to flash such a file to pendrive as to flash an iso file to a pendrive. *mkusb* does the job for you, and helps you point to the correct device (the pendrive, and no other drive).

-o-

As already stated by *vasa1*: You are welcome to help testing and/or developing Lubuntu. We are only volunteers and everybody's contribution is valuable. The Lubuntu 16.04 LTS iso files work in most computers. My tarball and compressed image file help Lubuntu work with a few more graphics chips. Maybe you can help Lubuntu work in even more computers (with still more graphics chips) in future releases (iso files).

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-05-11
> **Neill_R said:**
> I wish to create a movie DVD showing how simple it is to install Lubuntu on old and low cost hardware

Much appreciated. Maybe you can mention the option of installing a new LTS Lubuntu every time a .1 release is out. I guess many beginners would be happy for that approach.

Please post when the movie is finished.

---

### Post by Neill_R on 2016-05-13
Thank you very much for replies. However I feel that you are missing the point that I am making. That is if we want new people to try Linux on their older hardware then the new release SHOULD just work especially if the last L.T.S. ran without problems.

If a (would-be) user tries 16.04 then they might run into the blank screen that I got on certain hardware. For the non-newbie they might try installing as a guest in a Virtual Machine and maybe get the screen I got. See attached screen shot file.

The Xubuntu 16.04 has no such problems nor does Lubuntu 14.04. however Lubuntu is been "sold" on the idea that it is light weight and good for older processors.

I am aware of [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/LXQt](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/LXQt) and this could have had some impact if only diverting attention to detail.

I can only hope  that [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lubuntu#Lubuntu_16.04_LTS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lubuntu#Lubuntu_16.04_LTS)
can produce a working ISO file for the 16.04.1 release on 
I think the newbie might infer that 

[LIST]
[*]Linux is rubbish
[*]That their machine is just no good. Possibly costing them the price to upgrade hardware
[/LIST]


rang Canonial today to report this

---

### Post by sudodus on 2016-05-13
At the Ubuntu Forums we help people match the existing hardware and software. We are not developing the iso files. I think it explains why you get this kind of replies from us.

The developers seldom visit the Ubuntu Forums. So if you want to reach the developers, and make your point, you should use other forums, for example [some IRC channel](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=ubuntu) or possibly some mailing list, or via a bug report at Launchpad.

Edit: And yes, it was a good idea to ring Canonical. I hope you are happy with the response :-)

---

### Post by Neill_R on 2016-05-13
No I was not happy with the response as I got cold shouldered. I still don't know how to contact the right person / people. if it is true that the developers do not vist the forums then that is a bad sign.

---

### Post by ubu_dynamite on 2016-05-13
> **Neill_R said:**
> No I was not happy with the response as I got cold shouldered. I still don't know how to contact the right person / people. if it is true that the developers do not vist the forums then that is a bad sign.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lubuntu/ContactUs)

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-05-13
Although Lubuntu is an official flavor, Canonical is not responsible for its quality control. I guess there could be circumstances under which Canonical could withdraw the official status. However, discussing that *here* may not achieve much. 

Before upgrading Lubuntu 14.04 to 16.04, I tested several iterations of the 16.04 Live USB on my laptop to ensure it worked *for me*. I think that's a basic precaution any evangelist should take. It's also been said, several times and in several places, that conservative users should wait for the first point release. The system already defaults to prompting LTS users to upgrade **only when the first point release is ready and not before**.

If you read enough, you'll see that even the flagship, Ubuntu, has issues with its 16.04 release despite having far more testers.

I repeat, anyone genuinely interested would be part of the testing team. That would be much appreciated and it's not too late!

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-05-13
> **Neill_R said:**
> ... I feel that you are missing the point that I am making...I ran into precisely this problem trying to install Lubuntu Xenial into an old Dell with a 82865 GPU last night. Were it not for my experience with old balky machines, I would not have known how to work around it. So, what follows is not just a blithe dismissal based on lack of personal experience.

In that context, with all respect, I would suggest that you are missing the point that *we* are making:

Lubuntu is not a magic wand. It is, from first to last, an OS of geeks, by geeks and for geeks. It has never advertised itself as a replacement for Windows or a magic tonic for old machines. Some over-enthusiastic supporters may bill it as such, but the people actually responsible for producing it have no control over the enthusiasm or unrealistic expectations of others. All the Lubuntu devs can do is plod along doing the best they can given the resources they have.

Those resources are, frankly, minuscule when compared to Canonical's, to say nothing of the proprietary behemoths. Moreover, they get no direct remuneration (the OS is free), no financial leveraging (there are no "stock options") and, truth be told, precious little even by way of gratitude. Most of them do it out of a sense of professional achievement and pride.

It would be nice if they visited these forums, but technical types wouldn't be technical types if they were social butterflies. They tend to stick to their own arcane chat channels and technogeek circles. That's what makes them good at what they do. They are happy that the forums exist precisely because it fulfills a function that is not their strong suit.

Dealing with such people requires a certain sensitivity. Pouncing on them with huffy "demands" will get you nothing but, at best, cold shoulders; more often, sarcastic rejoinders to expect the support you paid for; at worst, some choice expletives telling you to engage in fascinating physical contortions. In light of the value that I have received from them over the years with absolutely no expectation of anything in return from me or anyone else, my sympathies are entirely with them.

Rather than pointed demands, might I suggest that a better approach be a humble and respectful appeal to their pride and professionalism?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-05-13
> **DuckHook said:**
> ...

Rather than pointed demands, might I suggest that a better approach be a humble and respectful appeal to their pride and professionalism?

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/lubuntu-devel/2016-May/000546.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/lubuntu-devel/2016-May/000546.html)

I'm of the opinion that this thread has run its course.

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-05-13
Let me dispel a misconception:

LTS stands for Long Term *Support*, not Long Term *Stability*.

There is no guarantee that an LTS release will be any more or less stable or perfectly finished than any other release on its release date -- except that LTS versions are drawn from Debian Testing rather than Debian Unstable.  All Ubuntu releases run on tight six month schedules.  But since LTS releases are supported for five years, we can certainly expect that in due course of time problems will be fixed and the release will become more stable.  This is exactly why some of the more experienced users here recommend to newer users that they do not upgrade to new releases immediately on release dates.  We suggest that people wait for the inevitable bug discoveries to be dealt with.

For the flavors, with a much more limited number of maintainers and developers -- volunteers in general -- this release cycle means that triage has to occur, priorities have to be set and decisions have to be made.  Mistakes happen.  Things are overlooked.  It is very easy to sit back in one's armchair and say what "should happen".  Much harder to be in the trenches trying to make progress.  I'm sure they would welcome volunteers more readily than vegetable hurlers.  

Something to think about:  Neither Ubuntu nor any of its flavors are commercial products.  There aren't tens of thousands of engineers and developers working on them.  In fact, Canonical employs roughly 500.  That's all.

Given that none of us here are Canonical employees and none of us has any influence on the development, packaging or deployment of Ubuntu or any of its flavors, this is not the place where negative or disparaging commentary has any purpose.  Opinions are welcome.  Gripes are not.

Since this thread risks discovering its own tail and beginning to swallow it:  Closed.

---

