---
title: "16.04.2 postponed?"
date: 2017-01-19
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by tokumei-74 on 2017-01-19
The website shows February 02: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/XenialXerus/ReleaseSchedule)

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2017-01-19
Not a technical support question. *Thread moved to **Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat**.*

Does this answer your question? [https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2017-January/003998.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2017-January/003998.html)

---

### Post by tokumei-74 on 2017-01-19
> **coffeecat said:**
> Not a technical support question. *Thread moved to **Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat**.*

Does this answer your question? [https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2017-January/003998.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2017-January/003998.html)

Yes, thank you.

---

### Post by exhile on 2017-02-01
Looks like 16.04.02 will be postponed again from February 2nd to February 9th: [http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-16-04-2-lts-delayed-until-february-9-due-to-serious-boot-regression-512445.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-16-04-2-lts-delayed-until-february-9-due-to-serious-boot-regression-512445.shtml)

---

### Post by Eggnog on 2017-02-03
I am totally fine with a delay when they want more time to repair flaws they've discovered and thoroughly test it before release.  It makes perfect sense.

---

### Post by sonicwind on 2017-02-09
It's been delayed again until Monday the 13th.

---

### Post by exhile on 2017-02-09
> **sonicwind said:**
> It's been delayed again until Monday the 13th.
How do you know?According to the release schedule, Thursdays is the day to release the operating system.

---

### Post by rattskjelke on 2017-02-09
I had Lubuntu 16.04.1 LTS installed.  This morning I got a bunch of updates and my lsb-release file says 16.04.2 LTS now.
How did that happen if the release was postponed?
Also my kernel version was upgraded to 4.4.0-62. I thought 16.04.2 was supposed to have 4.8 kernel.

---

### Post by sonicwind on 2017-02-09
This is where I got it.

[http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-17-04-alpha-1-released-for-opt-in-flavors-ships-with-linux-kernel-4-9-511397.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/ubuntu-17-04-alpha-1-released-for-opt-in-flavors-ships-with-linux-kernel-4-9-511397.shtml)

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-02-09
> **rattskjelke said:**
> ...
Also my kernel version was upgraded to 4.4.0-62. I thought 16.04.2 was supposed to have 4.8 kernel.
Please see
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)
and
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/RollingLTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/RollingLTSEnablementStack)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-02-09
Did a regular 'update' and 'full-upgrade' last night and just had a look then.
```

Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS
Release:	16.04
Codename:	xenial
```

Didn't feel a thing! And didn't even know I have been upgraded to the new point release until I saw this thread.

---

### Post by Rocky_Bennett on 2017-02-10
[http://phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Ubuntu-16.04.2-LTS-LM-Delay](http://phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=Ubuntu-16.04.2-LTS-LM-Delay)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-02-10
With my 14.04 install the versions numbers updated, but it always was based on the original 14.04 kernel, not the newer kernels in 14.04.2 thru 14.04.5 HWE versions.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/RollingLTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/RollingLTSEnablementStack)

We did have a lot of users install 14.04.2 or later and not realize it was a short term install and they had to keep upgrading to 14.04.5 to get the full life to 2019. 

It looks like with 16.04 each HWE will be updated to the next HWE when released.
Or if you want or need the stability of the original 16.04 kernel you have to install 16.04 or 16.04.1.

---

### Post by rattskjelke on 2017-02-10
> **vasa1 said:**
> Please see
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)
and
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/RollingLTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/RollingLTSEnablementStack)
I don't understand most of that. Does that mean you must install 16.04.2 from a ISO image in order to get the rolling updates?

---

### Post by exhile on 2017-02-10
> **rattskjelke said:**
> I don't understand most of that. Does that mean you must install 16.04.2 from a ISO image in order to get the rolling updates?

You can update 16.04.1 to 16.04.2 from System Settings>Software & Updates>Updates> and then "Notify me of a new Ubuntu version" and then select "For long-term support versions". That's how I'm gonna update anyway. Don't want to loose all my settings and backup all my files just to install 16.04.2.

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-02-10
> **rattskjelke said:**
> I don't understand most of that. Does that mean you must install 16.04.2 from a ISO image in order to get the rolling updates?

If you install from a 16.04 or 16.04.1 iso image you will be on the 4.4 kernel and stay on it for the 5 years of the 16.04 life cycle, you will receive all the security updates for that kernel and all other supported packages on your system for the 5 year support cycle. You won't be missing out on anything unless you _need_ the 16.10 HWE stack because of hardware that doesn't work (well) with the 4.4 kernel series. 16.04.1 will still become 16.04.2... and then in turn 16.04.3 and so on (staying on the 4.4 kernel).

You will not automatically be upgraded to the 4.8 (Yakkety) kernel or the newer xorg stack, but may choose to manually upgrade to the 16.10 HWE stack or install from a fresh 16.04.2 iso image - either way if you move to the 16.10 HWE you will automatically be upgraded from one HWE stack to the next as they come along. Again as above, 16.04.1 will become 16.04.2.. 16.04.3 and so on, except your system will move from one HWE to the next automatically.

Not sure if that helps :)

---

### Post by bearlake on 2017-02-10
> **rattskjelke said:**
> I don't understand most of that. Does that mean you must install 16.04.2 from a ISO image in order to get the rolling updates?

If you update daily or weekly or whatever, it will update to the latest version.

Running this in terminal might show you with the latest version already.

```
lsb_release -a
```

This is what I get when running the above.

```
lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS
Release:    16.04
Codename:    xenial
```

---

### Post by rattskjelke on 2017-02-10
> **howefield said:**
> If you install from a 16.04 or 16.04.1 iso image you will be on the 4.4 kernel and stay on it for the 5 years of the 16.04 life cycle...
Ok. Well I thought that I would automatically get the 4.8 kernel and HWE but I was wrong or wherever I read that at was wrong. That's what I couldn't figure out.

---

### Post by exhile on 2017-02-13
It doesn't look like 16.04.2 will be released on February the 13th either. It's already the 14th in Australia.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-02-13
> **exhile said:**
> It doesn't look like 16.04.2 will be released on February the 13th either. It's already the 14th in Australia.

I'm in Australia and I posted this three days ago.

> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Did a regular 'update' and 'full-upgrade' last night and just had a look then.
```

Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS
Release:	16.04
Codename:	xenial
```

Didn't feel a thing! And didn't even know I have been upgraded to the new point release until I saw this thread.

Try:

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt full-upgrade
```

... and restart then check.

---

### Post by bearlake on 2017-02-13
I downloaded and installed Lubuntu 16.04.02 ISO the other day and it has been running great with no updates since.

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/xenial/daily-live/pending/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/xenial/daily-live/pending/)

Xubuntu updated to 16.04.02 late last week.

All working good here.

---

### Post by exhile on 2017-02-13
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> I'm in Australia and I posted this three days ago.



Try:

```
sudo apt update
sudo apt full-upgrade
```

... and restart then check.
That helped. Thanks!
However the kernel is 4.4 and not 4.8 as someone posted earlier about it.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2017-02-13
> **exhile said:**
> That helped. Thanks!
However the kernel is 4.4 and not 4.8 as someone posted earlier about it.

Updates from the original point release 16.04.1 (or even the original release 1.04) typically do not upgrade the kernel or graphics stacks.
But a fresh install of the 16.04.2 iso will include those.

Note that, this release will implement a new process of automatically updating the new point release hardware stacks.
So if you install 16.04.2 you should get the 17.04 stack when 16.04.3 comes out, and again get the next stack for 17.10 when 16.04.4 comes, and end with the 18.04 stack for 16.04.5.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-02-13
Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS has landed here in the States, just do:
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt full-upgrade

```
like BB said.

---

### Post by dimi3 on 2017-02-13
Does someone know when new server images will be available for download?

---

### Post by flocculant on 2017-02-13
> **dimi3 said:**
> Does someone know when new server images will be available for download?

When it gets released - at the same time as the other flavours - possibly later today. There is still talk in the relevant IRC channel (17:39) about respins for isos. 

When it is properly released there will be an announcement from Canonical.

No 16.04.2's have been released yet to my knowledge - I see mention of Xubuntu 16.04.2 - that is just because the bits are in place to *upgrade* and for testing. Xubuntu 16.04.2 has definitely NOT been released, I know that for sure.

---

### Post by justen_m on 2017-02-13
> **exhile said:**
> That helped. Thanks!
However the kernel is 4.4 and not 4.8 as someone posted earlier about it.
If you want to upgrade check out the [LTS Enablement Stack]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack"). "[COLOR=#333333][FONT=&amp]The Ubuntu LTS enablement stacks provide newer kernel and X support for existing Ubuntu LTS releases."[/FONT][/COLOR]

For 16.04 Desktop```

[COLOR=#333333][FONT=monospace]sudo apt-get install --install-recommends xserver-xorg-hwe-16.04[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
Only took a few minutes on each machine, plus a reboot. It is a bit more complicated for 14.04 and 12.04, as described in the above link.

I now get```
justen@ak:~> lsb_release -d
Description:    Ubuntu 16.04.2 LTS
justen@ak:~> uname -a
Linux ak 4.8.0-36-generic #36~16.04.1-Ubuntu SMP Sun Feb 5 09:39:57 UTC 2017 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

---

### Post by exhile on 2017-02-13
> **justen_m said:**
> If you want to upgrade check out the [LTS Enablement Stack]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack"). "[COLOR=#333333][FONT=&amp]The Ubuntu LTS enablement stacks provide newer kernel and X support for existing Ubuntu LTS releases."[/FONT][/COLOR]

For 16.04 Desktop```

[COLOR=#333333][FONT=monospace]sudo apt-get install --install-recommends xserver-xorg-hwe-16.04[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
Only took a few minutes on each machine, plus a reboot. It is a bit more complicated for 14.04 and 12.04, as described in the above link.

Thank! This helped me update the kernel.

---

### Post by Min_Jia on 2017-02-13
When will the new ISOs be released? It's already late afternoon here in the States.

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-02-13
> **Min_Jia said:**
> When will the new ISOs be released? It's already late afternoon here in the States.

Looking like Thursday the 16th according to #ubuntu-release.

---

### Post by Min_Jia on 2017-02-13
> **howefield said:**
> Looking like Thursday the 16th according to #ubuntu-release.

Thanks! A few more days then :)

---

### Post by Min_Jia on 2017-02-16
Looks like they'll never release a 16.04.2 ISO.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2017-02-16
I hate to even post about the subject...but this from "Adam Conrad" in the mailing list.
> After a number of hiccups, RC ISOs should be spitting out on the
tracker under the correct milestone[1] for all but server.  There
are still some bits I need to tidy up to get server images going,
but that shouldn't stop people from testing the desktop images.

I think it's pretty clear, given that I've been working for the
last 24h straight and need a nap before diving in again, that we
probably won't be releasing on Thursday (ie: today).  Friday could
still be done, but Monday seems a more reasonable goal.

Sorry this one's been so rocky, there have been a number of factors
contributing, and all of them together just made this one need a bit
more time to get Just Right.

... Adam
And no I'm not taking any bets here :p

---

### Post by Min_Jia on 2017-02-16
> **1fallen said:**
> I hate to even post about the subject...but this from "Adam Conrad" in the mailing list.

And no I'm not taking any bets here :p

That sounds like what he said last Thur?

---

### Post by sonicwind on 2017-02-16
I'd rather wait a few **weeks** if needed so he can sleep properly, in order to get things done right the first time. If he's serious, you can't function like that without making mistakes.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2017-02-16
And we have lift off:
[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2017-February/004036.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2017-February/004036.html)

:)

---

### Post by Min_Jia on 2017-02-16
> **Bashing-om said:**
> And we have lift off:
[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2017-February/004036.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-release/2017-February/004036.html)

:)

:D.
Great, downloading now..

---

### Post by uNoubu8a on 2017-02-18
I find it interesting how many people where anxiously awaiting 16.04.2 to come out, very curious...

---

### Post by justen_m on 2017-02-18
> **work-work said:**
> I find it interesting how many people where anxiously awaiting 16.04.2 to come out, very curious...
Why? Lots of us like to stick on LTS releases. I've got five machines on 16.04.2LTS, 4.8 kernel. Probably going to stay there for a long time. Is there something out there I don't know? I am curious too. I just like to stay current.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2017-02-18
> I've got five machines on 16.04.2LTS, 4.8 kernel. Probably going to stay there for a long time. Is there something out there I don't know?
How long will a long time be?
six months or so?
because that's around how long that kernel might last:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/RollingLTSEnablementStack#Proposal]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/RollingLTSEnablementStack#Proposal")

---

### Post by justen_m on 2017-02-19
> **deadflowr said:**
> How long will a long time be?
six months or so?
because that's around how long that kernel might last:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/RollingLTSEnablementStack#Proposal](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/RollingLTSEnablementStack#Proposal)
Thanks. Guess I was wrong. Probably not so long. I'll keep 'em updated and current with the 16.04 Enablement Stack, except the one or two I move to 17.04.

---

