---
title: "14.04 to 16.04: what to look out for?"
date: 2016-04-01
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-01
Some of us will be moving from 14.04 to 16.04 having sat out 14.10, 15.04, and 15.10.

An obvious precaution would be to check that 16.04 works on one's system by running a Live USB.

For me, the new and shiny bits would be:
gtk 3 will be 3.18 instead of 3.10. 
That will bring changes to how scrollbars work in gtk3 apps. 
gtk3 apps may have client-side decorations. 
Firefox and LibreOffice will now use gtk3 instead of gtk2. 
LibreOffice Calc will have separate rows for sheet tabs and the horizontal scrollbar (new for those who haven't used a ppa to get newer versions of LibreOffice than the default supplied with 14.04). 
LibreOffice has also "re-ordered" some of the keyboard shortcuts and that is taking some getting used to.

I don't know what "user-facing" changes *systemd* or the kernel will bring.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-04-01
> I don't know what "user-facing" changes *systemd* or the kernel will bring.

We are not supposed to notice anything different and we don't. At Grub menu Advance Options for Ubuntu we get an option to load with Upstart. I am certain that the switch over began in 15.10. All that is happened in the meantime is that systemd has become more integrated into the OS. Try this command

```
nmcli device
```

You will see labels like enp2s0 & enp6s4 for ethernet adapters and wlx0015af0e9be0 for the WiFI adapter which we are assured by the systemd developers that it is all a logical method of labelling. Thankfully, Network Manager converts all that to wired connection 1 & wired connection 2 & WiFi connection.

Ubuntu Software Centre is out & Gnome Software (my friends just call me Software) is in. We get the option to have application menus appear in the application's title bar or the Unity top panel and to be permanently visible or only visible on a mouse-over. We can now use dconf editor to set the Launcher to the bottom edge of the screen. There is a Gnome Calendar app. 

On my system Gnome applications will have menus depending on the phase of the moon. It is as sensible a reason as any. Yesterday Gnome terminal had menus. Today it does not. It has been off and on like that for weeks.

Regards.

---

### Post by BazBear on 2016-04-02
I've been running Lubuntu 16.04 (dual boot with my main 14.04 system, Acer Aspire One, 1 Ghz dual core, 2 GB RAM ) since A1. There have been only a couple of issues I've noticed (alarm-clock-applet had no sound, and I had to manually install a dependency to get G Pointing Devices to work), which have been since fixed. For those of you who use the Pulse Audio volume control, when the channels are locked together you will now only have one slider (there are always two in the version used in 14.04). This briefly had me thinking stereo was broken, and all I had was mono! :confused::o

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2016-04-04
> **vasa1 said:**
> Some of us will be moving from 14.04 to 16.04 having sat out 14.10, 15.04, and 15.10.


major on is that AMD chips Radeon hd 6xxx and below get their fglrx support dropped. 2 options - suffer the 20-30% reduced performance, get a new chip (available only if this is a desktop).

I plan to wait at least until end of year before considering the move. I use opensource AMD drivers on this old PC anyway. but the issue here is I am on Kubuntu, and new version will have plasma 5 which I am not sure how well it is holding and also how well it will work (responsiveness, potential other issues...) on this old PC (dual core Celeron, 256 MB Radeon 9600XT, 2 GB RAM). at the moment most things work fine again.

---

### Post by sgian on 2016-04-05
I'll confirm the AMD issue with 16.04 and fglrx being dropped.  If you use open source drivers and don't do games, then you probably won't notice the difference.  However, if you play games that work better with fglrx (for example minecraft at my house) then I would recommend mastablasta's plan in waiting to see if AMD support improves.  However, there is a replacement beta driver from AMD for newer graphics cards that might work out about as well as fglrx that I haven't tried yet.

My own experience is with a drastic performance drop in 16.04 in minecraft with Radeon HD 8370D graphics, but then again I didn't try the beta driver.  There was also another older AMD that I tried 16.04 on with minecraft and performance still decreased but not as drastically.  I don't remember the name of the AMD card though at the moment.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2016-04-05
> **sgian said:**
> 
My own experience is with a drastic performance drop in 16.04 in minecraft with Radeon HD 8370D graphics, but then again I didn't try the beta driver. .

the new opensource amdgpu driver is better than radeon opensoruce driver but worse than current fglrx (closed source) driver. at least in some cases with certain chips.
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu-1604-tonga&num=4](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu-1604-tonga&num=4)

but with some new testing version it performs as good as or better than fglrx. however all is still in beta and under development and this means that next version might  be worse or it might be better. Ubuntu will likely use some sort of stable version. and it should all improve by the end of the year. still only for the really new chips. older ones are dropped to Radeon. 14.04 LTS HWE issue/solution has not yet been provided. i.e. what happens when kernel is bumped up on the LTS using the HWE stack (install 14.04.1 and later). we still don't know if fglrx will still be supported. so I will probably stay on 14.04 until support runs out. or just move the other side of the disk to win10 and remove Linux.

---

### Post by SantaFe on 2016-04-05
> **sgian said:**
> I'll confirm the AMD issue with 16.04 and fglrx being dropped.  If you use open source drivers and don't do games, then you probably won't notice the difference.  However, if you play games that work better with fglrx (for example minecraft at my house) then I would recommend mastablasta's plan in waiting to see if AMD support improves.  However, there is a replacement beta driver from AMD for newer graphics cards that might work out about as well as fglrx that I haven't tried yet.

My own experience is with a drastic performance drop in 16.04 in minecraft with Radeon HD 8370D graphics, but then again I didn't try the beta driver.  There was also another older AMD that I tried 16.04 on with minecraft and performance still decreased but not as drastically.  I don't remember the name of the AMD card though at the moment.

Oh boy, fun times ahead for me, as I'm still using the same graphics card I got with my Dell computer.
```

sXXXXXe@sXXXXXe-Dell-Dimension-9150:~$ sudo lspci -vnn | grep VGA -A 12
[sudo] password for sXXXXXe: 
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Caicos [Radeon HD 6450/7450/8450 / R5 230 OEM] [1002:6779] (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
    Subsystem: Pegatron Device [1b0a:909d]
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 29
    Memory at e0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
    Memory at fe9e0000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=128K]
    I/O ports at dc00 [size=256]
    Expansion ROM at fea00000 [disabled] [size=128K]
    Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
    Capabilities: [58] Express Legacy Endpoint, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [a0] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
    Capabilities: [100] Vendor Specific Information: ID=0001 Rev=1 Len=010 <?>
    Capabilities: [150] Advanced Error Reporting
    Kernel driver in use: radeon
 
01:00.1 Audio device [0403]: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Caicos HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6400 Series] [1002:aa98]
    Subsystem: Pegatron Device [1b0a:aa98]
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 31
sXXXXXe@sXXXXXe-Dell-Dimension-9150:~$ 


```

I do use the open source radeon driver, so maybe I'll get lucky. ;)

---

### Post by light_yagami2 on 2016-04-05
I'm curious. Will I be able to upgrade from Ubuntu Unity 14.04 to Ubuntu MATE 16.04 via the software updater?

---

### Post by sammiev on 2016-04-05
> **light_yagami2 said:**
> I'm curious. Will I be able to upgrade from Ubuntu Unity 14.04 to Ubuntu MATE 16.04 via the software updater?

To upgrade and switch flavors isn't a good idea.

Backup all your data and do a fresh install when the time comes.

Always run the live version first before installing to confirm it works with your hardware.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2016-04-06
> **SantaFe said:**
> 
I do use the open source radeon driver, so maybe I'll get lucky. ;)

If you are already using only opensource driver then you will be fine. That one stays as is or rather you might see some improvement.

the issue is for closed source driver which is needed for some game while it is recommended for others (it's performance is 30% better and has a few additional features that are missing in opensource).

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-04-06
I was using 14.04 but now I'm currently running Ubuntu16.04, I try upgrading from 14.04 to 16.04 but the transition was not good I don't know if it was because I was having problems with 14.04 I was getting an error message that something was going with my graphic card

I never got this error message before. I did have a backup and when I ran that backup everything was ok but once I try to upgrade I got that message again

So I decide to just do a clean install of 16.04 and everything went great I'm now using 16.04 as my daily machine and I have no complaints. Great job to everyone on the Ubuntu team you guys do outstanding work.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2016-04-06
16.04 should be a minor upgrade from 15.10, however as mentioned they still introduced a few major changes. unusual for LTS. but this regarding AMD drivers happened with 14.04 as well.

---

