---
title: "15.10: lubuntu-extra-sessions"
date: 2015-09-26
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by vasa1 on 2015-09-26
> lubuntu-extra-sessions In the past, selecting different sessions (netbook, gaming _**etc**_.) was installed by default. This is now an optional extra that can be installed by those who want this added functionality. It is currently not available on the LiveCD versions.From [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Beta2/Lubuntu](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WilyWerewolf/Beta2/Lubuntu) under *Software Updates*.

Does anyone know what the _etc_ includes? Specifically, is the Openbox session still available?

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2015-09-26
Yes and yes, respectively.

Whatever you have installed will show up on the menu. Install another window manager and a new option will appear. It's magic.

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2015-10-01
My apologies. I think I may have misunderstood your question. If I had noticed who was posting before answering, I should have known it wouldn't be a simple question or you'd already know the answer.

I suspect you already know more than I could possibly speak to on this subject, so the following clarification is more for the benefit of people who find this thread because they are aiming a search engine at some similar question, in case my answer might be misleading:

I simply meant to say that "etc" in this context means whatever you have installed. I haven't tried any 'buntus post-Trusty, but unless they've radically changed Lubuntu, presumably it is still based on LXDE, and unless LXDE has radically changed, presumably IT is still based on Openbox.

My understanding is that the package lubuntu-extra-sessions is responsible for the menu that appears in the display manager's login screen that allows you to select session type so without it (or some similar alternate package) there would be no CONVENIENT way to start anything but the default session type. I guess you'd have to kill your window manager after loggin in and then start whatever you wanted. Or maybe you could start a second session with a different DE in one of the unused ttys and have 2 DEs running simultaneously. Dunno, I've never tried it.

I interpret what you quoted to mean merely that the package won't installed by default now, and if you want the menu you'll have to install the package (and maybe edit some config file associated with your display manager).

BTW, for what it's worth, I'm a HUGE fan of plain Openbox, sans LXDE, sans Lubuntu.  If it weren't an option, I'd have abandoned 'buntus by now.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2015-10-02
After reading the link I posted, I remember there being some talk quite a while ago about removing some options. Hence my question. I'm not planning to move away from Lubuntu 14.04 LTS as long as it's supported so my question is just me being chatty.

The options I saw when trying out LXQt are here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220270&p=13019362#post13019362](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220270&p=13019362#post13019362)

You maybe interested in visiting [https://forums.bunsenlabs.org/index.php](https://forums.bunsenlabs.org/index.php) which is about an Openbox/Debian distro continuing on from where !# left off. It's a team effort (unlike several other !# continuations) and developers (of the distro) are active members of that forum and are responsive.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-10-02
What's in it is here - 
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/wily/lubuntu-extra-sessions/filelist](http://packages.ubuntu.com/wily/lubuntu-extra-sessions/filelist)

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-10-02
There is still a menu to select sessions at the login screen in Lubuntu Wily daily. I'm talking about what comes with the iso files.

- In the live session, you get the standard Lubuntu session, whatever you select in that menu. So there is only one available session.

- ***In the installed system, you get either of standard Lubuntu, Lubuntu netbook and Openbox.*** This has not changed (at least not yet, we'll see what happens when Lubuntu moves to LXQt).

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2015-10-05
I should have read [https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-qa/msg05318.html](https://lists.launchpad.net/lubuntu-qa/msg05318.html) and [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm-gtk-greeter/+bug/1213837](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm-gtk-greeter/+bug/1213837) before starting this thread!

---

### Post by Dreamer Fithp Apprentice on 2015-10-23
Thanks for the info re "Openbox/Debian distro" at Bunsen, Vasa1. Interesting. My main system has been a self-rolled affair from the latest LTS mini iso with Openbox and lightdm for a few years now, but I continue to play with other distros on other partitions.  Every time I try Debian I end up annoyed that their installer doesn't work as well as Ubuntu's. First there is a tricky place where it is implied you should pick a mirror repo (but it works better if you don't) and maybe be one out of a gazillion suggested choices actually works and you have to find it by trial and error and error and error and . . .

And then the update of grub misses some of the systems  and uses fonts and colors that are hard to change. The installer is Ubuntu's strongest point to my mind. It works more consistently than any other in my experience. Considering that it is probably derived from the Debian installer, it is amazing that Debian hasn't managed to get it together better.

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2015-10-24
> **Dreamer Fithp Apprentice said:**
> Thanks for the info re "Openbox/Debian distro" at Bunsen... 

I did a more-or-less Crunchbangized Lubuntu 15.10 a couple of weeks ago, borrowing some themes and such from BunsenLab's Github repos.  They use a forked current version of Compton from its Git repo.  I built it for Ubuntu and it ran nicely.

> Every time I try Debian......pick a mirror repo (but it works better if you don't) and maybe be one out of a gazillion suggested choices actually works and you have to find it by trial and error and error and error and . . .

Doesn't that just bring in updates during the install, like the option in the Ubuntu installer?  Would be nice, though, if Debian's installer sorted the mirrors based on speed so the user could select the best one. I've never found the Debian site, listed at the top, to be very fast.  I've had good luck with mirrors.kernel.org.  (And the mirror selected will be used in sources.list.)

---

