---
title: "14.10 to 15.10 Upgrade File Size [SOLVED]"
date: 2015-11-19
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-19
Hi

Thanks in advance for the help.

It seems that I need to upgrade from 14.10 to 15.10. I am not using my own internet connection and I do not want to cause an excess data usage charge for the owner. So what I need to know is the size of the file download...just roughly.

I am a bit surprised that Ubuntu hasn't jumped on this in view of what MS has done with it's "forced upon you windows10". It cost me $90 in excess data usage. Which is why I have changed to Ubuntu.

I have 14.10 on disc which I got only a year or so ago. I have now discovered that 14.10 is simply not supported anymore. A message box opens whichs says I have to "upgrade" to 15.10. Is that an actual upgrade or do I need to download the full ISO and either way, roughly how much data download usage can I expect ?

Cheers

EDIT: I have just discovered that 15.10 is only supported until June...What is the point of that ?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2015-11-19
You would need to upgrade from 14.10 to 15.04 to 15.10. I am not sure how much data downloading that would involve.

Non-LTS (long term support) releases are supported for nine months, LTS releases for five years. Perhaps it would suit your circumstances better to install 14.04 LTS, supported until 2019?

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases)

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-19
Thanks for the reply.

I guess they have their reasons but it seems strange to me. So we have a choice of 9 months support or 5 years...and it is not like there is a price difference.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-11-19
> it is not like there is a price difference.

There is to Canonical who have to pay engineers to support all the releases with kernel security fixes. Limiting support for interim releases to 9 months was a compromise. Mark Shuttleworth wanted to scrap interim release altogether. Ubuntu 12.10 was the last interim release to have 18 months support. Interim releases only getting 9 months support has not been a state secret.

A Linux desktop distribution is not the only kind of "Ubuntu" that Canonical is developing. And it all cost money. But not for us users. A Ubuntu desktop ISO image is 1.26 GB in size. If you do not tick the box to install updates at the same time as installing that should limit a further data download during installation

And if you go to System Settings>Software & Updates>Updates tab you can control what notification of updates you get. But I would recommend that you do not disable security updates. The default setting is to display the notification immediately but we can set it to download & install automatically. Which of course you do not want.

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-19
[QUOTE=] Interim releases only getting 9 months support has not been a state secret.
[/QUOTE]

Thanks for the reply.

To people like me that have never used any form of Linux before, it is !!

I don't mind downloading. I'm not some cheap scape. I just want to know what I am up for especially since I am using someone elses internet connection. So 1.3 GB for the ISO plus any updates etc. So if I worked on say 2 GB do you think that would be close?

The ISP the owner uses here charges $2 MB for excess data. That is over $2,000 per GB. See why I don't want to cause excess usage ?

Thanks for explaining. I am very new to Ubuntu so I don't fully understand. But I would agree with Mark. The cost of making a new "intrim" every 9 months would be much higher than making just one every 5 years.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-11-19
Welcome. The easiest way to find out is to go to the Ubuntu download page, click to download, click to 'Save File' rather than open, and check the size of the file you're about to download. I get offered a 1Gb raw disk image for 14.04.

14.04 LTS and 15.10 are both directly upgradeable in the latter half of next year to 16.04 LTS, which will keep you going for five years. In the case of 14.04, you could upgrade to 16.04 anytime while both releases are still supported as LTS releases are upgradeable to the next LTS every two years via the net, leapfrogging the interim releases in between. The interim releases can only be upgraded net-wise this way to the next release (i.e. the upgrade path from 14.10 would be to 15.04>15.10>16.04 LTS). 

Once you are in the swing of one cycle or the other, LTS or interim or a mix, AND you upgrade when it is time and not wait until you have an unsupported release, you will find it is straightforward. Sounds to me like the LTS route would suit you best. Good luck. :)

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-21
Thanks for the reply Bucky Ball.

After much ado, several very selected choice words, two temper tantrums, one thrown sausage, a broken glass, 4 slammed doors and a cold shower, I managed to find a spot that gave me good enough signal to download 14.04.3 on my own internet connection....Thank you so much OPTUS. 

Interesting, just before the download page, I got asked to give my opinion on how Ubuntu could be made better....at a cost of $16. Yes, I got asked for my opinion and I was requested to pay $16 for the privilege of giving that opinion !! The page is not in front of me right now, but I am pretty sure it said "put your money where your mouth is". 

There was 8 topics each asking for $2 (minimum). 

In fact I just took a screen shot...It does say "put your money where your mouth is". 

Thems fighting words !! Does this coniconal or what ever it's name is actually understand that it is competing with Microsoft...or trying to ?

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2015-11-21
Ubuntu could do a better job of making clear that non-LTS releases are something of a public beta release. Here is my take on non-LTS releases, not sure how accurate. They do contain the latest and greatest software versions but could  also contain regressions or not-quite-ready-for-primetime packages not discovered during the 6 month gestation period prior to release.. Non-LTS versions are a means to large scale test and debug new 'stuff' prior to its inclusion in an LTS release. I'm using Ubuntu Mate 15.10 - a non-LTS release to type this. I don't use this install for anything critical.  If something goes pear shaped it's an hours work to delete and reinstall.  I view using developmental and non-LTS releases and reporting problems as a very fair exchange for an excellent no-charge operating system.

I'm not sure where the 'pay to express your opinion' thing came from. I wonder if it was some sort of 3rd party thing not sanctioned by Canonical.

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-21
[IMG][[IMG]http://i267.photobucket.com/albums/ii298/herbal110mb/Money.jpg[/IMG]]("http://s267.photobucket.com/user/herbal110mb/media/Money.jpg.html")[/IMG]

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-11-21
Giving away a free system and asking for a donation makes good sense to me. Buntu, especially the lighter ones, makes people save money by using their hardware for a longer period of time, eliminating the "replace every third year" cycle that Microsoft and Apple are trying to push.

Your internet provider charging $2 for a MB of data is crazy. Donating $2 is a better idea.

---

### Post by howefield on 2015-11-21
Thread moved to the "*Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat*" forum and some of the stupidity removed.

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-21
Thank you howefield :)

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-22
To those that tried to help, thank you.

I am done. 

I spent a week just trying to download a chess game. Only to find that my copy of Ubuntu is not supported and was ONLY ever supported for 9 months. 

There are just too many "state secrets" for my liking. It is not 9 months...It is 9 months from it's realse date. The 5 year version is the same...It is 5 years support from the release date.

I downloaded a 5 year version. Only to spend 2 days trying to get it to work...and I give up. I have gone through 12 DVD disks burning the ISO and each and every one says the burn was succesful. Yet both Windows7 and my unsupported Ubuntu says the disk is empty. I can see (physically) the burn on the disk. 

There is no logic to it...I cannot download a game of chess because my operating system is no longer supported...

I couldn't be bothered. I have used Windows since Windows95 and the only issue I have ever had is this "forced upon you" Windows10 which cost me $90 in excess data usage.

As it stands now there is just no comparison. Ubuntu is just not on the same planet let alone the same page as Windows.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-11-22
> **neil36 said:**
> It is not 9 months...It is 9 months from it's release date.

Well.. yes, from what else would you count the 9 months?

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-22
The install date...

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-11-23
I am not sure that you are fully familiar with the concept of 'support' in this context.

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-23
> **mörgæs said:**
> I am not sure that you are fully familiar with the concept of 'support' in this context.

I don't understand why you would not be sure...(actually I do).

As stated earlier, I am very new to linux and Ubuntu. 

I am just the sort of bloke that has to test where I went wrong...Guess what? I didn't !! Not to be out done with "successful" yet failed burns. I extracted the ISO to a USB drive...Guess what? It returns a "kernal panic" error !!

I still had some data usage on my account. So today I put the modem in the bathroom window and held my left leg over my right ear (thanks OPTUS) and did an "upgrade". It was 700MB. I now have 15.04....CONFIRMED I was able to download the chess game.

So what is the point I am missing? I cannot get the chess game because I am using 14.10...But I can have the chess game if I upgrade to 15.04...What is the point ???

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2015-11-23
> **neil36 said:**
>  I extracted the ISO to a USB drive...Guess what? It returns a "kernal panic" error !!

Don't extract the ISO, just burn it to a DVD or USB stick.

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-23
> **oldos2er said:**
> Don't extract the ISO, just burn it to a DVD or USB stick.

Thank you.

Been there, done that, got the T-shirt...I even ripped and burnt an audio CD to just make sure the drive was good...Yep my DVD drive is working.

Tried a straight ISO to USB. No good. So I extracted the ISO to USB. Again no good. So I made the USB bootable and tried again and got a "kernel panic" error.

Interesting... If I extract the ISO to a folder on my Windows7 desktop, it works. But it does not give an option for a dual boot. The only choice it gives is to replace Windows and install to C drive. It wont even see the partition I have made for Ubuntu... So I extracted the ISO to a folder on the Ubuntu desktop and guess what, it does not work. It gives some sort data error message.

From what I have seen over the past 2 weeks, there is no way I am going to replace Windows with Ubuntu. Ubuntu has proven to be an interesting toy to play with but shows no signs of being a proper OS that can be relied on. Dual boot is fine, if it works, but there is no way I am going to "sacrifice" a computer to being a dedicated Ubuntu machine.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-11-24
As you've been advised, you don't extract the iso. :|

I'll try and step it out. 

- Get a USB;
- Boot Gparted (or Win Disk Management tool if you're using Windows) and wipe the USB, reformat the whole thing to one FAT32 partition;
- Use either [UNetbootin]("unetbootin.sourceforge.net") or [Universal USB Installer]("www.pendrivelinux.com/universal-usb-installer-easy-as-1-2-3/") to create the USB, so launch whichever you've chosen;
- Choose the ISO as the file you want to burn (the ISO you directly downloaded, nothing else, not an extracted anything) :);
- Choose the USB as the target (make sure it is the USB);
- Hit 'burn';
- Wait for the burn to finish;
- Restart and boot from the USB (you will need to enter BIOS or boot device list at boot to change to boot from USB).

That's it. Anything???

The second link I provide, the Universal USB Installer one, has a full how-to with pictures on how to achieve this.

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-24
Thank you Bucky Ball.

I tried both your suggested...They did not work...The second, UUI is the one that returned a "kernel panic" error.

One thing you state is of interest...I did not take notice of the file allocation table.... I cannot say for sure if the USB was formatted to FAT or NTFS. I just let UUI do it's thing.

It is getting late here..Tomorrow I will try again with a confirmed FAT32 USB.

I am becoming a little frustrated and I understand your job as a Mod is a thankless task. So again thank you for the time and effort you have made.

I will reply tomorrow if a FAT32 format works....or if it does not work !

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-24
Well, that must be another one of those state secrets...

It was NTFS. So I formatted the USB to FAT32, extracted the ISO using UUI...and it worked.

I now have 14.04.3 installed.

Of course the first thing was to test it. I was able to download a chess game. However, I noticed the games listed are different to those listed for 14.10 and 15.10. So it seems they have a different data base of software for each release version. Surely they don't build a whole new data base for each release... It sounds like a child having a temper tantrum - it's my ball and if I don't win I am taking my ball and going home - It is my Ubuntu and if you don't upgrade I will delete the data base I will deny you access to the data base and I will take a birthday off you, so upgrade you nasty person -

I now a bloke that produces a monthly newsletter for his hobby club. He uses the internet to do research for the newsletter. He then prints and posts the newsletter to all the club members and emails all those that have email...his computer is 10 years older than the internet and he is running Windows 95.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-11-24
If everything you learn about Ubuntu is going to be compared unfavourably with something from the Windows world or some other 'real-world' situation and found to be completely illogical you may be in for a lot of complaining and Ubuntu may not be for you! Having said that, well done getting Ubuntu installed and no, formatting as FAT32 is no 'state secret'. That information is available on numerous websites.

Which chess game are you attempting to find? If you are having troubles with that you will greatly improve your chances of support with it if you please mark this thread as solved, because your initial support request here well and truly is and we've gone down another track as it is, and start a new thread about it.

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-24
I know I read somewhere that the "solved" button is at the top right corner...But I cannot find it.

It is not an unfavourable comparison. Canonicle are alienating themselves by making it confusing and difficult. You make the point yourself, you say the need for a FAT32 is on numerous websites. But it is not on the Canonicle website...or is it? Vital information like that should be right in your face on the download page... Should not have to be searching the internet to find it.

Anyway, if you could point me to the solved button, we can all move on.

Cheers

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-11-24
All good. See/click the first link in my signature and see you at the next one. :)

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-24
ha ha ha....That is where I read it...In your sig box...

Nope. All I see in thread tools is, Show Printable. Subscribe. and Add a Poll.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-11-24
My mistake. We are in a non-support area so no 'solved' option. Apologies. Best to just move on to another thread as this started as a non-support one about file sizes. We are a long way from that now and into support. :)

---

### Post by neil36 on 2015-11-24
No worries. I just done an edit on the first page title line.

Don't worry about the chess game. I got one that works.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-11-24
Good news. Good luck and enjoy the learning curve. :D

---

