---
title: "17.04: I can't believe it yet"
date: 2017-04-21
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by pi.no on 2017-04-21
Hi.

I want to share my first impressions of the new 17.04 release. First of all: I can't believe it yet. The rest is a bit lengthy, I admit... ;)

But I have to jump a bit in time. Around a decade ago, when KDE 4 appeared, a long and painful depression about the Linux desktop began for me. Admittedly, I'm somewhat stringent in my perceptions about quality of designs and implementations. I love systems, which are well designed and solidly implemented, running smoothly and sound. In all my installations, KDE (mostly with kubuntu, but also arch and others) more stumbled through the day, always demanding forbearance and give-and-take. Virtually nothing really worked. It was from rendering glitches everywhere (the theme also was really not my taste), incomplete icons and awkward layouts to backend stuff like complete breakdowns in Akonadi (mail, contacts, ...). I've never seen a really stable Plasma desktop or panel. Whatever you touched, it was broken. Whenever the conditions were slightly different that the code assumed, everything crashed epically. (Sorry for my bad comments, but you will hopefully forgive it in the end)

While KDE implementations never worked for me, in Gnome3 the trouble is about their design decisions. I regularly wonder about their decisions, like the minimalist configurability, or alien stuff like Client Side Decorations. The desktop itself is inherently incompatible with my way of working. And yes, I gave it a fair chance for weeks, several times! The plugin mechanism is a cool idea, but the existing plugins have low quality and will likely break when you actually combine a few.

So I tried a few desktops and distributions, and preliminary ended with xubuntu. I liked the idea of a somewhat lighter implementation of a desktop, although I had liked a bit more eyecandy. For five years, I was unable to get a consistent and coherent styling across Gtk2, Gtk3, Qt4, Qt5. The least common denominator actually was Motif and Win95 :-( Or unfinished glue technologies, which let some applications malfunction or crash. Since those are obviously no great options, I ended up in using the inconsistent default. Basic stuff appeared unfinished. I'm not sure if they ever tested editing the application menu (e.g. hiding some apps, ...). The login screen flickered (with two entirely different graphics cards). The Settings dialog seemed to be a rather unstructured conglomerate. All kinds of rather common corner cases require to find other ways. Some other stuff was annoyingly scattered.

The seemingly declined development in xfce and my new pc demanding a very recent kernel made me giving KDE a new try after some years of distance. I installed kubuntu 17.04 a few days ago on that pc (after a preview in a vm). By now, everything is set up, configured and arranged.

What I see here feels like a revolution for me! Everything I touched, immediately worked. All stuff is integrated in a fine way. It is feature-complete, highly customizable and well-structured. As it 'always' was. But for the first time, it behaves and reacts exactly as I expect, whatever I do, even if I stress it. With decent performance and without glitches (even Akonadi _works_, completely without disturbing the user with under-the-hood stuff!). It reacts competent and stable even in corner cases (as a developer, I'm aware of the difficulties). It looks awesome, very modern and very coherent. The overall user experience is equal to what modern commercial environments (for workstations or mobile devices) provide.

This is a great desktop, and a great environment, greatly integrated and combined with a great operating system (regardless of some grub trouble during installation :D)!

---

