---
title: "20.04 - Best Ubuntu Ever?"
date: 2019-11-13
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by Shibblet on 2019-11-13
Looks like 20.04 is shaping up to be the best Ubuntu ever.

If you follow the changes that have been made from 18.04 -> 18.10, 18.10 -> 19.04, and 19.04 -> 19.10... the next release may just be the best yet.

My only problem is every time a LTS comes out, I tell myself that I am just going to wait for the next LTS, but seem to upgrade to the interim releases anyway...

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-11-13
Happy to hear you are pleased this far along with 20.04. :)
14.04 UbuntuMATE was my favourite release to date.
Have not had the same experience/enjoyment since. :( Other Distros splendid.
BTW: I'm known for being a tad bit persnickety. LOL

---

### Post by lammert-nijhof on 2019-11-13
I normally stay on LTS releases, but my new Ryzen 3 2200G (16 GB) caused me to move to 19.04 to get the newest drivers. The latest release of ZFS 0.8.1 in Ubuntu 19.10 caused me to upgrade to 19.10. 
I'm easy, I like each Ubuntu release and many flavors too. I use many Ubuntus at the same time, since I moved all my "work and hobbies" to Virtual Machines (VM). So I use
- Ubuntu 19.10 Minimal Install on ZFS, as Host for Virtualbox.

and the following VMs:
- Xubuntu 18.04.3 LTS, for Office work, Email, Torrents and WhatsApp-Web using ICE of Peppermint.
- Ubuntu 16.04.6 LTS, exclusively for Banking and PayPal.
- Windows XP, to play my old LP and CD copies with WoW and TrueBass effects
- Ubuntu Mate 19.10, to test and try-out Apps, like running Linux games in a VM with 3D accelleration
- Windows 10, for watching Dutch TV (no support for Linux)

I use Windows 10 and Peppermint 10 to have a serious look at Office 365 and OneDrive for my old Microsoft Office Documents. 

I browse the Internet using the VM or Host, which is on screen at that moment. My music in Windows XP keeps playing, while I reboot e.g one of my 20.04 Alphas. The XP-VM has been installed in 2011 and is running now on its 3rd desktop. Virtual Machine installs tend to live longer than raw metal installs, because it clearly separates hardware issues (Host) and software issues (Guests). I use exactly the same VMs on my Dec 2011 HP Elitebook 8460p (i5-2520m and 8 GB), but I have to update the .conkyrc file for the number of CPUs. 

With the right Vbox set-up and using ZFS in the Host, there is no noticeable difference in responsiveness. 
So I'm a happy user of the Ubuntu :)

---

### Post by uRock on 2019-11-14
> **Shibblet said:**
> 

My only problem is every time a LTS comes out, I tell myself that I am just going to wait for the next LTS, but seem to upgrade to the interim releases anyway...

I have a tendency to do that on my laptop. My desktop stays with LTSes.

I, too, think 20.04 is going to be a great release. 

Karmic was my favorite. I loved the colors used in the default themes. It was rock solid for me.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-11-14
We each have different memories and things we think are "best" about any release.

10.04 was the best Ubuntu release.  It behaved as expected. The server configs worked as expected. No funky new stuff was forced onto users.  Someone running a Linux server in 1996 wouldn't be lost using 10.04. Networking, init scripting, DNS, were all the same, plus APT was great in 10.04 so the 1996 admin wouldn't have to pull source code, compile and install all the dependencies manually before getting to the real program desired.

KVM was solid for people running server VMs.

IMHO.

The only way 20.04 could come close to 10.04 would be to purge systemd, purge netplan.io, purge snaps as default installs and have wayland as an optional display manager.  "Best" is highly subjective.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2019-11-14
> **TheFu said:**
> "Best" is highly subjective.

Absolutely.  Especially since I haven't used it yet.

But I have been watching the slow evolution of Ubuntu since 8.04 Hardy, and this next  release seems to be everything I am looking for in an OS.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-11-14
Dapper Drake was the best release. The first LTS; they introduced the live installer; compiz was on the rise for easily using the GPU for compositing the desktop rather than dumping everything through the CPU; and when they determined that it had insufficient polish they delayed the release for two months to make sure that it was good enough. And it had the coolest name. 

Everything since then has just been incremental improvement.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2019-11-14
I have been very happy with the  October releases. My first Ubuntu was 9.10 and 10.10 was my favorite gnome 2 release. 11.10 was a vast improvement over 11.04 and 12.10 was the first Unity release I liked. I currently use Budgie 19.10 and the 20.04 development release and don't expect any major changes before April with Budgie . I'll get back to the Gnome Shell eventually. :wink:

---

### Post by guiverc on 2019-11-14
@Frogs Hair :(   I loved 11.04, and after upgrading to 11.10 rolled back to my 11.04.  (I did so like gnome 2.34|36 or whatever it was on 11.04 using gnome-classic)   I may be in the minority, but I loved 11.04

My primary box is 20.04 (development) and as such the changes are gradual and are easily forgotten.

 Yes I noticed the big change when LXDE was replaced by LXQt (for Lubuntu 18.10, with LXQt & LXDE being new options at login), and loved some of the changes Xubuntu made in the 17.10 & 18.04 cycles (esp. audio panel items) but most changes I don't really recall.   I login & look now and again at gnome, mate... (*my bloated desktop has many desktops installed*) but as GNOME Shell's not my *cup-of-tea* after using it a day I happily move on to something different the next day.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2019-11-15
pffft, everyone knows 10.04 was the best one.

anyway, i hope there will be a smooth transition this time. before i could not do the system upgrade from 14.04 to 16.04 due to unresolved bug. so i did backup&reinstall of 18.04.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2019-11-15
> **mastablasta said:**
> pffft, everyone knows 10.04 was the best one.

anyway, i hope there will be a smooth transition this time. before i could not do the system upgrade from 14.04 to 16.04 due to unresolved bug. so i did backup&reinstall of 18.04.

agreed
i try to stick with the LTS version, but sometimes i upgrade to the non-lts that is right before the next LTS

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2019-11-15
> **guiverc said:**
> @Frogs Hair :(   I loved 11.04, and after upgrading to 11.10 rolled back to my 11.04.  (I did so like gnome 2.34|36 or whatever it was on 11.04 using gnome-classic)   I may be in the minority, but I loved 11.04

My primary box is 20.04 (development) and as such the changes are gradual and are easily forgotten.

 Yes I noticed the big change when LXDE was replaced by LXQt (for Lubuntu 18.10, with LXQt & LXDE being new options at login), and loved some of the changes Xubuntu made in the 17.10 & 18.04 cycles (esp. audio panel items) but most changes I don't really recall.   I login & look now and again at gnome, mate... (*my bloated desktop has many desktops installed*) but as GNOME Shell's not my *cup-of-tea* after using it a day I happily move on to something different the next day.

I was referring to the first incarnation of Unity available with 11.04 which was rough. I stuck with it to see it evolve though.

---

### Post by Shibblet on 2019-11-15
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> I was referring to the first incarnation of Unity available with 11.04 which was rough. I stuck with it to see it evolve though.

As controversial as Unity was, I could see the benefit of the interface design.  I, for one, liked Unity, but was glad to see it turn back into Gnome.

I think once Gnome 3 was released, Canonical realized it's potential, and carried their design over to that environment.  I call that a Win-Win.

---

### Post by Artim on 2019-11-15
The last LTS before systemd came along would be "best" for most of the Linux bloggers I read.

---

### Post by bernard010 on 2019-11-28
**I am looking forward to install 20.04. **Been a Ubuntu fan since Ubuntu 7.04. Ubuntu has came along ways.
Now I am on 19.10 Gnome undecided at the present moment. Installed synaptic package manager to change a few things.

---

### Post by mclark2145 on 2019-11-30
I was basically forced to migrate away from Linux Mint 19.2 because recent versions of things completely screwed up my wireless connectivity on my MacBook Pro 8,1. I've never been a fan of Gnome 3, but I have to say that thus far, my experiences with Ubuntu 19.10 have been most outstanding. It will be interesting to see what is in 20.04, but right now I kind of don't really want to have to disrupt my only computer and production system again.

---

### Post by VMC on 2019-11-30
I'm using Ubuntu Focal as well. I have both Panel & Dock set to full transparency and love the look. The Gnome Tweaks works wonders.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2019-12-02
If installing ZFS now -- will it be upgradeable when future versions of ZFS drop?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2019-12-04
Wow.

All of you people pining for 10.04 etc do realize how much your comments date you? :p

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-12-05
> **kevdog said:**
> If installing ZFS now -- will it be upgradeable when future versions of ZFS drop?

The strict answer is no. 

However the devs are going to prefer to avoid making breaking changes if they can, or at least to provide a migration tool, and other users have reported going through previous version changes of ZFS without any problems. 

YMMV.

---

