---
title: "3.17 kernel next year?"
date: 2014-10-08
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-10-08
Morning, all.

I don't think it was my imagination (can't remember exactly where I saw it now; I think it was on OMGUbuntu), but am I right in thinking there's a planned upgrade to the 3.17 kernel next year, when the second point release is due out in February?

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-10-08
@Mike: I think it would be the 3.16 kernel for the 2nd point release of 14.04 because the point release always matches the current 6 month release...

---

### Post by Michael_McKenney on 2014-10-08
WOW!, I am on 3.13.xxx.  Now we have 3.17.  What am I missing in 14,15, and 16?

---

### Post by rrnbtter on 2014-10-08
Greetings,
I have been running kernel 3.17 in its various RC releases with Ubuntu 14.10. Frankly I don't see the point of testing the updates if the affected hardware isn't available (in my case it isn't). I don't use Radeon Video, Xbox and so forth therefore I am just subjecting myself to unexpected consequences without any real advantage. At any rate I'm done with 3.17 and looking forward to the horrors of 3.18. Might be a few weeks until it is posted.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-10-08
> **Michael_McKenney said:**
> WOW!, I am on 3.13.xxx.  Now we have 3.17.  What am I missing in 14,15, and 16?

read their release notes on kernel.org. but some kernels are LTS, some are just stable, some are current, while others are more of development stage.

---

### Post by Michael_McKenney on 2014-10-08
How do you know when it is time to upgrade the kernel?  Or is it better to stay with the kernel that is in the LTS version?

---

### Post by BazBear on 2014-10-08
I've been using the 3.14 through 3.17 RCs (though I wait until RC3), and then stables, on Lubuntu 14.04 ("stock" kernel as of now is 3.13.0-36) without any real issues. YMMV of course, and there's really no good reason I do it other than I can.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-10-08
Look down the bottom of this wiki page. This is a chart called 14.04.x Ubuntu Kernel Support Schedule.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)

The 14.04.2 release will still have the 3.16 kernel. As regards point release 3, 4, and 5 it is still To Be Decided (TBD). Also note the length of support. Once we move from 14.04.1 on to 14.04.2 we must also move all the way with the point releases in order to have a kernel that is supported for the full length of the LTS period. Or upgrade to 16.04.

Regards.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-10-08
Thanks for that, Graham.

Nice to see it laid out like that; makes it very clear. Appreciated.

Do I take it you've been on the 3.16 kernel for the last few months, then? I confess, there's no real advantage in my running a newer kernel, just for the sake of it, since my hardware is approximately a decade old; I would think all my various items have been supported for quite some time now.

Certainly, my last little niggle (due to a sometimes working, sometimes not TP-Link wireless adapter) was fixed with the release of the 3.13 0-32 kernel, so to be honest, I can't see I would gain from prematurely going out of my way to install the 3.16 version..!

I'll just wait for kernel updates to arrive in their own good time. Everything's peachy, so...I'm happy.;)

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by Michael_McKenney on 2014-10-08
So from what you are saying is wait and let the upgrades to Ubuntu do the upgrading of the kernel.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2014-10-08
Although, actually, if you are running 14.04, don't you have to add the hardware enablement stack? (By putting in terminal commands) to get the newer kernel....sure, it comes on the ISO of 14.04.2 but you would still need to get the package if you are already running 14.04...you don't get the newer kernel automatically in the software updates do you?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-10-08
> **craig10x said:**
> Although, actually, if you are running 14.04, don't you have to add the hardware enablement stack? (By putting in terminal commands) to get the newer kernel....sure, it comes on the ISO of 14.04.2 but you would still need to get the package if you are already running 14.04...you don't get the newer kernel automatically in the software updates do you?

Yes, just like 12.04. If you installed 14.04, or 14.04.1 you will keep running the 3.13 kernel and the X stack built for it. Much like on 12.04, and 12.04.1 you keep running the 3.2 kernel and X stack built for it; regardless of the point releases.

Likewise, if you install any of the point releases, from 2 through 4 you will be running whichever stack those come with.

However, those other point releases(2-4) will need to be upgraded to whatever comes out for the 5th point release (the 16.04 stack)
Because those others only will be supported until then.
Where as the original stack will be supported for the whole life of Trusty.

---

### Post by BazBear on 2014-10-08
> **Mike_Walsh said:**
> Thanks for that, Graham.

Nice to see it laid out like that; makes it very clear. Appreciated.

Do I take it you've been on the 3.16 kernel for the last few months, then? I confess, there's no real advantage in my running a newer kernel, just for the sake of it, since my hardware is approximately a decade old; I would think all my various items have been supported for quite some time now.

Certainly, my last little niggle (due to a sometimes working, sometimes not TP-Link wireless adapter) was fixed with the release of the 3.13 0-32 kernel, so to be honest, I can't see I would gain from prematurely going out of my way to install the 3.16 version..!

I'll just wait for kernel updates to arrive in their own good time. Everything's peachy, so...I'm happy.;)

Regards,

Mike.
Yeah, there's no good reason that I know of to do it, but if you do want to try it, you can keep the Trusty 3.13 kernel, just in case the newer kernel breaks something. I have 3.17 stable, 3.13.0-36, and even the last 3.11 from Saucy on this system (I had a GRUB issue when I upgraded to Trusty, and the recovery mode from 3.11 worked while the 3.13 one didn't, so I'm hanging onto it - even though I've had no issues like that since - just in case)

---

### Post by andy102 on 2014-10-08
MastaBlasta,,,thanks for attaching the link to the Operator manual on yur posts....might come in handy

---

