---
title: "13.04"
date: 2013-06-16
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by CodyPy1 on 2013-06-16
Should I upgrade to the 13.04 ? Or should I stick with 12.04 til another lts version is released?
I'm gonna weary. I like the lts versions. They've always been amazing. But how is 13.04? Is it better than 12.10? 
I know when I tried 12.10 it was horrible. So I immediately switched back over. 

What would you recommend? Lts or no?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-06-16
Stick with 12.04!

Add some ppa repos for Libreoffice 4, gimp 2.8, etc etc, and you can probably get very close to 13.04, though it may not give you all the extras of unity in 13.04, if that's what you're using.

I am on Xubuntu 12.04 but use several ppa repos so I believe I get the best of both worlds, ie, an LTS version but with some newer applications.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2013-06-16
I've upgraded to Raring on both my machines, and I'm loving it. The UI tweaks are minor, but they improve consistency in little ways, and the system seems just as stable as ever. I don't really see any drawbacks and haven't hit any regressions. I haven't noticed a *lot* of real improvements, either - it's just another edition - but getting more recent software overall seems at least worth the trouble of upgrading, on balance.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2013-06-16
I ran 12.10 and now 13.04 and it seems like 13.04 has a lot of improvements over 12.10, smoother, faster, better stability, etc...so i would go for it as long as you don't mind the reduced support schedule (9 months instead of 18 months) then it is well worth the switch...

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2013-06-16
> **CodyPy1 said:**
> Should I upgrade to the 13.04 ? Or should I stick with 12.04 til another lts version is released?
I'm gonna weary. I like the lts versions. They've always been amazing. But how is 13.04? Is it better than 12.10? 
I know when I tried 12.10 it was horrible. So I immediately switched back over. 

What would you recommend? Lts or no?

Does 13.04 offer anything new that you need or want *and* cannot install on 12.04?

Do you have current problems with 12.04 that cannot be fixed *and* are not present in 13.04?

If you answer no to both questions, then other than the novelty factor I'd say you don't have a reason to upgrade.

I find 13.04 to be quite nice, after I installed a new kernel to get over the panic-happy default kernel.  But, it is essentially a polished version of 12.04.  If you are a heavy Unity/Lense user, there are some changes there.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2013-06-16
Since LTS desktops are now supported along the LTS server release schedule, for a total of five years, 12.04 Precise Pangolin will actually last as long as the alphabet does (though LTS users would presumably upgrade to 16.04 Xerocolous Xeme, and not directly to 17.10 Zippy Zander.) 

I didn't realize that regular releases had been cut down to nine months, though - ouch. That means that it's no longer possible to skip a release if you're not on LTS.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2013-06-16
Yeah..it's true...i was hoping that it would have been 12 months instead of 9 months which i think would have been better (for skipping a release as you said)...But after checking out 13.04, i felt i just had to go with it (so much more refined then 12.10 was)...and i will install 13.10 when it arrives....

However, once 14.04 comes out, i will install it and plan on going on a 2 year re-install cycle (tired of doing 6 month installs) and basically go LTS to the next LTS instead of doing 6 month releases...

---

### Post by llanitedave on 2013-06-16
My wife is on 12.04, she has no trouble sticking with LTS releases.  I seem to be constitutionally incapable of skipping an upgrade.

I guess she's more stable than me in other ways, too.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2013-06-17
> **craig10x said:**
> I ran 12.10 and now 13.04 and it seems like 13.04 has a lot of improvements over 12.10, smoother, faster, better stability, etc...so i would go for it as long as you don't mind the reduced support schedule (9 months instead of 18 months) then it is well worth the switch...

That is my experience as well.  12.10 just did not seem as smooth as 12.04 and now 13.04. 13.10 is looking and feeling pretty mature for an in-development release as well.  It'll be interesting to see if 13.04 can be upgraded to 13.10 once 13.10 is released without a re-install.

---

### Post by craig10x on 2013-06-17
@kurt18947: that's great to hear about how 13.10 is coming along...i never did an upgrade before, but i am planning on trying it too (with fingers crossed...lol) figuring that worse case scenario is i'd have to re-install which i'd do anyway...If it works out, then i would likely do a clean install on 14.04 and then try to see if i have the discipline to switch over to a 2 year LTS to LTS cycle :D

---

### Post by buzzingrobot on 2013-06-17
13.04 has been stable and solid for me.  Getting that required updating the kernel. (I'm on 3.8.0-23, via dist-upgrade).  Since that, it's been smooth sailing.  It is not terribly different from 12.04, but the extra polish shows.

---

### Post by TNFrank on 2013-06-18
I've been running 12.04.2 on my laptop for a couple weeks now and just for fun I made up a "Live" USB stick with 13.04 to try out.  After messing with it for a little bit I'm going to stick with 12.04.  It just has a better "feel" to it for me.  Not sure why since they're basically the same but I just like 12.04 better for some unknown reason.  
  I'd stick with 12.04LTS since you get long term service with it. Of course as always that JMHO, YMMV.

---

### Post by Copper Bezel on 2013-06-18
The UI differences really are subtle. The Launcher is more self-consistent in appearance, and there are a few minor behaviors I remember noticing that seemed just a bit smoother in this version. I think showing the window contents in the snap animation is new, as well (at least since 12.04.) A few of the settings options have moved around a bit. I have that same reaction that, in sum, they just feel different (even if I'm favoring 13.04 myself.)

---

