---
title: "14.04 or 15.10?"
date: 2015-11-08
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by neu5eeCh on 2015-11-08
A long while back, I installed Xubuntu 11.10 on a friend's little ASUS Meego laptop. She took it with her to Egypt and loved it.

She just returned it to me to update. Looking at it briefly, I can see that she never updated the system once. That sort of thing isn't even on her radar. I think she primarily used the laptop for browsing and email. My question, knowing that she's probably never going to update the system, which version do I put on? 14.04 or 15.10? I was thinking that if she _did_ decide to update the system someday (very unlikely), then 14.04 would be better; but if she _doesn't_ update the system for another five years, maybe installing the latest, from the get-go, would be better? I know, kind of a weird question. Not really a support question (I think?) so I posted it here.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-11-08
Well, 14.04 LTS is a long-term support release so it supported for five years until 2019. 15.10 has nine months support starting from last month, so eight. After that time it will receive no updates, and that includes security updates. On the other hand, 14.04 LTS will receive updates, including security updates, until 2019. This is important if all she does is get online with it. If that is the case, 15.10 would be the bad choice. 

This all depends on if your friend can be convinced/encouraged to, at the very least, update every week (set it to notify of updates once a week in Software and Updates). Tell her that to do otherwise is compromising the machine's security. This is negligible with 15.10 now, but by a year or two after its demise it will be a concern. 14.04 LTS will still be going strong and securely.

You've been about the place for some time so you are probably aware that both 14.04 and 15.10 are directly upgradeable via the net to 16.04 LTS when it is available next year, the next long term support release, supported until 2021.

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2015-11-08
I'd stick with the Long Term Support releases, especially in situations like that.  

There are also options in System Settings to automatically install security updates.  You might also use [at](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/en/man1/at.1.html) to launch zenity once or twice in the future with reminders to move to the next LTS as the end of life approaches.

---

### Post by neu5eeCh on 2015-11-08
> **Lars Noodén said:**
> There are also options in System Settings to automatically install security updates. 

Thanks. For some reason that didn't occur to me! :oops: I've gotten so I do most upkeep via the command line... 14.04 it is, and with automatic updates.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-11-08
I don't think the automatic installation of security updates was in version 11.10 (though I may be wrong; it's a long time ago now!) so probably no need to self-chastise at the moment.

Great way to set up 14.04.1 for her now though, and 14.04.1 is a better choice than 14.04.03 as the latter will need hardware enablement stacks updating, and I doubt if they are included in the auto-security update procedures.

Get 14.04.1 from [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/trusty/release/xubuntu-14.04.1-desktop-i386.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/releases/trusty/release/xubuntu-14.04.1-desktop-i386.iso)

Xubuntu-14.04.# is supported until April 2017, not 2019 as is the main Ubuntu version, but I still suggest it is a "best buy" in your situation.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-11-09
> **VTPoet said:**
>  I can see that she never updated the system once. 

Yup, same with this guy I installed Xubuntu 14.04 for. He comes over with his laptop once in a while but whenever I tell him to update he would say, let me finish watching this video first or something like that. Then when he finishes I bug him again he would  ask "how long will it take?" Since he never updates it would take a while, then he would say, oh I am in a rush, will do it when I go home and takes off. Of course he never updates at home. Today he left his laptop in my place and went out to play. Since I set it up I know the password I just updated it for him. Man I don't know how these people's brains work.

---

### Post by night_sky2 on 2015-11-09
> **VTPoet said:**
> She just returned it to me to update. Looking at  it briefly, I can see that she never updated the system once. That sort  of thing isn't even on her radar.

You  can set the update manager to download and install security updates  automatically (without confirmation). That would solve the problem for her.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Au...ecurityUpdates]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AutomaticSecurityUpdates")

---

### Post by night_sky2 on 2015-11-09
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Xubuntu-14.04.#  is supported until April 2017,  not 2019 as is the main Ubuntu version,  but I still suggest it is a  "best buy" in your situation.
I agree. That still leaves about a year and a half of support for Xubuntu   14.04. But even after that, she will still receive security updates for the   Ubuntu base until 2019, just not the Xfce components. She won't be able to get help from the community then but that doesn't seem to be on her agenda. All in all, that is probably the safest option because after 8 months, 15.10 will be dead and buried.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2015-11-09
Why not agree to have something like a once per month remote connection with your friend so you can do a little house-keeping for her - minimal effort and you can keep her updated.  I too would go for 14.04.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-11-09
With Xubuntu 14.04 LTS you will be able to do a net upgrade directly to Xubuntu 16.04 LTS anytime until the end of support for Xubuntu 14.04 LTS. April 2017. :)

---

### Post by at35z on 2015-11-10
I'm joining the LTS-team, unless your friend will bring the laptop back in April so you can install the next LTS version, then it doesn't really matter.

---

