---
title: "16.04 LTS Reviews"
date: 2016-04-11
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by heroquestelf on 2016-04-11
Has anyone downloaded and tried out the new LTS? I've been running 14.04 and I'm curious if I should upgrade.

---

### Post by marouane87 on 2016-04-11
Hello,

I tried the beta 2 of Ubuntu and Ubuntu Gnome. And it convainced me to get back from Mint to Ubuntu after 3 years :) (Althought I´m opting for Gnome)
You can just create a bootable USB and try it out ;)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-04-11
There is a section set aside for discussion of the next release of Ubuntu during its development period. In the Ubuntu Development Version section of this forum some of us have been sharing our experiences with 16.04 since development started at the end of October last year. Check out the threads in that section of the forum.

Regards

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-04-11
If 14.04 LTS is working fine, why upgrade? You can upgrade anytime until 2019. The official upgrade route to 16.04 LTS via a net upgrade will not be available until the first point release about six months after release in about ten days, although you can get there via a terminal anytime. 

I'd wait til at least a few months after release. I normally do (but this time I have been testing 16.04 LTS on spare partitions on a couple of machines). Not a good idea to be using 16.04 LTS as your stable, day-to-day, ONLY OS at this point. Even though it's running fine for most of us, there are glitches and bugs and the next update/upgrade could bring something crashing down.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-04-11
"If it ain't broke, don't fix it" has always been my motto, when it comes to moving to the next LTS.

I usually wait for a few months after release before upgrading, as by then any bugs of consequence should have been squashed.
However, having said that, I've been running 16.04 since it started in Oct. last year, and in general it has been a very smooth ride using both Ubuntu and Xubuntu, both of them as VirtualBox installations.

Your choice; if you have very new up-to-date hardware, it is possible that you might get better support with 16.04 than you do with 14.04, but it is impossible for us to know.

---

### Post by him610 on 2016-04-11
Xubuntu 16.04 beta is installed on one system. Ubuntu 16.04, daily build from April 6, is installed on another system. I have booted into three other systems using a USB thumb drive with Ubuntu 16.04. I use the Xubuntu 16.04 system daily, and like what I see. I have encountered no noticeable problems to date.  The developers have done a good job.

---

### Post by ChuangTzu on 2016-04-13
Installed 16.04 Ubuntu 86_64 on bare metal and all is working very well.  I would say its smoother then 14.04 and seems a "little lighter" on CPU and Mem.  Keep in mind this is not a new pc....it is either 5 or 6 years old bought as an off lease business pc.  HP AMD Athlon II 800mghz, 8GB RAM.   Nothing fancy.    Also for what its worth, this review is from a Slacker, aka Slackware, user.

---

### Post by kengordo on 2016-04-13
I have installed 16.04 on a third drive, and unplugged the 14.04 drive when I installed from thumb drive.  I later plugged in the windows 7 drive, did update-grub--it flawlessly found windows and dual boot that way isn't an issue.  So far all I've managed to do is break Unity using the unity-tweak-tool (I set icons to default and lost taskbar, icons, dash, and even all keyboard shortcuts except tty access).  I tried so many fixes to get Unity back without success, but I installed gnome-desktop and that so far has worked perfectly.  I miss Unity's features so I don't plan on keeping this install but I've been using it for three weeks and updating with no issues except the "weak hash" message when updating apt sources such as dropbox.  I will likely do another clean install in a couple of weeks and probably do a disk image backup before I touch unity-tweak tool again.  Also noted, this 16.04 seems lighter, have not had a stability issue, and seems to find bluetooth devices better than on 14.04.x  .  The sound menu seems to lack some (it detects my onboard sound differently) and I have not been able to use one of my analog outputs, but instead line-out seems actively detected--and works ok on amplified speakers.  I still consider this not a necessity to upgrade over Trusty unless I have to have the newer kernel or the new Unity features are a must-have.

---

### Post by makitso on 2016-04-14
I am running a highly customized version of xubuntu 16.04 on 4 machines and its very solid.  One system, my desktop, is used for web development.  It is loaded with applications.  Everything works.  However, I have the LAMP package installed and just yesterday it gave me some problems with a package name change.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-14
> **kengordo said:**
>  ... I've been using it for three weeks and updating with no issues except the **"weak hash" message when updating apt sources such as dropbox**. ...
What does the part in bold mean?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-04-14
> **vasa1 said:**
> What does the part in bold mean?
Debian, and with it Ubuntu, updated the the checksum for apt and dropped sha1 support.
[https://juliank.wordpress.com/2016/03/14/dropping-sha-1-support-in-apt/](https://juliank.wordpress.com/2016/03/14/dropping-sha-1-support-in-apt/)

which didn't realy affect regular repository packages, but did affect ppa's:
[http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~cjwatson/blog/re-signing-ppas.html](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~cjwatson/blog/re-signing-ppas.html)

Also worth a read: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2318821](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2318821)

I would guess that there are some 3rd party repos such as dropbox that need to upgrade their's as well.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-14
> **deadflowr said:**
> Debian, and with it Ubuntu, updated the the checksum for apt and dropped sha1 support.
[https://juliank.wordpress.com/2016/03/14/dropping-sha-1-support-in-apt/](https://juliank.wordpress.com/2016/03/14/dropping-sha-1-support-in-apt/)

which didn't realy affect regular repository packages, but did affect ppa's:
[http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~cjwatson/blog/re-signing-ppas.html](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~cjwatson/blog/re-signing-ppas.html)

Also worth a read: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2318821](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2318821)

I would guess that there are some 3rd party repos such as dropbox that need to upgrade their's as well.
Thanks for that. My Dropbox, now at 3.16.1, in 14.04 is installed without involving apt/dpkg (or a ppa). Hence my confusion. It's direct from dropbox.com.

---

### Post by kengordo on 2016-04-14
Speaking of Dropbox, the icon at top of status bar...has lost some functionality with gnome-desktop with 16.04.  There are no right-click functions, but like I said...I miss Unity and will likely do a reinstall in a couple of months after some kinks worked out. As far as testing I am fairly pleased with 16.04 as it seems to have more polish already compared to 14.04when it first came out.  Is unity-tweak-tool really supposed to be included with the install package?  It has great functionality up until I believe it broke something using it.   I have not dug too deeply into logs and did try the usual resets and config deletes.

---

