---
title: "Interesting Unity feature"
date: 2013-12-15
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by d-cosner on 2013-12-15
I was using Ubuntu 12.04 and although I liked it, after seeing how well 13.10 ran on a computer I set up for my wife I decided to go with it on my computer. I had read about the features that were being added to the newer releases but I did not realize how handy they could be to people trying a Linux system for the first time. Something that caught my eye was that on some popular multimedia sites I was offered the ability to have shortcuts placed in the dash and I could lock them to the launcher.

To those of us that have used Linux for a long time this would be considered a very trivial thing but to brand new users this is very handy. My wife Amanda used this feature right away. Amanda has always preferred running Windows even though most of the computers we have are running Linux. I have PCLinuxOS KDE, Linux Mint Cinnamon and Ubuntu 13.10 installed, I like all of these by the way. Amanda has used all of these computers at one time or another and much to my surprise she seems pretty happy using Ubuntu 13.10.

Being that Amanda was a Windows user, Windows 7 to be specific, I thought that she would like PCLinuxOS KDE or Mint Cinnamon because they both use a classic desktop that is fairly similar to what she was used to running. Amanda will not talk tech with me, she just wants to use the computer, play her games and watch multimedia. She uses torrents a lot so we can all watch movies together. Amanda has been able to do just about everything she could do on her Windows 7 laptop with the exception of one game that she enjoys. Hopefully, she will find some of the games available in the software center to her liking, time will tell on this one.

I have put Ubuntu on peoples computers lately and having good reactions from them about it. The only question I have been asked so far is about the global menu in Firefox. Some people do not notice the global menu right off, once I tell them about it they seem to like it though. I install PCLinuxOS KDE for people that are more tech savvy, these people seem to learn pretty quickly about keeping their system updated and want a rolling release. People that I have installed Ubuntu for are people that just want things to work and are not very interested in the latest, greatest software. These people are interested in keeping things like Firefox up to date just like they were able to do under Windows and Ubuntu makes that very simple to do. 

I installed Peppermint for a guy at work that was running Windows XP, he kept bringing me his virus infected system and decided to give Linux a try because he mostly used his web browser. Peppermint was a good choice for his computer because it just did not have enough memory to run a heavier desktop environment. This guy has been running Peppermint for about a year now and I finally caught up to him to ask him how he liked the change. Leroy said he has not had a single problem since making the switch and was very happy with how his computer was running. I have another friend, Sam, he has brought me his virus infected Windows 7 computer a few times now and I asked him if he would consider giving Linux a try. Sam has used Leroy's computer a couple of times and said that he liked how Leroy's computer has ran so long without any problems. I tried to explain the look and features of Ubuntu 13.10 and Unity to him and he said that he would like to give it a try.

Sam mostly uses his web browser and he uses Firefox, viruses and the computer running slow is his biggest complaint. Sam has grand children that are constantly installing things on his Windows computer and he feels that is what is messing things up all the time. I told Sam about the guest account in Ubuntu and how it does not save any changes, he really liked that idea! Sam does not know a lot about technology but he knows enough to know that his HP computer is powerful enough to not run as slow as it is now. I told Sam that Ubuntu or any other flavor of Linux for that matter will not slow down and does not require any anti virus software or de- fragmenting like Windows needs. I told Sam I would like to load Ubuntu 13.10 on his computer and set up all of the multimedia to play, he can try it and if he is not happy I would put Windows back on it for free. 

My father-in-law has been running Ubuntu for over a year now, he also used to bring me his computer every few months because of viruses. My father-in-law said he was staying with Ubuntu, he has had a couple of minor problems but he was able to solve them without any help.Despite complaints about Unity and some of it's features most people coming over from Windows seem to be enjoying it. I really think that Unity solves the problem of thinking that a Linux based system should be like a free version of Windows. New users seem to be able to find settings to adjust things to their taste easily too. I think that Unity is just as simple or as complicated as you want it to be. 

Ubuntu 13.10 has all of the more advanced features I like to have but it is also simple enough for new users to learn how to use. I still wonder if people using Android phones are one of the reasons they are more open minded to trying Linux now. Anyway, I like how Canonical is developing Unity and the kinds of features they are building into it. New users seem to like the look and feel and they they are able to do the things they want with their computer.

---

