---
title: "13.10 usage of CPU"
date: 2013-10-19
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by doja on 2013-10-19
I just installed Ubuntu 13.10 and everything works fine for me.
 But I have a question about the usage of the CPU capacity.
 I immediately noticed that the 13.10 needs more CPU than 12.04.
 After  the start of the pc, if the there is no application running (void run),
 is the usage of the CPU comparable - say 20-25%.

 If I start Kaffeine for DVB-T the 12.04 needs 55-60% of CPU
 capacity in my case and 13.10  70-75% (or it can jump even to 80%).

 All under the same conditions.

 I would expect that 13.10 is better optimized, plus the 13.10 is a fresh
 installation, that means cleaner than the 12.04.
 

 Do you have an explanation? It's nothing important, I'm just wondering.

---

### Post by Paulgirardin on 2013-10-19
I installed 13.10 yesterday.I saw some instances while I was setting up software that the cpu hit 100% in a particular core but that has settled down.
I currently have Firefox and Opera running and system monitor and each of the 2 cores is sitting at around 5 %

Everything is running quicker and smoother on my system

---

### Post by doja on 2013-10-19
I have to add that I used the application 'system monitor'
 for looking after the CPU usage. This application itself
 takes about 10-15 % CPU, probably because of the graphic.
 When I additionally switched off my-weather- indicator
 and watched  the CPU on the terminal ( the 'top' command)
 I got something about 2-3 % CPU capacity by 13.10.
 This is ok (if not very good).  But when I compared the two OS,
 the 12.04 and 13.10, I used the same conditions  for both runs
 (as far as I could) and because of multiple boot also the
 same machine.
 

 Without dvb-t I haven't seen any significant difference.
 But the difference by dvb-t was obvious.
 
 By closer look in terminal: the 'kaffeine-xbu' shows 10 % less CPU
capacity by 12.04 and compize and Xorg are also bit better so far.

---

