---
title: "15.04?"
date: 2015-04-23
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by sasafrass452 on 2015-04-23
I thought 15.04 was supposed to be released today, but I don't see the prompt to upgrade yet. Is it delayed?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-04-23
if you have 15.04 installed, then there is only (possible) update(s), you dont get a 'prompt' as you already have the latest version.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes)

note that the 23d is not ended yet ;)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2015-04-23
*Thread moved to **Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat**.*

---

### Post by sasafrass452 on 2015-04-23
How could I already have it installed? If I did, I wouldn't be asking.... I'll check again later.

> **dino99 said:**
> if you have 15.04 installed, then there is only (possible) update(s), you dont get a 'prompt' as you already have the latest version.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/VividVervet/ReleaseNotes)

note that the 23d is not ended yet ;)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-04-23
> Is it delayed?

Every six months it seems the release has been delayed but in fact the final ISO image is being put through a large number of automated quality assurance tests. Besides, so many people will be downloading at the same time that it is best, in my opinion, to wait a few days until the rush has died down.

Regards.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2015-04-23
> **grahammechanical said:**
> Every six months it seems the release has been delayed but in fact the final ISO image is being put through a large number of automated quality assurance tests. Besides, so many people will be downloading at the same time that it is best, in my opinion, to wait a few days until the rush has died down.

Regards.

Yesterday was particularly high usage and there were a few spots where the carrier froze up ... but then continued back after a couple of minutes or so.

Regards..

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2015-04-23
> **sasafrass452 said:**
> I thought 15.04 was supposed to be released today, but I don't see the prompt to upgrade yet. Is it delayed?

Every day is 24 hours long so with respect your question was a little premature.

However, it has now been released - [https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2015-April/000195.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2015-April/000195.html)

---

### Post by bplzip on 2015-04-23
Running Xubuntu 14.10, I received the prompt two and a half hours ago. One hour and fifteen minutes later I rebooted into Xubuntu 15.04. Was expecting it to take longer.

So far, only "problem" was that the 3.19.0-15 kernel was not installed during the upgrade; I installed it using Synaptic, rebooted into it and so far, so good.

I usually do a clean install but thought I'd try go "Upgrade" route for a change. Glad I did!

---

### Post by DanielWEWO on 2015-04-23
I'm scared to upgrade soon. I'd like to see how the incredibly touchy fglrx drivers are working for people who upgrade from 14.04.2.

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-04-23
The problems on 12.04.5 and 14.04.2 have been fixed in the trusty-proposed repo.
I don't know if the fix has hit the trusty main repo.

The problem never existed on 14.10 or 15.04.

If you do a fresh installation, you will not encounter the issue.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2015-04-24
> **grahammechanical said:**
> Every six months it seems the release has been delayed but in fact the final ISO image is being put through a large number of automated quality assurance tests. Besides, so many people will be downloading at the same time that it is best, in my opinion, to wait a few days until the rush has died down.

Regards.

To be fair, it is always delayed for people in Japan or China , cause by the time the announcement is out, the official release date has expired in the east-most regions.

---

