---
title: "14.04 if you hate Unity, stay with Gnome-Flashback ..."
date: 2014-05-07
forum: Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2014-05-07
Maybe I'm in the minority but I just do not like the Unity user interface.

Immediately after installing Ubuntu I installed gnome-flashback.

Later, I was reading about Gnome 3 (v3.12)and thought it might be interesting.
But, the writeup stated that you needed to have Gnome v3.10 installed first.

With gnome-flashback, the command **gnome-shell --version** was "command not found"

I noted Gnome Desktop in the Ubuntu Software Center and thought I would give it a go.
Now **gnome-shell --version** worked and it showed **GNOME Shell 3.10.4**

With v3.10, now I could install Gnome 3.  I did.

But, with this new Gnome Desktop my icons I had in the top status line were no longer there.
And, when I clicked the single menu item in the top status line, it showed that ugly Unity look.

I backed out Gnome 3 and reinstalled gnome-flashback to get the true classic Gnome with no Unity look.

So, folks, if you are like me and do not like the Unity desktop look, stay with Gnome-Flashback.

Carl

---

### Post by kc1di on 2014-05-07
If you like the Old Gnome why not install mate instructions [here.]("http://www.webupd8.org/2014/03/how-to-install-mate-18-in-ubuntu.html")

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-05-07
Think I will be running Fallback on my lappy for a couple of more years.

---

### Post by impliedconsent2 on 2014-05-07
> **cwmoser said:**
> Maybe I'm in the minority but I just do not like the Unity user interface.  Yea, I guess I'm in that minority as well, Unity is just unusable when I need to GUI navigate quickly and not try to learn a re-invented wheel.  I was with you immediately, but then I was blessed and my wife let me home build a new PC.  I was immediately going to install the Mate DE as well, but decided on Kubuntu instead (remember, I "built" my PC).  I just wanted a clean installation without too much fuss.  [COLOR=#000000]**kc1di **nailed it.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-07
Not really a minority tbh, but to each its own. Linux is all about having options ;D

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-05-07
***Not  a Support Request- Moved to Ubuntu Linux and OS Chat. ***

---

### Post by ptn107 on 2014-05-07
I just installed Ubuntu Gnome 14.04 and use the gnome-classic login session.  It's my new favorite.  The new RHEL 7 is using it that's how I discovered it.

---

