---
title: "8.10 update stalled out ubuntu!"
date: 2008-10-24
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Xpictoc on 2008-10-24
I upgraded to the 8.10 release candidate everything went smoothly.  My first login after the reboot caused a problem where everything on my desktop shows up fine except the clock, some startup items, and the network display icon.  I can move the mouse around a little bit, and then it freezes every time after about a minute or two.  Does anyone know whats going on or how to help?  No processor activity seems to happen, the computer just stops making noise.  I've tried the older kernel and the same problem happens.  You guys always have helped me to keep my interest in Ubuntu in the past, lets hope this is not a problem you guys can't solve with me!  :guitar:

---

### Post by Xpictoc on 2008-10-25
BUMP! Well, I'm probably just going to just reinstall once the official comes out on the 30th and salvage what files I can via windoze.  Hm, well, I'm thinking the problem is maybe compiz fusion?  It freezes and stops loading before the startup sessions have a chance to load, and I only really have compiz and pulse audio to start.  Hmm...I'm not the brightest cup of ubuntu but that is my guess... Anyone with any help would be much appreciated.  I perhaps should have read more on updating to the new release in advance since I had never upgraded from within an existing release, probably some kind of incompatibility from some 8.04 thing...

---

### Post by Yashiro on 2008-10-25
Run gnome-appearance-properties and turn off desktop effects.

---

### Post by silkko on 2008-10-25
Well im experiencing the same problem except mine does freeze.
Guys help out.

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2008-10-25
IBM Thinkpad R31 freezes on boot on most daily builds since August 12.  Alpha 5 booted, NOT UPDATED booted.  Alpha 6, Beta, and Release Candidate don't.

The bug is compiz see Launchpad Bug # 259385.

You can test if your problem is compiz "fancy graphics hardware & driver tricks" for "eye candy" by:
Boot in rescue mode
At the pop up window, choose
Root prompt
sudo apt-get remove compiz
sudo apt-get remove compiz-core
exit
resume normal boot

If you want to try compiz again, do the same thing by doing install instead of remove.

Another way to check is to try Xubuntu CD Live, which doesn't use compiz.

Jerry

---

