---
title: "8.10 Alpha 5: messing with ethernet firmware?"
date: 2008-09-06
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-06
I have A Lenovo X61s with a Pro/1000 chipset, which now uses the e1000e module for the last little while.  There's a known issue with this chipset on some Thinkpads, where it won't properly load the MAC address from the EEPROM because of a deep power state, the first bit it reads when loading the module appears corrupted even though it's not.

There are a bunch of fixes, and my understanding is that this was part of the move from e1000 to e1000e for some of these chipsets.  Also, current Lenovo BIOS remove this power state.  Additionally, an rmmod and second modprobe are supposed to work around the issue, as is loading the module with the media plugged.

I've never had this issue in the past, not once.  I've used it in Arch, Fedora, and Ubuntu 8.04 without issue.  I played with both Kubuntu and Ubuntu 8.10 Alpha 5 installs yesterday, and ever since then I'm having the issue.  Not only in 8.10 A5, but also in Arch, and Ubuntu 8.04.  Even worse, the work arounds aren't working at all.

Although I can't verify it's related (I haven't used Windows in the past on it), after loading up XP Pro to flash the BIOS (their DOS ISO isn't detecting my external CD drive), it's only negotiating to 10Mbps.  If I force the switch port to 1000Mbps that works, but it won't negotiate.  Also, while I'm not sure yet, I may have an issue with link stability.

So, what the hell did this Alpha do to my firmware and how do I fix it?  I suppose it could just be a coincidence and something decided to have issues at the same time, but it's odd.

Unfortunately, I'm already at the latest BIOS version, and Lenovo's software won't let me force a flash.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-06
Oh, I think I posted this to the wrong place.  If this should be in the networking forum, could a mod move it, please?

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-07
[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Problem_with_e1000:_EEPROM_Checksum_Is_Not_Valid](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Problem_with_e1000:_EEPROM_Checksum_Is_Not_Valid)

This is the problem I'm having.  Reading over it earlier, I missed the module parameter that makes it ignore the checksum.  That's for e1000, though, I'll have to see if it still works with e1000e.  Once I do that and have eth0 available, I should be able to run the script from Lenovo.

I guess worst case, I can download an old distribution with a kernel that still uses e1000 and run the script from there.  I'm not really sure it alters the firmware and not just software, but I think (hope) it does.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-07
Alright, I have Ubuntu and XP Pro installed now.

In Ubuntu I'm still getting the probe error, but if I use that option to disable checksumming on the modprobe it works.  In XP, I'm still connecting at 10Mbps unless I force the switch port, and transfers are painfully slow (about 110kB/s on 10Mbps link, up to about 350kB/s on forced 1000Mbps link).  Once I get the module loaded properly in Ubuntu, I get my proper 764kB/s from kernel.org

I'm guessing the XP driver is failing the checksum, trying to drop into some compatibility mode, and then passing the checksum because it's safely out of the deep powersave state at that point.

Unfortunately, the Lenovo script returns 'No appropriate hardware for this fixup'

So now I just have to figure out what the 8.10 Alpha did so that I can find some way to reverse it.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-07
Now that I'm back in Linux again, by the way, an lspci reveals that it's an 82566DC variety of the Pro/1000.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-08
bump

anyone?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-09-08
Moved to Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion :)

---

### Post by bonsiware on 2008-09-08
Similar problem here on a fujitsu siemens Lifebook E8410...

I'm using Intrepid upgraded to now.

The lan card intel 82566DC (I think it was a 82655MC before) is no more working after I tried Kubuntu intrepid alpha5!!!

- in Network Manager I've no more Wired connections, only wreless...
- sudo lshw -C network give me this:
```
  *-network UNCLAIMED     
       description: Ethernet controller
       product: 82566DC Gigabit Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 19
       bus info: pci@0000:00:19.0
       version: 03
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
```
- vista found new hardware, but isn't able to activate it!

It looks like the firmware of the LAN card has been changed!

A firmware upgrade didn't solve the problem!
Same problem with hardy 8.04.1 live cd.

Help me please, I need my wired network back!!!!

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-08
Thanks overdrank, I didn't even see this one

I wonder if this will fit under my accidental damage warranty, being caused by software.  If not, maybe I should just file a bug report and RMA this thing before Lenovo gets wind of what the problem may be.

Has anyone else had issues?  Can anyone verify if the model changed?  That makes it sound like a firmware for another model was loaded, which really creeps me out.  I'd just assume software takes a read only policy for ROM chips, at least without permission.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-08
It looks like mine was an 82566MM based on a handful of lspci results in tuxmobile guides.  And from an Intel chipset diagram, it looks like that's integrated.

---

### Post by BC7333 on 2008-09-08
Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 01)

Centrino Duo system

Seems can't connect wired anymore either...

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-08
> **BC7333 said:**
> Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 01)

Centrino Duo system

Seems can't connect wired anymore either...

Are you sure your not confusing the wired eth issue with known problems in NM 0.7? Refer to my posts on that.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-08
Check 'ifconfig -a' and 'dmesg|grep <modname>' where <modname> is some decisive portion of your ethernet module's name.  If it's not showing up in the ifconfig interfaces and you don't have any errors in dmesg, then it's probably not this problem.  For your sake, I hope it's just the network manager bug (I'm assuming, I'm unfamiliar).

---

### Post by scaine on 2008-09-08
I've got to admit - I'd be utterly gobsmacked if ANY version of Ubuntu started writing firmware updates into its boot sequence.  I appreciate that coincidences rarely turn out to be coincidences, but are you sure that you haven't just suffered a hardware fault?

Sorry if I've got the wrong end of the stick here, but just to clarify - you ran fine on 8.04, tried the Alpha5 of Intrepid, it didn't work out, so you went back to 8.04 (and subsequently tried XP) and now your network card is broken?

Really odd.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-08
Yeah, that's essentially it.  It's even more odd when you consider it's happened to someone else with a very similar chip.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-08
bug reported

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/267952](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/267952)

Anyone else who experience the problem, please help with any info you can.

---

### Post by jm@rt on 2008-09-17
I also have a Lenovo Thinkpad X 61 and am having the same issue.  I was running perfect on 8.04 then upgraded to 8.10 A4 which was freezing up on any screen saver, hibernation or any other full screen mode such as full screen remote desktop.  I tried upgrading to 8.10 A5 and now have the same issue described by overdrink.

:~$ sudo lshw -C net
  *-network UNCLAIMED     
       description: Ethernet controller
       product: 82566DC Gigabit Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 19
       bus info: pci@0000:00:19.0
       version: 03
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: wmaster0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:1c:bf:8a:fd:a6
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list logical ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=iwl3945 latency=0 module=iwl3945 multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11abg

I have also tried reinstalling 8.04 and XP with no positive results.  My wired ethernet is toast for now.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-22
Could you add to the bug report?  It would be nice if someone would acknowledge it, anyway, this is a pretty serious issue even if it isn't effecting a ton of people.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/267952](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/267952)

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-22
If I did not happen in hardy, please consider tagging your bug as per this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=924782](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=924782)

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-22
Is it a regression if it wasn't a previously fixed problem?

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-22
Unfortunately no :) A regression is where a given piece of functionality used to work, and now no longer does not. Hence, it has regressed.

I dont use Kubuntu, however Ive noticed user's reporting issues with KDE and NM in Kubuntu builds. Personally I doubt any OS fiddling with a NICs firmware but I appreciate the bug youre having.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-22
This is a script Lenovo provided to fix the issue I mentioned earlier, where a low power state causes a corrupt MAC address to be reported without the interface being woken up first, and the same checksum failure we're seeing.  Now, I'm not saying I understand what the script does, I have absolutely no clue beyond the fact that it alters the firmware, probably to disable this particular low power state.

What it shows me is that yes, the tools do exist to alter the firmware in Linux.  A quick check of the ethtool man page shows that -e is used to dump the eeprom, and -E is used to change the eeprom.  Again, I have no idea if this is what's happening, but that's a pretty simple typo to make.

```
#!/bin/bash 

if [ -z "$1" ]; then
	echo "Usage: $0 \<interface\>"
	echo "       i.e. $0 eth0"
	exit 1
fi

if ! ifconfig $1 > /dev/null; then
	exit 1
fi

dev=$(ethtool -e $1 | grep 0x0010 | awk '{print "0x"$13$12$15$14}')

case $dev in
	0x109a8086)
		echo "$1: is a \"82573L Gigabit Ethernet Controller\""
		;;
	*)
		echo "No appropriate hardware found for this fixup"
		exit 1
		;;
esac

echo "This fixup is applicable to your hardware"

var=$(ethtool -e $1 | grep 0x0020 | awk '{print $17}')
new1=$(echo ${var:0:1} | tr '2367abef' '014589cd')
new2=$(echo ${var:1})
new=$new1$new2
if [ ${var:0:1}${var:1} == $new ]; then
	echo "Your eeprom is up to date, no changes were made"
	exit 2
fi

echo "executing command: ethtool -E $1 magic $dev offset 0x2f value 0x$new"
ethtool -E $1 magic $dev offset 0x2f value 0x$new
echo "Please reboot for the change to take effect."

```

---

### Post by cmsj on 2008-09-22
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555)

---

### Post by Sand &amp; Mercury on 2008-09-23
I had this problem with my own adapter too, but fixed it by simply turning my lappy off, removing the battery, putting it in again and turning it on again. If you're using a laptop, give that a try. Sounds stupid, yes, but it might work for you.

---

### Post by Leslie Viljoen on 2008-09-23
I am astounded that there's actually a debate over whether to remove downloads that can permanently destroy hardware back at the bug report: 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555)

This likewise does permanent damage to the reputation of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-23
Fully cutting power caused the module to load, but there was another error and it was non-functional.  Unfortunately, I didn't get around to writing it down before trying to flash my BIOS, which brought me back to the checksum error.

I agree, it's really sick.  Like I said in the master bug report, things like this happen, but it is NOT being handled well.

---

### Post by GoingDown on 2008-09-24
I have (possibly) affected hardware:

00:19.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82566MM Gigabit Network Connection (rev 03)
	Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company Device 30c5
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 22
	Memory at e8020000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=128K]
	Memory at e8040000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=4K]
	I/O ports at 5040 [size=32]
	Capabilities: [c8] Power Management version 2
	Capabilities: [d0] Message Signalled Interrupts: Mask- 64bit+ Queue=0/0 Enable-
	Kernel driver in use: e1000e
	Kernel modules: e1000e

Running on 2.6.26 kernel on Archlinux, no problems. I am willing to try 8.10 Alpha releases, but I am not sure if I want to hose my hardware (it is HP Compaq 8510w laptop). 

What do you say, should I try? Of course I have copied my eth firmware with ethtool -e so I should be able to dump it back but still I am not sure.

By the way, affected people should just get someone else to dump firmware (on identical hardware of course), then patch it with your own MAC address and write it back to eeprom and it should work. Has anyone tried? Mac address seems to be at offset 0x0000 on my dump (right at the beginning)

---

### Post by MSalivar on 2008-09-24
I'm not sure how I would write the firmware, since ethtool uses the interface, and the interface doesn't exist without the checksum passing.  Any ideas?

I would wait for another release with their latest 2.6.27 build with e1000e disabled.  Or, after making sure it's in the repo, do a dist upgrade from 8.04.  Or you could always use a virtual machine.

---

### Post by Gina on 2008-09-24
See the sticky WARNING thread about a kernel bug overwriting the Gigabit ethernet bios.

I've often had to remove the battery to completely power down my laptop to clear a problem, particularly when I was running XP - I can't remember having to do it with Ubuntu but being quite a common procedure I may not have remembered.

---

### Post by Leslie Viljoen on 2008-10-01
I post this here, respecting the requests at the bug report page ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555)).

I believe those with authority in the Ubuntu community need to publish a policy statement on code that has the potential to permanently damage hardware. 

Personally, I believe such code should be made unavailable for download as soon as this potential is discovered, and that a warning message is not good enough.

This is because people often cache URL's and download ISO's at night, and they would never see a warning notice. Besides, anyone with any PR experience knows that a warning like this, on code that can still be downloaded, only highlights the fact that the hosts are not willing to make every effort to prevent destruction of user's hardware.

I know everyone points out "expect bugs", but bugs **known** to destroy hardware fall into a special category, and warrant immediate action.

Before anyone gets offended by this post, please remember that if I didn't care about Ubuntu I wouldn't bother. I post this because I think Ubuntu is the best and I want it to stay the best, and I don't want anyone pointing out that embarrassing debate at the bug report next time I recommend it.

---

### Post by kdorf on 2008-10-02
> **Leslie Viljoen said:**
> I post this here, respecting the requests at the bug report page ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555)).

I believe those with authority in the Ubuntu community need to publish a policy statement on code that has the potential to permanently damage hardware. 

Personally, I believe such code should be made unavailable for download as soon as this potential is discovered, and that a warning message is not good enough.

This is because people often cache URL's and download ISO's at night, and they would never see a warning notice. Besides, anyone with any PR experience knows that a warning like this, on code that can still be downloaded, only highlights the fact that the hosts are not willing to make every effort to prevent destruction of user's hardware.

I know everyone points out "expect bugs", but bugs **known** to destroy hardware fall into a special category, and warrant immediate action.

Before anyone gets offended by this post, please remember that if I didn't care about Ubuntu I wouldn't bother. I post this because I think Ubuntu is the best and I want it to stay the best, and I don't want anyone pointing out that embarrassing debate at the bug report next time I recommend it.

I agree wholeheartedly. I was really close to installing the alpha on my own laptop (less than a month old!) because Hardy wasn't cutting it for hardware support. Thank goodness I saw the bug on launchpad.

I think the big thing to highlight here is once again, this is hardware we're talking about. People expect data to be at risk. People know that they can lose things with a sloppy rm, or that a hard drive may die, and that's why they keep backups around. It might be an inconvenience to fix things, then, it is an alpha.

The same can't really be said for hardware. I don't boot up my machine wondering whether some kernel module is going to brick my system. This has cost people money, I'm sure. And because it tends to affect laptops, it's probably more than you might think.

Leaving those potentially harmful images up takes a lot from the "humanity towards others" philosophy that makes Ubuntu so great.

---

### Post by Leslie Viljoen on 2008-10-03
Steve Langasek has responded to the ongoing screaming at the bug report page with the first post that I consider a reasonable response.

It finally explains the reluctance to remove the dangerous downloads:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555/comments/129](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/263555/comments/129)

Thanks Steve!

---

