---
title: "64 vs 32"
date: 2008-09-21
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Sophont on 2008-09-21
2 things regarding 32 and 64 but versions:
1) While I've been using 32bit versions on my Duo Core 2 machine for years I tried Intrepid Alpha 4 &  5 as 64 bit for a change (only live CD - not installed) - most stuff worked fine. Basically no difference from what I'm used to with the 32bit version. 
But with Alpha 6 I first tried the 32bit Live CD and it failed to boot.
Anybody else had a problem with that or did I get a faulty iso burned?

2) Did anybody check if using the 64bit version provides any advantage on a desktop system with <= 4 GB of RAM?

To my thinking the 64bit version will run into some software problems with libs that haven't been adapted for 64bit yet (or simply got less tested than the - still majority? - 32 bit systems) - while providing no discernible speed advantage in normal interactive use.
For a DB server (especially with > 4GB of RAM) I would use the 64bit - but otherwise I doubt that there are any real advantages to be had in practical use.

I consider any speed improved < 20% as irrelevant for normal interactive use as humans won't really notice it.

Opinions - or even better any objective benchmarks that might convince me that 64bit is worth any risk of software troubles?

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2008-09-21
> **Sophont said:**
> 2 things regarding 32 and 64 but versions:

But with Alpha 6 I first tried the 32bit Live CD and it failed to boot.
Anybody else had a problem with that or did I get a faulty iso burned?


Alpha 6 boots fine for me. And my dvdrom is picky when it comes to booting live cds.

Use a cd-rw when burning. That way you can overwrite it when new versions are released.

---

### Post by TheMono on 2008-09-21
> **Sophont said:**
> 
2) Did anybody check if using the 64bit version provides any advantage on a desktop system with <= 4 GB of RAM?
Opinions - or even better any objective benchmarks that might convince me that 64bit is worth any risk of software troubles?

Yes and No. A 64 bit binary will often take more ram space than the 32 bit equivalent, so I wouldn't run 64 bit with less than 1GB ram.  However, on pure number crunching tasks, there can be a noticeable speed increase in using 64 bit - talking things like music / video encoding & decoding, file compression, decompression, encryption, etc. On these things you can often get over 20% increase, but how often do you really do these things?

Day to day life though, you'll probably notice no difference. I've been using it for about a year now, and it's just like using 32 bit (I have 3gb ram) and so I stand by it. Running the flash plugin for example works out of the box - just install flashplugin-nonfree and it takes care of installing the wrapper for firefox / konqueror for you.

---

### Post by howefield on 2008-09-21
> **Sophont said:**
> ...I consider any speed improved < 20% as irrelevant for normal interactive use as humans won't really notice it.

Opinions - or even better any objective benchmarks that might convince me that 64bit is worth any risk of software troubles?

I'd take any speed improvements going, far less 20%.  :guitar:

Can't give you objective (as in measurable) benchmarks but having installed 32 bit and 64 bit, I am much happier with 64 bit because I have had far fewer program crashes, the only one I can think of was a windows program running in wine and that was just the once whereas previously in 32 bit, I only had to look at Firefox or Kaffeine the wrong way to make them crash. 

Maybe had nothing to do with 32 vs 64 but for me, 64 bit all the way.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-09-21
[This](http://www.geekpatrol.ca/2006/09/32-bit-vs-64-bit-performance/) seems a reasonable set of benchmarks.  Ignore the fact that it's done on OS X; the results for linux will be comparable.

Ignore the G5 32/64bit benchmarks; these aren't actually surprising *at all*.  Using 64bit code has an inherent performance penalty - you need to move more data around the bus and the memory bus is *slooooow* (your pointers & longs, at least, have become twice as big).  The reason why x86-64 is faster than IA32 is not because it's 64bit vs 32bit, it's because the x86-64 ISA designers took the opportunity to dramatically increase the number of registers visible to code, making the compiler's optimisation job much, much easier.
  
The PPC architecture isn't as register-constrained as IA32, so the difference between PPC32 and PPC64 is just (IIUC) the size of the registers, pointers, longs, etc.  Thus, unless the code is actually doing 64bit operations there's no benefit.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2008-09-21
I have been using 64bit exclusively since the original athalon64 came out and have never looked back . really unless you are doing something like heavy duty video processing or number crunching with native 64bit software any gains will be small and with 32 bit apps there may be a small performance hit with a 64bit install .so basicly its flip a coin and take your chances . the real advantage right now is the ability to use > 4gb mem which is becomming more common theese days.

---

### Post by Quikee on 2008-09-22
> **ronacc said:**
> the real advantage right now is the ability to use > 4gb mem which is becomming more common theese days.

Actually ability to use >= 4GB of memory. ;)

---

### Post by shafin on 2008-09-22
I dont know if any of you have noticed it, for me, file copying/ moving is 2-3 times faster for me on 64 bit, pen drives that get 2-3 MBps speed on 32 bit gets 11-12 MBps on 64 bit

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2008-09-22
> **shafin said:**
> I dont know if any of you have noticed it, for me, file copying/ moving is 2-3 times faster for me on 64 bit, pen drives that get 2-3 MBps speed on 32 bit gets 11-12 MBps on 64 bit

There is no logical reason why that should be so. A 32-bit machine should be able to fill a USB connection just as well as a 64-bit machine. The bottleneck is the USB bus itself, not the CPU.

---

### Post by xebian on 2008-09-22
> **3rdalbum said:**
> There is no logical reason why that should be so. A 32-bit machine should be able to fill a USB connection just as well as a 64-bit machine. The bottleneck is the USB bus itself, not the CPU.

You have to remember though that it's not 32-bit vs. 64-bit machine.  It's 32-bit vs 64-bit OS on a 64-bit machine.

---

### Post by UbuWu on 2008-09-22
Here is an overview of the advantages and disadvantages of using 64 bit Ubuntu:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=765428](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=765428)

---

