---
title: "nVidia 177 driver does this..."
date: 2008-09-12
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-12
The picture is flickering when it happens. Switch to a tty and Ctrl-Alt-Del to reboot sorts it out.

Twice now. Anyone else?

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-13
3 times now. I've switched to 173 to see what happens.

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-13
173 does it too. Very annoying!

I have resorted to the OS nv driver.

---

### Post by amano on 2008-09-13
What is your video card?

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-13
GeForce 7950 GTX on a Dell Precision M90 laptop

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-15
Argh! 177.70 does the same thing! What's going on? I have to resort to using the open source driver. But that has no 3D support.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-09-15
Bug it at launchpad.

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-15
I'm going back to Hardy for a bit, just reassure myself it's not hardware failure.

What info will they want at Launchpad for this?

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-09-15
> **phenest said:**
> I'm going back to Hardy for a bit, just reassure myself it's not hardware failure.

What info will they want at Launchpad for this?

Description of bug, your pc specs. The screen shot etc. As much info as you can give.

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-28
Hoorah!

The only way for the nVidia drivers to behave is by putting my CPU into powersave. So CPU scaling is affecting the nVidia drivers, or more accurately, when the CPU changes speed.

Do I report the bug is the nvidia-glx-177 package? Even the 173 variety have the same problem.

EDIT: Good job this is a fast CPU.

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-28
Crashed again! Now I'm getting somewhat cheesed off!

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-28
Will someone please give me a hand here. Do I report this on Launchpad? If so, what package? Or should I report this to nVidia?

---

### Post by tepsipakki on 2008-09-28
nvidia. we can't do anything about the bugs anyway.

---

### Post by jlacroix on 2008-09-28
> **tepsipakki said:**
> nvidia. we can't do anything about the bugs anyway.

I wouldn't be so quick to pass the issue to Nvidia without first checking it out to make sure it's not a bug in Xorg.

Definitely report this bug to Launchpad with your Xorg.0.log file when the problem happens, your xorg.conf, your specs and the screenshot at least. After testing, if the issue turns out not to be a bug in Xorg, then it can be escalated to Nvidia. In the meantime, the Ubuntu devs should be able to come up with a work around as this is a serious problem if you're not the only person experiencing it.

I'm having a ton of problems with Ubuntu's implementation of the Nvidia driver, so I'm with you. (Although I've been able to solve all but one of the bugs by editing the xorg.conf file manually).

---

### Post by nanog on 2008-09-29
Someone else had a post about the same card failing.

Unless it works with earlier kernels its almost certainly due to the nvidia driver. Your best bet is to go post at nvidia forums. I run an 8400GS, 7300LE, and 8600GT. All of which are working well with the 177 beta driver and less well with the 173 stable (mostly known bugs).

---

### Post by syko21 on 2008-09-29
You could try running the new nvidia beta 177.70. I believe the official repositories use 177.68 (last I checked but I could be wrong since I use 177.70)

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=118602](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=118602)

---

### Post by blakamin on 2008-09-29
My nvidia 7000m does the same type of thing at shutdown.

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-29
Excuse me if I ranted on about this, but this is truly annoying. Any other bug I can put up with, but this makes my computer unusable when it happens.

Anyway...

I have the problem exist with all flavours of nVidia drivers, so it may not be the driver. I have found that by setting the CPU to powersave and/or disabling SpeedStep in the BIOS does help (at least it takes longer before it crashes). I am now testing a very basic xorg.conf file:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
EndSection
```

If anyone wants to leave comments, there is a bug report: [270617]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-177/+bug/270617")

---

### Post by plun on 2008-09-29
Have you checked with Dell support  ?

[http://direct2dell.com/one2one/archive/2008/08/08/latest-on-the-nvidia-gpu-issue-for-dell-laptop-customers.aspx](http://direct2dell.com/one2one/archive/2008/08/08/latest-on-the-nvidia-gpu-issue-for-dell-laptop-customers.aspx)

This will cost a lot for nVidia and I haven't checked your specs.
[B]

Nevertheless, check your model for newer BIOS ![/B]


Also check **GPU core temperature** with nvidia-settings if it can be a cooling problem.

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-29
The spec of the Precision M90 is exactly the same as an XPS M1710 with the exception of the graphics card. The graphics card I am using is from an XPS model as the motherboards in both laptops are the same. This has not been an issue with Vista, XP, or Hardy. I have only had this problem with Intrepid.

The GPU temp does hover around 57C. Is that normal? I hardly ever hear fans whirring.

I have an up-to-date BIOS. This may coincide with the problems and maybe an idea to downgrade to see the results.

EDIT: The GPU reached 60C and the fan cut in, but it only dropped to 50C. Is that right?

---

### Post by plun on 2008-09-29
I dont use any PC from Dell so I don't know.

This is the original message from Dell:

[http://direct2dell.com/one2one/archive/2008/07/25/nvidia-gpu-update-for-dell-laptop-owners.aspx](http://direct2dell.com/one2one/archive/2008/07/25/nvidia-gpu-update-for-dell-laptop-owners.aspx)


You can also probably ask within the U-F Dell forum
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=342](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=342)


My temperature is around 55 C degrees (slightly overclocked 7600GS card) 


Something is terrible wrong with your Laptop and I would start with 
investigating BIOS which controls your Laptop.


Also this thread about "howto" debug nVidia challenges.
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=46678](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=46678)

.

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-29
> **plun said:**
> Something is terrible wrong with your Laptop and I would start with 
investigating BIOS which controls your Laptop.

I have to disagree. Vista, XP, Gutsy, and Hardy all work fine. I will not investigate the hardware until I have exhausted all software possibilities. Besides, I don't appear to be the only one with this problem.

---

### Post by plun on 2008-09-29
> **phenest said:**
> I have to disagree. Vista, XP, Gutsy, and Hardy all work fine. I will not investigate the hardware until I have exhausted all software possibilities. Besides, I don't appear to be the only one with this problem.

Qoute from Dell

> The issue is a weak die/packaging material set, which may fail with GPU temperature fluctuations. If your GPU fails, you may see intermittent symptoms during early stages of failure that include:

[B] * Multiple images
    * Random characters on the screen
    * Lines on the screen
    * No video[/B]



So start with Dell support...   Call, chat, read or what you chooses

Then you can add these facts to your bug report

Also a nVidia bug report to nVidia

Good Luck !

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-29
I'm back on Hardy. No problems. In fact, according to nvidia-settings, the GPU thermal temperature is about 43C. Over 10 degrees cooler than in Intrepid. Could this be the problem?

And checking nvidia-settings, the fan cuts in at 50C and keeps going until it reaches 40C. Whereas in Intrepid, the fan cuts in at 60C and cools it down to 50C. 10 degrees difference!

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-10-07
Ok. I'm using 177.80 right now. 177.78 worked really well with kernel 2.6.27-4. After installing 2.6.27-6, the driver crashed. But only the once. Things seem more stable than before.

---

