---
title: "8.10rc video problems: vesa &amp; nvidia drivers"
date: 2008-10-26
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Roostey on 2008-10-26
I had to trash my Parents old Ubuntu install today and decided to reinstall with 8.10 since I've been running it for some time with few issues, yet I had significant video problems on a system that worked fine under Feisty.

The PC is connected to a samsung 1280x1024 monitor but the vesa driver wouldn't set the resolution correctly, it seemed to be stuck at 800x600 and choosing a higher resolution would simply stretch the height of the display, leaving the width at 800 and making the bottom part of the screen beyond the first 600 pixels unreachable.

So, I installed the nVidia driver and hit an even worse problem.  After rebooting, the monitor displayed something like "invalid video mode" and that was it.  Luckily I had my laptop with me and a spare network cable so I was able to remote control the PC and I found out that the nVidia driver was defaulting to 800x600@75hz which the monitor apparently doesn't support, so I set it to 1280x1024@50Hz and it's working OK now.

My question is this: what can a user do to resolve a problem like this without a spare PC?  I used to be able to tweak the xorg.conf, but since it's now "automatic", I'm not sure what I could have done.  is there any way to generate an old-style xorg.conf file that can be tweaked to remove unwanted resolutions or set a default?

---

### Post by mrjohnston on 2008-10-26
I feel your pain.  I had a similar issue.  With everything moving to automatic, the tools haven't caught up.  I believe the "right" way now with an nvidia card it to use nvidia-settings to get the settings right and then write to xorg.conf through the program itself.

As for me I always keep an old, working copy of my xorg.conf file for each computer I have as a failsafe if anything goes pear shaped.

---

### Post by dabl on 2008-10-26
8.10 Recovery Mode has a "Fix X" utility that has bailed me out of a problem or two.  :)

---

### Post by Roostey on 2008-10-26
mrjohnston:

I couldn't use nvidia-settings because the nVidia driver had to be active for it to start, and the monitor wasn't working when when the driver was active.

I guess I should have kept a copy of xorg.conf, but I hadn't had any problems on Feisty...  I think I'll just have to keep a pre-automatic xorg.conf live CD handy from now on.

dabl:

I used that "Fix X" option several times to go back to the distorted vesa driver.  I'm glad it was there because even though the vesa driver wasn't working properly, I was able to see enough of the screen so I could turn on remote desktop.

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2008-10-28
> **Roostey said:**
> .

My question is this: what can a user do to resolve a problem like this without a spare PC?  I used to be able to tweak the xorg.conf, but since it's now "automatic", I'm not sure what I could have done.  is there any way to generate an old-style xorg.conf file that can be tweaked to remove unwanted resolutions or set a default?

[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.09/README/chapter-06.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.09/README/chapter-06.html)

[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.09/README/appendix-b.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/173.14.09/README/appendix-b.html)

Resolving issues in the new xorg when I moved to Hardy was a pain because of EDID. This is the method of querying the hardware and configuring based on the hardware info , and if that info is flawed or not accessible problems occur.
Found a way to disable it in the above links in order to write two config files; one for my 15 inch and one for my 17inch monitor! Then investigated nvidia-settings approach to writing an xorg.conf.

The important thing is to read the xorg log file and try to find out what the problem is, what conf file is it using (it loves to create a failsafe one, then continually boot from it until you delete it!). 
Have since moved to a new laptop with NVIDIA 8400M GS and xorg behaved ok on install of HARDY and the built in option to load the NVIDIA driver worked OK ,too.
The latest kernel update broke the drivers(as they always will do, if you read the small print in the wikis etc...).
I discovered ENVYNG this evening and sorted my problems with the NVIDIA drivers, where manually removing and reinstalling failed.... and the built in Hardware driver GUI was , well.. blank.
Hope this is of some use/interest to you..

---

### Post by klamari on 2008-10-28
Why all those NVIDIA problems with (K)Ubuntu nowadays? Where is the problem? NVIDIA? Or (K)Ubuntu?
I read too many questions on that issue in the last weeks and spent I don't know how long to get my own system running........---

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2008-10-28
> **klamari said:**
> Why all those NVIDIA problems with (K)Ubuntu nowadays? Where is the problem? NVIDIA? Or (K)Ubuntu?
I read too many questions on that issue in the last weeks and spent I don't know how long to get my own system running........---

[http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/NVIDIA?highlight=(CategoryHardwareVendor](http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/NVIDIA?highlight=(CategoryHardwareVendor))

We all want our shiny 3D cards to play with wobbly windows (or 3D games! shock horror! Games on Linux..tut.) so the 'Open Source' drivers from the nice people in that link do not always give us what we want.
 So, the workaround is to use the free versions supplied by NVIDIA that are closed source (I think, still) so if you refer here
[http://www.ubuntu.com/community/ubuntustory/philosophy](http://www.ubuntu.com/community/ubuntustory/philosophy)
you see why those drivers are not really supported by Ubuntu per se.

---

### Post by klamari on 2008-10-28
Well then,  if I want a free beer I either want it for free "=nothing paid" or I want my own choice of what beer I want to be served in me local pub, but if I don't get my own choice and the rest not for "nothing" I will have to look for a new pub and a landlord with a "Free licence"

cheers

martin

---

### Post by Zimmer on 2008-10-28
Beer? in Bavaria? Surely some mistake ? :) 

Have you tried Knoppix?

---

### Post by klamari on 2008-10-28
Knoppix is a fine tool to run as a live CD, but no updates and few options after install to look at cutting edge technology. But helped me quite often to re-configure my MS-Systems (Win 98,ME,XP and even Vista).

About the beer, there is a rumour that there still are some "free" breweries out there in Bavaria, small, but brewing good stuff, so if the new "shiny" brew Ibex will not run one can go back to what is delivered in your local PC, and that is most often the product Bill Gates made his money with.

Of course you can still look for a better place to enjoy your brew, but the philosophy of Ubuntu tells me Ubuntu should be something for everyone....
If it does not install easily noone is going to work with it.

Thats why after using Suse 7.2 years ago Windows stayed my main OS! It works out of the box and the next day no hangover because of using the terminal too often. 
(Don't even need to know a terminal in Windows, after DOS is expired and tastes sour)

Greetings

martin

---

