---
title: "8.10 finds network &quot;connects&quot; but internet doesn't work."
date: 2008-09-23
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by samborona on 2008-09-23
Hi, 

Would appreciate any help at all on this matter, it is the first time I have setup wireless on an ubuntu installation and I think I am missing something.

I have the realtek rtl8187b card in my toshiba a300d laptop, and really stuggled with drivers etc. tried everything I read couldn't get it to work so decided to upgrade to 8.10 as I had heard the new kernel had support for the card.

Ubuntu 8.10 picks up my WEP encrypted network, asks me for the WEP key, then tells me it is connected and displays the signal strength etc.

However, firefox/pidgin do not work. Pinging my network doesn't work, and typing in 192.168.0.1 to connect to the admin page also doesn't work.

Any guidance appreciated!

-------------------------------------
Edit: it has become apparent the issue is the signal strength of the card with the linux driver, nothing to do with the update/router... see latest post below.

---

### Post by pedro_orange on 2008-09-23
Hi,

First thing you should check is that the Internet is indeed working through the router using a wired connection.

If that is the case, then perhaps you are not actually being authenticated/connected to the router.

Try opening a terminal and typing in the following:

```
ifconfig
```

This will tell you about your network interface. If you can find the relevant card (ie. eth0 or eth1) that relates to your wireless card, see if it has an IP address associated with it, and its subnet.

If you have DHCP enabled you should have an IP along the lines of 192.168.0.x - is this the case?
If you have indeed been given an IP address can you ping your Router's IP? 

```
ping 192.168.0.1
```

---

### Post by samborona on 2008-09-23
Thanks very much for taking the time to reply.

I can confirm that when plugged into the router via a cable & wireless disabled the internet works (posting from laptop now).

Output of ifconfig:

```

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1e:68:5f:c0:43  
          inet addr:192.168.0.10  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::21e:68ff:fe5f:c043/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:760 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:775 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:779718 (779.7 KB)  TX bytes:121767 (121.7 KB)
          Interrupt:18 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:2585 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:2585 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:129808 (129.8 KB)  TX bytes:129808 (129.8 KB)

```

The wireless card is an internal usb one (rtl8187b) so I'm not sure it appears above...

I get an error when trying to ping 192.168.0.1 on wireless, which suggests to me that there is some issue with authentication? It isn't connecting to the router?

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-23
moved to [Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=346").

---

### Post by samborona on 2008-09-23
Now that I have it online, I am installing ubuntu upgrades, so maybe the problem has already been fixed in an update...

Will post an update when system has finished updating.

---

### Post by samborona on 2008-09-23
Fantastic - updated and it seems to be working now, very pleased can start to ditch vista now.

I think the kernel updated again, so somewhere I think something worked, wish I could be more specific for anybody else who encounters this problem.

---

### Post by samborona on 2008-09-23
OK... not as clear cut as I first thought.

I've just taken the laptop downstairs, and lost connection as before (was posting from there earlier on).

The signal meter shows around 40% when downstairs, yet it cannot find a connection. I'm sat next to the router now and it is working and showing 100%.

Is this a known problem that is likely to be fixed by the release? With the windows driver (on vista) I have a good signal strength downstairs and really would like that in ubuntu or it defeats the point of having wifi!

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by | MM | on 2008-09-23
Maybe you should file a bug in launchpad?

---

### Post by pedro_orange on 2008-09-24
Hmmm, I don't know about the support on Ibex for the USB NIC. 

I have done a bit of searching this morning, and a few posts from the Gutsy era seem to use the ndiswrapper. Not an ideal solution I think - but if it gets you where you need to be, then go for it.

But then I found this page: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/RealtekRTL8187b](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Device/RealtekRTL8187b)

Have a read of that, see if that helps. If not try the ndiswrapper or something. Good luck!

---

### Post by samborona on 2008-09-24
I had actually read that page and decided to go for the upgrade option rather than mess about with ndiswrapper (tried but it didn't really work).

> Pro- is that it works reliably, is simpler for someone who does not want to do much from the command line. Signal strength is accurately displayed.

Con- the presence of such warnings, the fact that its in unstable release, and that I find wireless speed is greatly reduced, my guess is somewhere between 30%-50% loss in speed which is quite significant.

I have yet to try WAP or WAP2 encryption. 

I have it working with WEP encryption, but have noticed a decrease in speed as reported above, but also the signal (which is more important imo) I can only connect within 2-3 metre range of the router.

Should I file a bug report or is it because the system is still in testing?

---

### Post by rtrdom on 2008-10-08
Hello, I've had same/similar problem. Would connect to network but not to
internet all the time. Found problem to be frequency interference from a
nearby "booster" on same channel. Separating router and booster, sufficiently, cleared problem. Primary consideration is frequencies should be far apart as possible. Next consideration is physical separation
of units.  This worked for me.  Hope it works for others.

---

### Post by salamaza on 2008-10-23
I have the same problem too as i tryed the daily live too(22.10.08 ), i have no booster. i got internal usb RTL8187B in my laptop, i connect but no internet, sometimes if i wait like 10 min i might get google at extreme low speed, i have 90 % signal, i checked the DHCP ip,gateway,mask etc.. all it seems to be fine.

so hope it get fixed before the final ubuntu.

---

### Post by bobnutfield on 2008-10-23
The driver for the RTL8187B is still shown in the kernel compile as "experimental".  The 2.6.27 kernel is the first kernel to provide native support for this USB chipset.  It is not completely stable and functional for many people.  I have it in my laptop and also lose signal strength and get irratic connection speeds on some occassions.  But, I have it working in this kernel in three different distros (Ibex, Fedora 10 and Slackware) and it has been improving with each kernel update.  I expect this will be a stable driver for this chipset in the near future.  For now, for me at least, I am at least free of ndiswrapper.

---

### Post by maestrobwh1 on 2008-10-23
I had the same issue with my wireless atheros card that worked since ubuntu 6.10 (edgy eft).  It sort of worked after upgrading to intrepid, but it was very much like what you are experiencing, so I compiled the driver from madwifi and it is better BUT now the connection will not allow traffic after resuming from suspend.  Much of the time it reconnects but for all practical purposes, I have to reboot; as no amount of tinkering from command line makes it work, even bringing the interface down then back up.

I just think wireless is still a work in progress at this point with Intrepid.

---

