---
title: "8.04 - 8.10 beta.... Problems"
date: 2008-10-20
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Dannyp1 on 2008-10-20
Hi all,

Last night I decided to upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10 beta. I upgraded over the internet, all was going well until it rebooted and now it won't load, well it does but only into the console. I can login, but how can I get I get to the desktop.... 

Thanks,
Dan

---

### Post by Delvien on 2008-10-20
> **Dannyp1 said:**
> Hi all,

Last night I decided to upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10 beta. I upgraded over the internet, all was going well until it rebooted and now it won't load, well it does but only into the console. I can login, but how can I get I get to the desktop.... 

Thanks,
Dan

If you are able to log in through console do so. then type startx.

Post any errors you receive in a new thread with the error or this one. If x wont start do this:

```
 sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade 
```

Agree to all updates. See if that fixes it.

---

### Post by Dannyp1 on 2008-10-20
Thanks for the reply. I've tried the code you suggested and it stops and says

"-bash: sudo-get: command not found"

X wont start either, I'm getting

"Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf"
"Undefined InputDevice "Synaptics Touchpad" Referenced by serverlayout "Default Layout" "

"(EE) Provlem parsing the config file"
"(EE) Error parsing the config file"

"Fatal server error"
"no screens found"
"xinit: Server Error."

Thanks,
Dan

---

### Post by Leperous on 2008-10-20
It's

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

NOT

sudo-get etc...

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-10-20
X is not starting because of information that can't be used anymore--get to a terminal and do: sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Then input the default New-style xorg.conf:

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

That should get you a startx---

I've got a thread going about configuring Xorg the "new" way---with HAL> Look in this forum for it & use what you need.

---

