---
title: "[SOLVED] Nvidia driver stoped working with upgrade"
date: 2008-10-25
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Oracles on 2008-10-25
Recently there was an upgrade posted on the upgrade manager, it caused The Nvidia driver to stop working on the Ubuntu 8.10 server. The nvidia xserver Settings no longer work I tried to reinstall them from the command line and the package manger. Apparently the upgrade installed a file nvidia-glx new
When trying to reinstall Nvidia settings and Nvidia xconfig in the package manager this Nvidia-glx new file is un-installed. We did not remove the files completely from the package manager just installed and uninstalled them. The nvidia x server settings in the administration category , the icon is missing. When you click it it suggest “ you do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X Driver. Please edit your X Configuration file ( just run ‘nvidia-xconfig’ as root), and restart the X server. “
We tried this in the terminal window and could not get it to work. At start up there are a lot of new messages including No resume message doing normal boot. And then the window Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode etc. we tried to configure it does not work. May we add that the driver worked perfectly before this upgrade. Yes it is usually not a requirement for a server to run in this type of graphics mode, but we use it for other things. We are only moderate ubuntu server experienced users.
It would be nice if this upgrade could be taken off. Can anyone tell us how to get the driver back to a running state.
We use duel monitors. The driver was uploaded last week the date today is 10-24-209 It would be a disappointment to have to reinstall.

---

### Post by Borlag on 2008-10-25
I had the same problem originally, what I did to fix it was to simply boot into troubleshooting, try to fix x with the tool in there, resume booting normally (without the nvidia drivers at this point). After that I simply installed the 177 drivers from the System -> Administration - > Hardware Drivers. After that, it's just a reboot away from working as it did before.

---

### Post by Oracles on 2008-10-25
Borlag thanks for the info. We are not sure how to boot into troubleshooting.
We will try to quarry this but could use a lead.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-10-25
You can select recovery mode from the grub menu at boot up.

Jim

---

### Post by Borlag on 2008-10-25
When you boot up the computer and Grub shows up, pick the "recovery mode" for the latest kernel.

---

### Post by frogotronic on 2008-10-25
> **Oracles said:**
> Borlag thanks for the info. We are not sure how to boot into troubleshooting.
We will try to quarry this but could use a lead.

hit escape during boot

choose safe/recovery mode?

---

### Post by yochaigal on 2008-10-25
I have an nvidia geforce 6000...
worked great in hardy, but after intrepid upgrade X is broken and the nvidia kernel module won't load.  
I rewrote xorg.conf so that I could at least use my desktop; but with "nv" rather than nvidia. This of course is incompatible with nvidia-glx-177 AND nvidia-glx-173; when I try to install these either through
either envyNG, or jockey, they install but refuse to activate. On boot I have the same error over and over again;

"(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the NVIDIA kernel module! Please ensure (EE) NVIDIA(0):     that there is a supported NVIDIA GPU in this system, and (EE) NVIDIA(0):     that the NVIDIA device files have been created properly.  (EE) NVIDIA(0):     Please consult the NVIDIA README for details."


I run nvidia-xconfig and it crashes X, saying that it failed to load the nvidia kernel module.

my working xorg file currently looks like this:
(note that I had to remove the type1 module and am using 177). 






# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Thu Jun  5 00:10:21 PDT 2008

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"si"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"# Change to
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"# Change to
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/wacom"# Change to
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1680x1050"
	Horizsync	31.5-65.5
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1440x900@60" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1024@60" 136.36 1600 1704 1872 2144 1024 1025 1028 1060 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1680x1050@60" 147.14 1680 1784 1968 2256 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600 GT]"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 6 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600 GT]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1680	1050
		Modes		"1680x1050@60"	"1600x1024@60"	"1440x900@60"	"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "device" #   
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 6 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	1
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection
Section "screen" #   
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" #   
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by yochaigal on 2008-10-25
I fixed it!!!
Here's what I did:

sudo apt-get remove nvidia*

then

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new

then

sudo nvidia-xconfig

then restart the whole machine.  boo-yah!  here's my updated xorg.conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed Oct  1 15:09:35 PDT 2008

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "si"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"# Change to
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"# Change to
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"# Change to
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    VendorName     "Generic LCD Display"
    ModelName      "LCD Panel 1680x1050"
    HorizSync       31.5 - 65.5
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 65.0
    Gamma           1
    ModeLine       "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1440x900@60" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1600x1024@60" 136.36 1600 1704 1872 2144 1024 1025 1028 1060 -hsync +vsync
    ModeLine       "1680x1050@60" 147.14 1680 1784 1968 2256 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
 #   
    Identifier     "monitor1"
    VendorName     "Plug 'n' Play"
    ModelName      "Plug 'n' Play"
    Gamma           1
    ModeLine       "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600 GT]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA"
    BoardName      "NVIDIA GeForce 6 Series"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
 #   
    Identifier     "device1"
    Driver         "nv"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA"
    BoardName      "NVIDIA GeForce 6 Series"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "NVIDIA Corporation NV43 [GeForce 6600 GT]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     1680 1050
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050@60" "1600x1024@60" "1440x900@60" "1280x800@60" "1280x720@60" "1280x768@60" "800x600@60" "800x600@56"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
 #   
    Identifier     "screen1"
    Device         "device1"
    Monitor        "monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "640x480@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by SniperKIng on 2008-10-25
OMG yochaigal your my hero lolz

Iv just spent about 3 hours trying to fix this and i followed what you did and as you say boo-yah

Thanks you.

---

### Post by yochaigal on 2008-10-25
I spent from 11pm to 4am last night working on it.  Then I woke up this morning with a clear head (albeit with only 5 hrs sleep) and fixed it in twenty minutes. should have gone to bed earlier.

---

### Post by Oracles on 2008-10-25
This is our fix. 
(For the record our video card was and Nvidia Gforce FX 5200)
We found that the Linnux-restricted-modules-2.1.24-21-server was the problem they were Missing (or possibly corrupted (you might try removing them first) They are linked to the Linux-restricted-modules-common. module atomically added when the Linnux-restricted-modules-2.1.24-21-server is reinstalled. (you might remove it too before you reinstall.)
This became evident to us when under the System/Administration/Hardware Drivers, the Nvidia driver was missing.
They can be reinstalled under the Package manager.
AS A NOTE:
Before doing this we did boot to 
Under the options menu at the log on screen
Fail Safe Gnome
While in there we opened the terminal and typed:
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-xconfig	Hit (enter)
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-settings	Hit (enter)
sudo apt-get autoclean nvidia-xconfig	Hit (enter)
sudo apt-get autoclean nvidia-settings	Hit (enter)
sudo apt-get install nvidia-xconfig	Hit (enter)
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings	Hit (enter)
exit					Hit (enter)
(this may not have been necessary for the fix but was an attempt to reinstall the clean copies of the nvidia configuration files.
after reboot Under the options menu at the log on screen
change the session boak to Gnome!
CHANGING NVIDIA SETTING DELIMA AND OUR SOLUTION.
After fixing the Nvidia driver and going to nvidia xserver settings under System/Administrator category.
We changed the settings but could not successfully get them to save to x Configuration file in the options. 
The following is our fix 
(there may be another easier way and this may have caused the problem that influenced the original upgrade to fail)
After making your changes in the Nvidia X configuration choose the Save to x configuration option then
Select show preview then copy all text.
Click Cancel 
Go to terminal
Type:
gksudo  nautilus        	
(If you don&#8217;t use this command you will find it difficult to get permission to save the  file)
Hit (enter)
Navigate to the following file
/etc/X11/xorg.conf
Save it as xorgold.conf (in case you need it later)
Navigate back to /etc/X11/xorg.conf open it and replace/past the text you copied from show preview file earlier. Save it.
After exiting all windows hit control Alt Backspace to restart xserver

Many thanks and much luck to all.
 Comments and suggestions are very welcome and desired.
Oracles

---

