---
title: "8.10 Intrepid Ibex supported PCI mini wifi cards"
date: 2008-10-25
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by DennisD on 2008-10-25
Ok, here's the skinny, I am pretty much a nix noob and have been playing with it for a few months from some old distros evolving to 8.04, beta testing intrepid and then onto the RC of 8.10. What I have noticed is that wifi support can be NUTS. For example, my PCI mini wifi card, a RTC8187L slows down to a CRAWL on 8.04 and 8.10 (but speeds like a demon in winblows or older nix distros) and at times, that crawls becomes a standstill and will require a system restart just to get wifi access again. If I had to depend on just hardwire, it would be a non-issue, it screams.

Forgo the messes and hassles of ndiswrapper, believe me, it sucks. I have decided to abandon that pursuit and simply BUY a 8.10 compatible pci mini wifi card. So far, after much google search, I post this question here.

Recommendations for a well supported pci mini wifi card are most welcome. Failing that, a URL to a site with a compiled list of such cards would be equally (and enthusiastically) appreciated (cheerleaders jumping up and down).

Minus wifi card issue shizzle, 8.10 is pretty nice.

---

### Post by Paqman on 2008-10-25
In general, Intel hardware is pretty bombproof. I switched out the Broadcom wifi in my laptop for an Intel card and it worked straight away.

Best thing to do when you find a device you're thinking of buying is to search for it on these forums and see if it has been giving people grief.

---

### Post by MrWES on 2008-10-25
+1 for the Intel card over the Broadcom. I had a dead laptop with an Intel card and swapped it of for my Broadcom and it worked out of the box.

02:03.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 2200BG Network Connection (rev 05)

Bill

---

