---
title: "8.10 - best way to upgrade?"
date: 2008-10-20
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2008-10-20
Ubuntu 8.10 will be available in a few days.  What ways have you found is the most effective to upgrade?  I am at 8.04 and have /home in a separate partition.  Should I scratch my old OS and do a fresh install or should I attempt the Upgrade?

If the Upgrade fails, is there a way to list all the packages I have installed and automate the installation of those packages in 8.10?

Any other advice on what you have learned from past upgrades?

Thanks

Carl

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-10-20
Well, I never upgraded, I always made a fresh install... I normally create first a list of installed packages and additional repositories, then I wipe my system, make a clean install, add the repositories and then run the updates and then install the packages (that I want to keep).

after that I start moving stuff from my backup home folder back.

But that's how I do it.

However, you can upgrade directly if you want to. The less you have modified your system, the better the chances are nothing woes... I just install lots of stuff and keep forgetting about it so a new install is also a way for me to clean out old stuff.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-10-20
The update manager will prompt for an Distribution Upgrade when 8.10 is released. The upgrade will usually complete fine. But you should be careful if you have installed packages from 3rd party repositories. Be sure to uninstall them before doing an upgrade.

---

### Post by desperado665 on 2008-10-20
I would also suggest using Aptoncd. It makes a backup of your installed packages and burns them to disc for later restoration. Quite a time saver.

---

### Post by gummygod on 2008-10-20
can you just reinstall over your current / partition and keep your current /home partition?

---

### Post by benerivo on 2008-10-20
> **gummygod said:**
> can you just reinstall over your current / partition and keep your current /home partition?

Yes.

---

### Post by cicatrix1 on 2008-10-20
Uhm, I don't know how good of an idea it is to just overwrite / without formatting it.  I personally do what the other poster does, where I always make sure my /home is on a seperate partition and just format / and install whatever I want there, then move items from my old home folder back.  Very few problems with saving settings that way.

> **benerivo said:**
> Yes.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-10-21
When you get to the point, during installation, where you are asked to partition the disk , choose Manual. The you'll be asked to choose the mountpoints for the available partitions. Select the partition for your root and tick the checkbox beside it to format it.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-10-21
I've always done the upgrade way. Never had a problem with it.

---

### Post by swoody on 2008-10-21
I just upgraded to 8.10 using the Update Manager and had no problems! I had to poke around on my computer a little bit to make sure it was 8.10 since it kept all my files, settings, and theme exactly how it was in 8.04. All my network settings and wireless connectivity worked perfectly, too! :D 

If anything, I would just reccomend making a physical backup of your important pictures, documents, etc to a flash drive or other media, since that stuff is usually a lot more important, and a LOT harder to replace compared to having to reinstall an OS. Just my two cents ;)

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-10-21
> **smwoodruff0908 said:**
> If anything, I would just reccomend making a physical backup of your important pictures, documents, etc to a flash drive or other media, since that stuff is usually a lot more important, and a LOT harder to replace compared to having to reinstall an OS. Just my two cents ;)

You should at any given time have backups that are not too old - and best if those backups are at a different physical location.

---

### Post by gummygod on 2008-10-21
[QUOTE=cicatrix1"]I always make sure my /home is on a seperate partition and just format / and install whatever I want there, then move items from my old home folder back[/QUOTE]
why do you need to move items from your old home folder back? theyre already on the separate partition

---

### Post by bbenmeyer on 2008-10-28
I use 8.04 and if I put in the server cd (I'm running the desktop version), it gives me an option to upgrade.  Although if I put in my 8.10 cd, it doesn't give me that option.  Is there a way to install 8.10 from a CD without losing any packages or data?:confused:

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-10-28
(1) you need to have the alternate-cd
(2) you need to enable the cd as source
(3) there are a few more things like deactivating 3rd party repos.
(4) you should always have backups and you should make regurarly backups.

---

