---
title: "8.10 on MSI Wind"
date: 2008-10-11
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by tron^qld on 2008-10-11
Hey all,

I am having to write this in XP as my 8.10 install didn't recognise my wireless card, it is an 8187SE. Is this an issue that is being looked at or is there a work around for it, I am really liking the speed of 8.10, this is the only real bug bear that I have with it, other than the battery life, not that great compared to XP, don't know if it is bad power management or if it is the way that I have it set so far(which is just a clean install).

Is it true that the "27" Kernel is able to run the ATOM processor correctly with the power saving features of it?

Sorry for all the questions, but that is pretty much all I have tried atm, other than that, great looking OS.

Thanks in advance.
tron^qld

---

### Post by Eversmann on 2008-10-11
The lack of rtl8187se support on intrepid is already being discussed here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/246141](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/246141)

---

### Post by tron^qld on 2008-10-12
SOrry thanks for that I will have a look over it now, thanks for getting back to me...

---

### Post by Eversmann on 2008-10-12
Anytime ;-)

I have an advent 4211 (you know, one of the clones of the msi wind) and that's the only thing to have a perfect out-of-the-box ubuntu experience. Everything worked with 8.10 almost just after install (tweaking here and there only, like, for instance, having to comment out the line of the cdrom on fstab to let the usb pendrives mount).

I hope they give to this driver what is needed. The msiwind, advent 4211 and medion akota are great notebooks/netbooks.

---

