---
title: "8.10 nvidia drivers trouble"
date: 2008-08-10
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by subixonfire on 2008-08-10
I didn't manage to get my "nvidia gforce2 mx" card drivers runing. The restricted drivers menager installs all but when i restart x server complains end asks for configuration! to have my resolution back i have to delete the file "/etc/x11/xorg.conf" then after restart all works but with the "nv" driver,  "nvidia" driver dosent work ath all. the nvidia driver is "version 96". I have read on some forum after a loot of googling that the nvidia driver is not compatible with new xserver used in ubuntu 8.10.
 - is that true?
 - is there a fix?
 - if not is there some info about when will it be fixed & will it be fixed by nvidia, by the xorg comunity, or is it a sit end wait situation!

sory if my english is bad!

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-08-10
8.10 is still in development. Not ready for proprietary drivers yet.

---

### Post by subixonfire on 2008-08-10
ok but porhaps you coud tell me why! where is the problem! Maybe i can help? isint that what comunity is all about!

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-08-10
> **Pumalite said:**
> 8.10 is still in development. Not ready for proprietary drivers yet.

That is very true, and this coupled with the facts that it has a new Xorg version that Nvidia is still adjusting to and a new kernel as well, it is definitely not recommended for new comers to Ubuntu.

However, this thread is moved to the Intrepid Development section.

Edit:- Sorry, the first line wasn't very correct, it isn't completely true since the Nvidia proprietary drivers do work on Ubuntu but those, along with some other drivers both free and proprietary may have a few problems, especially the Nvidia driver due to the reasons underlined above.

---

### Post by subixonfire on 2008-08-10
ok but i em not a new notexpirienced user! I em using ubuntu since daper & before that i used fedora since there scond release! so i know some things about linux, kernels, xserver & etc, i simply wonted to know where is the problem! is there a bug reported & will it be fixed by ubuntu comuty or i hawe to wait for peoples from nvidia to fix that! but thanx eniway!

---

### Post by subixonfire on 2008-08-10
ok PmDematagoda that i understand & this is one of main reasons i switched to linux, nothing is perfect! but linux is moustly open sorce & errops & bugs get fixed a loot faster! the best thing is that eweribody is invited to help!

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2008-08-10
you should report all bugs or errors (even the smallest you may find) to [www.launchpad.net](www.launchpad.net)

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2008-08-10
this may help you:

Anyhow, this is how I got nvidia to work on my intrepid box:
     ```

     sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-kernel-headers nvidia-settings nvidia-177-kernel-source 

```
Now drop down to run-level 1
     ```

     sudo shutdown now 

```
And choose "root terminal/console" in the menu.

Then type in
```

     nvidia-xconfig 

```
so NVIDIA configures itself for your hardware.

Then run:
     ```

     nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

```
and find the section:
     ```

     Section "Files" 

```
    RgbPath        "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection 
And comment it out, so it looks like this
     ```

     #Section "Files" 
#    RgbPath        "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
#EndSection 

```
Save and Quit.

Then type in **exit** to return to the menu and choose "continue with normal boot".

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-08-10
If he does that it defeats the purpose of testing Intrepid

Tselliot had a bunch of nvidia packages changes submitted for build today. You and the community at large are better off using the repos and submitting bugs on any issues.

---

### Post by subixonfire on 2008-08-10
if ho does what???

>  You and the community at large are better off using the repos and submitting bugs on any issues. 

sorry but f*ck the comunity if the comunity tels me to sit, wait & report bugs!
[-X[-X[-X[-X[-X

---

### Post by ubulette on 2008-08-10
My 7600GS is still working fine on Intrepid. Sort of..

A few weeks ago, one of the upgrade introduced a few regressions...

I got it working again but I now see a kind of vsync stripe moving up on the screen every few seconds (like a bad refresh rate), but only when watching videos.
This is annoying, but not sure there's a bug opened for that issue (this is a beta-n-binary-only driver after all so I don't expect much).

Attached is a screenshot when this happens (this is during a quite rapid scrolling so it's not really blurry, this is almost perfect HD content), look at the 1st man's arms on the bottom left. That stripe moves up the screen in 2-3 secs.
BTW, it happens even with slow scrolling.

EDIT: oh, btw this started when I had to move away from nvidia-glx-new (169.12) to nvidia-glx-177 (177.13)

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-08-10
> **subixonfire said:**
> if ho does what???

 

sorry but f*ck the comunity if the comunity tels me to sit, wait & report bugs!
[-X[-X[-X[-X[-X

If you want a stable system use Hardy...

That said Im using Nvidias 177.13 without problems from the repos that tselliot packaged on my hardware.

---

### Post by subixonfire on 2008-08-10
yes i em aware of that, the 177.xx driver works fine but dosent support some older nvidia cards like gforce 2 & gforce4 for them there is a 96.xx nvidia driver that dosent work. I did a lithle more googling & foun that aperently this driver dosent support laitest xorg used in "ubuntu 8.10 interpid ibex". There is aparently no 96.xx  driver isued that works with latest xorg. So there is nothing to package, test or bug report!

if someone cant confirm this it will be greatly aprishieited! 

ps: is there maybe somthing like nvidia beta driver that coud be working,  or does enione know when can it be expected!

---

### Post by tepsipakki on 2008-08-10
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-96/+bug/251107](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-96/+bug/251107)

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-08-11
Youll have to wait until Nvidia support Intrepids revision of X.

Or you could downgrade to Hardy's version of X on Intrepid, but again that wouldnt help move forward Intrepid testing and youd be on a custom build. Hopefully any workaround wont have to be done for long if Nvidia get their act together.

---

### Post by subixonfire on 2008-08-13
Yust got email from nvidia!
They say is gona be adressed sooon!
Whatever that meens!
I hope is fixed soon!

---

### Post by thestef on 2008-10-08
> **gjoellee said:**
> this may help you:

Anyhow, this is how I got nvidia to work on my intrepid box:
     ```

     sudo apt-get install build-essential linux-kernel-headers nvidia-settings nvidia-177-kernel-source 

```
Now drop down to run-level 1
     ```

     sudo shutdown now 

```
And choose "root terminal/console" in the menu.

Then type in
```

     nvidia-xconfig 

```
so NVIDIA configures itself for your hardware.

Then run:
     ```

     nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

```
and find the section:
     ```

     Section "Files" 

```
    RgbPath        "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection 
And comment it out, so it looks like this
     ```

     #Section "Files" 
#    RgbPath        "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
#EndSection 

```
Save and Quit.

Then type in **exit** to return to the menu and choose "continue with normal boot".

nope doesnt work, :(

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2008-10-09
in intrepid Nvidia drivers work just fine now.... make sure it is 173, or 177

---

### Post by akelsall on 2008-10-09
.

---

### Post by yoman82 on 2008-10-10
Hey, I'm having a bit of a problem with the MX driver on my 8.10 box. Any fix in the works?

---

### Post by dabl on 2008-10-10
MX 2?

You need to install the downloaded 96.43.07 driver, from Nvidia's drivers site.  The packaged one is 96.43.05 and it doesn't work.

---

### Post by meeware on 2008-10-11
I'm trying to get Intrepid working (mainly for the Totem BBC plugin) and having difficulty getting the right nVidia Drivers set up.  The Restricted Drivers Dialogue doesn't seem to be pulling through the driver from NVidia.  I get to the dialogue via the /Administration/Hardware Drivers menu, select version 177 to activate, and I'm then asked to Authenticate.

Entering the session password makes a dialogue box (that looks like a download) appear for a split second, and then it drops away.  No drivers are installed.

I tried gong to the nVidia site and found the right driver (NVidia-linux-x86-177.80-pkg1.run), but it downloaded (using firefox) onto my desktop, from where it can't run (needs to be in root) and for some reason I can't seem to move it into root (I get a permissions fail).

If you've read this far you can tell I am pretty much all at sea with Linux.  I think my login account is insufficiently authorised to get the system set up, perhaps.  I don't think this is a bug, though I haven't tried Ubuntu since Fiesty, so am unused to this new and improved set up process. ANy tips?

---

### Post by dabl on 2008-10-15
> **meeware said:**
> 

 ANy tips?

If you still have that downloaded Nvidia driver on your desktop, here's what to do:

1. Install the requisite kernel headers and build-essential packages:
```

sudo apt-get install kernel-headers-$(uname -r) build-essential
```

2. Get out of X with Ctrl-Alt-F1.  At the tty console prompt, log in, and shut down the X server with ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```  (or kdm if Kubuntu)

3. Change to the /tmp directory with ```
cd /tmp
``` and make a new subfolder ```
sudo mkdir nvidia
```

4. Change to the new directory with ```
cd nvidia
``` and verify that you are there with ```
pwd
``` it should show ```
~$/tmp/nvidia
```

5. Copy the downloaded driver to your current directory with ```
sudo cp /home/meeware/Desktop/NV{TAB} .

```

NOTE:  "meeware" should be your user name on the system, and where it says {TAB} you press the TAB key once to complete the name of the Nvidia file, and then you enter the period. Do not neglect the period which is one space after the name of the file.

6. Run the driver with ```
sudo sh ./NV{TAB}
``` and answer "YES" to the questions.

7. Enter ```
startx
``` and you should see the Nvidia splash and then your desktop.

8. Adjustments to screen resolution can be made with the nvidia-settings utility. Run it with Super User privileges (kdesu or gksu nvidia-settings) and click the "Save to X configuration file" button to make them the default settings.

:)

---

