---
title: "No Keyboard response or mouse movement after installation of 8.10 beta ubuntu cd..."
date: 2008-10-10
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Ximal on 2008-10-10
I am able to turn on and off the caps lock buttons etc. and my mouse light is working ( it's a wireless optical ) and I just reformatted making my main partition the "/" mount point and all that good stuff.... When I boot up I can use the control key and function key f1 through 12 to switch to the various tty screens.. and even login on them.. But I cannot login on the visual control-fnction7 screen where the gui login is ... I downloaded the ISO last night... and burned it ... Everything installed smoothly.. The Live cd works like a charm... But for the life of me. I cannot figure out what is going on... Would anyone have a clue as what to do ?

I'm on an intel chipset dell tower with nvidia video card and a windows installation to use as emergency backup .... the windows is running fine... 

NOTE: I plugged in my oldschool keyboard.. u know.. the one that goes to the back of the pc and usually consists of multiple pins and a color coated connector for people who don't know what a puter is.... so they can install it on their own...  well.. even a regular non usb corded keyboard would not capture the keys pressed in the visual login state.... only the function 1 through 12 would..

I'm dying to try out this beta... help me please.... anyone ?

---

### Post by lonniehenry on 2008-10-10
Try looking in the Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion forum for similar cases.  I think that you will find the people there will have ideas to get you started. The Nvidia card is part of the problem until you get the right driver running.  Search that forum and you will get your answers.

---

### Post by Eric Boring on 2008-10-14
I had the same problem after an upgrade. Editing xorg.conf fixed it for me:

Log in to a terminal. I used ssh from another machine. You can also press CTRL-Alt-F1 and log in with your username and password.

Change into the X11 directory:
```
cd /etc/X11
```

copy your existing xorg.conf to a backup file:
```
cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup
```

Edit xorg.conf and tell it to use your keyboard and mouse:
```
sudo nano xorg.conf
```

First check to make sure your keyboard and mouse sections look like this:
```

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
EndSection
```

Then go to the bottom of the file (use CTRL-V to move down in nano) and make sure it is configured to use those input devices by adding lines for Generic Keyboard and Configured Mouse to the bottom of server layout section:

```

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
screen "Default Screen"
[B]Inputdevice "Generic Keyboard"
Inputdevice "Configured Mouse"[/B]
EndSection

```

Restart and it should work.

**Don't change anything else in xorg.conf. Just add those two lines. Don't delete anything unless you know what you are doing. (I don't really know what I'm doing, I just had luck with this.) Feel free to correct these instructions if you see anything that looks wrong.

Good Luck!

-Josh

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-14
Moved to  Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion :)

---

### Post by Ximal on 2008-10-14
I went ahead and backed into 8.04 since it works for me properly.. since what you told me about the input lines etc it seems proper or correct. I just thought maybe someone would be kind enough to highlight it in the info here to give an example of what it would actually look like on a normal conf file when they would go to edit it using nano... this is what I had below ... you think you could point out the section to edit and give an after text to show what it looks like after it's edited ? thanks..

---begin---

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
       Driver          "nvidia"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection

---end---

---

### Post by Eric Boring on 2008-10-14
It's the second to the last section you have there. I think you need to add lines telling it to use your mouse and keyboard as input devices. So the second to the last section should read as follows.
```
Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
screen "Default Screen"
Inputdevice "Generic Keyboard"
Inputdevice "Configured Mouse"
EndSection
```

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by wgrant on 2008-10-14
One should not have InputDevice sections in an Intrepid xorg.conf at all, unless you have non-hal-detected devices. Removing them is likely to be the best idea.

---

### Post by Tiak on 2008-10-15
I'm having the same issue with a new install, and the interesting thing about it is that on the livecd everything works perfectly, without change, the problem only occurs after install/boot.

Of course, I am still having further problems, I changed my xorg.config rather quickly, but my touchpad still doesn't work.  I also have the following interesting pieces of fun:
-my /dev/input/mice and /dev/input/mouse0 devices aren't getting any input at all.
-I don't have wifi (again, it was fien on the livecd)
-/lib/modules only has modules for 2.6.27-4-generic, /boot only has a vmlinuz for 2.6.24-19-generic (Most likely the reason for the above two issues.  The modules I do have aren't compatible, and I don't have a wired connection, which makes installing b43 difficult.)

It's laptop hardware for me, so it's not hugely replaceable, and seems as if it should be detected.

---

### Post by Eric Boring on 2008-10-15
> **wgrant said:**
> One should not have InputDevice sections in an Intrepid xorg.conf at all, unless you have non-hal-detected devices. Removing them is likely to be the best idea.

Oh. But then why did my mouse and keyboard stop working without them and start working with them? Was there a bug? Should I try commenting out those lines and see if it works without them? 

And what are non-hal-detected devices? 

Thanks for the info. (I'll stop giving out bad advice. What is it they say about a little knowledge being a dangerous thing ;-))

-Josh

---

### Post by Eric Boring on 2008-10-15
Well, I'm confused. I took those lines out of xorg.conf, and the meyboard and mouse don't work in X. They work fine in the console, so I put them back in and it works.

Should I report this as a bug? 

-josh

---

### Post by dabl on 2008-10-15
There have been right about a zillion change to the xserver-related packages since the Beta ISO first came out. If you're still working with that one, I would advise just get a daily build Live CD ISO and burn a new CD and boot that.  If it works correctly on your hardware, then I'd just install that and move on.

Two cents' worth from the peanut gallery.  :)

---

