---
title: "[SOLVED] OpenGL Full Screen Games Don't Work With My Laptop"
date: 2008-10-11
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by jlacroix on 2008-10-11
I have a Gateway M-7315u laptop which has an integrated Intel video card. I'm trying to run basic OpenGL games like Neverball or Zsnes, but when you launch those games full screen, the graphics will either distort or the game will outright crash.

I know these games will work with this set up because my previous laptop which had the same video card played those games just fine. I'm wondering if this is yet another regression of bulletproof X and how to fix it.

Here is my xorg.conf but I doubt it will tell you much.

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

Where did "Screens And Graphics" go so I can switch my driver? I wanted to try that but I didn't see the option.

---

### Post by ARhere on 2008-10-11
The screens and graphics config tool is still there, but you just launch it in the terminal.  I think it was causing too many problems in 7 series.

If you have an ATI or GForce card, I highly recommend the Envy graphics driver autoloader.

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
```
or for Kubuntu
```
sudo apt-get install envyng-qt
```

Remember to thank [this guy]("http://albertomilone.com/") for the wonderful code!

-AR

---

### Post by jlacroix on 2008-10-11
> **ARhere said:**
> The screens and graphics config tool is still there, but you just launch it in the terminal.  I think it was causing too many problems in 7 series.

If you have an ATI or GForce card, I highly recommend the Envy graphics driver autoloader.

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
```
or for Kubuntu
```
sudo apt-get install envyng-qt
```

Remember to thank [this guy]("http://albertomilone.com/") for the wonderful code!

-AR

Thanks, but I'm using an Intel video card, so unfortunately those fixes won't help me.

With Hardy I'm able to play those games full screen with an Intel card but unfortunately not Intrepid.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-10-11
Do some searching thru this forum--i'm not up on the Intel graphics, but I have heard about problems with it. As for "Screens & Graphics", there were problems with it & the new Xorg. You can still edit your xorg.conf, but the useful edits are somewhat restricted....

---

### Post by doorknob60 on 2008-10-11
Do you have compiz (desktop effects) turned on?

---

### Post by jlacroix on 2008-10-11
> **autocrosser said:**
> Do some searching thru this forum--i'm not up on the Intel graphics, but I have heard about problems with it. As for "Screens & Graphics", there were problems with it & the new Xorg. You can still edit your xorg.conf, but the useful edits are somewhat restricted....

I did search the forum as well as Google, and I haven't found anything specific to my problem. :(

---

### Post by jlacroix on 2008-10-11
> **doorknob60 said:**
> Do you have compiz (desktop effects) turned on?

Holy Jesus I didn't even think of that!

I'm going to try that in a few and see if that fixes it. If it does I'll mark the thread resolved.

---

### Post by jlacroix on 2008-10-11
Disabling desktop effects seems to have fixed the problem. It did crash X once, but that's probably just a fluke. I'm marking this as resolved for now, thank you!!!

One thing I should add is that if Gnome can't detect an OpenGL app running and temporarily suspend desktop effects while one is running, that's EXTREMELY sad as even Vista does that to my understanding. :(

---

### Post by BwackNinja on 2008-10-11
Have you tried unchecking "unredirect fullscreen windows" in compizconfig-settings-manager? You might be able to have your cake and eat it too.

---

### Post by wgrant on 2008-10-12
> **jlacroix said:**
> Disabling desktop effects seems to have fixed the problem. It did crash X once, but that's probably just a fluke. I'm marking this as resolved for now, thank you!!!

One thing I should add is that if Gnome can't detect an OpenGL app running and temporarily suspend desktop effects while one is running, that's EXTREMELY sad as even Vista does that to my understanding. :(

We need DRI2 in order to have both OpenGL apps and Compiz running nicely at the same time. We'll hopefully see that in Jaunty.

---

### Post by jlacroix on 2008-10-12
> **BwackNinja said:**
> Have you tried unchecking "unredirect fullscreen windows" in compizconfig-settings-manager? You might be able to have your cake and eat it too.

I ran that command, but it wasn't recognized. :(

> **wgrant said:**
> We need DRI2 in order to have both OpenGL apps and Compiz running nicely at the same time. We'll hopefully see that in Jaunty.

I hope so too! Thank you. :)

---

### Post by BwackNinja on 2008-10-12
```
sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager
ccsm
```

DRI2 is slated to be in the next xserver release, with GEM slated to be in the kernel so that should be ready for Jaunty. The drivers for ati...I'm not sure of, but I've seen work done and memory management is mostly done.

---

### Post by jlacroix on 2008-10-12
I am now able to get into the settings manager, but I don't see unredirect fullscreen windows anywhere. :(

---

