---
title: "8.10 Grub Menu entry"
date: 2008-10-12
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by pofigster on 2008-10-12
I have 8.04 installed on my machine, with / and /boot on sda and /home on sdb.  I just installed 8.10 beta (just downloaded the ISO like an hour ago) on sdc - but, I told it not to install a boot loader (I want to be able to simply wipe the HD if necessary and not worry about losing anything).

So, my question is this - what should I put in the grub menu to boot into 8.10?

This is what I have currently (and it doesn't work)

```
title        Ubuntu 8.04.1 (Hardy Heron)
root        (hd0,0)
kernel        /vmlinuz-2.6.24-21-generic root=UUID=76b10f77-d48e-4ac5-9f1d-fbcf10ef12e4 ro quiet splash
initrd        /initrd.img-2.6.24-21-generic
quiet

title        Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex)
root        (hd2,0)
chainloader +1

title        Ubuntu 8.04.1 (recovery mode)
root        (hd0,0)
kernel        /vmlinuz-2.6.24-21-generic root=UUID=76b10f77-d48e-4ac5-9f1d-fbcf10ef12e4 ro single
initrd        /initrd.img-2.6.24-21-generic
```

I infered from another post that the "chainloader +1" option might work - but it doesn't.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2008-10-12
the boot stanza for intrepid needs to look like the one for hardy , except the kernel  and initrd lines will point at the intrepid kernel and UUID .

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-10-12
It would help if you posted:
```
sudo fdisk -lu
```
And let us know which partitions are which. Also, one easy solution for your problem is to install Grub with Intrepid, but tell Grub to install to the Intrepid /boot partition's boot sector instead of the MBR of that drive (or use the Intrepid root partition if you don't have a /boot partition); that way you can easily "chain load" Intrepid from Hardy without having to mess with "kernel" and "initrd" entries in your Hardy menu.lst. This technique also has the advantage that Intrepid will update its own menu.lst with new kernels, and you won't have to manually copy those entries into your Hardy menu.lst. To chain load Intrepid from Hardy, just add to your Hardy menu.lst:
```
title Intrepid
chainloader (hdX,Y)+1
```
And replace (hdX,Y) with the Intrepid /boot partition. 

So to install Grub to the boot sector of Intrepid's /boot partition (or the root partition if you don't have a boot partition), in the final stage of the installation, click "advanced", and tell Grub to install to Intrepid's /boot or root partition (whichever you've got), for instance /dev/sda5. Let me know how it goes or if you have questions.

---

