---
title: "v8.10 Help get rid of beep on shutdown"
date: 2008-10-15
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Lateforgym on 2008-10-15
I have upgraded to the beta version but when I shut down it beeps at full volume. Would you help me fix this ?


Thank you

---

### Post by LowSky on 2008-10-15
what beeps, the speakers? what kind of beep?are you getting some error?

---

### Post by bobnutfield on 2008-10-15
System>Preferences>Sound.  Go to the sound tab and uncheck sound alerts.

---

### Post by Suzan on 2008-10-25
Have the same loud beep at shutdown.

Disabling sound alerts didn't help.

Any other ideas?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-25
Moved to  Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion :)

---

### Post by shane19174 on 2008-10-25
I have the same beep. It was introduced (on my system, at least) when a problem with the progress bar was fixed (for quite a while, there was a bug that caused a text-only shutdown process).
Must be somehow related...

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-10-25
The beep is coming from the pc internal speaker.

---

### Post by MagicPaul on 2008-10-25
```
sudo rmmod pcspkr
```
should do the trick

---

### Post by plun on 2008-10-25
Well... a bug is needed for this.

Intrepids development  started with Internal PC Speaker beeps and now ends. :)

Just annoying ...

---

### Post by carney1979 on 2008-10-26
Try this:

From a Gnome-Terminal:

```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist
```Scroll to the end of the file and enter:

```
blacklist pcspkr
```Save the file, exit gedit.

then in the terminal type:

```
sudo rmmod pcspkr
```You should never hear that system beep again when you shut down. 

Upon any further system startups the line you added in the blacklist file will keep the pc speaker's module from being loaded.

Worked for me.

David

---

### Post by ubun2dragon on 2008-10-29
Hi, just updated to Intrepid last night.  I also have the same beep when shutting down on a Dell Inspiron notebook.  Didn't Hardy play a midi or wav when shutting down?  If so, could the shutdown beep be occurring because the midi or wav is missing?

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2008-10-29
When I open firefox and do a search ctrl+f it beeps when nothing is found. shouldn't there be a better sound than a computer beep for something as simple as that?

---

### Post by bpl07 on 2008-10-29
How are you shutting down?  I used to get this beep when I would shut down with the old shutdown applet, but now that I use the fast user switcher applet to shutdown I no longer get the beeps.

---

