---
title: "8.10 - Intrepid  Ibex - Audio problems,"
date: 2008-10-11
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by j0natz on 2008-10-11
Dear all,

I'm having a problem with Ubuntu 8.10 since I've made a dist upgrade from 8.04.

Everything worked good on 8.04 but after the upgrade to 8.10 I'm having problems with audio.

Two states: 
Everything but flash works
Nothing but flash works

After booting Ubuntu and changing everything to OSS almost everything works.

Only problem I have is Flash. Youtube for example, Zattoo or anything else with flash does not and noise.

If I killall pulseaudio I have sound on Youtube. But everything else is not working then.

I did a upgrade to the newest flash player already...

Anybody has a hint?

Best regards

Jonas

---

### Post by madmetal on 2008-10-11
Hoi Jonas!
Intrepid is still a beta release and it's better if you post your problems here..
[http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=346](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=346)

---

### Post by j0natz on 2008-10-11
Allright thank you a lot...

I'll repost there :D

Best regrads

Jonas


Moved
--> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5948277#post5948277](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5948277#post5948277)

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2008-10-11
As madmetal said. 
Also it advisable that development releases are used for testing. Only if you like messing around and don't mind that it breaks now and then. If you're not that kind of user, I'll suggest using 8.04.

---

### Post by j0natz on 2008-10-11
> **Artificial Intelligence said:**
> As madmetal said. 
Also it advisable that development releases are used for testing. Only if you like messing around and don't mind that it breaks now and then. If you're not that kind of user, I'll suggest using 8.04.

No I don't mind :) I have a backup :D

Thanks alot...

Best regards

Jonas

---

### Post by werries on 2008-10-11
OSS can be a problem sometimes with software mixing (playing sound with more than one source at a time, and the application open but not playing is still a problem.).
Unless Ibex got the new OSS which is a hell of a lot better.

---

### Post by j0natz on 2008-10-12
My problem was solved by doing this:

```
alsamixer -Dhw
```  

PCM volume was set to 0 :) No clue why it was crackling but now it works...

The solution comes from:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5949761&postcount=9](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5949761&postcount=9)

---

