---
title: "NVIDIA, and xen kernels."
date: 2008-09-08
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by sdide on 2008-09-08
Hey, 
I'm using the driver supplied by Nividia from their download site.
i.e 
NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-173.14.12-pkg2.run

When I upgrade my kernel, I usually have to reinstall it, not a problem - however since the 2.6.27 kernels, it wont run anymore.

Any ideas if NVIDIA will make support for xen-kernels soon? I have to go back to 2.6.26-5 to make it work.

---

### Post by krausest on 2008-09-09
Too bad you haven't got an answer yet (since I have the same problem).
Maybe the option IGNORE_XEN_PRESENCE=1 mentioned on
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=116227](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=116227) helps - I havent't tried it yet (I used the binary drivers from the repositories).

What's the background of this issue? Are all kernels really Xen enabled or is just the detection wrong?

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-09-09
They really are.  That said, any particular reason you're not using the nvidia-glx-173 (or nvidia-glx-177) packages?  They *work*.

---

### Post by plun on 2008-09-09
> **RAOF said:**
> They really are.  That said, any particular reason you're not using the nvidia-glx-173 (or nvidia-glx-177) packages?  They *work*.

Nope they don't with a default Intrepid install.

xorg.conf must be reduced otherwise something breaks glx.

(I did a clean install on Sunday)

Default install

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	#Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
	#     InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
	#     InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
```


Works

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
EndSection


```
Xorg 7.4 will be out this week and there seems to be ongoing work with Jockey and X detection so I wait with bugs....:)

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-09-09
Well, the *drivers* work.  The xorg.conf may not!

I don't really know; I have my xorg.conf.nouveau and xorg.conf.nvidia and swap between them.  That works for me ;).

---

### Post by plun on 2008-09-09
> **RAOF said:**
> Well, the *drivers* work.  The xorg.conf may not!

I don't really know; I have my xorg.conf.nouveau and xorg.conf.nvidia and swap between them.  That works for me ;).

Well, I am 99,9999% sure that there is a bug... added info to another bug.

I didn't have time to laborate but to load glx after the driver seems strange.

nVidia also recommends this xorg.conf for unstable 7.4....

---

### Post by sdide on 2008-09-09
> **RAOF said:**
> They really are.  That said, any particular reason you're not using the nvidia-glx-173 (or nvidia-glx-177) packages?  They *work*.

They might - Last time I used those were on 7.04 - they seemed to have worse 
performance than the native ones from nVidia. That might just have been a
configuration issue, anyways - that made me choose the native ones, and I've stuck with them since. 

I'll give the ubuntu-ones a try. Thanks.

---

### Post by krausest on 2008-09-09
Hi RAOF,

I'm a version junkie and thus suffer badly when a new version of a NVIDIA driver is released but not yet in the repositories ;-)
What's the trick getting the binary driver installed?

---

### Post by sdide on 2008-09-09
well, here i sit in 800*600 ...

I installed the nvidia-glx-177 package, and rebooted on the 2.6.27.2 kernel, and well 800x600 here I come.

the thing is - the kernel module is not loaded, and when I do:

~# modprobe nvidia
FATAL: Module nvidia not found.
~# 

So is the module even called nvidia anymore? And if so, where is it located, and how do I tell modprobe to go look there - and why did it not happen when I installed the package? :)

oh well ... 

is there any point in posting /var/log/Xorg.0.log and /etc/X11/xorg.conf ?

---

### Post by dabl on 2008-09-09
To my amazement, the Restricted Driver Manager actually installed the new 177.70 Nvidia driver on my Kubuntu 8.10 Alpha  5 system.  RDM did not "trigger" correctly the first time I tried it, nor the second.  After you try it and it fails, you have to restart X to try again.  I think it was about the 4th try that it triggered, downloaded the driver, and set it up correctly.

Also, I had first tried and failed to install the downloaded 177.70 driver.  I got the "Xen Kernel Detected" error. But, it is possible that the preliminary attempt to install it that way allowed RDM to finish the job.

RDM has never worked before on my hardware, so this is a very nice improvement.  :)

---

### Post by xebian on 2008-09-09
But why mix Xen with the generic?  Isn't there used to be a separate -xen and -generic kernel version ?  Why combined them now? I don't know the reason behind this but if we can't install NV drivers because of this then it's not worth it.:confused:

---

### Post by sdide on 2008-09-10
I think I owe to come back and tell that installing the nvidia-glx-173,
which means also removing the nvidia-glx-177, made things work with the 2.6.27-2 kernel. 

I'm happy - thanks for the help.

---

### Post by David Tomic on 2008-09-12
I'm having the same problem ...

Has anyone managed to come up with a solution/workaround for installing the 'native' nvidia drivers with the latest 2.6.27 kernels?

---

### Post by LaLLi on 2008-09-12
Yes, I found a way to install Nvidia driver. It worked but now after a few days I'm having a problem starting my Ubuntu and I'm not sure if it is the problem.

IIRC
1. Go to TTY1 by pressing *Ctrl-Alt-F1*.
2. Install the Nvidia driver from .run file.
3. Go to run lvl1 by giving the command *shutdown now*.
4. Select administration or console or what ever its called.
5. Give the command *nvidia-config*.
6. Exit console with the command *exit*.
7. Select boot normally.

---

### Post by krausest on 2008-09-12
Are you sure that this works with the x64 xen kernel? I don't seen anything between step 1 and 2 that would help against the NVidia installer complainig about the xen kernel.

---

### Post by LaLLi on 2008-09-12
Yes you are right...something is missing. I tried to fond the original "hack" but some how I failed to reproduce my searches that led me to it.

After the last kernel update(yesterday) I couldn't get the nvidia driver to work again. So now I have the repo version of 177 installed. No working 3d thou. :P

I'll have to do some serious googling and post a fix if I find it. Or Iäll have to live without WoW. :P

---

### Post by knattlhuber on 2008-10-21
For what it's worth, my nVIDIA 9500 GS works like a charm (including 3D) using nvidia-glx 173 and the 2.6.27 kernel. Before, I always had to manually install the driver.

---

