---
title: "Login Screen of Death"
date: 2008-10-12
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by gaelfx on 2008-10-12
A number of issues that may be non-issues, mostly centered around the login screen.

To begin with, I tried upgrading 8.04 to 8.10, during which a number of strange errors popped up, but most were related to extra apps I had installed, so I figured there was no real problem, just some whining and moaning coming from the upgrade app. I was wrong, and it turns out that upgrading had somehow broken 6 dependencies, almost all of which were evolution-related. Like a true idiot, I restarted, got to login screen, logged in and was greeted by a working mouse and an orange background, and nothing more.

Next, I decided to download the AMD64 CD for the 8.10 beta, and I tried installing with that. After selecting 'Install Ubuntu' option, I was greeted by the strange cross-hatching of mostly white slightly color-changing bars that I assume are not only friends with me, but hopefully many of you. After trying repeatedly to restart, even boot from the livecd, the bars, as they so often do, magically disappeared. Yippee!

Now comes the fun part. I installed Ibex, was apparently successful, only to find that my mouse and keyboard BOTH no longer function on the login screen, HOWEVER, I am able to use alt+F2 to get the terminal login. Now, I am greeted by an xorg.conf whose opening comment is longer than the rest of the file, with nary an InputDevice line to be found, much less any form of relevant information.

Hope you've enjoyed my story and realize that my question is "How on earth do I get my keyboard and/or mouse" to work again so that I might actually be able to ever properly use the Desktop version of Intrepid Ibex?"

Thank you for your time and patience.

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2008-10-12
Near the end of this thread you should find the solution to your problem:
(in posts #40 - #49)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=943370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=943370)

---

### Post by gaelfx on 2008-10-14
Yeah, I'm sure that would be very helpful if I could connect to the internet, but eth0 (wired connection) does not even show up in ifconfig. There is a TON of stuff wrong with this "fresh install," just gonna switch back to windows and hope that in a couple weeks, the new distro will actually work on my lappy. Thanks though.

---

### Post by gaelfx on 2008-10-14
For anyone interested, this is my xorg.conf:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

VERY sparse and lacking in anything that might collect input. Very disturbing.

---

### Post by Kow on 2008-10-14
xorg.conf isn't used anymore. In fact it may become deletable in the near future. [See this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=948154").

---

### Post by gaelfx on 2008-10-15
So how might I be able to get my keyboard and mouse working then?

---

