---
title: "Unable to mount NTFS partitions"
date: 2008-10-26
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by andrewabc on 2008-10-26
So I did a fresh install of intrepid over Hardy. I copied my hardy fstab and then put it in intrepid and everything worked fine. It auto mounted my ntfs partitions upon startup.

So I was using windows the other day and the power went off, which means I could not mount ntfs from ubuntu. But this should be fixed when I start/shutdown windows normally, so I did that but it sill won't load the partitions.

I have a very hard time with automounting partitions in Hardy (normally have to format/reinstall several times to get working).

When I try to mount the partitions it says:
> Cannot mount volume
unprivileged user cannot mount NTFS block devices using the external FUSE klibrary. Either mount the volume as root, or rebuild NTFS-3G with integrated fuse support and make it setuid root. please see more information at [http://ntfs-3g.org/support.html#unpriviledged](http://ntfs-3g.org/support.html#unpriviledged)


Here is my fstab.
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda5
UUID=9c6571c0-ae2e-4cfa-a3d5-39e268378f9a /               ext3    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda6
UUID=a876d11b-55a3-43f7-9eac-440ad04d5d1a /home           ext3    relatime        0       2
# /dev/sda7
UUID=8824beb3-b4ca-469e-b4c7-4b541c23b050 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

#acer
#UUID=3ECC4745CC46F6A5 umask=002
/dev/sda2	/media/ACER	ntfs-3g	rw,user,exec,auto	0	1

#disk
#UUID=310448f61cf55b5b
/dev/sda3	/media/disk	ntfs-3g	rw,user,exec,auto	0	1
```

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2008-10-26
I always install ntfsprogs from synaptic. It makes mounting ntfs partitions and drives virtually effortless. One word of caution: you'll be able to mount even program files, so you can break things if you goof!

[http://www.linux-ntfs.org/doku.php](http://www.linux-ntfs.org/doku.php)

I've read and been told that ntfs-config also works quite well. It's also in synaptic, but I've not used it.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2008-10-26
> **kansasnoob said:**
> I always install ntfsprogs from synaptic. It makes mounting ntfs partitions and drives virtually effortless. One word of caution: you'll be able to mount even program files, so you can break things if you goof!

[http://www.linux-ntfs.org/doku.php](http://www.linux-ntfs.org/doku.php)

I've read and been told that ntfs-config also works quite well. It's also in synaptic, but I've not used it.

I've tried those types of programs with Hardy and they never worked.
I presume ntfsprogs is a command line only program?

I just tried ntfs-config and it made no difference, although it did change my fstab.

I'm wondering why my fstab worked perfect, and then with no changes it decides to stop working and forces me to format/reinstall ubuntu to get it to work again. Once ti stops working it is near impossible o get to work again. With hardy I've spent near 12 hours trying to get it to work by editing fstab using the how-tos and manual.

After using ntfs-config my fstab looks like below, but still gives same error.
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=9c6571c0-ae2e-4cfa-a3d5-39e268378f9a / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=a876d11b-55a3-43f7-9eac-440ad04d5d1a /home ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=8824beb3-b4ca-469e-b4c7-4b541c23b050 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/ACER ntfs-3g rw,user,exec,auto 0 1
/dev/sda3 /media/disk ntfs-3g rw,user,exec,auto 0 1
```

Reading the manual for ntfsprogs, I am not sure which command to try.
I did a chkdsk for both my ntfs partitions, but that did not help.

I tried a command:
> andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ ntfsmount /dev/sda3 /media/disk
WARNING: /dev/sda3 is block device, but you are not root and ntfsmount is not set-uid-root, so using 'blkdev' option is not possible. This is not recommended.
Error opening partition device: Permission denied.
Failed to startup volume: Permission denied.
Failed to mount '/dev/sda3': Permission denied.
Mount failed.
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ 
and also
> andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo ntfsmount /dev/sda3 /media/disk
fuse: failed to access mountpoint /media/disk: No such file or directory
fuse_mount failed.
Unmounting /dev/sda3 ()
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$

In nautilus I go to filesystem->media and only 2 cdroms are listed. not showing my acer or disk partitions. It seems to not be able to locate or identify any other partitions.
If I go to applications->accessories->disk usage analyzer->it only shows my ubuntu OS and /home

Ubuntu immediately recognizes/mounts my usb sticks when I plug them in.

EDIT:
> andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ sudo mount -a
[sudo] password for andrew: 
fuse: failed to access mountpoint /media/ACER: No such file or directory
fuse: failed to access mountpoint /media/disk: No such file or directory
andrew@andrew-desktop:~$ 

---

