---
title: "8.10 beta upgrade failed (twice!)"
date: 2008-10-19
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Abstract Zzzxyz on 2008-10-19
8.04.1 was great and up to date. like an idiot, i didn't backup anything - got thru the entire upgrade process, and it failed (sorry, don't remember the exact error statement). Then i started with a fresh install of 8.04.1 (w/same disk as my pre-upgrade OS), and my 8.10 upgrade failed again. Now i'm even scared to wait for the official release.

Note: i've only got a 500 Mhz P III, w/ 8 gig HD. Is this just too small for intrepid?

help

---

### Post by walkerk on 2008-10-19
> **Abstract Zzzxyz said:**
> 8.04.1 was great and up to date. like an idiot, i didn't backup anything - got thru the entire upgrade process, and it failed (sorry, don't remember the exact error statement). Then i started with a fresh install of 8.04.1 (w/same disk as my pre-upgrade OS), and my 8.10 upgrade failed again. Now i'm even scared to wait for the official release.

Note: i've only got a 500 Mhz P III, w/ 8 gig HD. Is this just too small for intrepid?

help

Since you have to start fresh why not do a clean install of 8.10?

No need to load Hardy and then upgrade...

---

### Post by Abstract Zzzxyz on 2008-10-20
That's true. But I forgot to mention my external USB cd burner might be suspect. I downloaded the 8.10 desktop .ISO and burnt it - and it appears to work on reboot, but if i do the 'check cd for errors' option, it finds some. I guess I'll have to download/burn it at work, and try that out.

BUT - cd errors aside - why can't I upgrade via "update-manager -d"??? If I can't upgrade to 8.10 beta, how is the official release going to work? 
Rrrr...

---

