---
title: "Nvidia driver / X11 broken by latest updates ..."
date: 2008-09-25
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by David Tomic on 2008-09-25
Hi all,

I installed a bunch of updates last night [whatever had built up over the last week or so], but when I rebooted the login screen wouldn't load, and it was displaying the following pop-up message:

> The following error was encountered.  You man need to update your configuration to solve this.

(EE) Failed to load module "type1" (module does not exist, 0).
(EE) Screen 0 deleted because of no matching config section.
(EE) Device(s) detected, but none match those in the config file. 

I haven't changed anything in my xorg.conf file, so I'm really not sure why it's decided to break now?

I've pasted a copy of my current xorg.conf file below, so hopefully someone can help me get this worked out!

FWIW ... I've never modified this file manually, so whatever's in there now has just been generated by the normal installer scripts etc.

I am using a dual monitor setup [TwinView], but I've only got a single graphics card, so I'm not sure how/why it's listing multiple entries?

Any help/advice would be appreciated!

Regards,
--David

> 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Thu Aug 28 22:49:19 UTC 2008

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Mon Aug 11 12:29:26 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 1280 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL P992"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 107.0
    VertRefresh     48.0 - 170.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL 1907FP"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 LE"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 LE"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 LE"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"


    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard1"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1280x1024 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
EndSection



---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-25
This has happened to me too. The fix is to reinstall the driver. Some did it via envy but I did it by installking the kernel modesources and headers, compiling the nvidia module and then reinstalling 177.76.

---

### Post by David Tomic on 2008-09-25
> **Nullack said:**
> This has happened to me too. The fix is to reinstall the driver. Some did it via envy 

Will .. it doesn't look like envy is going to work, because when I try and launch it all I get is:

> david@einstein:~$ /usr/share/envy/launcher
  File "/usr/share/envyng-gtk/envynggtk.py", line 7, in <module>
    from Envy import objects
ImportError: cannot import name objects
SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS

> but I did it by installking the kernel modesources and headers, compiling the nvidia module and then reinstalling 177.76.

Sorry ... but that sounds a little bit over my head.

Would you be able to walk me through that step by step?

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-09-25
My my!  Crazy two-X-server head!

It's complaining about your xorg.conf, not any kernel module problems (at this point).  Can you post the full /var/log/Xorg.0.log (the one that fails)?  

Also, do you really want two separate X screens?  The nvidia blob has finally fixed the TwinView problems I was seeing, so you might want to use TwinView.  That will allow you to have a far, far simpler xorg.conf.

---

### Post by David Tomic on 2008-09-25
> **RAOF said:**
> 

It's complaining about your xorg.conf, not any kernel module problems (at this point).  Can you post the full /var/log/Xorg.0.log (the one that fails)?

Attached below. 

> Also, do you really want two separate X screens?  The nvidia blob has finally fixed the TwinView problems I was seeing, so you might want to use TwinView.  That will allow you to have a far, far simpler xorg.conf.

I've played around with using separate X screens in the past but, as far as I can remember, I'd already changed my settings back to using TwinView again.

Thanks for the help ...

Regards,
--David

---

### Post by krazyd on 2008-09-25
You can edit your xorg.conf, adding the line:
Driver     "vesa"
in the 'device' section. this will get you a basic desktop.

Not sure how you are using envy. I use the text interface by running 'envyng -t'

---

### Post by David Tomic on 2008-09-25
> **krazyd said:**
> You can edit your xorg.conf, adding the line:
Driver     "vesa"
in the 'device' section. this will get you a basic desktop.

I'd already reverted back to a generic xorg.conf file, so that at least managed to get the basics up and running again.

> Not sure how you are using envy. I use the text interface by running 'envyng -t'

MAGIC!  That actually did the trick.  

Re-installed the 177 driver again, re-configured the dual screen setup, and viola ... back up and running again.

Thanks a lot for your help everyone!

Regards,
--David

PS - I still can't seem to launch the graphical version of envy though ... but I guess that's a problem for another thread! ;)

---

### Post by McDuff on 2008-09-25
i had the same problem with twinview and the xorg.conf file generated by nvidia-settings (8400 gt here). i could solve it by deleting the serverlayout section.

---

### Post by The Cokeaholics on 2008-09-26
In my case it complained about a missing NVIDIA kernel module since 25/09's updates. I have two screens as well. When changing xorg.conf to driver "VESA" for both screens, then GDM could start. In Hardware Drivers I could then select the 177 driver but it remained red. It only changed one of the drivers in xorg.conf back to "nvidia". No matter whether I changed the other driver to "nvidia" or not, next reboot would end on (EE) Failed to load module "type1".

I resorted to envyng -t to get it fixed for now. Do I see it correctly that envy does a post-install following kernel updates?

What would have been the correct approach to load all modules correctly? Or in other words: Suppose I would remove envy again, how would I then proceed to get NVIDIA loaded within the kernel again?

Thanks, Robert

---

