---
title: "No keyboard or mouse in gnome"
date: 2008-10-03
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by simpor on 2008-10-03
Hi!

I have upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10.
After the upgrade I can boot to the loginscreen in gnome, however I can't use the keyboard to type ny login name or use the mouse.

the only thing which is working is to press alt+F1 and then I can login. Network is working so I can update and upgrade. But never login in gnome...

I have tested several times to run "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-org" and "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-org-input-all"... But in my xorg.conf file I have only information about my screen, no input devices at all.

Using a laptop, ASUS F3JA, and have tested with an external keyboard/mouse as well.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-10-03
1) What are your computer specs?

2) How are they plugged in?

---

### Post by simpor on 2008-10-03
Computer spec:

# Intel Core Duo Processor T2400 1.83GHz, 2MB L2 Cache, 667MHz
# Mobile Intel 945PM Express Chipset
# 2 GB DDR2 667MHz Ram (I upgraded from 1GB)
# 15.4" WXGA
# ATI Mobility Radeon X1600 External 256MB VRAM /with 512MB Hypermemory
# SATA 100 GB 5400rpm
# 8X DVD Super Multi Burner
# 7 in 1 MMC/ SD/ Mini-SD/Memory Stick/ MS Pro/ MS-Duo/MS-Pro-Duo Card Reader
# 6 Cells 4800mAH Battery
# 802.11a/b/g
# Bluetooth V2.0+EDR
# 1.3M Megabyte Pixels Built in Webcam
# Ports: 1 x Headphone-out jack, 1 x Microphone-in jack, 1 x Line-in Jack, 1 x RJ11 Modem jack for phone line, 1 x RJ45 LAN Jack for LAN insert, 4 x USB 2.0 ports, 1x IEEE 1394 port, 1 x TV Out (S-Video), 1 x Express Card, 1 x DVI Port, 1 x VGA Port

The keyboard and touchpad for the laptop is not working. External Keyboard Logitech G11 connect via usb is not working. Or Logitech MX Revolution.

Everything worked fine in 8.04...

My xorg.conf:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



And I have tried "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" to generate the file...

---

### Post by simpor on 2008-10-03
Did a new upgrade a few minuts ago and it solved the problem!

---

