---
title: "8.10 upgrade STILL stuck"
date: 2008-10-22
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Abstract Zzzxyz on 2008-10-22
i went through the entire process (again), and all was well until i restarted. i got this error message:
(EE) MGA(0) Static buffer allocation failed: not initializing the DRI
(EE) MGA Need at least 22500 kb video memory at this resolution, bit depth

So - Ubuntu tries to start in a low graphics mode, but never quite gets there. Right now I'm running my 8.04.1 Live CD. Is there any way to change my screen resolution without actually getting to the 8.10 desktop? (it was at 1600 x 1200)

This is the 4th time I've tried to upgrade from 8.04.1 to 8.10. What the f--k?!

---

### Post by cheesypoof on 2008-10-22
I feel your pain man... I restarted after the update and was forced to go into low graphics mode. A couple seconds after the desktop started appearing, the screen just went white. You may want to consider just backing up your home folder and waiting for the official 8.10 release to reinstall fresh. Hopefully someone with more knowledge can give you a detailed fix for this.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-22
Moved to Intrepid :)

---

### Post by Abstract Zzzxyz on 2008-10-22
what's more descriptive than "8.10 upgrade still stuck"? and why did you move my post? i'm really frustrated, and now my post is in some quiet backwater or something.

i was only hoping some other ubuntu users have experienced an upgrade-snag like mine.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-10-22
Check the forum. Your thread has been moved to the intrepid testing forum :).
This is where you should have posted. 

Have you tried the 8.10 livecd. Does it run ok?

---

### Post by Archmage on 2008-10-22
Kindly note that 8.10 is still Beta. Such problems should be expected.

I would suggest to reconfigurate the graphical-mode with the trouble-shooting-kernel.

---

### Post by Abstract Zzzxyz on 2008-10-22
Sorry, don't mean to sound so bitchy. I LOVE Ubuntu, and really appreciate the work that went into it. 

And um, yes, my 8.10 Live CD works in my son's computer but mine just boots right past it (yep, CDRom is first in my boot sequence)

What do you guys think of this idea?
Re-install 8.04.1 from my 'working' live CD, reset my screen to 1024x768, apply all regular 8.04 updates, THEN try upgrading to 8.10.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-10-22
Does your 8.04 livecd work still on your pc?

---

### Post by scheuri on 2008-10-22
Frankly, my personal suggestion (BEWARE: that is my opinion, so no one really needs to care, read at own risk ;)):

Install 8.04.1 if that release worked fine and stick with it for as long as you want. It is LTS, meaning you can stick with it for at least 3 years (as you get security fixes this long for desktop).

If you really feel the urge to upgrade to 8.10, either use the beta but DO NOT EXPECT it to work or wait until it is really released.
And honestly, wait a couple of weeks longer to make sure most bugs found after the official release are fixed as well...

Ubuntu is NOT rock stable (like other distros) and it is not meant to be...if you want rock stable you need to choose a linux distribution which provides that (and very likely older versions of software).

I really do not want to sound arrogant or so...but betas are not for productive use ever.

Good luck
scheuri

---

### Post by Rhubarb on 2008-10-22
> **Abstract Zzzxyz said:**
> (EE) MGA(0) Static buffer allocation failed: not initializing the DRI
(EE) MGA Need at least 22500 kb video memory at this resolution, bit depth

It sounds like it's having problems picking up your video card correctly.
MGA = Matrox Graphics Adapter

I don't know much about Matrox cards and Ubuntu (or should I say, the version of x.org that comes with 8.10 beta).

Perhaps an internet search of your specific video card and the version of X would shed some light on your problem.

---

### Post by Abstract Zzzxyz on 2008-10-22
okay, 
i really didn't mean to ruffle any feathers, i DO understand it's still beta, i just get obsessive and impatient knowing there's something new and cool out there, and i can't make it work.

Phil: yes, my 8.04.1 live cd works, it's what i'm running for the moment. And as i said earlier, my 8.10 live cd works in my son's machine, just not THIS one, it boots right past it (and yes, again - my cd rom is first in my boot sequence).

Scheuri: yeah, 8.04.1 was FABULOUS. i just figured that intrepid was so close to it's release date, it would be equally great. I will very likely just re-install 8.04.1 (again) and try to resist the incredible urge to update.

Thanks again, everyone. Ubuntu's awesome, and I wouldn't go back to XP if it were the last OS on Earth! My apologies once more for my manners.

Scott

---

### Post by Archmage on 2008-10-22
> **Abstract Zzzxyz said:**
> What do you guys think of this idea?
Re-install 8.04.1 from my 'working' live CD, reset my screen to 1024x768, apply all regular 8.04 updates, THEN try upgrading to 8.10.

I'm totaly against the idea, because this will only be additional work and you might end at the same place you are struck already.

I know it is frustrating, but this problem is only one configuration problem and than everythingt should work.

Try to do what I told you. Hit escape in the GRUB-Menu, choose the second kernel and than boot to reconfigure/repair the X-Server.

If this didn't work we could try deleting/renamiong the configuration-file, but we should try other options first.

Did you try to upgrade your system? Maybe than it is already fixed? (sudo aptitude update ; sudo aptitude safe-upgrade ; sudo aptitude full-upgrade ; sudo shutdown -r now ; exit)

---

