---
title: "[SOLVED] Ati x1100 for cripped xorg.conf"
date: 2008-09-09
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Rashedul on 2008-09-09
First of all I absoloutely hate the crippled xorg.conf file. I am not a complete nebiew to Ubuntu/Linux but I still haven't figured out how to do some simple things, like change the graphics driver easily without xorg.conf. Before I used to be able to go into xorg.conf and change the fglrx to Ati to get the open source driver. With Interepid those options have disappeared and I have a crippled xorg.conf file. 

Can anyone tell me what I can add to my xorg.conf to let it know to use the open source Radeon drivers instead of fglrx? Since fglrx doesn't work with the new X server anymore and I'm looking to go open source. The video card is Ati x1100 mobility for laptop. Thanks.

And just to add a second question, anyone know how to remove the nvidia module from the kernel? Recently during the kernel update I saw it was building and I don't need it since I have a laptop with x1100 that will never change. I also have some nvidia xserver configuration program now that I don't need.

---

### Post by inportb on 2008-09-10
I believe you'd do the same thing, like add:

Driver "radeon"

to the correct section. Even better, boot up in recovery mode and use the xfix tool; that's how you're supposed to tweak your X settings now.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-09-10
Without any other instructions, Xorg will automatically load the ati driver (which is just an alias for radeon) anyway.  Unless you've explicitly got a Driver "fglrx" line in there, you're using radeon.  Or, possibly, VESA if radeon's broken for you.

Of course, having the nvidia driver installed will have broken your 3D.  You can remove the nvidia-glx-173 & nvidia-settings packages that I think will have been pulled in by some accidental dependencies.  That should unbreak your 3d.

In general, posting your /var/log/Xorg.0.log is extremely helpful in diagnosing X problems :).

---

### Post by Rashedul on 2008-09-10
Thank you for your reply and trying to help me. I understand putting in "radeon" in the appropriate section usually does the job but the problem is the appropriate section is missing (or rather reduced). And I can't remember everything that used to be there before it got reduced so I don't know how to write a new section. Here is my new xorg.conf ```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
```

If I put Driver "radeon" under Configured Video Device will that work? I remember the old xorg.conf had few more options and parameters in the video area. And right now I don't think my computer is defaulting to radeon, I have a feeling its vesa.

I also have all the xorg video drivers installed for some reason. I'm about to uninstall all of them except the Ati ones now. Hope that doesn't screw anything up. If I try to uninstall one it asks me to uninstall the meta package too. No need for vodoo, savage or any of those drivers (I hope...).

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-09-10
> **Rashedul said:**
> ...
If I put Driver "radeon" under Configured Video Device will that work? ...

Yes.  But, if everything's working correctly, that will give you the same behaviour as not having a Driver option at all.

Your /var/log/Xorg.0.log file will (among other useful debugging info - **hint** ;)) tell you what driver X is loading; it's not going to be fglrx, and it *probably* is radeon (if it's not, you'll need to file a bug).

---

### Post by Rashedul on 2008-09-10
Thank you so much for your help. So a quick update:

I deleted the Nvidia drivers like you suggested and at the same time I decided to delete whole bunch of xorg video drivers. When I restarted the computer X wouldn't load saying it can't find "ati" or something like that. So I edited the Xorg.conf and added Driver "radeon" and everything is working fine now. I'm not quite sure what was loading before but 3D wasn't enabled since Compiz wouldn't load and Armagetron was running very slow (two things I use to see if 3D accelaration is working).

After adding Driver "radeon" Compiz is working and Armagetron is faster. Still not as smooth as when I had fglrx but I'm happy with it. I'll see if I can read up on how xorg.conf works so I can start adding in the other options, to tweak it and make it run faster. Thanks again.

---

