---
title: "8.10 HELP - no network manager icon &amp; movie player opens folders by default?"
date: 2008-10-14
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by HarmonicaGoldfish on 2008-10-14
I upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10 yesterday (Oct13) on my Dell Inspiron 1525 laptop.

2 big questions:

I seem to no longer have a network manager, or at least it is not working properly. I have a network monitor, which lets me know if I am connected or not but does not allow me to troubleshoot when I am not connected. When I go to the help file, it tells me to right-click on the network manager icon and enter my info - but there is no icon. 

So in order to regain connectivity I need to shut down. (When I try to restart, it does not work. Seems to be getting hung up as it is closing with trying to close ALSA.)

How do I fix this? (The network manager thing)

When I go to open any folder through my panel - either my home folder which is on the panel or any of my bookmarked folders in 'places', they are opened by movie player. This obviously does not work.

How do I fix this?

Thanks!

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-14
Moved to Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion  :)

---

### Post by taavikko on 2008-10-14
Without basic skills, it's better to wait for official release, than
upgrade to still in beta-status release.
This was meant in no way disrespectful manner. Just a reminder to all.


Places problem is a known bug
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/260492](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/260492)

---

### Post by Archmage on 2008-10-14
Did you try to run nm-applet?

---

### Post by sdirector on 2008-10-16
Hi. 

First of all, I have more than basic skills... just thought I'd start off with that. :) (no offense meant or taken - but let's skip through the "did you plug in your network part")

I'm online at the moment because, yes, I did run nm-applet. However, I'm wondering what the "right" way to deal with networking and wireless is in the new world of Intrepid. Are we just between applets? I'm _sure_ the answer isn't that I need to run /usr/bin/nm-applet every time I log in (or that I should add that to my gnome session - because that would just be insulting)

---

### Post by jblackhall on 2008-10-16
I've got a bug out there with NetworkManager.  I can't tell if it's the same problem or not, but I thought I'd throw it out there:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/282835](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/282835)

---

### Post by jblackhall on 2008-10-16
Also, I can put a Network Monitor applet (icon) on my panels as well, but there *should be* a NetworkManger icon (with connectivity options in right-click menu) in the Notification Area.

I thought I was the only one with this issue, but it appears I'm not.  That's good news :)

---

### Post by plucky on 2008-10-16
> How do I fix this? (The network manager thing)


This [thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=940364&highlight=nm-applet) worked for me. **See post #8**


Good Luck

---

### Post by HarmonicaGoldfish on 2008-10-17
I have finally decided to re-install 8.04 and wait for the official 8.10 release. Too buggy for now.

I had compressed my home folder and saved it on a usb stick. Unfortunately, it will not extract...sigh... 

Does anyone know if 'create archive' is another buggy aspect of Intrepid?

---

