---
title: "8.10 safe graphics mode? what's the point"
date: 2008-10-15
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by forcecore on 2008-10-15
in 8.10 safe graphics mode just do not work, because you ask is that it wont add vesa in xorg.conf

safe graphics mode should add:

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    **Driver         "vesa"**
EndSection

For example i have problems still with (tested daily 15) display problems and every time i must specify that "vesa" word to get system up. Working safe graphics mode should be robust and use vesa to get desktop quickly up.

---

### Post by dabl on 2008-10-15
Suppose your requirement is to boot the 8.10 Live CD one time, test your network connectivity, audio, and other hardware items, then install it?  And furthermore, suppose your graphics card won't display the Live CD without Safe Graphics mode?

In this case (i.e. MY case) you only need Safe Graphics mode to work _once_.  No need to write /etc/X11/xorg.conf -- for one thing, my card won't run it in default VESA configuration, and for another it's going to get overwritten when I install the proprietary driver anyway.

So, it's perfect as it is.  :)

---

### Post by forcecore on 2008-10-15
then 8.10 should add another option for F4 "Load vesa" option for livecd but currently safe graphics mode has no difference from normal mode.

---

### Post by sokopok on 2008-10-16
here here
I also tried to fix my NVidia/Xorg prolems with a reinstall, downloaded the newest beta livecd, boot in safe graphics, got a (guess what...) black screen. So I had to download the alternated instead. A bit of a fuss you ask me.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2008-10-16
Safe graphics mode changing my xorg.conf at any small glitch was one of my major gripes with the whole jockey/restricted manager concept . I like it the way it is .

---

### Post by sokopok on 2008-10-16
I think you missed my point. An installer should have a safe mode that works, for any configuration.
For me, no problem, I'm used to messing around with my computer, I know how to work around these things. I prefer text-based installers anyway (faster, usually easier access to advanced options, etc..) .
But stuff like this is what's keeping lots of people of even considering running Linux. Ubuntu should be one of the easiest, step in solutions for linux. When a linux newbie tries to install Ubuntu and encounters problems this, it will only reinforce their misconceptions about linux systems.  There is a very big chance, they will never even try again, which is a big shame. This is the first thing newcomers see, and it should work perfectly, under any circumstances.
What's the point in make a nice graphical installer if you still have to provide commandline arguments to the kernel etc. Casual users don't want to do this, and I don't blame them.

---

### Post by forcecore on 2008-10-16
I am with you sokopok that it should be easy, i am adwanced windows user who tries promote Ubuntu to world with easy to use and so on... i even myself only like GUI and i hate these sudo things and terminators. 8.10 is completed finally for lot of people with most of GUI control like network, install etc.

Current problem affects one friends family childrens computer too because i cannot give them ubuntu 8.10 livecd for internet only computer that has cd-rom locked with screw to prevent children to mess up system and restart brings system back to default.

I have tried too other linuxes but i hate them all, Ubuntu gui is the best and easy like windows after 8.04> AND more secure thanks to root protection.

---

