---
title: "[SOLVED] Can't use NVidia177 Drivers on 8600 GT"
date: 2008-09-22
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-22
After updating, I can't use the 177 drivers.   Had to revert to the 173 drivers.  Anyone else have this problem?

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-22
Here is my nvidia-config: 

> sef@sef-desktop:~$ sudo nvidia-xconfig

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

PARSE ERROR: Parse error on line 34 of section Module in file
             /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
             "Disable" is not a valid keyword in this section.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'
What should the setting be?

---

### Post by beartard on 2008-09-22
Hard to say without seeing what line 34 of your xorg.conf file is.

You could try changing "disable" to "false" and see if you get the same results.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-23
> Hard to say without seeing what line 34 of your xorg.conf file is.Here is my /ect/X11/xorg.conf:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
    Disable    "dri2"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection


---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-23
Enable line numbering in gedit preferences to see easily.

Note, have a look on nvnews forums for nvidia recommening an ultra minimalist xorg conf.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-23
>          Enable line numbering in gedit preferences to see easily. Thanks for the tip about line numbering.

Line 34 says "Disable "dri2""


Section Module

> 
Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
    Disable    "dri2"
EndSection

>  You could try changing "disable" to "false" and see if you get the same results.

What's the best way to do that?

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-09-23
> **Sef said:**
> Thanks for the tip about line numbering.

Line 34 says "Disable "dri2""

...

What's the best way to do that?

Delete the entire line.  DRI2 is a lie (at least in Intrepid).

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-09-23
I'm running two 8600GT-OC BFG cards in a SLI setup without problems--using the 177 driver. Have got my xorg.conf pared down to a very small amount-not running a "module" section at all. Still need to set modes (due to mis-config if I don't) & have a couple of options that are currently recommended on nVidia site.

Looks like this:

#Custom Xorg

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Screen0"
    Device        "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
        Option          "AllowSHMPixmaps" "0"
        Option          "PixmapCacheSize" "1000000"
    SubSection "Display"
    Depth    24
        Modes        "1920x1200_60"    "1680x1050_60"    "1600x1200_60"    "1440x900_60"    "1280x1024_75"    "1280x1024_60"    "1024x768_75"    "1024x768_60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Videocard0"
    Driver        "nvidia"
    Vendorname    "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Boardname    "GeForce 8600 GT"
        Option        "Coolbits"    "1"
        Option        "TripleBuffer"    "True"
    Option        "NoLogo"    "False"
    Option        "SLI"    "SFR"
    BusID    "3:0:0"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Single-Monitor"
        Screen          "Screen0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Displaysize    593.28    370.8
    Identifier    "Monitor0"
    Vendorname    "HannsG"
    Modelname    "HG-281DPB"
    Horizsync    24.0    -    80.0
    Vertrefresh    56.0    -    75.0
    Option        "DPMS"    "true"
EndSection

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-23
> Delete the entire line.  DRI2 is a lie (at least in Intrepid).Thank you.  That worked.  :)

Upgraded to 177.

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-23
I have an 8600GT and the upgrade failed for me.

Now Im not sure of the exact root cause but I suspect it to be because many other things were upgraded at the same time. Including a kernel upgrade. It may not intelligently handle such events.

All I did to fix it was to reinstall the module aliases and other kernel stuff, synaptic auto rebuilt the module and then I reinstalled the 177 - all is fine now.

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-23
> **Sef said:**
> Thank you.  That worked.  :)

Upgraded to 177.

Thats good, but interestingly I still have the:

	Disable	"dri2"

In my conf on the same video card as you and it works fine.

Doesnt seem as simple as asking the devs not to add this line to the conf.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-23
> Now Im not sure of the exact root cause but I suspect it to be because many other things were upgraded at the same time. Including a kernel upgrade. It may not intelligently handle such events.


Other than the NVidia problem the upgrade went fine for me.

---

### Post by plun on 2008-09-23
Well, apparently something is wrong I cannot see any bug written for this...:)

I solved it with [EnvyNG]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?suite=default&section=all&arch=any&searchon=names&keywords=envyng") instead of messing around.
```

sudo envyng -t
```
(from a tty)

There is also a new X-diagnose script which starts in failsafe mode with
different options. Newbies "trap"...

Or Alberto already looking to this ?

There was also a new Jockey version.

More betas from nVidia, good for testing..:lolflag:


EDIT
@autocrosser, thanks for pointing out that Coolbits works again..

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-23
The fix is to reinstall - doing it visa envy or synaptic the effect is the same :)

---

### Post by plun on 2008-09-23
> **Nullack said:**
> The fix is to reinstall - doing it visa envy or synaptic the effect is the same :)

Well, if you knows it, its easy...

Now its time for someone else to discuss this with Alberto  :)

I hope that nVidia releases a beta every day until this just works..

[B]
Also that someone fixes a ATI beta and tests..[/B]  it must be possible to get one !!!


This can be a disaster for Intrepid and maybe its time to reschedule a week or two...

---

