---
title: "8.10 rc x not starting - can't install"
date: 2008-10-24
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by dash86no on 2008-10-24
I have just this morning downloaded the latest release candidate for Kubuntu 8.10. I ran the image fine in a virtual machine, and then burned to CD. I attempted to install on a Dell Optiplex GX60 with 1GB RAM and Intel graphics chip set (Sorry can't remember exact specs, will post in follow up). Tested CD for defects and there was none. Then attempted to install without "trying first from Live CD". The installation got as far to bringing ip the cross mouse pointer hovering in front of a blank screen. it froze like that for some time (Perhaps 5 minutes). I then "alt f2" to a console, which it allowed me to do, and then typed the "sudo shutdown now -r"  to restart. I then attempted the "try first from live CD" option. This time the process got as far as the KDE 4.1 window, bringing up 4 of the icons but freezing on the "desktop" icon. (I.e. the blue KDE logo did not show up) It has been hung like this now for 10 minutes.

Is this a known issue? Any one else had this problem?

---

### Post by kevin11951 on 2008-10-24
Technically questions like that dont go here, they go into the "Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion" ([http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=346](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=346)) Sub forum...

Also, no... i haven't heard of that issue, although if you have an old nvidia card, the drivers might be messed up by intrepid because of a few issues that i wont get into here.

---

### Post by dash86no on 2008-10-25
> **kevin11951 said:**
> Technically questions like that dont go here, they go into the "Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion" ([http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=346](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=346)) Sub forum...

Also, no... i haven't heard of that issue, although if you have an old nvidia card, the drivers might be messed up by intrepid because of a few issues that i wont get into here.


Cheers for the reply. Is it ok to double post in the ibex sub forum in this case or perhaps I should link to this post?

cheers.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-25
Moved to  Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion :)

---

### Post by dash86no on 2008-10-25
> **overdrank said:**
> Moved to  Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion :)

many thanks

---

