---
title: "2.6.27-3 will appear soon!"
date: 2008-09-03
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by nanog on 2008-09-03
"Leann Ogasawara  wrote 32 minutes ago:  (permalink)
Hi All,
Just a note that I believe the next 2.6.27-3 kernel upload will hopefully resolve this issue. Unfortunately 2.6.27-3 will not be available until after Alpha5 is released. If you can please watch for updates and test once 2.6.27-3 comes out that would be great. Please let us know your results. Thanks."

---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-09-03
I hope the new kernel is more friendly. I still can't boot into the previous two releases in two separate computers...

*grabs a chair and a beer*

---

### Post by lonniehenry on 2008-09-03
waspbr, what is the problem with your boot? If you boot with quiet deleted, you should be able to tell where it is hanging and then we might be able to help.  Several others have had a problem and the forums have been able to help most of them.

---

### Post by Steveway on 2008-09-03
Will it fix support for the nouveau driver or do I have to resort to .26 again?

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-03
Does this contain RC5?

---

### Post by nanog on 2008-09-03
> If you boot with quiet deleted, you should be able to tell where it is hanging and then we might be able to help. 

Or if you are lazy like me hit alt F1 during boot.

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-09-04
> **Steveway said:**
> Will it fix support for the nouveau driver or do I have to resort to .26 again?

What do you mean?  I'm happily chugging away here with nouveau on 2.6.27!

---

### Post by waspbr on 2008-09-04
Wish I could tell you what the problem  is, I did remove quiet from the boot line, but all it happens is that the screen goes blank, I can only get out with a hard reset(power off).

If I add noapictimer, the boot sequence resumes, although just before the gdm, the screen goes blank (witha  blinking bar on the top left), it seems to try to load x, but it gets stuck in a infinite loop, although I can still reboot with ctrl+alt+del. so until a more friendly version comes I am still stuck with 2.6.26-5.


Actually, I did a little tinkering(noapictimer in the 2.6.27.2 restore line ), and the problem is definately xorg related, it says it failed to load nvidia kernel module!

oh joy

---

### Post by jfernyhough on 2008-09-04
> **waspbr said:**
> it says it failed to load nvidia kernel module!Try this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5670471&postcount=74](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5670471&postcount=74)

---

### Post by andyrogers2008 on 2008-09-10
It looks like 2.6.27-3 kernel will be uploaded soon to the repositeries looking at the queue list here:-

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+queue](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/intrepid/+queue)

Andy

---

### Post by klange on 2008-09-10
Good news.
-2 never booted for me, stopped at "booting paravirtualized kernel on bare hardware" (w/ quiet off).

---

### Post by biasquez on 2008-09-10
rtg (Tim Gardner) just uploaded Intrepid 2.6.27-3.4 rebased on 2.6.27-rc6 look for it to hit the repos soon.

---

### Post by Starks on 2008-09-10
:3

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/2.6.27-3.4/+build/713736](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/2.6.27-3.4/+build/713736)

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-10
They tagged it it GIT with RC6 - yay

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/ubuntu-intrepid.git;a=summary](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/git?p=ubuntu/ubuntu-intrepid.git;a=summary)

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-09-10
Yes!!!!!:):):):)

> **starks said:**
> :3

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/2.6.27-3.4/+build/713736](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/2.6.27-3.4/+build/713736)

---

### Post by nanog on 2008-09-10
Suspend working again! 

But can't build dkms nvidia.

---

### Post by ronacc on 2008-09-10
no 64bit build yet ?

---

### Post by inportb on 2008-09-10
It appears not.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-09-10
No restricted-modules yet--as soon as they get built, you will have the nVidia dkms stuff.....

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-09-10
> **autocrosser said:**
> No restricted-modules yet--as soon as they get built, you will have the nVidia dkms stuff.....

Actually, nvidia no longer sits in linux-restricted-modules; that's what the DKMS stuff is *for* ;).

---

### Post by syko21 on 2008-09-11
> **RAOF said:**
> Actually, nvidia no longer sits in linux-restricted-modules; that's what the DKMS stuff is *for* ;).
As I understand it DKMS handles rebuilding modules that become incompatible after kernel upgrades, is that correct?


Also, linux-source package got updated to  2.6.27-3 so if you're impatient you can start compiling the kernel and use that if you want.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-09-11
Sorry--my bad--in any case, I've not seen the restricted-modules yet. I will wait til they are ready & download.


> **RAOF said:**
> Actually, nvidia no longer sits in linux-restricted-modules; that's what the DKMS stuff is *for* ;).

---

### Post by RAOF on 2008-09-11
> **syko21 said:**
> As I understand it DKMS handles rebuilding modules that become incompatible after kernel upgrades, is that correct?

Correct.

> **syko21 said:**
> 
Also, linux-source package got updated to  2.6.27-3 so if you're impatient you can start compiling the kernel and use that if you want.

Or you can just "aptitude install linux-image-2.6.27-3-generic"; the packages are built and in the archives.

As always with kernel updates, the team will wait until the restricted modules etc are built, then bump the dependencies in linux-meta.  Then (assuming you've got the **linux-generic** package installed) a full-upgrade will install the new kernel.

---

### Post by nanog on 2008-09-11
me likey new kernel -- good job kernel team!

---

### Post by bruno666 on 2008-09-12
> **nanog said:**
> Suspend working again! 

But can't build dkms nvidia.

I had the same issue this morning with nvidia module (kernel and nvidia update), with this message during the kernel update :

```
nvidia (177.68): Unable to locate /var/lib/dkms/nvidia/177.68/source/dkms.conf
        DKMS tree must be manually fixed.
```

nivdia-177.70 module was built but not installed.

I've fixed this with dkms, from the command line :

```
sudo dkms install -m nvidia -v 177.70 -k 2.6.27-3-generic
```

---

### Post by plun on 2008-09-12
> **bruno666 said:**
> I had the same issue this morning with nvidia module (kernel and nvidia update), with this message during the kernel update :

```
nvidia (177.68): Unable to locate /var/lib/dkms/nvidia/177.68/source/dkms.conf
        DKMS tree must be manually fixed.
```

nivdia-177.70 module was built but not installed.

I've fixed this with dkms, from the command line :

```
sudo dkms install -m nvidia -v 177.70 -k 2.6.27-3-generic
```

Can you please post your observations to this bug  ?

New nVidia sources was also out this morning.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-177/+bug/261816](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-177/+bug/261816)

Something is wrong and Alberto is also unsure....

---

### Post by _oOMOo_ on 2008-09-12
I had some problems with nvidia and the new kernel. The dist upgrade removed nvidia-177-kernel-source and I then removed nvidia-glx-177 with the intention of reinstalling. When I tried:

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-177
```

apt told me that nvidia-glx-177 was not available but that nvidia-glx-177 replaced it. Yes you did read that right!

The same story for nvidia-177-kernel-source.

In the end I downloaded both packages from packages.ubuntu.com and installed them using dpkg - which has worked fine.

Incidentally has the linux-generic package been discontinued?

---

### Post by nanog on 2008-09-12
I managed to build nvidia-glx-177 just fine using dkms once the headers were installed.

Also confirm that the new glx package installs just fine via jockey. So for me no bugs!

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-09-12
I'm in the same boat. did the updates for the new kernel, restarted and back to low graphics.

---

### Post by alej on 2008-09-12
> **philinux said:**
> I'm in the same boat. did the updates for the new kernel, restarted and back to low graphics.

If you have 177 installed already but are in low graphics try this.... it worked for me...

Ctrl+Alt+F1 ... which takes you out to a tty
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo nvidia-xconfig
reboot  or try sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

Good luck....

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-12
Phil I dont recommend using nvidia x configurator

In fact, nvidia have been saying to use a minimal xorg and they give an example conf wih just the nvidia driver specificied in it. PLUN had a link to it, dont have it offhand

Look through your x logs to see why its failing to bulletproof x.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-09-12
Thanks nullack, I've not attempted any fix. I'm sure it will sort itself out with an update.

I looked at xorg.conf and it's the same as it was before the update. Interestingly a load of new menu's appeared, at the first reboot following the update, offering a fix or troubleshoot. Got locked in a loop with that and hit ctrl alt f2 and somehow got the login screen.

It doesn't seem to be the xorg.conf more likely the driver has not been loaded. I cant tick enable either in the nvidia-settings tool. As above seems dkms is the culprit.

---

### Post by amano on 2008-09-12
I can verify that 177 and the new kernel do not work well (bulletproof X coming up). 27-2 still works very well OTOH.

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-12
Amano its working on my nv card no problems

Phil your logs will show what the reason for bulletproof x is

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-12
Hibernate and Suspend now work splendidly on my Dell Precision M90. When resuming from Suspend, I have no wireless. Switching Wi-Fi off and then on gets it going. But then I lose bluetooth (or maybe that's just a missing icon).

EDIT: I definitely lose bluetooth. But that is fixed by turning the service off and then on again.

---

### Post by Gourgi on 2008-09-12
> **amano said:**
> I can verify that 177 and the new kernel do not work well (bulletproof X coming up). 27-2 still works very well OTOH.

```
uname -a
Linux gourgi 2.6.27-3-generic #1 SMP Wed Sep 10 16:18:52 UTC 2008 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

```
glxinfo |grep NVIDIA
server glx vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
client glx vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL version string: 2.1.2 NVIDIA 177.70
OpenGL shading language version string: 1.20 NVIDIA via Cg compiler

```

i faced bulletproof X after the kernel updates, i just switched Ctrl+Alt+F1
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo apt-get purge nvidia
cd /var/lib/dkms/nvidia/
sudo rm -rf 177*
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-image-2.6.27-3-generic
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
sudo apt-get install nvidia-177-modaliases nvidia-glx-177
sudo reboot
```

also take a look at your xorg.conf , here is mine 
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us,gr"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	",extended"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"grp:alt_shift_toggle,grp_led:scroll"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

```

basically all i did is the same procedure that i followed for the previous kernel
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=902887&highlight=nvidia](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=902887&highlight=nvidia)

---

### Post by phenest on 2008-09-12
Also, nVidia 177 stopped working for me too. Then some updates for jockey appeared which has a slightly revamped GUI. I gave it another shot, et voila! All working again.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-09-12
> **Nullack said:**
> Phil your logs will show what the reason for bulletproof x is Ok here's the beginning of the xorg log. I'm not an expert on these errors though. But it seems to pick failsafe xorg. The directory **xserver **does not even exist.

```
(WW) Failed to open protocol names file **/etc/X11/xserver/protocol.txt**
X.Org X Server 1.5.0
Release Date: 
X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
Build Operating System: Linux 2.6.24-15-server x86_64 Ubuntu
Current Operating System: Linux ubuntunet 2.6.27-3-generic #1 SMP Wed Sep 10 16:18:52 UTC 2008 x86_64
Build Date: 11 September 2008  06:25:01PM
xorg-server 2:1.5.0-1ubuntu1 (buildd@crested.buildd) 
    Before reporting problems, check http://wiki.x.org
    to make sure that you have the latest version.
Module Loader present
Markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting,
    (++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational,
    (WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Fri Sep 12 14:32:50 2008
(==) Using config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf.failsafe"

```

---

### Post by bruno666 on 2008-09-12
```
(WW) Failed to open protocol names file **/etc/X11/xserver/protocol.txt**


```[/QUOTE]

This is not a fatal error. It's also in my logs and Xorg works like a charm.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-09-12
> **bruno666 said:**
> (WW) Failed to open protocol names file **/etc/X11/xserver/protocol.txt**

This is not a fatal error. It's also in my logs and Xorg works like a charm.So where do I look to find out why it picks failsafe x.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-09-12
> **bruno666 said:**
> I had the same issue this morning with nvidia module (kernel and nvidia update), with this message during the kernel update :

```
nvidia (177.68): Unable to locate /var/lib/dkms/nvidia/177.68/source/dkms.conf
        DKMS tree must be manually fixed.
```nivdia-177.70 module was built but not installed.

I've fixed this with dkms, from the command line :

```
sudo dkms install -m nvidia -v 177.70 -k 2.6.27-3-generic
```

You need to use build first. The above command gives. 
Error! Could not locate nvidia.ko for module nvidia in the DKMS tree.
You must run a dkms build for kernel 2.6.27-3-generic (x86_64) first.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-09-12
I just did this and rebooted back to normal.

I did not fiddle with xorg.conf, or anything else.

[edit] I filed a bug. 269513

---

### Post by Steveway on 2008-09-12
To come back with the nouveau-problem:
Well, I'm back from a week in Berlin and tried -3 now and it still doesnt't work.
I did everything like before when I updated the 26 kernels(sudo module-assistant...).
dmesg | grep nouveau gives me this:
```
steveway@localhost:/home/steveway/Downloads$ dmesg | grep nouveau
[  123.194777] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_open
[  123.194801] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_open
[  123.194950] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_fasync
[  123.194955] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_fasync
[  123.195216] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_fence_handler
[  123.195374] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_poll
[  123.195379] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_poll
[  123.195526] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_get_resource_len
[  123.195532] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_len
[  123.195762] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_alloc_memctl
[  123.195915] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_get_reg_ofs
[  123.195921] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_reg_ofs
[  123.196111] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_info
[  123.196116] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_info
[  123.196266] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_enable
[  123.196271] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_enable
[  123.196509] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_mm_put_block
[  123.196740] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_mem_space
[  123.196968] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_move_ttm
[  123.197230] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_calloc
[  123.197407] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_alloc
[  123.197412] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_alloc
[  123.197639] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_find_matching_map
[  123.197876] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_init_ttm
[  123.198028] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_irq_uninstall
[  123.198034] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_irq_uninstall
[  123.198320] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_get_dev
[  123.198539] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_ioctl
[  123.198544] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_ioctl
[  123.198769] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_driver_init
[  123.198918] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_exit
[  123.198923] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_exit
[  123.206249] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_sg_alloc
[  123.206272] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_sg_alloc
[  123.206486] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_bind
[  123.206491] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_bind
[  123.206727] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[  123.206733] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[  123.207082] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_free_memctl
[  123.207256] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_init
[  123.207261] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_init
[  123.207490] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_ttm_bind
[  123.207654] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_addmap
[  123.207659] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_addmap
[  123.207897] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_irq_install
[  123.208137] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_get_resource_start
[  123.208143] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_start
[  123.208376] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_cleanup_pci
[  123.208526] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_ioremap
[  123.208532] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_ioremap
[  123.208676] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_rmmap
[  123.208681] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_rmmap
[  123.208922] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_move_accel_cleanup
[  123.209073] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_mmap
[  123.209078] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_mmap
[  123.209471] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_move_memcpy
[  123.209699] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_init_mm
[  123.209872] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[  123.209877] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[  123.210053] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_release
[  123.210058] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_release
[  123.210204] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_acquire
[  123.210209] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_acquire
[  126.432605] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_open
[  126.432636] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_open
[  126.432785] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_fasync
[  126.432791] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_fasync
[  126.433051] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_fence_handler
[  126.433210] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_poll
[  126.433215] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_poll
[  126.433362] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_get_resource_len
[  126.433367] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_len
[  126.433599] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_alloc_memctl
[  126.433752] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_get_reg_ofs
[  126.433758] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_reg_ofs
[  126.433915] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_info
[  126.433920] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_info
[  126.434070] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_enable
[  126.434075] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_enable
[  126.434304] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_mm_put_block
[  126.434532] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_mem_space
[  126.434761] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_move_ttm
[  126.435023] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_calloc
[  126.435200] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_alloc
[  126.435205] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_alloc
[  126.435433] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_find_matching_map
[  126.435662] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_init_ttm
[  126.435813] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_irq_uninstall
[  126.435819] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_irq_uninstall
[  126.436125] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_get_dev
[  126.436346] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_ioctl
[  126.436350] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_ioctl
[  126.436577] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_driver_init
[  126.436727] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_exit
[  126.436732] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_exit
[  126.444805] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_sg_alloc
[  126.444826] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_sg_alloc
[  126.444973] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_bind
[  126.444979] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_bind
[  126.445147] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[  126.445153] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[  126.445413] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_free_memctl
[  126.445584] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_init
[  126.445588] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_init
[  126.445815] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_ttm_bind
[  126.445979] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_addmap
[  126.445983] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_addmap
[  126.446221] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_irq_install
[  126.446432] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_get_resource_start
[  126.446437] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_start
[  126.446664] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_cleanup_pci
[  126.446814] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_ioremap
[  126.446819] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_ioremap
[  126.446964] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_rmmap
[  126.446968] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_rmmap
[  126.447208] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_move_accel_cleanup
[  126.447358] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_mmap
[  126.447362] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_mmap
[  126.447754] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_move_memcpy
[  126.447982] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_init_mm
[  126.448180] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[  126.448186] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[  126.448355] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_release
[  126.448360] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_release
[  126.448506] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_acquire
[  126.448511] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_acquire
[  129.777959] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_open
[  129.777985] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_open
[  129.778134] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_fasync
[  129.778140] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_fasync
[  129.778401] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_fence_handler
[  129.778559] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_poll
[  129.778564] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_poll
[  129.778723] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_get_resource_len
[  129.778729] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_len
[  129.778962] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_alloc_memctl
[  129.779115] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_get_reg_ofs
[  129.779121] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_reg_ofs
[  129.779271] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_info
[  129.779276] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_info
[  129.779425] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_enable
[  129.779430] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_enable
[  129.779658] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_mm_put_block
[  129.779970] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_mem_space
[  129.780236] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_move_ttm
[  129.780502] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_calloc
[  129.780679] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_alloc
[  129.780684] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_alloc
[  129.780912] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_find_matching_map
[  129.781141] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_init_ttm
[  129.781292] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_irq_uninstall
[  129.781297] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_irq_uninstall
[  129.781583] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_get_dev
[  129.781801] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_ioctl
[  129.781806] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_ioctl
[  129.782033] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_driver_init
[  129.782183] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_exit
[  129.782187] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_exit
[  129.790312] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_sg_alloc
[  129.790339] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_sg_alloc
[  129.790487] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_bind
[  129.790493] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_bind
[  129.790661] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[  129.790667] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_get_map_ofs
[  129.790931] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_free_memctl
[  129.791100] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_init
[  129.791105] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_init
[  129.791332] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_ttm_bind
[  129.791495] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_addmap
[  129.791500] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_addmap
[  129.791738] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_irq_install
[  129.791948] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_get_resource_start
[  129.791953] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_get_resource_start
[  129.792210] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_cleanup_pci
[  129.792361] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_ioremap
[  129.792367] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_ioremap
[  129.792511] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_rmmap
[  129.792516] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_rmmap
[  129.792757] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_move_accel_cleanup
[  129.792906] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_mmap
[  129.792911] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_mmap
[  129.793302] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_move_memcpy
[  129.793531] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_bo_init_mm
[  129.793703] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[  129.793708] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_core_reclaim_buffers
[  129.793877] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_release
[  129.793882] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_release
[  129.794028] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_agp_acquire
[  129.794033] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_agp_acquire


```
Appearently something has changed.

---

### Post by Anubis on 2008-09-12
> **alej said:**
> If you have 177 installed already but are in low graphics try this.... it worked for me...

Ctrl+Alt+F1 ... which takes you out to a tty
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo nvidia-xconfig
reboot  or try sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

Good luck....

Worked here as well.:guitar:

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2008-09-12
2.6.27-3 is just as broken on Compaq Presario Intel Celeron 32 bit ATI grapics as -2 is.  Bug 265049.

Jerry

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-09-12
I dont recommend running nvidia xconfig.

Look at the nvnews forum and see what the latest recommended xorg conf by Nvidia is - I dont have the link offhand. Basically they recommend this which is mine:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by amano on 2008-09-13
I cleaned the xorg.conf a bit (removed the vendor string and added the nologo option) and reinstalled the 27-3 kernel (sudo aptitude reinstall linux-image-2.6.27-3-generic) and this got everything working.

Though I don't understand why it didn't work in the first place.

---

### Post by fimbulvetr on 2008-09-13
> **amano said:**
> I cleaned the xorg.conf a bit (removed the vendor string and added the nologo option) and reinstalled the 27-3 kernel (sudo aptitude reinstall linux-image-2.6.27-3-generic) and this got everything working.

Though I don't understand why it didn't work in the first place.

Same here:

```

sudo aptitude reinstall linux-image-2.6.27-3-generic

```

fixed my present issues

---

### Post by shenki on 2008-09-22
> **Steveway said:**
> 
$ dmesg | grep nouveau
[  123.194777] nouveau: disagrees about version of symbol drm_open
[  123.194801] nouveau: Unknown symbol drm_open

I saw this too.  It's because 2.6.27 moves the kernel video stuff from char/ into drivers/gpu/.  ROAF's drm-modules places your shiny new drm module in the old location, and unfortunately the module loading mechanism finds the old one.

A temporary fix would be to:

```
$ sudo rm /lib/modules/2.6.27-3-generic/kernel/drivers/gpu/drm/drm.ko
$ sudo depmod
```

The first line gets rid of the stock drm module, the second refreshes the list of module dependencies so the new drm module will be loaded.  Then you'll need to log out, switch to a virtual terminal (ctrl+alt+F1) and type:

```
$ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
$ sudo modprobe -r drm
$ sudo modprobe -a drm nouveau
$ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

Or, you could just reboot.

---

