---
title: "8.10 boot options for grub"
date: 2008-08-22
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by gnuvistawouldbecool on 2008-08-22
I am trying to get 8.10 alpha 4 (the most recent one, anyway) to boot on my computer (a compaq laptop) and am having problems with the bootloader.  I am trying to get three systems to work in the bootloader - Mandriva 2008.1, Ubuntu 8.10 and XP.  the first and latter work fine, but Ubuntu fails to load properly with the options that the bootloader configuration in mandriva gives it.

It goes to the correct partition, hda8, and uses this line
"/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24.4-laptop-1mnb", (as the boot image) which I suspect is wrong, as all I ever get is the diagnostic text instead of the loading bar, and the mouse, touchpad and keyboard do not work.  So I suppose I need to know which one to use.  I see several in /boot/ but don't know which one to use.

The install did work before I messed around with grub but then windows didn't work.

I hope this is the right place to put this, if not I apologise.

---

### Post by BwackNinja on 2008-08-22
I'd say it is best to have the line for ubuntu be:
```
Title Ubuntu Intrepid #or whatever you want to call it
configfile hd(0,7)/boot/grub/menu.lst
```

This uses the configuration file for the grub in intrepid to load it, so it will always be up to date even with a kernel change.

---

### Post by gnuvistawouldbecool on 2008-08-22
But how do I enter that?  Do I use the GUI, or a cli function, just it really doesn't seem to like anything.

---

### Post by jfernyhough on 2008-08-22
The easiest way is to edit the menu.lst in use at the moment, by the sounds of it it's your Mandriva one. Copy and paste the relevant lines from your Ubuntu menu.lst to the Mandriva menu.lst and save it.

Of course, you will have to update this if you upgrade the kernel.

However, the suggestion above (which I've just read properly) looks to be the best solution. Copy those lines into the Mandriva /boot/grub/menu.lst

---

### Post by Herman on 2008-08-22
I agree with BwackNinja, but there's a slight syntax error there with the placement of the brackets in 'hd(,07), it should be '(hd0,7)' or  it won't work.
> ```
Title Ubuntu Intrepid #or whatever you want to call it
configfile **(hd0,7)**/boot/grub/menu.lst 
```
This uses the configuration file for the grub in intrepid to load it, so it will always be up to date even with a kernel change.That is correct, it is best to use either a configfile boot entry or the chainloader command when we are booting other Linux installations. [Operating System Entries for Multiple Booting More Linux Systems]("http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#Operating_System_Entries_for_Multiple_Booting_More_Linux_Systems"). :)

Here's an example,
```
## ## End Default Options ##

title        Ubuntu intrepid (development branch), kernel 2.6.26-4-generic
root        (hd0,5)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.26-4-generic root=UUID=4d4939f2-de30-438a-896f-af6a77406eea ro quiet splash 
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.26-4-generic
quiet

title        Ubuntu intrepid (development branch), kernel 2.6.26-4-generic (recovery mode)
root        (hd0,5)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.26-4-generic root=UUID=4d4939f2-de30-438a-896f-af6a77406eea ro  single
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.26-4-generic

title        Ubuntu intrepid (development branch), kernel Last successful boot
root        (hd0,5)
kernel        /boot/last-good-boot/vmlinuz root=UUID=4d4939f2-de30-438a-896f-af6a77406eea ro quiet splash  last-good-boot
initrd        /boot/last-good-boot/initrd.img
quiet

title        Ubuntu intrepid (development branch), memtest86+
root        (hd0,5)
kernel        /boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title        Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for an existing
# linux installation on /dev/sda1.
title        Ubuntu 8.04.1, chainloader boot (on /dev/sda1)
root        (hd0,0)
chainloader +1


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for an existing
# linux installation on /dev/sdc1.
title        Ubuntu Gutsy Gibbon, chainloader boot (on /dev/sdc1)
root        (hd2,0)
chainloader +1


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for an existing
# linux installation on /dev/sdc2.
title        Ubuntu Feisty Fawn, chainloader boot (on /dev/sdc2)
root        (hd2,1)
chainloader +1


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for an existing
# linux installation on /dev/sdc4.
title        openSUSE 10.3 chainloader boot (on /dev/sdc4)
root        (hd2,3)
chainloader +1


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for an existing
# linux installation on /dev/sdc6.
title        Debian GNU/Linux, chainloader boot (on /dev/sdc6)
root        (hd2,5)
chainloader +1
```

---

### Post by BwackNinja on 2008-08-22
@Herman

Thanks for catching my mistake, that's the same place where I got my info (and it appears you wrote it, so thanks a lot. Operating system independent grub installations rock.)

---

### Post by Herman on 2008-08-22
:) Yeah, I wrote it, glad  you like it. :)

@ gnuvistawouldbecool, do you still need help or are you okay now? I don't know the commands for opening the /boot/grub/menu.lst in Mandriva, I'm not sure what text editor Mandriva uses. I imagine you would need to be 'root'.

---

### Post by Gina on 2008-08-22
I have to say, I've found a lot of your info very useful Herman and I thank you for it :):)

---

### Post by jfernyhough on 2008-08-22
Just to throw in that I just tried this with my Arch dual-boot (I'd been using the method I outlined in my post above).

As I'd installed the Arch GRUB to the mbr, not to the root (/) drive the chainloader +1 option doesn't work.

I'm just about to try the configfile option. ( [http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#1._Configfile](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#1._Configfile) )

--edit

configfile worked perfectly.

---

### Post by Herman on 2008-08-22
> As I'd installed the Arch GRUB to the mbr, not to the root (/) drive the chainloader +1 option doesn't work.:) You can use either the configfile type of booting stanza or the chainloader command when you are booting another Linux that uses GRUB, especially if it's another Debian based distro which probably uses the same version of GRUB as we use in Ubuntu.
The configfile command is a little easier as does not require GRUB to be installed anywhere special. Whichever GRUB you are in will be used to do the booting, but it will use the information from the other operating system's menu.lst or grub.conf file to do so.

The main advantages of using the chainloader command are that we can boot some other boot loader with it, like a different version of GRUB, or Lilo if we need to boot a Linux distro that doesn't favor GRUB. We can even chainload Windows.
When we use the chainloader command, the job of doing the actual booting of the other operating system is passed on to the other boot loader.
Sometimes when we need to boot an operating system which uses an old version of GRUB it's better to use the chainloader command because the older GRUB might not understand some of the commands in our modern GRUB, such as 'savedefault' for example, and will error out rather than boot.
The only problem with using the chainloader command is just that it takes a few minutes to install GRUB to a partition or MBR for a target to chainload.

Either of those two commands are best for booting other operating systems when we are multi bootiing because if we have very many operating systems to take care of, we really don't want all the work of manually updating direct kernel boot entries every time one of them gets a new kernel. :)
> I have to say, I've found a lot of your info very useful Herman and I thank you for itThank you Gina, I'm proud to have the link to your website in my home page too. Your site is great too! :)

---

### Post by gnuvistawouldbecool on 2008-08-23
> **Herman said:**
> :) Yeah, I wrote it, glad  you like it. :)

@ gnuvistawouldbecool, do you still need help or are you okay now? I don't know the commands for opening the /boot/grub/menu.lst in Mandriva, I'm not sure what text editor Mandriva uses. I imagine you would need to be 'root'.

Yes, I got it working with kwrite, opening it with superuser from the console.  I tried using vi before that, but didn't know the code to actually save it.

This is now coming from 8.10, so yes, it works.

---

### Post by Gina on 2008-08-23
> **Herman said:**
>  I'm proud to have the link to your website in my home page too. Your site is great too! :)
Thank you very much :):)

---

