---
title: "8.10 Grub error 2"
date: 2008-10-26
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by lazycat on 2008-10-26
I had a pretty serious problem with grub when I first installed ubuntu 8.10, that I wanted to post since I didn't see any other posts about this specific problem, and I had to search for a while to get a work around. Just in case anyone else runs into the same problem, and also to let people know about the problem. I had just installed Ubuntu 8.10 RC on my desktop PC. After I reboot from the install, I got only "Grub error 2" before the grub menu came up. I eventually found a work around for this problem, but it seems to me that having a grub error from a fresh install is a pretty serious problem. Here is what I did to get it:

1. Boot from the CD using "Try Ubuntu without making any changes" (I like to install from here, since I can browse the web while it installs, vs. the "install ubuntu" option)
2. Run the installer.
3. For drive allocation, I chose manual configuration. I have 2 hard drives. I chose ext3 for the format of both drives (with a little taken out of the larger one for swap), and I chose to format both drives on install, so this is a totally clean install. I mounted one drive as /home and the other as /
4. Run the rest of the installation, and reboot.

When I reboot, before the grub menu comes up, it simply says "Grub error 2", and does not boot. In an unrelated thread, I found a few commands which I can't find again to help me figure out that my root drive was hd1,0. I then did this from the live CD:

```

sudo grub
grub> root (hd1,0)
grub> setup (hd1)
grub> quit

```

and from then on, Ubuntu boots fine. Does anyone know why the installer would do this, or if I can do anything different to make sure it doesn't happen on the officially released CD? I did the above commands on the Ubuntu 8.10 RC cd, but I had this same problem when I installed the beta version (I gave up before finding the above solution with the beta version). I have also been using Ubuntu since 6.10 (and installing a fresh copy every time the next version comes out), and this is the first installer to ever give me any trouble on this machine.

---

### Post by immolo on 2008-10-26
Hmm this problem just happened to me too but I fixed it using the rescue mode's reinstall GRUB method.

---

### Post by lazycat on 2008-10-26
> **immolo said:**
> Hmm this problem just happened to me too but I fixed it using the rescue mode's reinstall GRUB method.

How do you get to rescue mode? I didn't even know there was a rescue mode.

---

### Post by panda726 on 2008-10-26
I have this error too, but I think the problem may be in an older Grub having top control of booting, but Intrepid has something newer which cannot be read by Hardy era Grubs.  I will test this by reinstalling Grub on my Grub partition, and report back here (as soon as I finish checking a few threads.)

Tor

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-10-26
I think I may know what happened to you; since you didn't change the "advanced" settings where you can tell Ubuntu where to install Grub, your Grub was installed to /dev/sda. But since running those Grub commands solved your problem, those commands installed Grub to the MBR (Master Boot Record) of your sdb drive. Therefore, you are probably booting from your sdb drive on start up, is that true? Just to clarify your setup, please open a terminal (applications > accessories > terminal) and post:
```
sudo fdisk -lu
```
And let me know which partitions are what. Next do:
```
sudo dd if=/dev/sda count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
sudo dd if=/dev/sdb count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
sudo dd if=/dev/sda bs=1 skip=1049 count=2 2>/dev/null | hexdump
sudo dd if=/dev/sdb bs=1 skip=1049 count=2 2>/dev/null | hexdump
```
And post the results of that. That will greatly help clarify your setup. :)

---

### Post by lazycat on 2008-10-26
Thanks for the replies. 8.04 was on the computer before, but shouldn't that grub have been wiped out when I formatted? (I did choose to format both drives) Why would the install put grub on the wrong drive? Here is the results of the commands requested:

```

sudo fdisk -lu

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders, total 156301488 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xe2d22979

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *          63   156296384    78148161   83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders, total 488397168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000001

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *          63     4000184     2000061   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdb2         4000185   488392064   242195940   83  Linux

```

And the other 4 lines:

```

:~$ sudo dd if=/dev/sda count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
GRUB 
:~$ sudo dd if=/dev/sdb count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
GRUB 
:~$ sudo dd if=/dev/sda bs=1 skip=1049 count=2 2>/dev/null | hexdump
0000000 ff00                                   
0000002
:~$ sudo dd if=/dev/sdb bs=1 skip=1049 count=2 2>/dev/null | hexdump
0000000 8100                                   
0000002

```

If you don't mind, could you educate me on what this output means? I tried reading the man pages for the dd command, so I know what dd does, but I don't know why you are interested in these particular parts of the drive, or what the hex values mean. The first two are looking for grub in the boot sectors, right?

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-10-26
> **lazycat said:**
> 
```

:~$ sudo dd if=/dev/sda count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
GRUB 
:~$ sudo dd if=/dev/sdb count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
GRUB 
:~$ sudo dd if=/dev/sda bs=1 skip=1049 count=2 2>/dev/null | hexdump
0000000 ff00                                   
0000002
:~$ sudo dd if=/dev/sdb bs=1 skip=1049 count=2 2>/dev/null | hexdump
0000000 8100                                   
0000002

```

If you don't mind, could you educate me on what this output means? I tried reading the man pages for the dd command, so I know what dd does, but I don't know why you are interested in these particular parts of the drive, or what the hex values mean. The first two are looking for grub in the boot sectors, right?
Yes, you're right, the first two commands merely look at the MBR (the first sector of the drive) and see if the MBR has either the string "grub" or "missing operating system"; if the command returns "GRUB", you have Grub installed to the MBR, and if it returns "missing operating system", you have a Windows MBR. 

The second commands tell us which partition Grub is pointing to for its boot files. I know the output looks cryptic, but it tells me that Grub on your sda drive points to sda1 for its boot files (which is good), and Grub on your sdb drive also points to sda1 for its boot files. When you set up Grub using the "root" and "setup" commands as follows:
```
grub> root (hdX,Y)
grub> setup (hdZ)
```
Then those X, Y, and Z variables get encoded into the Grub stage1.5 file that is installed in the sectors immediately after the MBR. So the hexadecimal output of those two commands can be interpreted as:
```
FF0Y if X=Z
8X0Y if X and Z are different
```
Forum member meierfra is the one who figured out that really clever hack. The curious thing though is why you would get a Grub error 2 when booting from the sdb drive, since it looks like Grub in the sdb drive points correctly to sda1 for its boot files, because a Grub error 2 is:
> **Error 2** : Bad file or directory type
This error is returned if a file requested is not a regular file, but something like a symbolic link, directory, or FIFO.
Maybe you would get that error if the Grub in sdb is pointing to the /grub folder on sda instead of the /boot/grub folder on sda, but still I don't think you would get an error 2; did you maybe have a /boot partition in sda1 at some point? 

Anyway, it does sound like the Grub error 2 you encountered might be due to a bug during the Ubuntu install. I'm not sure exactly what happened. :)

---

### Post by panda726 on 2008-10-26
Hmmm...  I am starting to wonder about this myself.  I have a grub partition at sdc4 and it boots my Gutsy partition fine, but cannot find anything on my Intrepid partition.  When I installed Intrepid I made sure to tell it to install grub to the same partition as I was installing Intrepid to, so that I could simply run a config file boot, but when I try to load the menu.lst I get Grub Error 2.

As for what is what...

```

Gutsy partition         sdc2
Grub partition           sdc4
Intrepid                    sdc10

```

I think this ought to be enough for troubleshooting.

```

Disk /dev/sda: 40.0 GB, 40060403712 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4870 cylinders, total 78242976 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes                             
Disk identifier: 0xf2578748                                        

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *          63    66043214    33021576    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda2        66043215    78236549     6096667+   b  W95 FAT32

Disk /dev/sdb: 13.0 GB, 13020069888 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 1582 cylinders, total 25429824 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x26717586

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *          63    25414829    12707383+   6  FAT16

Disk /dev/sdc: 160.0 GB, 160000000000 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19452 cylinders, total 312500000 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x9dc96e9e

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1   *       80325    25173854    12546765    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sdc2        25173855    57175334    16000740   83  Linux
/dev/sdc3        57175335   312496379   127660522+   5  Extended
/dev/sdc4              63       80324       40131    6  FAT16
/dev/sdc5        57175398    65175704     4000153+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdc6        65175768    97064729    15944481   83  Linux
/dev/sdc7        97064793   231287804    67111506    b  W95 FAT32
/dev/sdc8       271900188   312496379    20298096    b  W95 FAT32
/dev/sdc9       231287868   241778249     5245191   83  Linux
/dev/sdc10      241778313   250164179     4192933+  83  Linux
/dev/sdc11      250164243   258550109     4192933+  83  Linux
/dev/sdc12      258550173   262743074     2096451   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdc13      262743138   271900124     4578493+  83  Linux

Partition table entries are not in disk order

```

The other six for me:
```

ubuntu@ubuntu:~/Ibex/boot/grub$ sudo dd if=/dev/sda count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
GRUB
ubuntu@ubuntu:~/Ibex/boot/grub$ sudo dd if=/dev/sdb count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
GRUB
ubuntu@ubuntu:~/Ibex/boot/grub$ sudo dd if=/dev/sdc count=1 2>/dev/null | strings | grep -ie grub -ie "missing operating system"
GRUB
ubuntu@ubuntu:~/Ibex/boot/grub$ sudo dd if=/dev/sda bs=1 skip=1049 count=2 2>/dev/null | hexdump
0000000 0000
0000002
ubuntu@ubuntu:~/Ibex/boot/grub$ sudo dd if=/dev/sdb bs=1 skip=1049 count=2 2>/dev/null | hexdump
0000000 8100
0000002
ubuntu@ubuntu:~/Ibex/boot/grub$ sudo dd if=/dev/sdc bs=1 skip=1049 count=2 2>/dev/null | hexdump
0000000 ff03
0000002

```

I am booting to sdc4, which works fine.  I can access the menu.lst on sdc2 (Gutsy) and could access the one on sdc9 (was gNewsense) before I tried installing Intrepid there in case something was fishy about sdc10 where I want Intrepid.

From the live disk, the grub shell can find everything, so I am going to reboot and try the grub prompt again, since that was having trouble (posting so I don't lose this post, in case I need it).  Hopefully I can get mine solved so I can figure out Intrepid.  Will report back soon.

Thanks,

Tor

---

### Post by panda726 on 2008-10-26
Well, I just tried again, and my Grub partition grub cannot find /boot/grub/menu.lst in either Intrepid installation ("find /boot/grub/menu.lst" doesn't return either Intrepid partition).  Would you agree that I am probably having problems associated with an older grub trying to boot something new and therefore incompatible?

Tor

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-10-26
> **panda726 said:**
>  Would you agree that I am probably having problems associated with an older grub trying to boot something new and therefore incompatible?

Yes, that might be exactly the problem; Intrepid I believe uses the newer 256 byte inode size for its ext3/ext4 partitions, whereas older ext3 partitions use a 128 byte inode size; the Grub versions in Hardy and before can't handle the new inode size. To check the inode size of an ext3/ext4 partition, you can use:
```
sudo dumpe2fs /dev/sdaX | grep -i "inode size"
```
If you want the Gutsy partition's Grub to handle your booting, you could install the Intrepid updated version of Grub into it, or you could simply let Intrepid take control of booting both OSes. Good luck and let us know what you end up doing. :)

---

### Post by Chazall1 on 2008-10-26
HERE LOOK
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub/+bug/207001](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub/+bug/207001) 
--recheck
Recheck the device map, even if /boot/grub/device.map already exists.
You should use this option whenever you add/remove a disk into/from your
computer

I don't know if it there are same problems:

- e2fsprogs &#8805; 1.40.5 creates ext3 filesystems with 256 byte large
inodes by default (in contrast to 128 byte used before), to accommodate
for further ext4 related changes (
[http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net/e2fsprogs-release.html#1.40.5](http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net/e2fsprogs-release.html#1.40.5) )
...
Using any of these new features requires updating the bootsector of
your system. Bootsectors written by "grub or earlier versions of
"grub-gfxboot" are not able to boot or even access partitions using any
of these new features!
 While these changes don't affect existing systems, we strongly
recommend updating your bootsectors using:
grub-install --recheck --no-floppy <raw device or partition>
 to get access to newly created ext3 (with inode sizes exceeding 128
byte) partitions, ..."
I formated my / and /home with an older version of Ubuntu. Went through the Intrepid install and made sure I did not check to format the / and /home partitions. All installed and is functioning fine.

---

### Post by panda726 on 2008-10-26
Well, I would say that I am dealing with the new FS, old grub issue.  I cannot, however, seem to get grub to update the version on my grub partition, although I would rather be running the new grub there than to format in an old OS.  If you could give me the commands to run from either the Intrepid install (super grub disk will get me there), the Live CD, or from Super Grub Disk to install the latest version of Grub to sdc4 (boot grub hd0,3 for unknown reasons), I would appreciate it.

Thanks,

Tor

---

### Post by Chazall1 on 2008-10-26
Here is a great site for GRUB
[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#Re-install_Grub_with_Live_CD](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#Re-install_Grub_with_Live_CD)

The main page is [http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/)

Good Luck

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-10-26
> **panda726 said:**
> Well, I would say that I am dealing with the new FS, old grub issue.  I cannot, however, seem to get grub to update the version on my grub partition, although I would rather be running the new grub there than to format in an old OS.  If you could give me the commands to run from either the Intrepid install (super grub disk will get me there), the Live CD, or from Super Grub Disk to install the latest version of Grub to sdc4 (boot grub hd0,3 for unknown reasons), I would appreciate it.

Thanks,

Tor
OK, how about doing this from your Intrepid install:
```
apt-cache policy grub
```
Confirm that your Grub version is 0.97-29ubuntu45, not 0.97-29ubuntu21 which is the older version that can't handle the 256 byte inode size. After that, mount your sdc4 partition on say /mnt:
```
sudo mount /dev/sdc4 /mnt
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sdc --recheck
```
That installs Grub to the MBR of the sdc drive and points it to the sdc4 partition for all its boot files, and the newer version boot files will be written to the Grub directory in sdc4. That should be all it takes, assuming your menu.lst is in order. Let me know how it goes.

---

### Post by panda726 on 2008-10-26
Thanks.  I would have tried that, but before I saw your post I read again the page Chazall1 posted, and properly read the part about making a grub partition (not the linked section, and I have been on the page, but this time something clicked), and copied the grub files from the Intrepid install grub folder to my grub partition, which solved the issue.  It seems that both methods achieve the same result, although your way probably would have been neater.

Indeed, the Intrepid version was *45, while what I had was earlier (I forget exactly which number).

Thanks for your help in sorting this out.  Good thing I got this dealt with using a spare partition, and not my primary install, which would have been a mess.  I rarely even play with OSs because I don't like closing everything to reboot.

Tor

---

### Post by lazycat on 2008-10-26
I thought that maybe the problem was that the Ubuntu installer was writing the boot loader to the wrong disk, so I tried formatting and re-installing with the exact same settings (the reasoning being, if it is writing the wrong disk, then the valid one I set up earlier should still work, and the new install will still boot with no problems). This time, I got to the grub menu OK, but then I got grub error 17. No matter which option I tried from the menu, I still got error 17. Thats good from the perspective that I got a new error, so the problem is different depending on if you are installing from a formatted drive which previously had 8.04 vs. if your drive previously had 8.10, but its bad in that it means that it is more than just a problem of writing to the wrong drive. Even doing the steps I posted before would not fix the problem this time, so for now I am reverting back to 8.04. Also, after this experiment failed, I tried installing again, but this time with the smaller drive mounted to /home and the larger to /, and I got grub error 15 (again, the previously posted steps did not fix the problem). If you have any good ideas, and want me to test them, I would be glad to format again and test it out. I don't have anything important on this machine that is not backed up, and I hope to see this fixed in the final release, so let me know if you want me to test anything out.

---

### Post by panda726 on 2008-10-26
Yes, I have seen error 17 myself quite a few times.  At the boot screen, hit "e" to edit commands.  What goes wrong for me with this is that Ubuntu gets the disk order backwards from the way grub sees it.  If you installed Ubuntu to sda, then try booting hd1, and if you installed to sdb, boot sd0.  Partition should be correct, just remember that grub starts from zero.

The place to put this is in the root line.  It probably says something like "root=(hd0,0)" which would be right according to Ubuntu, but according to grub it is wrong.  If this is what you see, then edit the command to say "root=(hd1,0)" and try booting (replace partition numbers as appropriate).  If it works, then edit menu.lst to reflect the new settings.

Tor

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-10-26
> **lazycat said:**
> I thought that maybe the problem was that the Ubuntu installer was writing the boot loader to the wrong disk, so I tried formatting and re-installing with the exact same settings (the reasoning being, if it is writing the wrong disk, then the valid one I set up earlier should still work, and the new install will still boot with no problems). This time, I got to the grub menu OK, but then I got grub error 17. No matter which option I tried from the menu, I still got error 17. Thats good from the perspective that I got a new error, so the problem is different depending on if you are installing from a formatted drive which previously had 8.04 vs. if your drive previously had 8.10, but its bad in that it means that it is more than just a problem of writing to the wrong drive. Even doing the steps I posted before would not fix the problem this time, so for now I am reverting back to 8.04. Also, after this experiment failed, I tried installing again, but this time with the smaller drive mounted to /home and the larger to /, and I got grub error 15 (again, the previously posted steps did not fix the problem). If you have any good ideas, and want me to test them, I would be glad to format again and test it out. I don't have anything important on this machine that is not backed up, and I hope to see this fixed in the final release, so let me know if you want me to test anything out.
Getting the Grub menu on start up is usually 90% of the battle to get Grub working, because if you get any Grub errors after that when selecting to boot an OS, it just means you need to make some changes to your menu.lst. You can usually easily get Ubuntu to boot by modifying the Grub menu on-the-fly on start up like panda726 said above.

How about reinstalling, and this time use the "advanced" button at the end of the installation process to tell Grub to install to /dev/sdb. Then make sure your BIOS is set so that sdb is first in the boot order, and see if you can boot OK.

---

### Post by lazycat on 2008-10-27
> **caljohnsmith said:**
> Getting the Grub menu on start up is usually 90% of the battle to get Grub working, because if you get any Grub errors after that when selecting to boot an OS, it just means you need to make some changes to your menu.lst. You can usually easily get Ubuntu to boot by modifying the Grub menu on-the-fly on start up like panda726 said above.

How about reinstalling, and this time use the "advanced" button at the end of the installation process to tell Grub to install to /dev/sdb. Then make sure your BIOS is set so that sdb is first in the boot order, and see if you can boot OK.

I tried hitting the advanced button, and it defaulted to hd0 which I think is the right drive, but I wasn't sure. There was an option for sdb in the drop down, so I chose that, and this time it gave me the error 17 and a menu instead of error 2 and no menu (I installed from formatting a fresh copy of 8.04, which gave me error 2 before). I tried the edit from the grub menu like panda726 said, and it worked (it did list hd1 instead of hd0). I am not sure why the installer won't get it right by default, but I am glad I will at least be able to use 8.10 when it comes out. Thanks for your help everyone.

---

### Post by panda726 on 2008-10-27
As I said, something seems to be screwy between the bios/grub, and the mapping in the operating system with multiple drives.  I believe this has been an issue since at least Edgy (never ran Edgy with more than one drive, but saw error 17 with it.  I did get Feisty running on the [this] computer, along with Windows reinstallation, for which I took out drives), and probably before.  Maybe I'll take a look through the bug reports and see about filing one.

Tor

Edit: I realized one other thing that may be of significance.  I have one SATA drive, and two IDE drives.  In grub/BIOS the SATA shows up first, as hd0, but the OS sees it last, as sdc.

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-10-27
> **lazycat said:**
> I tried hitting the advanced button, and it defaulted to hd0 which I think is the right drive, but I wasn't sure. There was an option for sdb in the drop down, so I chose that, and this time it gave me the error 17 and a menu instead of error 2 and no menu (I installed from formatting a fresh copy of 8.04, which gave me error 2 before). I tried the edit from the grub menu like panda726 said, and it worked (it did list hd1 instead of hd0). I am not sure why the installer won't get it right by default, but I am glad I will at least be able to use 8.10 when it comes out. Thanks for your help everyone.
That does sound like it could be a bug. The installer should be smart enough to know that if you install Grub to the MBR of the same drive that has the Ubuntu installation, the Ubuntu entries in the menu.lst should use (hd0,X) and not (hd1,X). If panda726 doesn't file a bug, I hope you would consider doing it in the hope that the issue can be resolved. :)

---

### Post by panda726 on 2008-10-27
Actually it looks like there is already a bug posted about this issue at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/46520](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/46520) .  If you want to add details about your situation that would likely be helpful in getting this issue solved (although I would imagine for Jaunty at this point).

Tor

---

### Post by lazycat on 2008-10-27
> **panda726 said:**
> Actually it looks like there is already a bug posted about this issue at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/46520](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/46520) .  If you want to add details about your situation that would likely be helpful in getting this issue solved (although I would imagine for Jaunty at this point).

Tor

This is probably it, since one of my drives is SATA and the other is IDE.

Edit: Actually, that bug report is from 2006, so it probably isn't the same one.

---

### Post by panda726 on 2008-10-28
Maybe not quite the same one, but I have seen this bug since Edgy days, and someone posted about two weeks before I did on that bug.  It seems to be a persistant bug that should get more attention.  If I open a separate bug are you available to help in reporting to get this fixed?

Tor

---

