---
title: "problem with ATI X1300 mobility drivers"
date: 2008-10-13
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by magicmanfk on 2008-10-13
after an update about a week ago, my ubuntu suddenly couldn't find the drivers for my ati graphics card (it worked before). I've been looking around the forums and the internet looking for soultions, but no I couldn't find a fix for it. The main issue here is that compiz doesn't work. If I try to do a 'compiz --replace" in terminal I get the "no whitelisted drivers found" error, and if I try to go to something other than "none" in the appearance effects section, it says "searching for drivers" then, "Desktop Effects could not be enabled". Any suggestions?

---

### Post by magicmanfk on 2008-10-14
oh, and while I was looking around, someone suggested to look at their xorg.conf file, and mine was a lot shorter than what seemed normal:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



Is it supposed to look like that, or have more information? I tried to run the command suggested in the file but it didn't change it.

---

