---
title: "bcm4310"
date: 2008-07-21
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by kfazz on 2008-07-21
all the threads i've seen so far say to use ndiswrapper...
but there's a newer version of broadcom's driver than is in LRM
available here:
[http://www.broadcom.com/support/802.11/linux_sta.php](http://www.broadcom.com/support/802.11/linux_sta.php)
and it works for me
(with the version in 2.6.26-4-generic i get:
eth1: Broadcom BCM4315 802.11 Wireless Controller 5.10.18.0

and the wireless light is dim, i can see ap's but no connect.
it doesn't work with my wpa AP, haven't tried without encryption.

with the version from the broadcom site:
eth1: Broadcom BCM4315 802.11 Wireless Controller 5.10.27.6

wireless led is as bright as in windows and it works with wpa and networkmanager. now i don't have to keep a second card in the cardbus slot. woo.

i suppose i should file a bug for linux-restricted modules...

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2008-07-21
Make sure you have "linux-restricted-modules-common" installed. It wasn't included on the alternative CDs.

---

### Post by kfazz on 2008-07-22
it was installed. lrm-common doesn't contain any files related the the boradcom wl driver though. i could 'modprobe wl' and try to connect, it just didn't work. also, the hardware led was half as bright as usual.

---

### Post by kfazz on 2008-07-23
"linux-restricted-modules (2.6.26-4.10) intrepid; urgency=low

  [Tim Gardner]

  * Updated Broadcom to 5.10.27

 -- Tim Gardner <email address hidden>   Wed, 23 Jul 2008 12:44:35 -0600"

it's in the latest update now. 
cool stuff.
now at least i'll have woeking internet until the card gets RE'd and added to b43...

---

### Post by prankstar008 on 2008-08-08
Have you loaded the ieee80211_crypt_tkip module??

---

### Post by matthewbpt on 2008-08-08
How do you install this driver? i have 64bit Intrepid And do I have to remove ndiswrapper to test it, I'd really like to get the card working without ndiswrapper as it gives me a lot of problems.

---

### Post by prankstar008 on 2008-08-08
I'm actually trying to writing a script to do this.  

The readme is pretty good at explaining the install instructions...just make sure you build clean first cause mine was breaking if I didn't do that.  Let me know if you have questions...I'm going to be testing this driver all day lol.

---

### Post by matthewbpt on 2008-08-08
what does the "M=`pwd`" part of the step "4. Cleanup (optional): make -C /lib/modules/<2.6.xx.xx>/build M=`pwd` clean" mean?

---

### Post by prankstar008 on 2008-08-08
> **matthewbpt said:**
> what does the "M=`pwd`" part of the step "4. Cleanup (optional): make -C /lib/modules/<2.6.xx.xx>/build M=`pwd` clean" mean?

pwd is present working directory...which you have to manually type in.  I renamed the folder with the BCM driver in it to "linux_hybrid" and that folder was in my home folder so my command looked like this

sudo make -C /lib/modules/build/ M=/home/myName/linux_hybrid/ clean

and then run that same command again w/o the word clean at the end

EDIT:  its /lib/modules/<your kernel>/build

if you don't know ur kernel...type uname -r and remember that number..
then when you have /lib/modules/ 
typed...type 2. and then press tab so it auto completes

---

### Post by prankstar008 on 2008-08-08
I'm gonna go get lunch... I'll be back in an hour...I'm having trouble of my own... I load the module and confrim it with dmesg|grep -i broadcom but my network-admin does not see any wireless networks.

anyone know about this?

---

