---
title: "Set screen resolution in 22&quot; external Widescreen"
date: 2008-10-18
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2008-10-18
External display is Samsung 22" Widescreen (Model 2253GW), that I just bought.
In Vista is runs emaculately with res 1680x1050,

Ibex picks up the display fine, but it does not set the resoultion correctly; the most it will do is 1600x1024;
but when I log off and log back in it does not even project at all (just scarmbled and wobbly background.

Can anyone tell me how to get my new screen to project from my acer travelmate 6292 VGA port (Intel graphics card 12" screen 1280x800 laptop screen)?

Thanks
S

---

### Post by pdub on 2008-10-18
Please post your xorg.conf. (/etc/X11/xorg.conf)

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2008-10-18
Thanks pdub, here it is:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection


Has this got to do with randr??

S

---

### Post by pdub on 2008-10-18
Please post the entire xorg.conf file. Enclose the file inside of the "code" tags, the # in the above menu, so the entire file is visible.

Like This:

```
Your file would be here.
```

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2008-10-18
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    SubSection "Display"
        Virtual    2960 1050
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by pdub on 2008-10-18
There has to be more than that. Where is the server section?
What version of Ubuntu are you running?

You might want to run the following. Make a backup of your xorg.conf first though.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by BwackNinja on 2008-10-18
That would be the whole xorg.conf, it has become much smaller by default in intrepid, xorg hotplugging and such. It causes some problems, but in general works well.

Back to the problem though - you might to configure in your xorg.conf to have another monitor and may also need to put a modeline. Currently looking at stuff that might help, I'll check back if I find anything for you.

---

### Post by ktp on 2008-10-18
What does xrandr --dryrun give you?

---

### Post by blackened on 2008-10-18
Add your monitors hsync and vrefresh ranges (found in your users manual, on the box it came in, or online) to xorg.conf Monitor section a la
```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	HorizSync          30-82
	VertRefresh        56-76
EndSection
```

Then restart X.

And yes, xorg.conf has become tremendously spartan by default in 8.10.

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2008-10-19
BTW I am Ibex beta with rolling updates to date. While all this was going on, I used the "screen resolution", and did the following:

Plug the display thru external display adpater )VGA port) 
Detect Displays
Select the external monitor 22" Samsung
Select "mirror display.."

Reboot while still plugged in,

and it picked up the correct resolution,

I am impressed,
S

---

