---
title: "2.6.27 - no bluetooth pairing"
date: 2008-08-29
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by _oOMOo_ on 2008-08-29
Just checking to see that I'm not the only one affected before submitting a bug report. I can pair with my phone using Intrepid 2.6.26 but with both the incarnations of the 2.6.27 kernel I can't pair at all either using hcitool or my more usual way which is to initiate the pairing with the phone.

My dongle is one from MSI:

```
:~$ lsusb
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 1131:1001 Integrated System Solution Corp. KY-BT100 Bluetooth Adapter

```

Cheers, Jonathan

Edit: Bug submitted here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/268502]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/268502")

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-08-29
I just got my phone's files from my desktop--using zeroconf & the bluetooth stack with the new 2.6.27-2 from this evening---

Bus 005 Device 002: ID 047d:105e Kensington Bluetooth EDR Dongle

Phone is a Nokia 6555....I had paired them about a month ago when I reinstalled Intrepid--no communication problems noted.

I use Bluetooth manager to start the pairing--if you want--I will post a list of my installed bluetooth software.

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2008-10-13
I cant pair with 2.6.27-7, Im using the same bluetooth dongle as you.

I tested with several kernel versions and I can pair with the kernels up to 2.6.27-6 but the latest kernel introduces a regreassion.
Im going to file a bug report.

---

### Post by _oOMOo_ on 2008-10-13
> **danwood76 said:**
> I cant pair with 2.6.27-7, Im using the same bluetooth dongle as you.

I tested with several kernel versions and I can pair with the kernels up to 2.6.27-6 but the latest kernel introduces a regreassion.
Im going to file a bug report.

I submitted one here - [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/268502]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/268502"), if it helps at all.

---

