---
title: "[SOLVED] Logitech Trackball - no scrolling - xorg.conf settings"
date: 2008-10-04
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by marcog42 on 2008-10-04
After installing intrepid beta I noticed the settings I used in xorg.conf to get scrolling working for my logitech marble mouse no longer work.  Indeed, the entire xorg.conf is completely different than I'm used to seeing (there are no settings).  In previous incarnations of xorg.conf the following would work to get scrolling working in X:

```
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver     "mouse"
    	Option     "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    	Option     "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    	Option     "Buttons" "5"
    	Option     "ButtonMapping" "1 8 3 6 7"
    	Option     "EmulateWheel"  "true"
    	Option     "EmulateWheelTimeout" "300"  # msec
    	Option     "EmulateWheelButton"  "6"
    	Option     "YAxisMapping"        "4 5"
EndSection
```

That no longer works, and a suggestion to add the following to the end of xorg.conf by a friend of mine reaped no reward:

```
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection
```

How does one go about getting X to recognize settings in xorg.conf.  I'm guessing that they're handled differently now that xorg.conf is completely devoid of any kind of settings now.  Thanks! :)

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-10-04
I'm using a wireless Logitech Trackball & I don't have anything in my xorg for configured mouse--you are going to need to "trust" the new Xorg to use Hal to configure your mouse & keyboard properly---remove the "configured mouse" from the conf & restart your X.

I would normally say at this time that I would post my xorg.conf--but there is nothing to show. My scrolling works just fine without it.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-10-04
On second thought--If you have changed your xorg & are having problems--mine looks like this (with the nVidia driver):

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
    Disable    "dri2"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

---

### Post by marcog42 on 2008-10-04
Thanks for the reply.  Actually, trusting the new xorg.conf is what's causing the problem.  It's not that the configuration causes a usability problem.  My trackball has 4 buttons, two large ones on either side and then two smaller ones on the interior sides of the larger buttons.  Letting Xorg do it's own, "new thing", results in those smaller buttons being the Forward and Back buttons.  This was the default behavior in all incarnations of Xorg.  I would have to change xorg.conf to what I posted previously to enable the scrolling feature in older Xorg versions and everything would be fine.  Now it appears that those setting are completely ignored, and I can't find anything that tells me how to Xorg to recognize those changes.

While I appreciate that Xorg wants to make the experience more transparent for the less experienced end-users among us it is a little puzzling as to how cryptic they made getting custom settings working for those of us comfortable with manually editing config files.  Now that Xorg ignores, for the most part, anything in xorg.conf, how does one get Xorg to recognize custom settings?

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-10-05
I understand your pain--I've edited from the very early days of x & I HATED to just trust xorg default--I don't know how to help you here--1.5 has changed everything. 

I would guess that you need to contact the xorg dev list about what (if anything) can be done--the mailto is:  [EMAIL="xorg@lists.freedesktop.org"]xorg@lists.freedesktop.org[/EMAIL]

My Logitech is a two-button with scrollwheel & side trackball--it was configured correctly, but I also can't see any way to change the default if I wanted to.....:(

---

### Post by incubus on 2008-10-05
Hi,

I'm having the same problem with the same Logitech Marble.  I only spent one hour on this, but if I understand correctly, we're supposed to rely on HAL now for setting these options now, as opposed to xorg.conf.  An alternative is to use xinput, but there seems to be a bug that's preventing many people (myself included) from getting it to work.

I found this blog entry:
[http://mvogt.wordpress.com/2008/08/15/xorg-evdev-and-emulatewheel/](http://mvogt.wordpress.com/2008/08/15/xorg-evdev-and-emulatewheel/)

Also note the comment by Chris Jones on September 23, where he discusses xinput.

When we figure this out, I think we should put our findings in the Wiki, because I'm sure there are other people who are going to be caught by surprise.

Thanks,

incubus

---

### Post by incubus on 2008-10-05
See "Input Configuration with HAL":

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config)

We need more documentation on this, pretty badly.


Bug reports I found:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-evdev/+bug/261400](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-evdev/+bug/261400)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/258161](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/258161)

incubus

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-10-05
Marcog42--take a look at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-evdev/+bug/261400](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-evdev/+bug/261400)  as incubus suggested.
I think that there might be a "fix" for you almost at the bottom---look at mousewheel.fdi

Hope that helps!!!

---

### Post by marcog42 on 2008-10-05
Thank you very much!  Turned me onto the right track.  Here is what my mouse-wheel.fdi looks like:

```

<match key="info.product" string="Logitech USB Trackball">
 <merge key="input.x11_options.ButtonMapping" type="string">1 8 3 2 9</merge>
 <merge key="input.x11_options.EmulateWheel" type="string">true</merge>
 <merge key="input.x11_options.EmulateWheelButton" type="string">8</merge>
 <merge key="input.x11_options.ZAxsisMapping" type="string">4 5</merge>
 <merge key="input.x11_options.Emulate3Buttons" type="string">true</merge>
</match>
```

It's placed under /etc/hal/fdi/policy/ as described in the links you gave me.  This is cut'n'pasted from [http://mvogt.wordpress.com/2008/08/15/xorg-evdev-and-emulatewheel/]("http://mvogt.wordpress.com/2008/08/15/xorg-evdev-and-emulatewheel/") with the "ButtonMapping" line added by me, as it didn't seem to work without it.  

Thanks again for the help!

Edit:  Added link to the Wiki pointing to [http://help.ubuntu.com/community/Logitech_Marblemouse_USB]("http://help.ubuntu.com/community/Logitech_Marblemouse_USB") in community docs.  Let me know if it needs any additional work, as it's my first edit to the wiki and docs:

---

### Post by incubus on 2008-10-05
Thanks for testing -- I'll reboot into my Intrepid installation to give it a try as well.  Let's create a Wiki page for this, what do you think?

I suspect many people still follow this old thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=169423](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=169423)

but having a page is probably a better idea, since other people can contribute and update it later.

incubus

---

### Post by marcog42 on 2008-10-05
One step ahead of you, already created all the relative pages for the wiki and community docs.  Link is in my previous post. :)

---

### Post by incubus on 2008-10-05
> **marcog42 said:**
> One step ahead of you, already created all the relative pages for the wiki and community docs.  Link is in my previous post. :)

Bravo!  Thanks again, Marco.

---

### Post by autocrosser on 2008-10-05
It's things like this that make the community rock!!!!

Incubus--you pointed the right path out!! I just tried to read between the lines in the bugreports & Marco grabbed the bull by the horns------

Good Show!

---

### Post by mister_pink on 2008-10-07
I've done this and the cool scrolling now works, but for me the right button doesn't do anything! Seems a bit of a waste. I used to have it working as middle click. I just wanted to check what everyone elses right (small) mouse button does, as it could just be some config left from hardy causing issues for me.

---

### Post by marcog42 on 2008-10-07
To be honest, I never used the small right button for anything, so I never bothered to check if it did anything. This link shows you how to get middle click on the small left button, using a timeout option: [http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Advanced_Mouse/Individual_Configurations#Logitech_Marble_Mouse]("http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Advanced_Mouse/Individual_Configurations#Logitech_Marble_Mouse")

I imagine you can remap the buttons to your liking, but as I'm at work right now I can't test it out for you.  You might also want to try the ChordMiddle option in the .fdi file, though I'm not sure if this will have any affect or not.  I'll fiddle around with it when I get home to see if I can come up with anything.

---

### Post by incubus on 2008-10-10
I finally had time to test this and indeed, scrolling does work, but then the other buttons are not being mapped correctly.  For example, suppose I map one of the upper buttons to work as middle-click:

```

<merge key="input.x11_options.ButtonMapping" type="string">1 8 3 2 9</merge>

```

then when I test that via 'xev', they are still captured as button 8 (or 9 if you map the right button).

Is this what you guys are discussing?

My current workaround is to use good ol' xmodmap.  You can put this in .Xmodmap:
```
 
pointer = 1 8 3 4 5 6 7 2 9

```

Again, note that 8 is the small left button, 9 is the right one.  So adjust accordingly.

Can anybody confirm this?  Should we report a bug?

incubus

EDIT: I just updated the Wiki with this.

EDIT2: Changed button 9 to 8, because that's probably what most people use.

---

### Post by mister_pink on 2008-10-10
Bingo!

Thats exactly what I was after. Good old middle click pasting and firefox tab control is back :D

---

### Post by incubus on 2008-10-10
> **mister_pink said:**
> Bingo!

Thats exactly what I was after. Good old middle click pasting and firefox tab control is back :D

Good to hear!  : )  Unfortunately, that's sort of an ugly hack.  Let's see if we can find out what's going on with HAL not accepting the remapping in the .fdi file.

---

### Post by incubus on 2008-10-10
OK, now I suspect that:

```
input.x11_options.ButtonMapping
```

is completely ignored by HAL.  No matter what you put there, it makes no difference.  Also, if you actually google for that option, you'll find almost no hits.  Well, one exception is this blog entry here:

[http://www.blogs.uni-osnabrueck.de/rotapken/2008/08/14/xorg-evdev-und-hal-teil-2/](http://www.blogs.uni-osnabrueck.de/rotapken/2008/08/14/xorg-evdev-und-hal-teil-2/)

I don't speak German, but I see the author putting the word "ignoriert" right after the ButtonMapping option.

Bummer.  We were so close...

incubus

---

### Post by incubus on 2008-10-10
Here's an alternative I found [1], using xinput.  This solution is, in my opinion, much more elegant because you remap the buttons just for the device you specify (the trackball, in our case).  The previous workaround, using xmodmap, affects all mice you have plugged in.

```

$ xinput set-button-map "Logitech USB Trackball" 1 8 3 4 5 6 7 2 9

```

If you have a different device and don't know its identifier, you can find it via:
```

$ xinput list

```

I find it rather strange that this works, because any other setting I try with xinput fails with an error like this:
```

$ xinput set-int-prop "Logitech USB Trackball" "Wheel Emulation Button" 8 3
X Error of failed request:  BadLength (poly request too large or internal Xlib length error)
  Major opcode of failed request:  146 (XInputExtension)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  37 ()
  Serial number of failed request:  13
  Current serial number in output stream:  14

```

incubus

[1] [http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Advanced_Mouse#Multiple_Mice_and_Xinput](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Advanced_Mouse#Multiple_Mice_and_Xinput)

---

### Post by wgrant on 2008-10-10
> **incubus said:**
> I find it rather strange that this works, because any other setting I try with xinput fails with an error like this:
```

$ xinput set-int-prop "Logitech USB Trackball" "Wheel Emulation Button" 8 3
X Error of failed request:  BadLength (poly request too large or internal Xlib length error)
  Major opcode of failed request:  146 (XInputExtension)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  37 ()
  Serial number of failed request:  13
  Current serial number in output stream:  14

```

Please ensure that you are fully upgraded (on the main mirror, not your local one which could be days out of date), and reboot. That stuff was significantly changed last night.

---

### Post by incubus on 2008-10-10
> **wgrant said:**
> Please ensure that you are fully upgraded (on the main mirror, not your local one which could be days out of date), and reboot. That stuff was significantly changed last night.

Ah, my mirror was behind.  Thanks for pointing that out.

xinput seems to get farther now, but anything I try doesn't seem to have any effect.  Note the "Fetch failure" error.

```

$ xinput list-props "Logitech USB Trackball"
Device 'Logitech USB Trackball':
	Device Enabled:		Fetch failure
	Middle Button Emulation:		
	Middle Button Timeout:		
	Wheel Emulation Inertia:		
	Wheel Emulation:		
	Wheel Emulation X Axis:		
	Wheel Emulation Y Axis:		
	Wheel Emulation Timeout:		
	Wheel Emulation Button:		
	Drag Lock Buttons:	

$ xinput set-int-prop "Logitech USB Trackball" "Wheel Emulation 1" 8 1
$ xinput list-props "Logitech USB Trackball"
<same as above>

```

I suppose it's the same behavior being reported in:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/267611](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-input-synaptics/+bug/267611)

EDIT: I spoke too soon, xinput still doesn't work.

---

### Post by incubus on 2008-10-10
Just as a heads-up, the Wiki entry had a typo (now corrected) at the line for:

```

input.x11_options.ZAxisMapping

```

I noticed that because I don't think horizontal scrolling is working.  Is it working for anybody else?  That makes me suspect that that option is also ignored by HAL.

incubus

---

### Post by marcog42 on 2008-10-26
Well, here I am again.  I just bought a Dell XPS M1530 and applied the mouse-wheel.fdi settings and absolutely nothing happens.  Was there a change to how hal handles this stuff again or something?  Is everyone else's setup still working?

---

### Post by mister_pink on 2008-10-26
Mine stopped working after updates but its ok again after another restart.

---

### Post by speedy78 on 2008-10-30
> **incubus said:**
> Here's an alternative I found [1], using xinput.  This solution is, in my opinion, much more elegant because you remap the buttons just for the device you specify (the trackball, in our case).  The previous workaround, using xmodmap, affects all mice you have plugged in.

```

$ xinput set-button-map "Logitech USB Trackball" 1 8 3 4 5 6 7 2 9

```

If you have a different device and don't know its identifier, you can find it via:
```

$ xinput list

```

incubus

[1] [http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Advanced_Mouse#Multiple_Mice_and_Xinput](http://gentoo-wiki.com/HOWTO_Advanced_Mouse#Multiple_Mice_and_Xinput)

Hi, I added xinput as alternative in [http://help.ubuntu.com/community/Logitech_Marblemouse_USB](http://help.ubuntu.com/community/Logitech_Marblemouse_USB). Maybe xmodmap can be removed from the guide?

claudio

---

