---
title: "8.10 Intrepid Compiz - No Background Image"
date: 2008-10-24
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by xiozhiq on 2008-10-24
Hey everyone,

I'm rather new to the forums, and am enjoying Ubuntu as of now (nice to get almost a gig of RAM back form Vista *shakes fist in anger*).

I have a habit of tinkering with anything that look like it could be fun (READ: experimental/cool looking), so I started working with Compiz-Fusion. I had been trying to get the atlantis cube filling to work from the experimental pack, however, each time I had checked the box, it would automatically uncheck itself.

That's not my biggest problem at the moment though. For some reason, Ubuntu and/or Compiz refuse to display a photographic desktop wallpaper. I can set it to colors, color gradients, etc. (woohoo!), but pictures are a no-go.

What I find interesting is that upon login, I DO see a desktop wallpaper for about 3 seconds. As soon as the task bars are loaded, it seems like *something* is overriding my selection (which is why I decided to put this in this forum instead of the Ubuntu forum).

So, if anyone's experienced this before, or wants more information to see if they could try to help me with this, it'd be much appreciated.

Thanks!

EDIT@10:19AM: I just found out that this issue does NOT affect other user accounts on my machine. Therefore I'm reasoning that I probably did in fact goof something up in compiz. I'm just going to move all my stuff to a new user account, delete my old account, then re-create it and move everything back ^^

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-10-24
> **xiozhiq said:**
> What I find interesting is that upon login, I DO see a desktop wallpaper for about 3 seconds. As soon as the task bars are loaded, it seems like *something* is overriding my selection

Check: System-Preferences-CompizConfig Settings Manager->Wallpaper

---

### Post by xiozhiq on 2008-10-24
I've already gone ahead and recreated my account, but, wallpapers was not checked and if I changed the color of the background in ubuntu's background manager it would change, so i'm not quite sure what to make of it.

---

### Post by zka on 2008-10-24
Had the same problem, upgraded to 8.10 few min ago and the wallpaper plugin in the compiz isn't working. The thing that I did was to disable nautilus from drawing the desktop (and lost the icons..) and it works now. (gconf-edigot ->appps->nautilus->uncheck show desktop)

Wasn't this supposed to be fixed in 8.10, so that one can have different wallpapers for different workspaces....

---

### Post by cor2y on 2008-10-24
The wallpaper plugin works.
What you have to do is disable ***Nautilus's*** desktop preferences the downside is you lose your desktop icons but if you have a panel with launchers or use a docker like cairo,awn or screenlets those are still accessible.
To disable it do this, via gconf go to apps->nautilus->preferences->show desktop and uncheck that to see the wallpapers

---

