---
title: "2.6.27 No Mouse"
date: 2008-08-27
forum: Intrepid Ibex Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-08-27
Gday folks :)

Ive noticed a number of bugs with 2.6.27 allready and am keen to get further into testing the new kernel. For me to do this I need to overcome a problem with X and my logitech G5 gaming USB mouse.

Im working through triaging this bug but could do with some help please:

1. GDM and gnome has the mouse dead
2. The X logs says that for some unknown reason config/hal is trying to "adding input device Macintosh mouse button emulation"
3. I DO NOT have a G5 mac mouse. I have a logitech G5 gaming mouse.
4. I used to have the standard xorg.conf with the usual entries about using the mouse driver, configured mouse, corepointer. Since I tried to change it too:

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "evdev"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Name" "Logitech USB Gaming Mouse"
    Option         "Buttons" "8"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5 7 8"
EndSection

This however has no effec, symptoms persist and I note that the X log still talks about mac emulation....

So Im stuck.

Im hoping to get this resolved with some help so I can continue finding other bugs and contribute in the best way I can.

---

### Post by jfernyhough on 2008-08-27
On my first boot of 2.6.27 I had no input into GDM, though CTRL-ALT-F1 still worked. I did a CTRL-ALT-DEL and on next boot it worked.

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-08-27
That didnt work for me and I'm not one to subscribe to computing superstition :) What was the difference between your X logs with it not working and working? Did you get any updates in between?

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-08-27
Bug reported:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/261995](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/261995)

---

### Post by Nullack on 2008-08-27
Hmm cant replicate this issue anymore. Maybe jfernyhough experience and mine shows it to be intermittant.

---

### Post by jfernyhough on 2008-08-27
Yeah, no differences at all... just a plain reboot. Made no sense, but hey... it worked. :D

---

