---
title: "11.10 is looking really good after Jun 23rd update!"
date: 2011-06-24
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-06-24
I did my daily updates today and I am very please with the restored operation of the top bar/panel.  It appears to do everything the Natty one does, but using Gnome 3 to do it.

I have mine set at 50% transparent, so that looks good again.

I also get the bookmarks and other menus from the desktop on it now.

I don't know if the devs are 'over the hump' on the conversion to Gnome 3, but things are looking good to my eyes.

Me Likely!


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2011-06-24
Agreed!

I've been doing fresh installs of the Daily Builds... um... daily.  And, today's Daily is the first one that's been usable.

As of yesterday, my PS/2 mouse (pointer) wouldn't move - USB was okay.  Sound didn't work either.

Still acts and feels like an Alpha, but things have improved, by several orders of magnitude, in the past 24 hours.  ;)

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2011-06-24
Alpha 2 is due out June 30.  Expect some upheaval....

Jerry

---

### Post by akand074 on 2011-06-24
> **jerrylamos said:**
> Alpha 2 is due out June 30.  Expect some upheaval....

Jerry

I thought it was July 7? I'm considering running Oneiric on my laptop. Might wait for Alpha 2 or just use a daily build soon.

---

### Post by nzjethro on 2011-06-24
Wicked, I have an small Oneiric test partition on here, but I haven't been using it much due to a lack of functionality. Now that I see this, I may have to get on there a bit more frequently!

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2011-06-25
> **akand074 said:**
> I'm considering running Oneiric on my laptop. Might wait for Alpha 2 or just use a daily build soon.
For giggles, I booted up an UbuOO Daily Build on my Eee PC netbook.

I was SHOCKED at how good it looked and worked - better than my desktop actually.

I'm definitely going with Unity, on my portables, when things get ironed out...

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-25
How does gnome-shell work on OO?

Since gnome3 is installed by default, installing gnome-shell should be easy.

I'm currently using gNatty (a gnome-shell remix of natty) but I plan going to OO when it's a bit stable (probably the alpha2).

---

### Post by godhika on 2011-06-25
> **sanderd17 said:**
> How does gnome-shell work on OO?

Since gnome3 is installed by default, installing gnome-shell should be easy.

I'm currently using gNatty (a gnome-shell remix of natty) but I plan going to OO when it's a bit stable (probably the alpha2).

Gnome-shell works fine in Oneiric - in fact better than it ever did on natty (from repos or self built). the caveat might be that Oneiric is still very early alpha and in the midst of the transition to gnome3 so breakage will come sooner or later.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2011-06-25
Yep, I'm really liking how it looks. 

I'm not a fan of Unity as it is, but I want to enjoy it. I was going to go ahead and use Natty as my main OS (instead of 10.10) but the Unity experience didn't feel completed by the time it was released. 

Only issue I really have with Unity, aside from polish, is the amount of hiding used in the UI. Global menus hidden, right-click menus on some icons, etc. I really wish things would be clearer and stop hiding on me.. especially my menu bar.

For appearance though, it looks awesome.

Edit: [Link regarding the hiding/flaws of Unity]("http://jdshu.wordpress.com/2011/05/16/unity-sucks-right-now/"). I agree entirely, and hope that these issues will be resolved by October so that I can use such a nice desktop.

---

