---
title: "32-bit 11.10 Beta 2 using Wubi"
date: 2011-09-27
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by SRved on 2011-09-27
Is there yet any way of installing the latest Ubuntu Beta/daily build using Wubi at all? 
I cannot seem to find any newer versions of Wubi.exe anywhere.
Is there a way to download the newest Wubi build?
the rev.225 on the Beta 2 iso's only download 64-bit (among other known bugs)

---

### Post by SRved on 2011-09-27
ok...lol spot the fool, I re-read the commandline argument to specify 32-bit...and managed to get it to get the latest 32-bit image from [B][http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/wubi/current/i386.tar.xz](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/wubi/current/i386.tar.xz)
[/B]I managed it by copying Wubi.exe off the iso image (Mounted in a vitual drive) onto the hard drive, then using window's command prompt, navigated to where I put Wubi.exe and put in:[B]

wubi.exe --32[/B]

(I was trying wubi.exe -32 or wubi.exe /32 before!)

To be honest, even though it has been filed as a Bug in Launchpad, I like that it will only download a new image instead of using the iso image it is a Beta version after all, and it should mean you get the newest version without having to update it when it is installed.

It would have been nice however to have the option to ONLY download Wubi.exe from somewhere, instead of the 700+ MB Beta 2 iso just for it. Perhaps the Wubi team could add the option for 32-bit/64-bit somewhere in the GUI?

ps. I am downloading the 32-bit image through Wubi now... I'll post a 'reply' on here how I get on shortly :)

---

### Post by SRved on 2011-09-27
install went perfectly, and Ubuntu 11.10 Beta 2 works :) Fair enough, it had a non-fatal crash of some sort right after it loaded up, but thats a Beta for you..lol

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-09-27
Have they fixed the swap file issue and /etc/fstab or is it still empty?
Also, the file system should be ext4 - is that switched or is it still ext3.

Even thought he downloaded pre-installed image isn't necessarily a bad idea, you might have better luck doing the conventional install (i.e. downloading the ISO in the same folder as wubi.exe before running). 

Unless you intend to throw away your test install of course. 

PS the latest wubi.exe is available here: [http://people.canonical.com/~evand/wubi/oneiric/](http://people.canonical.com/~evand/wubi/oneiric/)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-09-27
Thread moved to Ubuntu +1 (Oneiric Ocelot).

---

### Post by SRved on 2011-09-28
@[bcbc]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=946783"):
using Wubi-r236.exe from your download link, (thanks) the contents of fstab answers both your questions:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
/host/ubuntu/disks/root.disk /               ext4    loop,errors=remount-ro 0       1
/host/ubuntu/disks/swap.disk none            swap    loop,sw         0       0

I also made these notes during the install:
 
Looking at the Wubi log, it looks like the Local stuff is much more noted.. TimeZone, country etc. All seems correct. 
 
Wubi looked at the folder where I put it (Along with yesterday's i386.tar.xz from the current build page, and the official ubuntu-11.10-beta2-desktop-i386.iso as well. 
 
Wubi r236 only seems looks for iso's so missed the .tar.xz image, though found the Beta 2 one. Later in the log, it failed with: 
Cannot download metalink file [http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.metalink](http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.metalink) err=[Errno 14] HTTP Error 404: Not Found 
 
it next attempted to get the daily-live iso.torrent, which wasn't there (Error 404) - I double-checked on the web page and there isn't one there... 
 
it then successfully downloaded [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20110928/oneiric-desktop-i386.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20110928/oneiric-desktop-i386.iso).

After the install, checking on the Clock's settings, my location is set to London, which is the correct country and timezone (GMT)
Also you'll note there is a swap file - I seem to remember something about swap was another bug with r-225

Thankyou very much for your help, and if you have any more questions... like a copy of the wubi log or whatever, just ask :)

@[[COLOR=#d40000]**oldos2er**[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=338320")
Thanks for putting this thread where it belongs - I just guessed that since wubi is a way of installing, it'd go in Installing.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-09-28
Thanks for the detailed info :) and great to see some wubi beta testing.

The problems with ext3 and swap are unique to the i386.tar.xz ad amd64.tar.xz 'pre-installed' images. wubi-r236.exe fixed the 'offline' install problem where it wouldn't use the available local ISO. So to test the ext3/swap thing you'll have to remove the local beta2 iso. But I'd monitor the bugs before going through the whole download as I expect the devs will update them as soon as the fix is in. These are the bugs: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/live-build/+bug/859552](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/live-build/+bug/859552) and [https://bugs.launchpad.net/wubi/+bug/857954](https://bugs.launchpad.net/wubi/+bug/857954)

---

### Post by SRved on 2011-09-28
Wubi r-236 didn't use the Beta2 iso I had in the same folder - it couldn't find a metalink for it.
Instead it downloaded the latest iso from[]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20110928/oneiric-desktop-i386.iso") cdimage.ubuntu.com.
It didn't even try to get any .tar.xz so I assume they 'fixed' the ext3/missing fstab/swap bug by making wubi use the iso again. Tis a shame really as the pre-installed images are around 250B less size than the iso, meaning alot less to download, and they installed quicker too I thought.

Still, r-236 WORKED and so far as I can tell it worked perfectly. when installing in XP SP3 onto an NTFS drive, the only issue I noticed was the first boot after the 'install' in linux seemed to take quite a while. After that, it booted within 25 seconds, so I suppose it must have been configuring somert or other :)

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-09-28
> **SRved said:**
> Wubi r-236 didn't use the Beta2 iso I had in the same folder - it couldn't find a metalink for it.
Instead it downloaded the latest iso from[]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20110928/oneiric-desktop-i386.iso") cdimage.ubuntu.com.
It didn't even try to get any .tar.xz so I assume they 'fixed' the ext3/missing fstab/swap bug by making wubi use the iso again. Tis a shame really as the pre-installed images are around 250B less size than the iso, meaning alot less to download, and they installed quicker too I thought.

Still, r-236 WORKED and so far as I can tell it worked perfectly. when installing in XP SP3 onto an NTFS drive, the only issue I noticed was the first boot after the 'install' in linux seemed to take quite a while. After that, it booted within 25 seconds, so I suppose it must have been configuring somert or other :)

hmmm, you're right... it appears they have removed the .tar.xz download. I'll wait to see if they comment on this in the bug reports. It's hard to tell a bug from a feature sometimes ;) (To some programmers a bug is always a feature.)

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-09-28
Actually, I was wrong. I didn't realise that I had an old ISO in my download directory. Once I removed that it went back to the quicker tar.xz download.

I still think it's a bit buggy so I created a new [bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/wubi/+bug/861992").

PS the tar.xz is still ext3, but it looks like they've figured out the swap partition.

---

### Post by SRved on 2011-10-02
it is a shame I have limited download on my Broadband, otherwise I could defiantely run more Wubi tests myself.

There seems ther is some confusion as to whether the latest Wubi installers are able to use a downloaded ISO in the same folder as Wubi.exe/mounted to a cd drive, however, I have not checked a more recent ISO than Beta 2... yet

If you have the spare bandwidth, could you perhaps run a couple of experiments for us all?

Experiment#1:
Download the latest daily live ISO (or use the one that Wubi last downloaded) and put it in the same directory as Wubi-r236.exe - see if it correctly gets the MD5 hash thingy and metalink for the iso from the [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20110928/oneiric-desktop-i386.iso") [Date of iso] as it would when it got the iso itself... and see if it uses that ISO instead of downloading a new copy. (Reasoning: the daily lives will all have the same files in the folders... the MD5 and metalink etc which Wubi Checks for, though will it use an old iso or simply get the up-to-date one anyway?)

Experiment #2:
While Wubi is installed, change the boot order/default OS, then uninstall/re-install. Does Ubuntu still turn up as the default OS then? On XP, Ubuntu was not the default OS in XP's bootloader after installing...at least I dont think it was! (Reasoning: mine seemed to do something different to yours, and I doubt Wubi treats Win7 differently to XP)

I have the [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20110928/oneiric-desktop-i386.iso](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20110928/oneiric-desktop-i386.iso)
so I will do the same experiment using XP and the 32-bit version... which shouldn't make any difference you'd think...

ps, did you manage to get wubi-r236.exe to download a tar.xz? or was it the iso for you too? Is there a connand switch like the "--32" to get 32-bit version, but to download a ~430MB imaige instead of a ~700MB ISO?... though then we'd have the EXT3 instead of EXT4 stuff again perhaps...lol.

I'll uninstall my [Wubi]Ubuntu now and give the experiment a go...):P

---

### Post by SRved on 2011-10-02
ok interestingness ensues....

Using Wubi-r236.exe:

this is with an iso that is a few days old in with Wubi: 
  
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  CommonBackend: Searching for local ISO 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  Distro:   checking Ubuntu ISO D:\Temp\U\oneiric-desktop-i386.iso 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  WindowsBackend:   extracting .disk\info from D:\Temp\U\oneiric-desktop-i386.iso 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  Distro:   parsing info from str=Ubuntu 11.10 "Oneiric Ocelot" - Beta i386 (20110928) 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  Distro:   parsed info={'name': 'Ubuntu', 'subversion': 'Beta', 'version': '11.10', 'build': '20110928', 'codename': 'Oneiric Ocelot', 'arch': 'i386'} 
10-02 14:44 INFO   Distro: Found a valid iso for Ubuntu: D:\Temp\U\oneiric-desktop-i386.iso 
... 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  TaskList: ## Running get_iso... 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  CommonBackend: Trying to use ISO D:\Temp\U\oneiric-desktop-i386.iso 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  TaskList: New task check_iso 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  TaskList: ### Running check_iso... 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  CommonBackend: Checking D:\Temp\U\oneiric-desktop-i386.iso 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  Distro:   checking Ubuntu ISO D:\Temp\U\oneiric-desktop-i386.iso 
10-02 14:44 INFO   Distro: Found a valid iso for Ubuntu: D:\Temp\U\oneiric-desktop-i386.iso 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  TaskList: New task get_metalink 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  TaskList: #### Running get_metalink... 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  downloader: downloading [http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.metalink](http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.metalink) > D:\ubuntu\install 
10-02 14:44 ERROR  CommonBackend: Cannot download metalink file [http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.metalink](http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.metalink) err=[Errno 14] HTTP Error 404: Not Found 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  downloader: downloading [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/oneiric-desktop-i386.metalink](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/oneiric-desktop-i386.metalink) > D:\ubuntu\install 
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  downloader: Download start filename=D:\ubuntu\install\oneiric-desktop-i386.metalink, url=http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/oneiric-desktop-i386.metalink, basename=oneiric-desktop-i386.metalink, length=999, text=None 
 
Wubi correctly parsed the date of the ISO earlier, but when it went ot get the metalink for that disk, it went to daily-live/current/ instead of daily-live/20110928/ so it couldn't find the metalink. a small bug that will only be a bug in Alpha and Beta versions - I imagine th emain releases will only ever have one place to look from Wubi's point of view. 
 
 
Try without any ISO or Pre-Installed Image in with Wubi: 
 
10-02 14:56 DEBUG  TaskList: ### Running download... 
10-02 14:56 DEBUG  downloader: downloading [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/wubi/current/i386.tar.xz](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/wubi/current/i386.tar.xz) > D:\ubuntu\disks\i386.tar.xz 
10-02 14:56 DEBUG  downloader: Download start filename=D:\ubuntu\disks\i386.tar.xz, url=http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/wubi/current/i386.tar.xz, basename=i386.tar.xz, length=507634036, text=None 
 
 
done, and extracted - selecting Reboot now... 
... Now in Ubuntu...
 
so Experiment #1 Results:
When you have an ISO in the same folder as Wubi-r236.exe (i navigfated using cmd.exe in XP and ran wubi-r235.exe --32)
Wubi installer correctly locates and parses a daily-live beta 2 ISO.
Annoyingly it looks in the wrong place online for the related files (Metalink, MD5, etc)

It then downloads the latest ISO image. (I canceled that)

If Wubi is in a folder where it is alone, and no Ubuntu iso's pr cds are mounted/in a drive, Wubi downloads the current 
image instead of ISO...

10-02 14:56 DEBUG  downloader: downloading [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/wubi/current/i386.tar.xz](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/wubi/current/i386.tar.xz) > D:\ubuntu\disks\i386.tar.xz


For bcbc - contects of Fstab: 
# UNCONFIGURED FSTAB FOR BASE SYSTEM 
/host/ubuntu/disks/swap.disk    none    swap    sw    0    0 
 
I wouldn't know how to see the hdd properties... (equivalent to right click a hard drive icon in Windows)




Experiment#2 Partial results:
I was correct in that using XP when XP is the default OS and Ubuntu (using previous installs) has never been selected as Default OS, then XP is still the default OS.

Because of no way to quickly uninstall/reinstall Ubuntu, I'll not check the defaulting now.... I assume that Wubi does not look for a tar.xz image in it's folder... only checks ISOs? lemme know if thats wrong though :)


Unrelated Ubuntu BUG... (I think it is password, or administrator related instead of GFX Card related)
ok, Unity3D did not work... only have a top bar with Nautilus menu. Nothing else. (Ati HD3800 series gfx card) 
 
trying auto-login after booting using Unity2D... 
autostart worked, I logged out, then logged back in using Unity (normal/3D) and that now works. which is I think it is something to do with administrator or password stuff...

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-10-02
I think the metalinks are okay - one for development, and one for production. They have to go daily-live/current for dev, otherwise they'd need separate ones each milestone release etc. These are hardcoded into wubi.exe so not really possible.

I do think it' a bug that it downloads the ISO if an existing ISO is found but unusable, and downloads a the tar.xz preinstall if no ISO present. That seems strange behaviour and most likely unintended i.e. bad code.

PS you might need a custom driver for the hd3800 card.

---

### Post by SRved on 2011-10-02
The ATI HD3800 works with the default open source driver... give or take beta versions of course...lol.

when wubi parses an iso, within the iso's details is the 'build' which is also the /date/ in the cd.image stuff:
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  WindowsBackend:   extracting .disk\info from D:\Temp\U\oneiric-desktop-i386.iso
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  Distro:   parsing info from str=Ubuntu 11.10 "Oneiric Ocelot" - Beta i386 (20110928)
10-02 14:44 DEBUG  Distro:   parsed info={'name': 'Ubuntu', 'subversion': 'Beta', 'version': '11.10', 'build': '20110928', 'codename': 'Oneiric Ocelot', 'arch': 'i386'}

subversion = Beta    (in other words dont use the production address, use the daily-live one)
build = 20110928     (the /daily-live/ folder to look into - if it exists any more)

this means that the metalink to this particular iso would not be:
[http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.metalink](http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.metalink)
as that would be for the proper final release. It is in fact:
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20110928/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.metalink](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20110928/ubuntu-11.10-desktop-i386.metalink)
That link doesn't work as the daily-live directory only stores 2 days and the current, and that iso is now some 5 or so days old.

the [http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/11.10/) directory is for the Beta2 (public/production) release, and I assume it will be the directory of the final release in a few weeks time. maybe try getting an iso from that directory and see if wubi uses the iso after getting the MD5 and metalink perhaps? (if you have bandwidth)


The issue I had about the iso metalinks is that when it gets the newest iso (after failing the metalink with the found iso that you have spotted), it gets the MD5 and  Metalink from /Current/ but the iso that goes WITH the metalink and MD5 it gets from /[Todays date]/

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20111002/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/20111002/)    (where it gets the ISO image)
which is exactly the same as:
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)        (where it gets the metalink and MD5 for the ISO)
look at the dates inside those two directories. (if it is still the 2nd of October 2011)
check a wubi log about the addresses and you'll see it there too, but say some unlucky fool tries wubi just as /cuttent/ gets refreshed to the 3rd of October, but Wubi still tries for the 2nd of october. It is a highly unlikely bug to ever be encountered, but... well... it has potential as a fault i think?

Of course I don't know Wubi's internal programming and may be barking up the wrong tree here, but even incorrect faults things may help the project along by giving the programmers new ideas :D

---

