---
title: "11.04 to 11.10"
date: 2011-09-02
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2011-09-02
I tried to update from Kubuntu 11.04 to the beta of 11.10 yesterday, but the software update program KPackagekit could not find the beta as being available.

I checked he settings in KPackagekit and checked off everything I could as far as sources, including unsupported updates to see if that would trigger the beta download, no luck.

I also found some instructions on running it from command line, that I should run the program update-notifier-kde -d to force it to download the update through the notifier.  I had to install that program, and even after that, it would not even run when I typed the command in.

Any thoughts on what else I can try?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-09-02
11.10 Beta is not appearing on the Ubuntu release blog yet it may be just a matter of time . I don't if Kubuntu has a similar page to check . The command you used should work if the release is available  .[http://release-blog.ubuntu.com/](http://release-blog.ubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2011-09-02
I book marked that page, will check it through out the day and see if anything changes.

Thanks for the info.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-09-02
update-notifier-kde is a service, not a program that a user would run directly.

Apparently if you want to update from within Kubuntu 11.04 to 11.10, you need to install update-manager: [https://wiki.kubuntu.org/OneiricOcelot/TechnicalOverview](https://wiki.kubuntu.org/OneiricOcelot/TechnicalOverview)

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2011-09-02
I was hoping I would not have to install update manager as it is not a KDE program, or so I thought.

I was looking at installing it last night, and the install was well over  100 files, mostly GTK library files.

There has to be an easier way to get the install to run in Kubuntu.  ](*,)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-09-02
As noted in the link, you could try ```
sudo do-release-upgrade -d
```
Whether it will work or not, I don't know, so you're on your own. I'd be interested to know if you find a method, whether CLI or GUI, for upgrading.

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2011-09-02
I have a 3-day weekend, so I will have the time to mess around with it and get it done.

---

### Post by gdonwallace on 2011-09-08
Never did get it to update properly.  I had to re-install Kubuntu completely to get it to work.

here's hoping I don't have to do that again.  I hope that fixed whatever was borked with my computer or kubuntu.

---

### Post by kimr1508 on 2011-09-08
I have just upgraded Kubuntu 11.04 to 11.10 beta1 using:

sudo do-release-upgrade -d

Everything went pretty well but I have a couple of issues at the moment:

Kubuntu does not boot to login screen. I have to login using terminal and then write startx 

No sound at the moment. Sound card not found.

When using apt-get I get this error message:
Error org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.Spawn.ChildExited: Launch helper exited with unknown return code 127

Someone else is writing about this issue on:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1840909](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1840909)

Luckily we'll get lots of updates before the final release :)

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-09-08
Moved to Ubuntu +1

---

