---
title: "11.10 Alpha 2 restricted extras not working?"
date: 2011-07-25
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by Allsixcolours on 2011-07-25
Good day fellow Ubuntu users,

I took the plunge yesterday and upgraded to 11.10 Alpha 2 from 11.04. Admittedly, this was a silly move on my part as I am not quite used to Ubuntu yet, but I frequently test out Alpha and Betas of various things and thought it wouldn't be too much trouble. It took a little bit of work in Unity Classic mode, but I got everything up and working about like it used to... with the exception of the restricted extras. Well, really I have only tried flash, but flash videos online such as youtube videos are not running and saying I do not have the plug in. I checked in the software center and it said my restricted extras were still installed, so I tried just installing adobe flash. This, unfortunately, also did not work. 

Does anyone know if Ocelot does not yet have support for media? It is still in an Alpha phase, so it is understandable, but I just can't seem to find any more information about it. Does anyone have any suggestions of further steps I should take? I have tested in both the new Unity and the Gnome shell, and I suppose I should try the other "classic versions" that came packaged to see if they work. I'll have to get back to you on that, but in the mean time I welcome any thoughts you guys have on the matter.

Thanks!

(Also, I was unsure of whether to post this here or in the media section, please forgive me if I made the wrong choice.)

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2011-07-25
Moved to Oneiric.

---

### Post by meborc on 2011-07-25
ubuntu-restricted-extras is working fine on my 11.10

I use terminal to install stuff so i don't know how software center handles this, but you need to accept the adobe licence to have flash installed

You can try reinstalling it from the terminal ```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

This could invoke the adobe licence acceptance screen IF it is a simple problem like that - no guarantees :)

If you are on 64-bit then you might have some other issue regarding flash.

mp3's and avi files play OK?

EDIT: I don't know if I understood you correctly, but changing the DE will not affect your ability to play flash in the browser. So if it does not work in Unity it will not work in GS either.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2011-07-25
I'm running 11.10 daily build in a VirtualBox, it works, including flash, both in Chrome and Firefox.

If you're using Firefox, go to [http://www.mozilla.com/en-US/plugincheck/](http://www.mozilla.com/en-US/plugincheck/) and check what it says about Flash.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-07-25
this package is not into the repo now, only Lubuntu have one

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2011-07-25
Flash on Oneiric Ocelot is and has been working fine on my netbook, notebooks, tower all with various versions of Intel and ATI.  I don't usually mess around with restricted drivers and such, just use Ubuntu "out of the box".

I got a bit tired of the Flash install procedure so I just copy a late version of libflashplayer.so as follows:

sudo cp -dpuv libflashplayer.so /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins

then restart Mozilla.

I got the libflashplayer.so by doing a:

sudo find / -name libflashplayer.so -print

on a recent install of flash and then copying it into home.

Jerry

---

### Post by seeker5528 on 2011-07-25
Ubutu-restricted-addons is the package that pulls in the flash-installer package, pulls in some additional gstreamer stuff to provide gstreamer support for mp3 and some other codecs as well.

Later, Seeker

---

### Post by Allsixcolours on 2011-07-25
Well, thank you for all the replies. I went down, post by post, and tried your suggests... and had no results. It seems strange that it works just fine for all of you, without any manual change on your part from what I understand, yet does not work for me. I also tried uninstalling and then installing from the software center, which probably had about the same effect as doing so from terminal, but I figured it couldn't hurt. Any other ideas? Thanks again for your help.

(and thanks for moving this, I didn't realize there was an actual Oneiric forum)

---

### Post by buzzmandt on 2011-07-25
you did an upgrade, all you need to do is reinstall.  I've done this on 3 test machines so far
```
sudo apt-get install flashplugin-installer --reinstall
```

---

### Post by Allsixcolours on 2011-07-25
Hey, its working! Now, I'm afraid I was not very objective about this and did not close my browser between some attempts and am not sure which method posted actually did it. Also, there were a ton of updates that I just got (my system was previously up to date), so that could have been it. I suspect, however, that it was the reinstall posted by bazzmandt. So thanks you!

---

