---
title: "11.10 Beta 2 installed succesfully, Can't boot it"
date: 2011-10-06
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by fouramdesigns on 2011-10-06
I have Windows 7 64, and a second partition with Dev Preview Windows 8. I installed via Wubi successfully on the Windows 7 64. It rebooted after install once, into Ubuntu. I updated Ubuntu, rebooted, the Ubuntu boot never shows now. I went under BIOS to see what option I have for boot, Ubuntu is not one. What happened? i am sure it's related to my 2nd partition/Windows 8. it's confused somehow. Wonder if I should install Wubi on the Dev preview partition? Or, can i create another partition in Windows formatted for Linux, and install from disc? All the tutorials mention gparted

---

### Post by ubudog on 2011-10-06
Moved to Ubuntu +1.  

Please post Ubuntu Beta/Alpha related stuff here.  :)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-10-06
> **fouramdesigns said:**
> I have Windows 7 64, and a second partition with Dev Preview Windows 8. I installed via Wubi successfully on the Windows 7 64. It rebooted after install once, into Ubuntu. I updated Ubuntu, rebooted, the Ubuntu boot never shows now. I went under BIOS to see what option I have for boot, Ubuntu is not one. What happened? i am sure it's related to my 2nd partition/Windows 8. it's confused somehow. Wonder if I should install Wubi on the Dev preview partition? Or, can i create another partition in Windows formatted for Linux, and install from disc? All the tutorials mention gparted

I'd suggest using the Windows disk management tool to resize one of your partitions, then use the empty space for your Ubuntu installation. For learning purposes a 10GiB partition is big enough.

---

### Post by fouramdesigns on 2011-10-06
Gparted is included in the install process, it will format the partition for me, correct?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-10-06
Gparted is on the install CD, and it will automatically format the partition to ext4, or you can specify a different file system using the manual patitioning option, found under something else.

It is much safer to use the Windows disk management tools to resize a partition.

---

### Post by fouramdesigns on 2011-10-06
excellent. Thank you for the prompt feedback, very excited about the new release.

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-10-06
As cariboo907 has said, later versions of Windows frequently baulk when its partitions are changed by any programme other than Windows Disk Management console.

---

### Post by bcbc on 2011-10-06
Wubi now directs the windows  boot manager to boot directly into Ubuntu immediately after install (vista/7 only). This is why it booted the 'first time'. After that, it's up to you to select Ubuntu from the windows boot manager.

Why did you not get prompted with the boot manager the second time? Most likely the 'time to display operating systems' is set to zero. To confirm this, right click on Computer, Properties, Advanced system settings, Startup & Recovery settings. Check the timeout and change it to 10. Wubi tries to set this to 10 but for some reason (on some computers) this doesn't always work.

---

