---
title: "11.10 connection?"
date: 2011-06-20
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by adduds on 2011-06-20
My internet is super laggy since this update all my 10.10 machines are fine but my 11.10 wi-fi is unbearable!!! what the hell is going on??

i have to reload pages like 10 times to get them to load

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-06-21
We really can't be of any help, unless you gives us more details. What make/model of wireless device are you having problems with?

---

### Post by Framli on 2011-06-21
A dhcp related upgrade (isc-dhcp-common and -client) yesterday, solved it for me. Had to be wired to do it.

---

### Post by adduds on 2011-06-27
> **cariboo907 said:**
> We really can't be of any help, unless you gives us more details. What make/model of wireless device are you having problems with?

03:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9287 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)

Framli, thanks but i tried to and it said they're the newest version

toews@kidlapp:~$ sudo apt-get install isc-dhcp-common isc-dhcp-client
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
isc-dhcp-client is already the newest version.
isc-dhcp-common is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 12 not upgraded.

HINT: when i go to previous linux versions from grub and select the non-recovery version my wireless works great

its an acer aspire 5820TG

---

### Post by adduds on 2011-06-30
bump

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-06-30
try to purge then reinstall those 2 previous packages, and watch logs in case of trouble

---

### Post by lucazade on 2011-06-30
What's the output of "dmesg | grep ath" ?

You could also try with traceroute to see where packets are lost/took time.
i.e. "traceroute google.com"

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-06-30
I had a very similar problem on this system, when it was updated from natty. Since removing all the configuration files from my home directory, and doing a clean install, the problem has gone away.

---

### Post by adduds on 2011-07-04
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I had a very similar problem on this system, when it was updated from natty. Since removing all the configuration files from my home directory, and doing a clean install, the problem has gone away.

do you mean formatting and doing a clean install????

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-07-04
I just removed all the configuration files, and left the data, the did a fresh install formatting / and leaving /home as it was.

---

### Post by adduds on 2011-07-06
sorry to be a pain in the butt

where may i get the steps to do such a procedure

---

### Post by LADmaticCA on 2011-07-06
Your problem sounds very similar to mine I had with this laptop. Check the bug description in this link:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/568090](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/568090)

Your wireless adapter uses the Ath9k module mine used the Ath5k. I would try the solution in that post, replacing Ath5k with Ath9k. 

This laptop is plagued by that bug for all new linux kernels since the one used in Lucid. So I have to remember to do this on any new install though it wasn't a problem before. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-07-06
I'm assuming you want to do what I said, Boot into your main day-to-day installation, then open nautilus, and open your Oneiric home partition/directory. Press Ctrl-h to reveal the hidden files and directories. Remove all the directories that start with a period. 

Reboot into your Oneiric installation, and the configurations files will be automagically recreated. I would suggest before you do anything, **make a complete backup of your Oneiric home directory**

If you don't have a fallback installation, you can accomplish the same thing using a Live CD, but I still urge you to **make a complete backup of your home directory first**

Just in case I forgot to mention it, **make a complete backup of your home directory.**

---

### Post by adduds on 2011-07-08
i accidentily selected Oneiric

I'm just using 11.04 natty 

do i just go to my home folder and delete all config files

if this is the same ty

---

### Post by adduds on 2011-07-14
same question as above

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-07-14
I think I said yes, delete the configuration files in your home directory, but make sure you have a good back up first.

---

