---
title: "11.10 x Unity"
date: 2011-09-24
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by AllanP on 2011-09-24
OK got rid of unity by uninstalling. Now have my panels back, but I can't right click for options; not complaining as I am ecstatic getting rid of Unitity. Any ideas on how to recover Panel options.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2011-09-24
Hi AllanP.

What are you replacing unity with?

Also, are you using the test release?

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-09-24
I think there is no ubuntu classic in 11.10 . So even though you get rid of Unity , you cant able to that panel options.

So please try to get habituated with unity .

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-09-25
I have 2 partitions with oneiric. On one I added E17 and on the other I added Gnome 3. I use the gnome shell and unity at different times on the part that has gnome 3. I couldn't tell you what if any other session types I have on that partition. What session type are you choosing at the login screen now? I think this page describes what you need to do to meet your needs.
[http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/08/return-to-ubuntu-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/08/return-to-ubuntu-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/)

---

### Post by AllanP on 2011-09-25
> **hansdown said:**
> Hi AllanP.

What are you replacing unity with?

Also, are you using the test release?
I'm using Ubuntu 11.10 among other things. I look at Unity as being a step or two backwards. You're stuck with this huge task bar or panel with these huge icons with no options to hide or reduce icon size. I liked having the panels that I could choose to hide with my favourite programs in the panel. After uninstalling Unity I am now left with my panels, but not the option to hide or control size; but!!! Still better than Unity.

---

### Post by fixerdave on 2011-09-25
> **raja.genupula said:**
> ... So please try to get habituated with unity .

I'm pretty hard-core tech... but, to be honest, the reason I like Ubuntu so much (besides the fact that it works) is/was gnome.  I know this sounds weird, especially coming from someone like me, but I find gnome soothing.  There's something about it that just doesn't grate on me.  Windows grates, KDE grates... gnome sooths.  Unity grates.  Don't ask me why, I'm no design-school grad, can't put it into words.  It just does.  If Ubuntu 11.10 forces the unity desktop, then I hope there will be a fork/option that allows at least a gnome'ish desktop feel.  Otherwise, I'll be switching distros.

I've learned a lot with Ubuntu, and I thank Canonical for that, but I'm not using unity.

---

### Post by patryk77 on 2011-09-25
> **fixerdave said:**
> I'm pretty hard-core tech... but, to be honest, the reason I like Ubuntu so much (besides the fact that it works) is/was gnome.  I know this sounds weird, especially coming from someone like me, but I find gnome soothing.  There's something about it that just doesn't grate on me.  Windows grates, KDE grates... gnome sooths.  Unity grates.  Don't ask me why, I'm no design-school grad, can't put it into words.  It just does.  If Ubuntu 11.10 forces the unity desktop, then I hope there will be a fork/option that allows at least a gnome'ish desktop feel.  Otherwise, I'll be switching distros.

I've learned a lot with Ubuntu, and I thank Canonical for that, but I'm not using unity.

+1

Unity is OK for the desktop in the living room that my maid can use and that basically serves to run RhythmBox.

For an actual system that is used heavily, it is horrendous.

I love Gnome 2.x because of Compiz, virtual desktops, keyboard shortcuts, and it's generally oh-so-powerful to work with.

I do believe I will stick with 10.04 LTS on my laptop for a really long time.

---

### Post by AllanP on 2011-09-25
> **AllanP said:**
> OK got rid of unity by uninstalling. Now have my panels back, but I can't right click for options; not complaining as I am ecstatic getting rid of Unitity. Any ideas on how to recover Panel options.

Oooops rebooted to a nada; just a panel on top with "File Bookmarks" and can't remember much else. I'm now using acronis to restore my Unity image; will go from there to find another way to get rid of it.

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-09-25
Thread moved to the development forum "*Ubuntu +1 (Oneiric Ocelot)*"

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2011-09-25
AllanP if you don't know, 11.10 is built on GNOME3, as such the GNOME 2.X panels do not exist anymore. This doesn't really have to do with Unity, but more that GNOME has discontinued it.

You can uninstall Unity as you've found, but you should also install gnome-session-fallback. It's the fallback mode for GNOME3 (the default experience being GNOME Shell). It's not 100% like the GNOME2 Panels, but should be close enough. (and if it isn't, blame GNOME, not Canonical)

---

### Post by jbicha on 2011-09-25
Original poster, you need to hold down the Alt key while right-clicking to modify the GNOME Classic/Fallback panels.

---

### Post by AllanP on 2011-09-25
> **Merk42 said:**
> AllanP if you don't know, 11.10 is built on GNOME3, as such the GNOME 2.X panels do not exist anymore. This doesn't really have to do with Unity, but more that GNOME has discontinued it.

You can uninstall Unity as you've found, but you should also install gnome-session-fallback. It's the fallback mode for GNOME3 (the default experience being GNOME Shell). It's not 100% like the GNOME2 Panels, but should be close enough. (and if it isn't, blame GNOME, not Canonical)
Thanks. A previous post mentioned this fall back link [http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/08/return-to-ubuntu-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/](http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/08/return-to-ubuntu-classic-desktop-in-ubuntu-11-10/) so I guess I'll try that. As for someone posting to get used to Unity Uh uh; I've tried and just don't like it; also all you have to do is look around and there are a heck of a lot of others that don't like it.
Thanks again; much appreciated.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-09-25
You can change Unity icon size, and launcher hiding, by installing compizconfig-settings-manager.

---

### Post by AllanP on 2011-09-25
> **cariboo907 said:**
> You can change Unity icon size, and launcher hiding, by installing compizconfig-settings-manager.
Thanks; I have elected to install the fallback and choose Classic. Actually that is not quite correct. I went to install the fallback and discovered it was already installed after updates. So I logged out and chose Classic.
Thanks again, Allan

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2011-09-25
> **cariboo907 said:**
> You can change Unity icon size, and launcher hiding, by installing compizconfig-settings-manager.

Unless your hardware won't support Unity  and drops to Unity 2d then you're stuck with the big icons.

Installing and using the gnome-session-fallback package to get the classic gnome 2 panel desktop is then a sensible option and allows those not enamored with Unity  to sidestep it altogether..:D

Win,win all round and kudos to the Ubuntu devs for this option.

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2011-09-26
> **AllanP said:**
> I'm using Ubuntu 11.10 among other things. I look at Unity as being a step or two backwards.[...]

> **AllanP said:**
> Thanks; I have elected to install the fallback and choose Classic. Actually that is not quite correct. I went to install the fallback and discovered it was already installed after updates. So I logged out and chose Classic.
Interesting!

Unity is a step or two backwards - and fallback is a step or two forward.

If you want to take a giant leap forward, you might consider Fluxbox on 11.10...  LoL!


[INDENT](Click to expand)

[[IMG]http://vindsl.com/images/vindsl-desktop-25-sep-2011(650x520).png[/IMG]]("http://vindsl.com/images/vindsl-desktop-25-sep-2011.png")[/INDENT]


On my machine (sitting idle):
[LIST]
[*]0.0% / 0.7% CPU usage
[*]116 MB RAM usage
[*]Nil load averages
[/LIST]

Fairly simple desktop, and it's easy on resources, too.

Now let's push it a bit...


[INDENT](Click to expand)

[[IMG]http://vindsl.com/images/vindsl-desktop-25-sep-2011-2(650x520).png[/IMG]]("http://vindsl.com/images/vindsl-desktop-25-sep-2011-2.png")[/INDENT]


Whoa!  Runs circles around Unity AND Classic.

IMO, if you want speed, simplicity, and miserly resource usage, Fluxbox is the one to use in Oneiric, not fallback/classic. ;)

---

### Post by zika on 2011-09-26
> **VinDSL said:**
> If you want to take a giant leap forward, you might consider Fluxbox on 11.10...  LoL!
+1
[http://packages.debian.org/wheezy/amd64/fluxbox/download](http://packages.debian.org/wheezy/amd64/fluxbox/download)

(turn zeitgeist off ;))

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2011-09-26
> **zika said:**
> +1
[http://packages.debian.org/wheezy/amd64/fluxbox/download](http://packages.debian.org/wheezy/amd64/fluxbox/download)

(turn zeitgeist off ;))
Yeah, that might be a good idea, but my life is an open book anyway.  :)

I guess the larger point is, if you think Unity is a bit much, you don't have to settle for fallback/classic.

Here's IceWM running in Oneiric (Fake WinXP Theme for giggles)...


[INDENT](Click to expand)

[[IMG]http://vindsl.com/images/vindsl-desktop-26-sep-2011(650x520).png[/IMG]]("http://vindsl.com/images/vindsl-desktop-26-sep-2011.png")[/INDENT]


Check out the performance on that puppy.  ;)

There are a zillion possibilities available, without having to leave Ubuntu!

---

### Post by zika on 2011-09-26
> **VinDSL said:**
> Yeah, that might be a good idea, but my life is an open book anyway.  :)Nothing to hide here, either, but it makes machine faster... Trust me...

---

### Post by VinDSL on 2011-09-26
> **zika said:**
> Nothing to hide here, either, but it makes machine faster... Trust me...
I trust you!

Stands to reason, there must be a lot of nonsense taking place in the background.

Shoots a hole in my declaration, though.  I might have to redact it...  :D

---

### Post by zika on 2011-09-26
> **VinDSL said:**
> I trust you!

Stands to reason, there must be a lot of nonsense taking place in the background.

Shoots a hole in my declaration, though.  I might have to redact it...  :DYou do not have to trust me, You could try it for yourself... Simple &#8222;zeitgeist-daemon --quit&#8220; will do it, for that session. If You find it OK and want to make it permanent, just add that line to /etc/rc.local... ;) Simple and reversible...

---

