---
title: "Dual view with nvidia doesn't work in oneiric."
date: 2011-10-10
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by marin777 on 2011-10-10
When I set separate x screens in nvidia-settings, the second monitor is not usable. Only twin view  is working for now , but there are issues with fullscreen in some applications. Is there a way to make dual view work , it was working in natty. Thanks!

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2011-10-10
I just installed fresh with 11.10 today and got it working. All I needed to do once I got both monitors enabled was set their positions relative to each other. For the one I wanted to be on the left I checked the box to enable it as the primary monitor with its position as Absolute, then set the position of the secondary display to Right Of. After that I hit apply, which didn't really do anything except make the monitors blink off and back on. Then I hit the save configuration button, which threw up an error, but let me save it anyway (after elevating privileges). Then I quit the application and restarted the computer, and everything worked.

---

### Post by psypher on 2011-10-11
Dualview/twinview, all is not working for me. When I try setting up my laptop with external monitor in the exact same way I setup natty I get a completely corrupted screen. I am trying to setup my LCD as primary, absolute and by laptop as secondary off to the right and as soon as I click "apply" the screens both get completely jumbled up with smaller sections of the screen randomly scattered all over like a slide puzzle. After a few seconds the timer counts off and I'm back to one screen again. I also tried copying my natty xorg.conf, which I know works (to a degree, will get back to that later) and that causes a while different issue. I created this xorg.conf with nvidia-settings in natty and saved the config, also same setup with lcd: primary absolute and laptop: right off. When I boot up with this config the screen ends up looking like the attached picture with an error popping up. Which I logged as a bug even before natty was released and as of yet no-one has even assigned it or looked at it. ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/760702](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/760702)) This is concerning!

After I click close the panel themes are fixed but my icons on the desktop's fonts change to something generic like arial. And nautilus has NO themes applied. So it's quite ugly.


Besides that I am having really weird issues when going into expo mode. I have logged bugs about this too and also no response ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/854556](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/854556)).
When I try go into expo mode and move apps around it either does not work or when i do get to grab and drag the app it jumps all over the place, totally not a smooth experience, very annoying unstable and ugly.

Also i am unable to click on any of the indicator applets, when I do they immediately disappear, I have to click and hold before I can release the mouse over the sub-option of an app i would like to select. If I restart unity with "unity --replace" it starts to work a little better but still when i click on the network manager indicator the menu flickers once and then is available. Very inconsistent. I believe this is still related to another forum post that I have had very little response on: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1781918](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1781918) where I have to restart unity after every boot. 

Please could someone urgently assist. Oneiric is almost out and these issues are critical, there is no way I will upgrade if this is the quality of stability and response from developers I am getting. These are huge regression issues between gnome 2 and unity and MUST be sorted not ignored.

I love unity and the direction it's going but these bugs need to be fixed, not next version, NOW and at the very least during Oneirics lifespan


Here is my xorg.conf:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 270.29  (buildd@allspice)  Fri Feb 25 14:42:07 UTC 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LGD"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GT 445M"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by malachi1990 on 2011-10-12
I have the same issue, and I believe it's a bug in Unity, as E17 works fine in dual screen mode for me.

---

### Post by Intangir on 2011-10-12
thats closer than im getting..

nvidia-settings doesnt even work, says:
"Unable to load X Server Display Configuration page:

Failed to query NoScanout for screen 0."

doesnt let me turn on 2nd screen
neither does the displays settings

also its running like crap
im seeing weird tearing near where the little sidebar is when scrolling

VERTICAL TEARING..
ive never seen that before

its very noticable and ugly

i have confirmed im using the 173-updated (post release updates) driver

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2011-10-12
Guys, I have just updated my HTPC and, during the process, I disconnected the TV from the PC. As I finished updating I realized I would have to configure Nvidia again. Considering I had to do it in a few minutes or my wife would kill me, I was kind of worried, but it worked flawlessly.

My card is a 9500GT.

All I did was:

- Install Nvidia proprietary drivers from their website, latest version for Linux 64-Bit. I have a thread somewhere in this forum with detailed instructions on how to install Nvidia proprietary drivers.
- Restart the PC with the TV connected to it (hdmi). The main monitor is connected on the standard VGA / RGB / connection.
- Run nvidia-settings and press "Detect Monitor". It detects the TV model correctly. The screen appears in the program.
- Set the TV to "Separate Screen (Requires Reboot)".
- Apply a proper configuration to the TV (1920x1080) and leave refresh rate to "auto".
- Save, quit, reboot.

It was up in 3 minutes. It's already running 1080p in XBMC perfectly.

**EDIT:** By the way, the only different thing I have noticed is that the secondary screen doesn't show the wallpaper anymore but a bright white screen. But you can launch stuff to the secondary screen normally. As I use it with the media-player (xbmc) maximized, it is not a problem.

Regards,
Effenberg

---

### Post by cerda on 2011-10-12
This is silly, but happened to me. I was having issues with dual monitors and nvidia and that was ONLY because i was running the nvidia X server settings from the dash. Doin this way you're running without root permissions and then will not work good. I've been told that it should ask you permissions for running nvidia X server, but that didn't happened to me

Going to the terminal and running sudo nvidia-settings and configuring the way i wanted my dual monitors saved the problem. I know it's silly but happened to me :)

---

### Post by psypher on 2011-10-13
> **effenberg0x0 said:**
> Guys, I have just updated my HTPC and, during the process, I disconnected the TV from the PC. As I finished updating I realized I would have to configure Nvidia again. Considering I had to do it in a few minutes or my wife would kill me, I was kind of worried, but it worked flawlessly.

My card is a 9500GT.

All I did was:

- Install Nvidia proprietary drivers from their website, latest version for Linux 64-Bit. I have a thread somewhere in this forum with detailed instructions on how to install Nvidia proprietary drivers.
- Restart the PC with the TV connected to it (hdmi). The main monitor is connected on the standard VGA / RGB / connection.
- Run nvidia-settings and press "Detect Monitor". It detects the TV model correctly. The screen appears in the program.
- Set the TV to "Separate Screen (Requires Reboot)".
- Apply a proper configuration to the TV (1920x1080) and leave refresh rate to "auto".
- Save, quit, reboot.

It was up in 3 minutes. It's already running 1080p in XBMC perfectly.

**EDIT:** By the way, the only different thing I have noticed is that the secondary screen doesn't show the wallpaper anymore but a bright white screen. But you can launch stuff to the secondary screen normally. As I use it with the media-player (xbmc) maximized, it is not a problem.

Regards,
Effenberg

Seperate X Screen is not Dualview/twinview. It's 2 different desktops (X sessions) For instance you can't drag apps from one screen to the other right?

Not what I am looking for

---

### Post by psypher on 2011-10-13
> **cerda said:**
> This is silly, but happened to me. I was having issues with dual monitors and nvidia and that was ONLY because i was running the nvidia X server settings from the dash. Doin this way you're running without root permissions and then will not work good. I've been told that it should ask you permissions for running nvidia X server, but that didn't happened to me

Going to the terminal and running sudo nvidia-settings and configuring the way i wanted my dual monitors saved the problem. I know it's silly but happened to me :)

You are correct it certainly does require root. I did not notice not having to enter root password. I am going to reboot into Oneiric quick and try.

---

