---
title: "~/.xsession owned by root"
date: 2011-09-30
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-09-30
Have seen a random bug with daily's since 09/27, only occurs once & a while, maybe not what it should be filed against
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/863054](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/863054)

Anyway in looking for info happened to notice that, at least here, currently 09/29 daily, root owns ~/.xsession-errors. 
Seems odd.., not a clue what to file against.

---

### Post by lucazade on 2011-09-30
never seen here.. right now i'm downloading 09/30 image and i'll look if bug is present.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-09-30
It's from lightdm, couldn't find so filed a bug 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/lightdm/+bug/863119](https://bugs.launchpad.net/lightdm/+bug/863119)

Edit: after reinstalling the current one now it's fine, oh well

---

### Post by MacUntu on 2011-09-30
:-/ Maybe LightDM should have seen more releases for better testing as it's a rather critical component.

---

### Post by lucazade on 2011-09-30
> **MacUntu said:**
> :-/ Maybe LightDM should have seen more releases for better testing as it's a rather critical component.

we should extend this thought to a lot of other components, at least this time.. but probably putting these in a interim releases is the best way to test them in depth.
installed the daily image from today and I can see the issue.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-09-30
It appears that non admin users will get a root owned .xsession-errors as will the ubuntu user on a live session

So when getting the borked login bug  I linked in OP, basically wasn't logged in as admin so received the root owned .xsession-errors

While pretty sure I deleted it before d. checking, maybe not.

Hopefully the 'non-admin' admin user login doesn't come back (got it quite often on 09/27 daily, just once on 09/29

> installed the daily image from today and I can see the issue
So you get it on 09/30?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-10-02
Am now seeing this all the time on my admin login, - generally doesn't seem to have further ill effect though does make reading and or attaching to bug report a pita.

---

### Post by lucazade on 2011-10-02
yes, i'm still seeing this.. only issue is that files is not readable w/o proper permissions.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-10-02
> **lucazade said:**
> yes, i'm still seeing this.. only issue is that files is not readable w/o proper permissions.
Well - it does make me think what else is lightdm doing 'wrong' - I've seen some odd things of late..

It's like this bug, I've marked invalid for the moment because I don't know what to file on & it doesn't seem to affect others
While it is just a minor thing it does indicate something is not just right (at least to me.
I also did see this on unity-2d, though not on Gs or fallback
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/843383](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/843383)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2011-10-02
> **MacUntu said:**
> :-/ Maybe LightDM should have seen more releases for better testing as it's a rather critical component.
This could be but if they want to use it in 12.04 it must be used in this release to follow their rules for LTS packages.

One of the things that makes testing the LTS - 1 release so much fun.

---

