---
title: "11.10 Beta 1 Font settings"
date: 2011-09-02
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by gryan on 2011-09-02
Where did the font settings go that were under Appearance in the preferences?

---

### Post by funicorn on 2011-09-02
As far as I know, only gnome-tweak-tool provides the selection gui. What's funny is it comes along with gnome-shell.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-09-02
As of right now, because the gnome devs believe we don't need to change anything on a default install, there is only a very basic tool to change font size. Go to System Settings->Universal Access and change he font size there.

---

### Post by t1497f35 on 2011-09-02
> **cariboo907 said:**
> As of right now, because the gnome devs believe we don't need to change anything on a default install, there is only a very basic tool to change font size. Go to System Settings->Universal Access and change he font size there.
But does Canonical have any plans to create its own (Unity/Gtk) Font  widget if the Gnome devs go on with their anti-common sense policy?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-09-02
> **t1497f35 said:**
> But does Canonical have any plans to create its own (Unity/Gtk) Font  widget if the Gnome devs go on with their anti-common sense policy?

That's a good question, UDS-P is coming pretty quick, so we should keep an eye on the blueprints to see if there are any plans for such an application. There are several things that aren't going to be changed now that the UI freeze is on eg: theme changing other then what's available on the background changing window

---

### Post by t1497f35 on 2011-09-02
It's understandable for it not to ship with 11.10, but it should make it into 12.04, otherwise the lack of such obvious options would give a good reason the competition and the naysayers to call 12.04 a lame duck or so.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-09-02
Unless the competition create an application themselves, they'll be in the same position, this is a gnome wide decision, not just Ubuntu specfic. Keep in mind that several of the gnome developers are employed by RedHat, so there won't be a font size setting applet in Fedora either.

As far as the naysayers go, we have learned to ignore them.

---

### Post by t1497f35 on 2011-09-02
By "competition" I really mean the windows/mac users/companies, after all that's what Mark Shuttleworth is after, and afaik they _do_ have such a widget.
And, a Font widget should be easy to create, it's really just a (minimalistic) gui front-end for the user not to have to search edit the settings file manually, of course I'm oversimplifying, but it's still a relatively simple app. Translating and integrating it into (say) the settings panel shouldn't be difficult either.

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2011-09-03
Either that GUI or make the default font size to 9 points not 11--who uses 11 point size?

---

### Post by raw_knee on 2011-09-03
Made the fonts smaller through System Settings->Universal Access. Thanks for the tip, the dialog box on my MSI Wind U100 aren't too big anymore. :)

---

### Post by Neo40 on 2011-09-03
How can I adjust hint style (hintfull, hintmedium, hintslight and hintnone)?
I used to use hintfull but  I can't see where to change the settings...

---

### Post by andrek on 2011-09-03
> **Neo40 said:**
> How can I adjust hint style (hintfull, hintmedium, hintslight and hintnone)?
I used to use hintfull but  I can't see where to change the settings...

Use gnome-tweak-tool

---

### Post by shuttleworthwannabe on 2011-09-03
> **andrek said:**
> Use gnome-tweak-tool
Install it from synaptic--wait--there is no synaptic; so first install synaptic from terminal (you can use synaptic for other apps); or just install from terminal. Software Center for some reason could not find gnome-tweak-tool for me.

---

### Post by andrek on 2011-09-03
Well, if you know how to use terminal to install synaptic, you may want to use it to get gnome-tweak-tool as well.

---

