---
title: "11.10 100% CPU at all times, Can't disable usr/sbin/Bluetoothd"
date: 2011-07-30
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by fatriff on 2011-07-30
Hi all, 

I'm trying out 11.10 and this is doing my head in to the extreme, 

I've turned off bluetooth but this doesn't affect the usr/bin/bluetoothd which is running as a root service.

I've tried killing it using HTOP to no avail.

What he hell is this and what can I do about it? Logging out and into a fresh session does nothing.

I do not need bluetooth at all.

Any help would be fantastic so I can actually try this system out.

---

### Post by fatriff on 2011-07-30
I guess my post must be invisible as it's only had 1 view which was me!

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-07-30
One view in 31 minutes is not too bad. Is there any reason to use the development version. Are you aware that 11.10 is still an alpha? 
Let's ask the mods to move this to the development section, shall we.

---

### Post by fatriff on 2011-07-30
Thanks for the reply and for getting it moved to the correct section.

I managed to get it to stop by removing anything to do with bluetooth via synaptic although this isn't a useful solution it works for me as I don't need bluetooth.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-07-30
> **fatriff said:**
> Thanks for the reply and for getting it moved to the correct section.

I managed to get it to stop by removing anything to do with bluetooth via synaptic although this isn't a useful solution it works for me as I don't need bluetooth.

...and you haven't answered a single one of my questions.

---

### Post by fatriff on 2011-08-03
Well, I wanted the alpha version so I could put gnome shell on it the easy way.

This was on a netbook, a samsung nc10, I've tried the alpha out on another laptop and my desktop without issues but then I don't have bluetooth on either of those so i've no way of knowing weather it's the bluetooth adapter the nc10 has or a software/driver issue.

---

