---
title: "11.10 Sluggish?"
date: 2011-09-10
forum: Oneiric Ocelot Testing and Discussion (CLOSED)
---

### Post by teejay17 on 2011-09-10
Is it just me, or is Ubuntu 11.10 more sluggish than 11.04? I think I even find it a little more sluggish than Kubuntu 11.04. 
More to the point: is this something that will be ironed out by "final" release time?

---

### Post by sgage on 2011-09-10
> **teejay17 said:**
> Is it just me, or is Ubuntu 11.10 more sluggish than 11.04? I think I even find it a little more sluggish than Kubuntu 11.04. 
More to the point: is this something that will be ironed out by "final" release time?

I don't find 11.10 sluggish in general, except that over the past few days I found the Gnome Shell was indeed getting laggy after a couple-three hours of uptime. I reverted from ricotz/testing to the stock repo version, and the problem seems to have gone away.

But all in all, I think oneiric is quite snappy.

---

### Post by teejay17 on 2011-09-10
> **sgage said:**
> I don't find 11.10 sluggish in general, except that over the past few days I found the Gnome Shell was indeed getting laggy after a couple-three hours of uptime. I reverted from ricotz/testing to the stock repo version, and the problem seems to have gone away.

But all in all, I think oneiric is quite snappy.
I find it has something to do with Unity (but perhaps that's really a Gnome Shell thing). For example, when I press either the "Circle of Friends" icon, or the Home folder, it takes at least 10-15 seconds for the windows to pop up. This lag never happened in classic Gnome; clicking on the menu was pretty instantaneous.

---

### Post by sgage on 2011-09-10
> **teejay17 said:**
> I find it has something to do with Unity (but perhaps that's really a Gnome Shell thing). For example, when I press either the "Circle of Friends" icon, or the Home folder, it takes at least 10-15 seconds for the windows to pop up. This lag never happened in classic Gnome; clicking on the menu was pretty instantaneous.

Wow, that's really s l o w !  At it's "laggiest", Gnome Shell was nothing like that. Just a perceptible but annoying gap between, say, clicking a window control and its exectution.

Oh well, things are in flux!

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-09-10
You either have some seriously deficient/poorly supported hardware or somethings wrong with your install
On a 3.5 yr. old laptop I'd say about 1/2 sec for the dash, home ect.
On a 9 yr old p4 about double that or so.

I'd try a new user and or a live session & see how they fare

---

### Post by d2kx on 2011-09-10
Next Compiz update will fix the slow performance with AMD Catalyst driver (and maybe intel). There was a problem with Sync to Vblank (also in 11.04). This will be fixed before the release (hopefully before Beta 2).

---

### Post by teejay17 on 2011-09-11
> **mc4man said:**
> You either have some seriously deficient/poorly supported hardware or somethings wrong with your install
On a 3.5 yr. old laptop I'd say about 1/2 sec for the dash, home ect.
On a 9 yr old p4 about double that or so.

I'd try a new user and or a live session & see how they fare

It is an old machine, about 6 years old. Traditionally, Gnome 2 ran on it with no speed issues, and I always had leftover speed to spare. For example, watching a video was a smooth endeavour before, but now it spurts and sputters and otherwise renders video impossible to watch while testing out 11.10 beta 1. 
However, I'm not writing here for the sake of complaining, nor am I writing to bash Unity; I really like where Unity is going and I look forward to using it daily. I'm just really concerned that, if many other users also have speed related issues, these speed setbacks will not bode well for Unity PR and/or adoption.

---

### Post by madjr on 2011-09-11
slow on my computer

ATI x1250 open drivers

but natty and unity 2d in oneiric are fine.

---

### Post by teejay17 on 2011-09-12
I wonder if there is a memory leak somewhere?

---

