---
title: "Rme 9636"
date: 2008-02-27
forum: Multimedia Production
---

### Post by tbrooke on 2008-02-27
I have andRME 9636. I can pull it up on alsamixer, but hdspconf and hdspmixer say it is not supported. My card says it is digi36/52 and I understand it is the same as the 9652 so it seems hdspconf should work. Has anybody gotten it to work?

I have also looked for a way to get it set up an asoundrc file with out any look. I am pretty sure this card will work but I can't figure out how. I have searched everywhere.. 

I would like to use SPDIF in and out which the manual says the card supports and 8 channel out since I have the expansion card

I have also tried to use Jack to set the card up without any luck

Any suggestions?

Tom

---

### Post by noj91 on 2008-02-27
Hi there, I have RMEdigi9652 working on ubuntustudio 7.10 .Its working as a digital transport to an outboard dac via spdif.I had quite a  battle getting it working.
  Sound preferences would play the test tone but no apps would use the card in the end I got it working under jack using pcms 17 and 18 as digital out( I dont have the breakout cable or any daughter cards installed so used alsamixer to switch spdif out to adat 1 if memory serves ) It definately works under jack see hopefully attached screen shot

 Any more info you need just ask 
Is youre card recognised by the system? (lsmod|grep snd in a terminal should return a list of sound drivers snd rme9652 should be there
 good luck cheers jon.

---

### Post by tbrooke on 2008-02-27
Thanks

I decided jack might be the way to go but I still haven't gotten any sound. It is recognized by the system and Alsamixer seems to show the channels. I had it working in Jack but now I can't get Jack to start. I'll keep trying - at least it is possible

Tom

---

