---
title: ".avi files and sound"
date: 2007-09-08
forum: Multimedia Production
---

### Post by chejose on 2007-09-08
I have a few films in the .AVI format. They will open and play using either Movie player or VCL media player. But... no sound. If I put the volume very high I can hear the background music, but voices are too weak to understand. I tried three of them, all with the same result.

I suppose there is something lacking in my instalation, so any help very welcome.

José

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2007-09-09
In totem - under preferences, which audio system are you using? Check the volume levels in volume manager too - especially the ones that are buried (you can enable them from the preferences).

---

### Post by chejose on 2007-09-10
Thanks for getting back on this. But I am afraid that you have "lost" me.

I don't know which program "totem" must be. The volume control (ALSA) has no preferences, so I don't know where to search.

I have the ALSA mixer installed, and played with all the controls while an .avi film was playing, and no change. 

With volume at max I can just hear the background music of the film.

So sorry, I will need more specific help as a relatively new user of Ubuntu.

José

---

### Post by chejose on 2007-09-10
Just to make sure, I stuck a DVD in the drive, and the sound is normal. I have had no problems with sound with this instalation (a couple of months?). The matter of .avi files is the first. It gives me the impression that a codex or something must be missing.

José

---

### Post by chejose on 2007-09-10
After a bit of search it looks like Mplayer is the solution. It is not working yet, but assume the problem can be solved.

So I will consider this thread to be closed.

José

---

