---
title: ".avi to DvD"
date: 2007-10-16
forum: Multimedia Production
---

### Post by Sayers on 2007-10-16
Hello I'm trying to convert a .avi to a dvd , I've tried twice with a dvd and it says on my dvd player however it complains about readback may not be enabled on this disk. Tools I've used : 
DeVeDe
K3b

---

### Post by yabbies on 2007-10-16
does your player read dvd-r/rw +r/rw?

---

### Post by Sayers on 2007-10-16
Yeah I'm pretty sure it does, else wise how would it read any dvd's?

---

### Post by yabbies on 2007-10-16
are you talking about your writer on your computer?
or your player that is hooked to the tv?

---

### Post by larele on 2007-10-17
You can from here 
found the[ avi to dvd]("http://www.bestshareware.net/dvd-to-mpeg-avi-divx-rm.htm") software for youself.

---

### Post by yabbies on 2007-10-17
The best program I have found to convert .avi to .mpg (a workable DVD) is Tovid.
The problems are that it can be tricky because the GUI doesn't always work. If you are not scared of the command line, I can give you a quick run down of how to make a DVD by using Tovid. It's fast and I have never had any problems converting an avi to mpg and then burning to a dvd.
Tovid for some reason is not in synaptic but take a look at this for installation.

[http://tovid.wikia.com/wiki/Installing_tovid/Ubuntu]("http://tovid.wikia.com/wiki/Installing_tovid/Ubuntu")

after you have it installed check out the GUI and see if it works for you.
otherwise I can give you a very simple command line based code to get you going. I'll just need to know a few things like if the movie is wide 16:9 aspect or full screen 4:3 aspect. Whether your video code is a PAL format (usually in Europe) or NTSC (usually States)

---

### Post by Sayers on 2007-10-17
I have the four mpg's what should I do now? I formated in pal before now they are in ntsc the right way.

---

### Post by yabbies on 2007-10-17
If you have Tovid and  the encoded mpg then you are all set.
in a terminal cd to the directory where the mpg is.
and make a xml of the mpg.

```
makexml movie.mpg -out movie
```

this will give you an xml file of the mpg with chapters.
now just take the xml file and make a dvd file directory

```
makedvd movie.xml
```

The output will be a directory of the xml with video ts and audio ts
stick a blank dvd in the writer

```
makedvd -burn movie
```

you will have a fully functional dvd when it is done 

to skip the last step and make the movie file and burn right after just type -burn like this

```
makedvd -burn movie.xml
```

---

