---
title: "Newbie needs suggestions...drum machine&gt;MIDI&gt;sampler?"
date: 2008-04-12
forum: Multimedia Production
---

### Post by rayj on 2008-04-12
Hello, everyone!

I'm relatively new to Linux, so excuse me. I'm also not exactly a MIDI genius, but have been slowly picking it up. So bear with me.

What I'm looking at doing is using my old Alesis SR-16 drum machine to program beats (I'm used to the interface)...and using it to trigger samples on the computer. I can't imagine this not being a fairly popular configuration, but I don't really know where to start looking.

I'm eventually looking to record the output of all this in Ardour. I've gotten my BCF2000 to control Ardour in 'Mackie emulation' mode, with excellent if limited results. So far, my recording tests have all worked out very well...especially after I dropped in a second disk for audio files.

Question: does it matter if I use the hardware port on the BCF2000, or am I better off using the unused port on my Delta 1010? I'd say that it probably doesn't matter, but, like I said, I'm not terribly knowledgeable. The BCF seems to show up as 2 midi connections...one being the data generated by the BCF itself, and the other being anything connected to the MIDI IN on the BCF. I'm assuming this is due to the user mode setting, which isn't very documented/which I don't understand as well as I would like.

Real Question: is there a decent resource available that could walk me through configuring this sort of setup? I'm envisioning adding keyboard control for softsynths as well. What issues should I expect to have to deal with regarding this sort of configuration?

Possible complication: I'm running a 64 bit OS. 

I've got 1 gig of (unmatched) ram, a 2 gig AMD processor, and two large SATA 3.0 drives, so I think I can handle a bit of the processing.

Thanks for reading my post!

---

