---
title: ".mpg/.avi -&gt; DVD help"
date: 2007-08-09
forum: Multimedia Production
---

### Post by herbster on 2007-08-09
I have a .mpg video file and converted it using Avidemux from one of the threads here, but ended up with "video" and no extension. It plays but what extension is it supposed to be, or was I supposed to enter that in the Avidemux somewhere?

Also how do I take this video file and make an actual DVD out of it, like the VIDEO_TS folder so I can burn it and play it on a DVD player??

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-08-09
> **herbster said:**
> I have a .mpg video file and converted it using Avidemux from one of the threads here, but ended up with "video" and no extension.

Hi herbster,

when you save the file in Avidemux, you have to explicitly write the extension in the filename. Avidemux can save the file in various formats and doesn't write it for you. You can use ".mpeg" for it. I believe that you used Avidemux to tweak/improve something in the mpeg file you had, since this is the video format for DVD.

Now that you have the MPEG file, you can create a DVD-Video with DeVeDe ("sudo apt-get install devede"). 

NOTE: DeVeDe also can convert video files to DVD, but IMHO its quality isn't so good as Avidemux.

> **herbster said:**
>  Also how do I take this video file and make an actual DVD out of it, like the VIDEO_TS folder so I can burn it and play it on a DVD player??

To create a DVD-video with DeVeDe with a ready-to-go MPEG file, open DeVeDe, add the MPEG file, go to the "Misc." tab in "Advanced Options" and select "This file is already in MPEG format, ready to DVD".

Then create a ISO file that you can burn on the disc right-clicking on it on Nautilus.

That's it. Cheers.

---

### Post by herbster on 2007-08-10
epimeteo,

Thanks SO much! I'd been searching for a while to figure out this sucker on linux as I had made DVDs this way on Windows some time ago. Finally it worked, thanks so much!!!

---

### Post by ruibernardo on 2007-08-10
You're welcome. Glad it worked for you too.

---

