---
title: ".asf playback is too fast"
date: 2008-04-18
forum: Multimedia Production
---

### Post by dogeatery on 2008-04-18
I have spent waaay too many hours researching this problem and downloading various video editors... my small camcorder produces .asf files (yes, I know what people seem to think of these files).  I initially import them into kino since it's hte only editor I've found that actually recognizes these files, only it imports them and gives them another extension, .dv.

The problem is that when I play these .asf.dv files in ANY video editor, the sound plays at proper speed, but the video plays back at double speed.  I hope someone out there can give me a hand ...   Do I just need to convert these original .asf files?  If so, to what format and with what software?

---

### Post by indiecast on 2008-04-21
is there any way to just play a .asf file? cause i was trying to do that before




those .dv can be large and RAM hungry since they are pure video.  you might want to dry exporting them to Mpeg in kino

hope this helps,

indiecast

---

### Post by dogeatery on 2008-04-21
So bring them into kino, then export the same files in mpeg format?  

Do you think this will resolve my audio-video synch problems?

---

### Post by indiecast on 2008-04-22
no promises, but it might

---

### Post by Creative2 on 2008-04-22
i had the same issue i have solved with this

mencoder INPUTFILE -ofps 30 -ovc lavc -oac mp3lame  -o OUTPUT.dv

---

### Post by dogeatery on 2008-04-22
wow, two solutions!  Thanks for the help, I will try out both of your tricks and let you know what happens

---

