---
title: "9.04(RT), Pulse Audio, Alsa, CPU load et al."
date: 2009-06-08
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by Darktrax on 2009-06-08
PulseAudio is to be the default Ubuntu audio server. That would be nice if it did not come with some alarming performance hits that might not directly be the fault of the PulseAudio application.

The plethora of overlapping sound tools, and the very awkward ways they have to try and live together is now a problem for me, since going up these learning curves is a big distraction to the main mission (the music). I may have to settle for what I can get to work without ever discovering the benefits of an application that is deliberately set to be a pervasive and insisted feature, and arranges itself to re-spawn like a virus, and cannot be un-installed without ditching the whole Ubuntu desktop. I ducked that option by keeping PulseAudio installed, but prevented from starting.

When I run Qsynth with PulseAudio in the route, the CPU load maxes out 100% at times, and is never less than 70%. After ensuring Pulse Audio did not run, the load is down to less than 10% from QSynth.

PulseAudio autospawns from a line in /etc/pulse/client.conf being "autospawn = yes". You can turn the "yes" into a "no".

The file /etc/X11/Xsession.d/70pulseaudio does what it does. I renamed it with a few added characters to make it go away.

I removed PulseAudio from the run levels. Of various ways to do this, I used Synaptic to fetch sysv-rc-conf, and used that.

/usr/share/alsa/alsa.conf has lines which load hooks for other applications. I was surprised to see it in the Alsa config file.
I put a comment # in front of the "/usr/share/alsa/pulse.conf" line 

At this point - it all started to work OK. This is also the point where I begin to wonder why we had this adventure. The Ubuntu developers would not have gone to so much trouble packing PulseAudio in if they were not convinced it had lots of benefits. I am confused in that there was all this deliberate effort to force PulseAudio when Alsa, Jack, RoseGarden, Qsynth and friends ran better without it. 

 Nor should I be misunderstood in this. I have nothing against PulseAudio - I am even intrigued as to what its benefits might be; but in Studio 9.04, it was unable to shine for me.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-08
You can uninstall *pulseaudio* and install esound. It will also remove *ubuntu-desktop* package, but this is just a meta package. It won't install other applications. Just make sure you re-install *ubuntu-desktop* before upgrading to a new release. If you do clean installs only, then you might forget about it.

I have done this on my system and it improved performance considerably.

---

### Post by Darktrax on 2009-06-10
Many thanks

I am learning to be selective in what I use now. The default installs always seem to come with at least one deal-breaker.

G

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-06-11
The sound situation in ubuntu is seriously screwed up and it looks like it will not be improving anytime soon. First there is the pulseaudio mess, making pulseaudio the default sound server but not providing the pulsevolume control.....or configuring the sound system to use pulseaudio properly...and using a not-reccomended by the developers due to massive unfixed bugs version of pulseaudio in Jaunty.

Then there is jack. Jack has been exiled from /main due to some argument about jack using freebob which uses a little proprietary code so jack cannot be included in /main, since jack is not in /main the pulse-jack module and the libasound modules for alsa-jack and oss-jack are removed completely from the repository instead of removing or repackaging freebob for jack. These are not the same as the modules that let jack use alsa/oss which are left in, they are the modules for alsa/oss apps to use jack.

So, in effect there is no way in Ubuntu to play native pulseaudio, alsa, or oss applications through jack. Only applications with their own jack plugin/driver can use jack. I am surpirsed they have not stripped those out too.

This. of course, results in massive confusion misunderstanding and outright anger. Perfectly understandable.

There are a few ways to get around this, you can build those packages from source and have the missing modules or you can steal them from the Debian repos if you can find the proper version which is unavailable for pulse0.9.14 since debian sid moved to pulse0.9.15 as soon as they could and which I would recommend anyone reading this to do.

Is it possible but highly unlikely that much of this will be fixed in the next few distro releases. All the pulse alsa and oss jack modules have already been stripped from pulseaudio and libasound for Koala.

---

### Post by raboofje on 2009-06-12
> **markbuntu said:**
> Then there is jack. Jack has been exiled from /main due to some argument about jack using freebob which uses a little proprietary code so jack cannot be included in /main

This is indeed one of the core problems.

I couldn't find the exact reasons why jack was excluded from main, where are these documented?

It would be good to start doing the work needed to get jack back into main. Someone already started a main inclusion report ( [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionReportJACK](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MainInclusionReportJACK) ), but before we proceed with that we should find out and fix the issues that got jack kicked from main in the past.

---

