---
title: "Seq24"
date: 2011-01-24
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by dawiba on 2011-01-24
Hi Everyone

I've been trying my luck with SEQ24 again and everything works really well with one exception.

I use my keyboard for sounds, using the midi in SEQ24 to trigger the sounds. I can create new regions (is that what they're called?) in the palette just fine and I can write midi notes into each one just fine. I can assign different midi channels to each one and send these to the keyboard so that I can have lots of different sounds playing at once. I can even arrange all of this in the song editor to create a whole song if I want. All of this is fine.

The only thing I can't do is record on a specific midi channel. Let's say I've recorded a drum pattern and now want to record a bass line, when I hit record, the drum pattern comes through into the part I'm recording. This is despite setting separate midi channels for each instrument/track. No matter what I do, SEQ24 seems to record all midi events into the current channel.

It's much more comfortable for me to play parts and record them rather than put them all in note by note in the editor. Can anyone tell me how to record just the channel I want without everything else coming through? 

Thanks

---

### Post by dawiba on 2011-02-06
Bump

Can anyone help?

(I did originally post this before you all fell out with me :))

Thanks again

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2011-02-07
Hi dawiba, 

Check File - Options - MIDI Input
If **seq24 0** is ticked untick it.

Best,

Jeremy

---

### Post by dawiba on 2011-02-07
Hi Autostatic

Thanks for the reply.

I don't have an seq24 0 option, I have midi through port 0 option. If I untick that, then I can't record any incoming midi :(

I'll try again later.

Thanks again

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2011-02-07
Ah, my bad, I now see I had modified my .seq24rc file for another post :oops:
What kind of keyboard are you using? I now see I have MIDI Through enabled by default too. I always disable it and enable my MIDI USB controllers. If I use a virtual keyboard like VMPK I use that as the input in File - Options - MIDI Input.

Best,

Jeremy

---

### Post by dawiba on 2011-02-07
I use an Alesis Fusion 8HD. It has a song mode where I can load up a bunch of instruments, assign them to various midi channels and then record them in to my software on the corresponding midi input. At least that's how it's worked with every other piece of software I've tried :)

[QUOTE=Autostatic]I now see I have MIDI Through enabled by default too. I always disable it and enable my MIDI USB controllers.[/QUOTE]

I don't follow you here :confused:

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2011-02-08
The Alesis is connected through USB right? Then it should show up in the MIDI Input dialogue of seq24 (not sure what designation it gets though) and if you select only the Alesis MIDI Input seq24 should only record MIDI data coming from there, not from your other seq24 patterns.
seq24 has a drawback though, it records everything coming from a specific MIDI input, regardless its channel. So if you start a song on your Alesis seq24 will record everything into one single pattern. So if you want to record everything on separate channels at once seq24 isn't the right tool unfortunately :(

Best,

Jeremy

---

### Post by dawiba on 2011-02-08
o, the Alesis is connected to the midi in/outs on my Firewire interface, then to a2jmidi.

[QUOTE=Autostatic]seq24 has a drawback though, it records everything coming from a specific MIDI input, regardless its channel.[/QUOTE]

I realise that, but I was hoping for some sort of workaround. I'll keep on using QTractor for midi in the meantime. I am looking forward to Ardour with midi though :)

---

