---
title: "10.10 on an HP dc5700"
date: 2011-02-13
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by bill.adair on 2011-02-13
Hello all,

I'm running 10.10 on an HP dc5700 (updated with 4 GB 1066 ram and a E6500 pentium (dual code 2 meg CPU buffer). The card is a RME Digi 96/PAD running at 24/96 (I'm assuming the 24 as Ardour only shows 32 bit float). Software is Ardour, Jack 1.9.6 and kernel is updated to 2.6.36. This spec AFAIK should have no problem recording and playing back in duplex.

p, li { white-space: pre-wrap; } jackdmp 1.9.6
JACK server starting in realtime mode with priority 1 audio_reservation_init
 Acquire audio card Audio0
 creating alsa driver ... hw:0,0|hw:0|1024|6|96000|2|2|hwmon|hwmeter|-|32bit
 Using ALSA driver Digi96 running on card 0 - RME Digi96/8 PAD at 0xf1000000, irq 20
 configuring for 96000Hz, period = 1024 frames (10.7 ms), buffer = 6 periods
 ALSA: final selected sample format for capture: 32bit integer little-endian
 ALSA: use 8 periods for capture
 ALSA: final selected sample format for playback: 32bit integer little-endian
 ALSA: use 8 periods for playback

When I boot, start jackd and record I am getting steady performance (some xruns at startup. none when running). When I then play recorded audio using mplayer or use firefox and you tube the system then loses control. If I shutdown the audio/browser and restart jack and ardour I'm getting audible xruns every 4-5 seconds.

Any advice would be very welcome. I've attempted to remove pulse (but may have failed) . I'm currently assuming starting mplayer is adding modules but I can't see this using lsmod. There is a mouse on the same interrupt as the RME but I would have thought the CPU could easily handle interrupt stacking / round-robining.

Bill

---

