---
title: "8.04 Blender crashing with Illegal instruction"
date: 2009-06-12
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-06-12
Blender 2.45 is crashing iwth "illegal instruction" right after "Checking for Python ... got it!"

Used to work fine.  Upgraded MB and Video Card.  Have never had problems "cloning" Linux systems before so I don't know what has happened.  Everything else seems to be working.  

All I did was boot in to recovery mode after changing MB and video card. Choose "fix Xserver" from the menu and reboot.  Then installed the restricted driver and reboot again.  

Blender 2.45 from the repos.  Reinstalled with Symantic, no change.

I'm using the "latest" Nvidia restricted driver.  Previously I was using the older restricted driver for a Nvidia GF2 MX-400.  Needless to say, Blender was the main motivation for the change, and now it don't work!

ideas?


Just for grins while looking to see if anything else had broken, I tried Kdenlive, which never did anything but crash on the original MB.  Now it runs and I was able to render a clip into an MP4 file.  So Kdenlive looks like it depends on what hardware you have more than Gnome vs. KDE (this system is Gnome).
I can't say its really usable all I did was drop a clip on the timeline scrub around a bit and render out to mp4, but never could get to the loading a clip part before.

I tried deleting the .blender directory in my /home folder, made no difference :(


--wally.

---

### Post by cotcot on 2009-06-13
Download blender from the blender website, extract the downloaded file and start blender with the executable from the extracted folder (so without installing a package or compiling something). Hopefully that works.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2009-06-16
> **cotcot said:**
> Download blender from the blender website, extract the downloaded file and start blender with the executable from the extracted folder (so without installing a package or compiling something). Hopefully that works.

I'll try again, but last week I couldn't access the Blender download site for older versions.

--wally.

---

