---
title: "14.04.4 live usb session: randomly missing characters"
date: 2016-04-01
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by mattmoose1969 on 2016-04-01
When the login dialog or the desktop appears, menu and icon text characters are randomly missing. Any ideas why, please? :)

The first time I tried running the live distro, I was presented with a confusing login dialog box with characters missing, so I rebooted in despair.

Then I tried vga=771 as a boot option for troublesome displays, but it made no difference, although the login box didn't appear that time.

Basically, something's causing text to be rendered incorrectly. It's an unmodified Dell XPS8700. I am trying to escape a failed Windows 10 auto update, hope I don't have to go back to it!

Kind regards,
Matt.

---

### Post by mattmoose1969 on 2016-04-01
I may have fixed it... 

Went into Settings Manager, then Appearance, then Fonts. 

In the Rendering section, I set hinting and sub-pixel order to none.

That seems to have made the text characters stable.

So I'll try installing it now and see how it goes. I hope the above helps someone else with the same. May I suggest these enhancements are left turned off by default, until deemed necessary by the user?

Regards,
Matt.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-04-01
It is always difficult to give solid advice about how best to set hinting and sub-pixel order as it is both a personal preference and also depends on hardware, but if it is working and giving you clear text rendering at the moment I am pretty certain that you should be able to get it working once installed, even if the best setting then is not exactly the same as you are using at present.

---

