---
title: "v14.04 qjackctl Cannot connect to server socket err = No such file or directory"
date: 2014-08-07
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by mikejen on 2014-08-07
Hi

I did a new install. Went into Firefox and ran a Tommy Emmanuel youtube video and it ran perfectly.

tried to start qjackctl and got the above error and a message box saying dbus jack could not be started.

When I went back into Firefox and tried the video again that now fails too.

I've gone all over the searches and tried lots of things but none work. Does anyone have an answer?

Cheers

Michael

---

### Post by mikejen on 2014-08-08
Further to this I tried using the live cd and it has the same problem, jack throws a dbus error. Switching off dbus in the settings still wont let it start, says it cant open alsa port.
So out of the box studio doesnt work as it should.
Ive reinstalled and now wonder if there is something I can do before I start, anyone got any ideas?

---

### Post by jejeman on 2014-08-08
I don't use d-bus, so first thing is I disabled it i Qjackctl, and quit Qjackctl.

You should know that you can not playback audio in some program and in the same time start JACK. No audio program should be started before JACK.
Give us
```
aplay -l
```

---

### Post by mikejen on 2014-08-08
Hi

Found out how to solve it. Before trying to start jack I went into the settings and explicitly set it to use hw:PCH for both input and output. Lo and behold it then works.

By default it tries to use the HDMI output but that is already grabbed by things like Firefox output. Though why that should throw a DBUS error I dont know.

cheers

Michael

---

