---
title: "11.04 kubuntu with studio package no jackd"
date: 2011-06-22
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by kaligus on 2011-06-22
Is there a simple way to make jack the default sound system and push pulseaudio to the back of the bus (with a vengeance would be better but I need it to hang around after I bruise it up)  What info do I need to supply to assist in troubleshooting?  I have followed around 20 web pages for 3 distros telling me how to accomplish the goal of using pulse through jack so everything else works correctly.  This is a fresh as of last week install of 11.04 kubuntu, I have also used kubuntu secured remix 11.04 with the same results.  After both all of the studio audio packages desired and their requirements/dependencies/first-cousins were loaded.  All of the photography/graphics stuff I use was then loaded.  I have now finished installing my apps and am loath to reinstall both because the down time is killing me and because I know there should be a way to to force pulseaudio to talk nice to jack.

---

### Post by sgx on 2011-06-22
> **kaligus said:**
> Is there a simple way to make jack the default sound system and push pulseaudio to the back of the bus (with a vengeance would be better but I need it to hang around after I bruise it up)  What info do I need to supply to assist in troubleshooting?  I have followed around 20 web pages for 3 distros telling me how to accomplish the goal of using pulse through jack so everything else works correctly.  This is a fresh as of last week install of 11.04 kubuntu, I have also used kubuntu secured remix 11.04 with the same results.  After both all of the studio audio packages desired and their requirements/dependencies/first-cousins were loaded.  All of the photography/graphics stuff I use was then loaded.  I have now finished installing my apps and am loath to reinstall both because the down time is killing me and because I know there should be a way to to force pulseaudio to talk nice to jack.
You can remove it, and use aqualung player, which uses jackd (some other also do) to play audio files. You can send it's output to
timemachine, and record while playing other jackd instruments.

xmms, vlc, xine all have jackd modules that can be installed.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1472771](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1472771)  this has a post that
shows config file options to let you keep it, but in the off position.

Cheers

---

### Post by Pablo_F on 2011-06-22
Hi, 

To getting rid of pulseaudio you can do what sgx suggests.

To have pulseaudio playing nicely with jack, do the following:

1. Install the pulseaudio jack module:
```

sudo apt-get install pulseaudio-module-jack
```

2. Start Jack Control. Setup window, Options tab, Enable "Execute script after startup" and copy in this field the following:

```
pacmd load-module module-jack-sink channels=2
```

3. Start the jack server (start button)

4. Make sure that pulseaudio output is set to Jack sink in the sound preferences.


Next time, only worry about steps 3. and 4.

Reference:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudioPreparation#Pulse%20Audio](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudioPreparation#Pulse%20Audio)

Cheers, Pablo

---

### Post by kaligus on 2011-06-22
I had previously tried fiddling with the pulse module and failed.

removing pulse improved the world but only some.

then I have installed KXStudio following the promises of "one more" website and made the world 95% right again.

start/boot is still a little wonky but if I wait long enough to go get a beverage and snack before trying to load a jack controller (still using qjackctl this time from kxstudio PPA) and everything else worked perfectly

I am not going to solve the thread until tomorrow after I have had a chance to make sure there are not repeatable issues or crashes

---

