---
title: "8.04 Hardy &amp; Music Recording"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by wadelewis4 on 2008-04-30
What is the best music recording application for Ubuntu?

My favorite windows app was Adobe Audition(Cool Edit Pro), is there anything for linux that is as simple and straight forward as that was? (i.e. Arm the track and click REC). So far, I've only seen applications that require the tedious set-up of JACK, and then it was like trying to learn another language to figure it out. I've seen all the apps installed on Ubuntu Studio. Anything involving recording live input was overly complex as I said before. 
:confused:
Any suggestions? I appreciate any help you can give. Thanks.

---

### Post by Gina on 2008-04-30
That's something I'm wanting too.  I want to copy several vinyl LPs and cassette tapes to PC.  I have a turntable with pre-amp and stereo phono output and a CD/Cassette player with 3.5 headphone socket.

Try as I may I cannot get anything to work with the line input of my sound card.  I've tried Audacity and even Jack but the options seem too numerous and complicated.  Most settings in Audacity give an error - both input and output.  Jack gives continuous xrun errors and Audacity doesn't want to recognise Jack as I/O anyway.

This seems silly to me - I'm no newbie to computers (though still learning Linux) and manage to sort most things out.  I'm very reluctant to go back to Windoze but...

I'm getting frustrated!  Anyone have any suggestions please?

---

### Post by Stochastic on 2008-04-30
My personal favorite for recording is Rezound (it's in the repos).  But it's just a wave editor/recorder and not a multi track editor.  Ardour is also built like a rock, and reliable as hell, but that takes some getting used to (very similar to pro tools interface & features).  Audacity is one of my all time most hated apps (maybe I'm exaggerating), I constantly see new random errors with it.  Jack can be difficult to get started at first, but it's powers are well worth it if you want reliable audio; it has latency control, and a well built system of checks to let you know if there was a dropout etc...

---

### Post by robeast on 2008-05-01
Take the time to learn something new, it's worth it in the long run! Once you have JACK up and running you have so many powerful tools to use.

---

### Post by warbread on 2008-05-01
> **wadelewis4 said:**
> What is the best music recording application for Ubuntu?

My favorite windows app was Adobe Audition(Cool Edit Pro), is there anything for linux that is as simple and straight forward as that was? (i.e. Arm the track and click REC). So far, I've only seen applications that require the tedious set-up of JACK, and then it was like trying to learn another language to figure it out. I've seen all the apps installed on Ubuntu Studio. Anything involving recording live input was overly complex as I said before. 
:confused:
Any suggestions? I appreciate any help you can give. Thanks.

I'm in love with Ardour.  Because it's much more flexible than Adobe Anything with regard to inputs and outputs, it takes a few seconds to set up, and adding new tracks can get daunting if you want to add compression, EQ, etc.  Still, once you get your inputs to the right tracks, you have an immensely powerful piece of software at your disposal.  Just click the little red button on the track(s) you want to record to, press Shift + R to arm and then space to begin.  You can easily punch in/out.  LAPSDA effects can be added as a separate bus, though this feature is left wanting if you are trying to do things like sidechaining compression.  

Jack takes some learning, but so does a program like Reason or Acid.  All of these programs are based on the same concepts, it's just a matter of being able to apply them in different ways.  You can let me know if you have any specific questions.  It may take me a little bit to get back at you, but I've learned quite a bit about this in the past few months.

---

### Post by wadelewis4 on 2008-05-15
Nevermind: [UPDATE]
I think I've stumbled onto exactly what I need:
-> ->[JOKOSHER]("http://www.jokosher.org/")<- <-

:guitar:

Thanks for the replies everyone.

---

### Post by z.solstice on 2008-05-15
> **wadelewis4 said:**
> Nevermind: [UPDATE]
I think I've stumbled onto exactly what I need:
-> ->[JOKOSHER]("http://www.jokosher.org/")<- <-


So how does the hardware interface for jokosher work?  ie what do you plug in your guitar / microphone into. have you had good or bad plug and play support. does it interface with a USB device, or is it speciallized? the screen shots on the web page look cool, and very intuitive...like pro tools..

---

### Post by wadelewis4 on 2008-05-16
> **z.solstice said:**
> So how does the hardware interface for jokosher work?  ie what do you plug in your guitar / microphone into. have you had good or bad plug and play support. does it interface with a USB device, or is it speciallized? the screen shots on the web page look cool, and very intuitive...like pro tools..

Honestly, I haven't had enough time to sit down and play around with all of it's features yet, but so far it's exactly what I was looking for. You create new instruments and select their source (mic out or USB), arm the track and record. Simplicity with a nice looking interface. I'm planning on testing it in a few days to see if it works with my lightsnake and other things. I'll post back with my findings.

---

### Post by Stochastic on 2008-05-16
Last time I tried Jokosher it was kinda unstable.  I'd like to know if things have solidified in it yet.  Please post back with your experiences.

---

### Post by acheong87 on 2008-05-16
Based on this thread, I recently tried Jokosher and Ardour.  I'm running 8.04 32-bit.  Jokosher crashed (closed without warning) several times in the *one* hour I was trying it out.  I could not figure out any pattern to the crashing.  Sometimes it was when I hit record; other times I was just adjusting the metronome.  I gave up and went to Ardour.

Ardour works great!  (Just one slight bump in the road for me: <[Ardour beginner issue: "capture" captures "playback"]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4969622")>)

---

### Post by wadelewis4 on 2008-05-16
> **acheong87 said:**
> Based on this thread, I recently tried Jokosher and Ardour.  I'm running 8.04 32-bit.  Jokosher crashed (closed without warning) several times in the *one* hour I was trying it out.  I could not figure out any pattern to the crashing.  Sometimes it was when I hit record; other times I was just adjusting the metronome.  I gave up and went to Ardour.[/URL]>)

Did you try running Jokosher in a terminal? It is a fairly young application, so I'm curious to see what your crash output in a terminal would be. I'm still going to give it a go this weekend and see what kind of luck I have - and I'll report back with the details.

---

### Post by ShanghaiTeej on 2008-05-17
If you are seriously recording something, I wouldn't use Jokosher.  There are too many bugs and the program is not even to "1.0".  I think the project just recently came back from the dead after a year of stagnation.  I remember Jono Bacon used to blog about it constantly back in the day, but that tapered off.  It certainly is an interesting project, but not stable enough for serious users.  They are coming out with a "0.10" in August, so maybe the project isn't dead.  Hopefully, this will be the first of many more releases and bugfixes.

---

### Post by wadelewis4 on 2008-05-17
There's a video of people using a stable-looking version [here]("http://youtube.com/watch?v=oHg5SJYRHA0")

---

### Post by ShanghaiTeej on 2008-05-17
That must be the 3rd or 4th time I've fallen for that video.  I'm going to have condition myself like I did for Myspace:  Turn my speakers down really low when pressing questionable youtube links lest I hear some really crappy music.  

I should've known with the Maynard quote and all.  Damn you.

---

### Post by wadelewis4 on 2008-05-18
> **ShanghaiTeej said:**
> That must be the 3rd or 4th time I've fallen for that video.  I'm going to have condition myself like I did for Myspace:  Turn my speakers down really low when pressing questionable youtube links lest I hear some really crappy music.  

I should've known with the Maynard quote and all.  Damn you.

LOL! I was bored and it's my birthday. Gotta have a little fun now and then.

---

### Post by wadelewis4 on 2008-05-20
After giving jokosher some use, I have seen that it is much to early for it to be a serious audio production application. It crashed a lot and I got really frustrated with it. Oh well, back to the drawing board,

---

### Post by Stochastic on 2008-05-20
If you're looking for a similar apps to jokosher, check out Wired, and LMMS.  I still vote for adour or rosegarden, though.

---

### Post by Jadd on 2008-06-19
LMMS doesn't require JACK.

---

