---
title: "12.04 Ardour random lockups"
date: 2012-07-03
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by unfa on 2012-07-03
I'm using the fresh Ubuntu Studio 12.04 LTS 64-bit.

I'm really happy with it, you guys made amazing work from 10.04 with this distro.

One (there always has to be some) problem **I have is that Ardour randomly locks up**. It refuses to play or record audio, generates 100s of xruns, stutters a bit and is unusable for like 3-7 seconds. Then everything works fine again. I thought it's the problem with just Ardour 2.8.12, so I removed it, and installed a package from [here]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/amd64/ardour/1:2.8.11-6") of version 2.8.11-6.  No luck. The lock-ups still occur, nothing has changed. Do you have any  idea what might be the cause? Is anybody having similiar troubles?

Here's **a video of how it looks** (and sounds) like: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bzGTHB9T82E]("http://youtu.be/bzGTHB9T82E")

If that is any help - my hardware is ASUS K52Jc and Zoom H2.

---

### Post by CrocoDuck on 2012-07-03
> **unfa said:**
> I'm using the fresh Ubuntu Studio 12.04 LTS 64-bit.

I'm really happy with it, you guys made amazing work from 10.04 with this distro.

One (there always has to be some) problem **I have is that Ardour randomly locks up**. It refuses to play or record audio, generates 100s of xruns, stutters a bit and is unusable for like 3-7 seconds. Then everything works fine again. I thought it's the problem with just Ardour 2.8.12, so I removed it, and installed a package from [here]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/precise/amd64/ardour/1:2.8.11-6") of version 2.8.11-6.  No luck. The lock-ups still occur, nothing has changed. Do you have any  idea what might be the cause? Is anybody having similiar troubles?

Here's **a video of how it looks** (and sounds) like: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bzGTHB9T82E]("http://youtu.be/bzGTHB9T82E")

If that is any help - my hardware is ASUS K52Jc and Zoom H2.

Uhm... I saw the video and I have no idea... something similar happens to me on high stress condition on my machines (when I run jack and Ardour from hours and/or I have a lot of programs running), but it never hanged like this to me... Did you tried killing everything you don't need? On laptops power saving can bring some collateral effect while searching for audio performances, try to inhibite power saving. When I use laptop I'm usually don't have batteries in it (is simply plugged with external power supply), I set CPU governors to performance and I kill wireless devices linked stuff. Have a look at here: [http://wiki.linuxmusicians.com/doku.php?id=system_configuration#limits.conf](http://wiki.linuxmusicians.com/doku.php?id=system_configuration#limits.conf)

How about your jack configuration? Are your using a device for input and another device for output?

---

### Post by unfa on 2012-07-05
> **CrocoDuck said:**
> Uhm... I saw the video and I have no idea... something similar happens to me on high stress condition on my machines (when I run jack and Ardour from hours and/or I have a lot of programs running), but it never hanged like this to me... Did you tried killing everything you don't need? On laptops power saving can bring some collateral effect while searching for audio performances, try to inhibite power saving. When I use laptop I'm usually don't have batteries in it (is simply plugged with external power supply), I set CPU governors to performance and I kill wireless devices linked stuff. Have a look at here: [http://wiki.linuxmusicians.com/doku.php?id=system_configuration#limits.conf](http://wiki.linuxmusicians.com/doku.php?id=system_configuration#limits.conf)

How about your jack configuration? Are your using a device for input and another device for output?

I'm running on AC. My hardware is:

JACK output: Interenal Intel Conexant Chip
JACK input: Zoom H2 via USB.

I use this setup for about 2 years now and I had issues, but not this one ;)

I've tried disabling WiFi and setting CPU governorto performace, as you suggested and at first glance it seems to work.

I made a little script that will switch performance on when JACK is running and go ondemand when it's off (maybe someone will find this usefull). I then installed it to run each minute from root's cron:

```
#!/bin/bash
# performance4jack.sh | unfa 2012
ps cax | grep jack | grep -v jackdbus > /dev/null
if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
    echo "JACK is running. Setting CPU governor to performance..."
    cpufreq-set -c 0 -g performance
    cpufreq-set -c 1 -g performance
    cpufreq-set -c 2 -g performance
    cpufreq-set -c 3 -g performance
    echo "Done."
else
    echo "JACK not is running. Setting CPU governor to ondemand..."
    cpufreq-set -c 0 -g ondemand
    cpufreq-set -c 1 -g ondemand
    cpufreq-set -c 2 -g ondemand
    cpufreq-set -c 3 -g ondemand
    echo "Done."
fi
```

I'm gonna be doing some more testing but I hope it will turn out to be solved...
Thanks!

---

### Post by sgx on 2012-07-07
Hi, use htop to live monitor the system, and watch for the
glitch, and see if a new process appeared, or an existing one
grabbed a chunk of resources. Making it disappear, remove it from auto-start,
or assigning it a low priority may help.

Did you shut down items in the bios? webcam, bluetooth, networking,
power management etc? If its the fans turning on, having them on
full time might stop the glitch. I also remove screensaver apps
and anything I catch polling the system.

Cheers

---

