---
title: "2.6.33-6-rt:  problems with pulseaudio."
date: 2010-08-26
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by maghoxfr on 2010-08-26
I have the 2.6.33-6-rt kernel and lately I've been having problems with pulseaudio. Watching or listening to videos/audio online eventually gets muted and even though I see the progress bar running the audio is no longer audible. The same happens with Rhythmbox, and in addition, songs jump randomdly sometimes, before getting to its end. They start jumping from one to the next endelssly. Same thing with VLC player.

This all started to happen about a week ago. Does anybody knows why is this happening or is this happening to somebody else?

Thanks

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2010-08-27
Hello maghoxfr, that kernel is not in Lucid. So where did you get it? Might be better to ask the one who packaged that kernel.

Jeremy

---

### Post by maghoxfr on 2010-08-27
I got it from Bojo42 PPA, but I'm getting loads with xruns and problems seems to grow by the day. For example with Rakarrack I get hundreds of xruns in a second with some fx modules. I'll go back to the Lucid RT I think.

---

### Post by transmogrifox on 2010-08-27
> **maghoxfr said:**
> I got it from Bojo42 PPA, but I'm getting loads with xruns and problems seems to grow by the day. For example with Rakarrack I get hundreds of xruns in a second with some fx modules. I'll go back to the Lucid RT I think.
This may not be a problem with your RT configuration as much as a problem with your Rakarrack config....we will select better defaults for the next release.  Of course if you are getting loads of xruns with other apps, then certainly the Rakarrack config problem is only insult to injury ;)

Some effects modules (Reverbtron, Convolotron, shifter, Harmonizer, StereoHarm, Vocoder, certain settings in Sequence...) require large CPU resources.  You can significantly reduce processing requirements by going to Settings->Preferences->Audio tab, and select something less than 22050 for these effects.  My current configuration for my 2.1GHz dual core laptop is this:
Harmonizer Downsample 16000, Down Fastest, Up Linear
Reverbtron Downsample 16000, ...
Convolotron ...  12000
Sequence ... Normal
Shifter ... 22050
Vocoder ... Normal
StereoHarm... 22050
(Note the above is from current development 0.6.x, and 0.5.8 release does not list all the above).

The other thing is if you're using a laptop, don't forget about the CPU governor.  That's the utility that switches to lower CPU clock speeds to save battery.  Unfortunately for RT audio, it causes all kinds of problems. Here is an easy way to deal with it.  It's best to disable it altogether in your system, but this is a good way to find out if your CPU governor is causing you problems:
Install cpufrequtils...
$sudo apt-get install cpufrequtils
(or install via Synaptic)

Then, 
$sudo cpufreq-set -g performance

There is no output, but you may see a vast performance improvement.  You can view your cpu governor settings with the following:
$cpufreq-info

If you have 2 cores, or two CPU's, you may have to set them individually:
$sudo cpufreq-set -c 0 -g performance
$sudo cpufreq-set -c 1 -g performance
...
for number of cores or CPU's

Often it is recommended when compiling an RT kernel to disable this support so CPU speed is always forced to maximum clock speed.  If you're using the OS also as a normal day-to-day desktop environment, it may be good to leave the defaults and then specifically change governor policy when you are doing RT audio... it is quick and easy to do so :)

---

### Post by maghoxfr on 2010-08-28
> Some effects modules (Reverbtron, Convolotron, shifter, Harmonizer, StereoHarm, Vocoder, certain settings in Sequence...) require large CPU resources. You can significantly reduce processing requirements by going to Settings->Preferences->Audio tab, and select something less than 22050 for these effects. My current configuration for my 2.1GHz dual core laptop is this:
Harmonizer Downsample 16000, Down Fastest, Up Linear
Reverbtron Downsample 16000, ...
Convolotron ... 12000
Sequence ... Normal
Shifter ... 22050
Vocoder ... Normal
StereoHarm... 22050

Thank you very much transmogrifox, golden advice. I get no xruns with rakarrack with those settings now, I was never going to figure it out for myself, thanks. I have the bad habit of not mentioning what pc setup I have, my fault. I'm not running a laptop (I have an AMD Athlon 64x2 dual core 6000+, 2Gb RAM).

I switched back to the 2.6.31-10-rt and I'm getting the same slow performance, windows open very slowly, programs take even longer to start, dragging things is just painful. Pulseaudio seems to work fine on this kernel which is a relief (and the whole point of this thread). I'll do some homework about it tomorrow, if I can't solve it myself I'll have to star another thread on it.

Thanks both of you

---

### Post by transmogrifox on 2010-08-28
I noticed after my above post that my tower PC also has CPU governor defaulted to a more power efficient mode.   It still may be of value check the status with
$cpufreq-info

On my laptop I noticed this really killing RT performance, but it did seem to produce some improvement on the Tower by setting the governor to performance mode.

---

### Post by maghoxfr on 2010-08-28
I was going to sak if that would apply to a tower pc...interesting I will try that for sure. It has nothing to do with frequency scaling? Because I have it set to performance.

Thanks for the concern

---

