---
title: "14.04 Kernel OOPS with the Low Latency Kernel"
date: 2014-04-23
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-23
Am getting multiple kernel oops messages with the 3.13.0-24-lowlatency kernel shipped with Ubuntu Studio 14.04.  It happens frequently, whether I'm doing anything on the system or not.  It doesn't crash the system but it's annoying and is getting more frequent.  I don't get the same error when booting 3.13.0-24-generic (installed today via Synaptic), so I'm leaning towards the probability it's a kernel bug rather than something specific with my set up.  Has anyone else encountered the same bug and worked around it with the low-latency kernel?

I googled the error and there are a number of confirmed bug IDs on launchpad.  This appears to be the same one but it refers to the generic kernel
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1305480](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1305480)

```
ProblemType: KernelOopsAnnotation: Your system might become unstable now and might need to be restarted.
Date: Tue Apr 22 22:03:05 2014
Failure: oops
OopsText:
 BUG: pcmC0D0c:0, pos = 5461, buffer size = 5461, period size = 2730
 <28>[  460.994858] systemd-hostnamed[3383]: Warning: nss-myhostname is not installed. Changing the local hostname might make it unresolveable. Please install nss-myhostname!
 <28>[ 1962.780741] systemd-hostnamed[7324]: Warning: nss-myhostname is not installed. Changing the local hostname might make it unresolveable. Please install nss-myhostname!
 <28>[ 4391.759123] systemd-hostnamed[9670]: Warning: nss-myhostname is not installed. Changing the local hostname might make it unresolveable. Please install nss-myhostname!
 <28>[ 5307.938116] systemd-hostnamed[10620]: Warning: nss-myhostname is not installed. Changing the local hostname might make it unresolveable. Please install nss-myhostname!
 perf samples too long (2507 > 2500), lowering kernel.perf_event_max_sample_rate to 50000
 agpgart-amd64 0000:00:00.0: AGP 3.0 bridge
 agpgart-amd64 0000:00:00.0: putting AGP V3 device into 8x mode
 nvidia 0000:01:00.0: putting AGP V3 device into 8x mode
 agpgart-amd64 0000:00:00.0: AGP 3.0 bridge
 agpgart-amd64 0000:00:00.0: putting AGP V3 device into 8x mode
 nvidia 0000:01:00.0: putting AGP V3 device into 8x mode
 
Package: linux-image-3.13.0-24-lowlatency 3.13.0-24.46
SourcePackage: linux
Tags: kernel-oops
Uname: Linux 3.13.0-24-lowlatency x86_64
...

```

Be grateful if there's a simple fix I can implement while keeping low latency audio performance.

---

### Post by jejeman on 2014-04-23
Not that much difference between generic and lowlatency kernel. Same bugs apply.

---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-23
> **jejeman said:**
> Not that much difference between generic and lowlatency kernel. Same bugs apply.

Indeed.  Reinstalled the lowlatency kernel, booted into it, and no more errors.

---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-23
> **m-dw said:**
> Indeed.  Reinstalled the lowlatency kernel, booted into it, and no more errors.

Erm.... not fixed after all.  I'm in the process of tweaking/tinkering with the system so it's difficult to identify exactly what I did just before it started.  I decided I would do a fresh install of Ubuntu desktop (not Ubuntu Studio this time).  After a short period of tinkering I started to get the error messages again.  I think it might have been about the time I installed nfs-common and it's dependencies, but definitely before installing the NVidia drivers.  It could be hardware related, but I'm not sure what hardware it could be

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2014-04-23
As pointed out by jejeman this seems to be a bug.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1290592](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1290592)
No fix released yet.

---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-24
> **su:bhatta said:**
> As pointed out by jejeman this seems to be a bug.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1290592](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1290592)
No fix released yet.

Wrong bug (the right one is in my original post) ;).  That said, I may have fixed it by disabling cpu throttling in my PCs BIOS.  Early days yet, so not 100% confident.  Interestingly I noticed there was no incidents of the error when using a guest account, but that may have been coincidental.

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2014-04-24
Oops, wrong bug for Kernel Oops !

You can try the mainline lowlatency kernel and see if it helps .
It is here : [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.14.1-trusty/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.14.1-trusty/)

If you are unsure how to install feel free to ask.
But don't remove your old kernel yet.

---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-24
It's definitely something I'd be interested in doing, however I'm beginning to think that the root of my problems may be a failing motherboard.  It's over 10 years old, and was top of the range when I built my PC, but now very out of date (AGP, PCI 1.1, 150Mbit/s SATA etc).  I think there may be a problem with some of the voltages.

I assume I'd just install them with
```
dpkg -i 	linux-*-3.14.1-031401-lowlatency_3.14.1-031401.201404141220_amd64.deb 
```?

I'm hoping it will keep limping on until I've built my server and then I'll start looking at replacing it.  Will start a new thread to discuss.

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2014-04-25
Hardware, ah ! well, it served you well is all I can say, 10 years is a long time.

Well the easiest thing to do is get 3 files:
1) [linux-headers-3.14.0-031400-lowlatency_3.14.0-031400.201403310035_amd64.deb]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v3.14-trusty/linux-headers-3.14.0-031400-lowlatency_3.14.0-031400.201403310035_amd64.deb")
2)[linux-headers-3.14.0-031400_3.14.0-031400.201403310035_all.deb]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v3.14-trusty/linux-headers-3.14.0-031400_3.14.0-031400.201403310035_all.deb")
3)[linux-image-3.14.0-031400-lowlatency_3.14.0-031400.201403310035_amd64.deb]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v3.14-trusty/linux-image-3.14.0-031400-lowlatency_3.14.0-031400.201403310035_amd64.deb")

put them in a folder , I name mine 'Kernel'.
Then run from folder (eg i do cd ~/Downloads/Kernel)

```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```

In case it doesn't work out right anfter installation, use the Advanced Options from Grub to boot with old 3.13 kernel and once in a session just remove the 3.14 kernel.

See if 3.14 solves the issue.

---

### Post by Luke M on 2014-04-25
What sound card are you using? I get these messages too (on other linux OSes too, not just ubuntu), but they seem to be harmless. The card (ICE1712 based) still works. Uninstall "apport" to get rid of the annoying popups.

---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-26
Yes, it's a Terratec DMX 6fire 24/96 PCI card which is also ICE1712 based) and it works fine.  I'll get rid of apport as it is only the popups making my system unusable.  At some time I'll go back to UbuntuStudio (on vanilla Ubuntu right now).

Thanks for replying - I was beginning to think I was the only one getting the error.

---

### Post by jones quest on 2014-04-26
I was having similar issues as you describe after upgrading from ubuntu 13.10 to 14.04. The error messages compains about not finding "nss-myhostname", which is related to network management. For sake of experimentation I installed the missing package "libnss-myhostname" and the errors stopped occuring. This could be a coincident but I also have a ICE1712 soundcard (M-audio 1010LT).

---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-26
> **jones quest said:**
> I was having similar issues as you describe after upgrading from ubuntu 13.10 to 14.04. The error messages compains about not finding "nss-myhostname", which is related to network management. For sake of experimentation I installed the missing package "libnss-myhostname" and the errors stopped occuring. This could be a coincident but I also have a ICE1712 soundcard (M-audio 1010LT).

The "pcm" in the following line pasted from the crash report (saved in /var/crash) suggests it's audio related - particularly as the rest of the crash report delves into the pulse and alsa config and drivers.

```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]BUG: pcmC0D0c:0, pos = 5461, buffer size = 5461, period size = 2730[/FONT][/COLOR]
```

The message about nss-myhostname is spurious.  I saw the same and installed the missing package to no effect, but it's a good thing to have so keep it.  I feel pretty sure it's not a coincident that our sound cards have the same chipset (all three of us).

---

### Post by jones quest on 2014-04-27
You are correct. For some reason installing the nss-myhostname library removed the error for a couple of days until I started mocking about with sound settings. Now the error is back.

---

### Post by Luke M on 2014-04-28
I see that this has already been fixed:

[http://lkml.iu.edu//hypermail/linux/kernel/1404.3/00197.html](http://lkml.iu.edu//hypermail/linux/kernel/1404.3/00197.html)

> 
From: Takashi Iwai <tiwai@xxxxxxx>

commit 4f8e940095536bc002a81666a4107a581c84e9b9 upstream.

PCM pointer callbacks in ice1712 driver check the buffer size boundary
wrongly between bytes and frames.  This leads to PCM core warnings
like:
   snd_pcm_update_hw_ptr0: 105 callbacks suppressed
   ALSA pcm_lib.c:352 BUG: pcmC3D0c:0, pos = 5461, buffer size = 5461, period size = 2730

This patch fixes these checks to be placed after the proper unit
conversions.

Signed-off-by: Takashi Iwai <tiwai@xxxxxxx>
Signed-off-by: Luis Henriques <luis.henriques@xxxxxxxxxxxxx>

Nice to see that the driver is still being maintained.

---

### Post by m-dw on 2014-04-28
> **Luke M said:**
> Nice to see that the driver is still being maintained.

The ice1712 is still a pretty good chipset for home/hobby recording, even if it doesn't run to the 192kHz sampling rates that modern pro boards do.  It's the main reason I want to keep it when I upgrade my system later this year.

---

### Post by Juergen_Kempel on 2014-05-02
Hello,

same issue here. Soundcard: Audiophile 24/96 pci. Mainboard: MSI just 3 years old. Errors increasing from restard to restart - annoying! Same on older low-latency-kernels. Any solution yet?

---

### Post by Luke M on 2014-05-02
> **Juergen_Kempel said:**
> Hello,

same issue here. Soundcard: Audiophile 24/96 pci. Mainboard: MSI just 3 years old. Errors increasing from restard to restart - annoying! Same on older low-latency-kernels. Any solution yet?

Uninstall apport.

---

### Post by Juergen_Kempel on 2014-05-03
I've changed already last line on APPORT to "0" in order to shut down the currently running crash report service. Nevertheless error continues invisible this way. I wonder how long this will work. Poor support from Ubuntu on widely-used soundcards. Thank you anyway!

---

### Post by Luke M on 2014-05-03
> **Juergen_Kempel said:**
> I've changed already last line on APPORT to "0" in order to shut down the currently running crash report service. Nevertheless error continues invisible this way. I wonder how long this will work. Poor support from Ubuntu on widely-used soundcards. Thank you anyway!

The error is harmless and has already been fixed upstream. Without apport you would never have known.

---

### Post by Juergen_Kempel on 2014-05-03
That's great news - Thank you Luke! Great community here! :smile:

---

