---
title: "9.10, Ardour, JACK: Cannot record sound from other apps"
date: 2009-11-19
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by Dakra on 2009-11-19
Hi everyone, I want to record/capture sound from other applications with Ardour. But Ardour works with JACK and JACK disables Pulse Audio, as I understand it from my searches. So when Ardour and JACK run, I have no more sound from Firefox, Rhythmbox, etc. So I have nothing to record...

I have a quite fresh install of Ubuntu 9.10 32bits. I have tried recording with other software like Sound Recorder or Audacity, it works but produces a bad sound like a MP3 with poor compression. I have played with their configuration, selected other devices in Audacity but no luck so far. However playing sound works well everywhere.

I used JACK and Ardour in Jaunty. I spent days googling and I finally found a way to make them work (more or less) with Pulse Audio. I had to install packages from debian repositories and edit configuration files. I have been able to record sound from other apps but JACK kept shutting down itself regularly.

So before trying to mess up my new Koala with instructions that were designed for Jaunty and didn't even work perfectly, I prefer to ask here if someone could clearly explain me how to make JACK work with everything.

Since Ubuntu Studio exists, I think it means JACK MUST work with the other stuff...

Thanks.

---

### Post by gorgon on 2009-11-19
hi,

you need a package called pulseaudio-module-jack, which (i think) will make pulseaudio show up in the connections panel in qjackctl (the jack gui). Have a look here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-775144.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-775144.html)

cheers,
g

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2009-11-19
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1293082](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1293082)

---

### Post by MiCK.ca on 2009-11-19
There is a excellent site on putting Pulse out of our misery.
[http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2009/04/21/ubuntu-904-jaunty-keeping-the-beast-pulseaudio-at-bay/](http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2009/04/21/ubuntu-904-jaunty-keeping-the-beast-pulseaudio-at-bay/).  

I have disabled/removed most all of Pulse audio and returned to ALSA. MY jack and ardour are happy as well as apps. Importantly you need to find Jack plugins for your apps. this way your can use jack to route sound to ardour.

most apps are starting to use this method. check it out.

---

### Post by Dakra on 2009-11-19
Thanks for your replies.

First I have tried the link provided by AutoStatic since it refers to Ubuntu 9.10. I have downloaded the packages and tried to follow the readme.

```
Prerequisites:
 1. Run setup.sh in the base directory. This will inform you which the required packages are and install them for you
```Studiolauncher installs tons of stuff, like MIDI applications and even Wine!!? What the **** all these things have to do with configuring JACK to work with Pulse ?
It downloaded more than 100MB of data. At the end, it told me too run a command: java somefile. I do it and I'm told that there is no java installed but it can be found in a list of packages. Whatever, I try to follow the readme.

```
2. Manual installation:
QJackCtl
1. Start qjackctl and go to Setup. Activate patchbay persistance file /usr/share/studiolauncher/res/jack-patchbay.xml
```Ok, done. 

```
2. Configure JACK settings according to your hardware (outside the scope of this doc)
```Done, I suppose. Since my hardware hasn't changed since Jaunty, I have kept the default settings that seem to work.

```

Qsynth and Unison.sf
1. Find "Unison.sf" by searching the net and put it in a fitting directory
```Ok, searching... I have googled unison.sf, adding some word which I thought might help but of course nothing. I found a Unison site where I have downloaded unison-2.32.52.tar.gz but there is no unison.sf in there. I have read that Unison's role is to keep files synchronized across computers. What does it have to do with my initial request ?

**So if that step is necessary to have JACK working, may I have a hint of its location on the web please ?**

```
1. Find "maestro_concert_grand_v2.gig" by searching the net (may not be the 
        easiest, sorry - even though I am sure it was free to download and use at least 
        for personal usage I cannot recall if I am allowed to distribute 
        the file...) and put it in a fitting directory
         2. Edit res/grand-piano.lscp in a text editor and replace all instances 
        of "/store/res/gig/maestro_concert_grand_v2.gig" with the path to where 
        you put the gig-file.
```Again all this doesn't seem related to what I want but I'm at loss...

Even without unison, I have tried to run the other script which should configure JACK I think but of course, nothing work. It launches many apps:
```
 This script assists getting a general JACK-based jamming and production environment
 running. Launches:

 - Qsynth using the free Unison.sf soundfont
 - AlsaModularSynth
 - Qsampler loaded with a free 750mb Grand Piano sampling
 - Up to 4 VST instruments (Specified by you)
 - Optionally: Some music production applications
 ...on top of Ubuntu Karmic 9.10 (May work with other debian-based distros)
```When I say nothing work, I mean JACK keep disabling sound. JACK and Ardour are still running fine.

```
 The sound from desktop applications remain audible since PulseAudio 
 gets configured to use JACK as it's output sink.
```Not for me yet.

I have also followed the ubuntu documentation to install some ubuntu studio software, installing real-time kernel and configuring it. I have done all that stuff and it works. I'm writing from a "real-time session" right now. Jack and Ardour are still working fine but still no sound in my other apps while Jack is running...

**If I download the huge Ubuntu Studio iso file, will Jack and PulseAudio be working together out of the box ?**


I have tried the link provided by gorgon and installed pulseaudio-module-jack but still nothing, which doesn't surprise me since the thread refers to Ubuntu 8.04.


Then I have followed the link of MiCK.ca but I'm stuck at this step:
```
Unset Pulseaudio from system and set my card from ‘asoundconf list’
 $ asoundconf unset-pulseaudio
$ asoundconf set-default-card Intel
```asoundconf: command not found

```
sudo apt-get install asoundconf
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package asoundconf

```Then I found gtk-asoundconf with Synaptic but I don't see it in my applications and I cannot launch it from terminal either.
I think I've seen some hints in the comments of the article but I'll see that tomorrow, it's late here and frankly I'm fed up of always searching for hours and even days almost each time I want to install something new or because something doesn't work as expected. Maybe I should just go back to Kubuntu 9.04 which worked flawlessly, except the JACK related problem I explained in my first post. But at least it worked.

**Anyway, thank you all for your help.**

---

### Post by trulan on 2009-11-19
> **Dakra said:**
> 
Qsynth and Unison.sf
1. Find "Unison.sf" by searching the net and put it in a fitting directory[/code]Ok, searching... I have googled unison.sf, adding some word which I thought might help but of course nothing. I found a Unison site where I have downloaded unison-2.32.52.tar.gz but there is no unison.sf in there. I have read that Unison's role is to keep files synchronized across computers. What does it have to do with my initial request ?
unison.sf would be a soundfont.  It sounds like you downloaded the source for a program called unison, which has nothing to do with audio, you're right.  I don't know much about this setup but I would imagine any .sf type soundfont would do the job.

Out of the box, the Ubuntu Studio ISO will disable pusle audio when starting jack.  A fresh install of Ubuntu Studio will not get you closer to your goal.

---

### Post by kayosiii on 2009-11-19
Here is a list of applications that work natively with jack... [http://www.jackaudio.org/applications](http://www.jackaudio.org/applications)

You should be able to use any of these along with ardour without jumping through any hoops.

---

### Post by kayosiii on 2009-11-19
> **kayosiii said:**
> Here is a list of applications that work natively with jack... [http://www.jackaudio.org/applications](http://www.jackaudio.org/applications)

You should be able to use any of these along with ardour without jumping through any hoops.

Applications seem to be for the most part source compatible between jack and jack2... Some stuff gives depreciation errors and a few applications require source modification (required modifying a single line). So far only 2 have fitted into that catagory. They are probably binary compatible... Arch Linux at least lets you install either

---

### Post by Dakra on 2009-11-20
Thank you for your replies.

> **kayosiii said:**
> Here is a list of applications that work natively with jack... [http://www.jackaudio.org/applications](http://www.jackaudio.org/applications)

You should be able to use any of these along with ardour without jumping through any hoops.

It's an interesting list, I have already used some of them. The only more thing I'd need would be to get Firefox using JACK because I need to record sound from Firefox.

---

### Post by Dakra on 2009-11-20
[http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2009/04/21/ubuntu-904-jaunty-keeping-the-beast-pulseaudio-at-bay](http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2009/04/21/ubuntu-904-jaunty-keeping-the-beast-pulseaudio-at-bay) does not work.

I have been able to install asoundconf but the menu in System - Preferences - Sound has totally changed since Jaunty. I cannot select ALSA in there. I have no way to know if Pulse is well disabled or not. In the end, almost nothing changed after reboot, sound still stops when JACK server is running.

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2009-11-20
Dakra, I'm terribly sorry, I should have been more specific :(
I should've pointed to this PPA right away:
[https://launchpad.net/~motin/+archive/until-jack-is-included-in-main](https://launchpad.net/~motin/+archive/until-jack-is-included-in-main)

It's mentioned in the thread and it has the modules you need in order to use PulseAudio with JACK. Afterwards you could configure it this way:
[http://danielnouri.org/notes/2009/6/9/pulseaudio-through-jack-on-jaunty](http://danielnouri.org/notes/2009/6/9/pulseaudio-through-jack-on-jaunty)

That's how I've done it.
Hopefully I didn't screw up your installation, otherwise I really apologize...

---

### Post by Dakra on 2009-11-21
Thank you for the new links, it seems to be exactly what I need. I will test as soon as I can.

And don't worry for my installation, I'm used to backup my system. It's one of the few things I wanted to learn first as a newbie. :D
But I plan to switch back to Jaunty anyway because after a little more than a week with Karmic, I've noticed several new issues and I don't have time to play with that. I'll wait for the next release to try again.

---

### Post by Dakra on 2009-11-21
Success. (maybe, I want to test it enough before celebrating)

So I'm back to Jaunty. On my fresh installation, I have installed Ardour and JACK then I chose the radical way: removing pulseaudio. I've followed another tutorial:
```
$ killall pulseaudio
$ sudo apt-get remove pulseaudio
$ sudo apt-get install esound
$ sudo rm /etc/X11/Xsession.d/70pulseaudio
```I rebooted then created a hidden file in my home: .asoundrc:
```
pcm.!default {
    type plug
    slave { pcm "jack" }
}

pcm.jack {
    type jack
    playback_ports {
        0 alsa_pcm:playback_1
        1 alsa_pcm:playback_2
    }
    capture_ports {
        0 alsa_pcm:capture_1
        1 alsa_pcm:capture_2
    }
}

ctl.mixer0 {
    type hw
    card 0
}
```I had to configure the sound settings to switch to ALSA. Now I need to start JACK to have sound but every applications can play together. I have set JACK as a startup application so it's not a problem.

I am now able to record sound from firefox, rhythmbox, etc. with Ardour. So far it seems even better than my previous Jaunty experience when JACK shut itself down regularly.

The only problem I sometimes encounter is some crackles when I play music, especially with rhythmbox it seems. JACK regularly display xrun messages. I suppose it's because I don't use the realtime kernel. I'm willing to try but I've read that it doesn't work with ATI proprietary drivers, which I need since my radeon 4850 is not yet supported by the 3D open source driver.

I'll keep looking for ways to optimise all that, if possible. But recording goes well, so far, which is what I wanted.

---

### Post by Dakra on 2009-11-22
Ok now it's even better! :) 

I wrote a little script that creates the .asoundrc file. JACK is configured to run it on startup and to delete the file on shutdown.

So now I only run JACK when I need it, and sound in other applications keep working all the time. Finally!

It's clearly simpler without Pulse. Though I hope Ubuntu or Pulse or JACK developers will make them work out of the box in future releases without forcing users to struggle for days... Pulse have worked flawlessly for me since Ubuntu 8.10 so it's a shame to have to remove it.

Also I could reduce the amount of xruns in JACK by playing with Frames/Period and Periods/Buffer. So everything seems fine, I cross my fingers to keep it that way...

Thanks everyone for your help.

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2009-11-22
Looks good! JACK is not well-suited for multimedia desktop use, that's what PulseAudio is for, but if it works well for you this way, who cares :)
What soundcard are you using and what are your current JACK settings?

---

### Post by Dakra on 2009-11-22
I only have a built-in soundcard on my motherboard, Realtek ALC889A. It has always worked great for me, on several OS's.

Here is a screen capture of my current settings:
[[IMG]http://www.drkdidel.be/images/JACK_setup_mini.jpg[/IMG]]("http://www.drkdidel.be/images/JACK_setup.jpg")

I've increased Periods/Buffer which give less xruns but increases Latency. So I've lowered Frames/Period to obtain a compromise which seems to work fine. I've recorded various stuff with Ardour and it works well enough for an amateur like me ;)

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2009-11-22
Looks good too, but 7 for Periods/Buffer seems like a weird setting to me. But again, if it works, it works. Maybe it's worth trying to install the RT kernel, this will enable you to lower latency even more, if you need that of course :)

---

### Post by Dakra on 2009-11-22
It was 2 at first, then I've played with the values. I'll try to figure out the best ones.

I've read the RT kernel doesn't like proprietary drivers and I need them to support 3D. Since recording goes well like that, I don't feel the need for RT kernel yet.

---

