---
title: "5.1 problem with Ubuntu 9.10"
date: 2009-11-29
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by Cheetos BR on 2009-11-29
Hello,

I'm facing some problems with my 5.1 speakers.

I've already installed the Alsa drivers for the Realtek ALC850 codec from my Asus A8N-E, the Gnome and Alsa mixers and the "prohibited" package, but the central speaker of the 5.1 set doesn't work AND, if I set the speakers as 5.1, some artifacts appear. (also happens when listeing music or watching videos)

I don't have problems setting the speakers as a 7.1 set, and the solutions I found are for other Ubuntu versions.

Thanks for any help. :)

---

### Post by SR_ELPIRATA on 2009-11-29
I have the Asus M3A78-T and I got the center to work but not the sub :) I went back to 9.04 because of that (and a noise that was driving me crazy). I didnt had to add any drivers whatsoever. Its funny how 8.10 and 9.04 detect my sound card as HDA ATI SB (Alsa Mixer) and in 9.10 it changed to HDA Intel.

ELP

---

### Post by GraysonPeddie on 2009-11-30
> **SR_ELPIRATA said:**
> I have the Asus M3A78-T and I got the center to work but not the sub :) I went back to 9.04 because of that (and a noise that was driving me crazy). I didnt had to add any drivers whatsoever. Its funny how 8.10 and 9.04 detect my sound card as HDA ATI SB (Alsa Mixer) and in 9.10 it changed to HDA Intel.

ELP

Interesting. Are you using an Intel processor?

---

### Post by Cheetos BR on 2009-12-12
> **GraysonPeddie said:**
> Interesting. Are you using an Intel processor?

It's not possible, his mobo is AMD. ;)

--

Thanks for the answer, I need to configure my off-line notifications ^^

Well, the issue was partially solved using the code alsamixer on terminal, the central speaker is working now, but only as a 7.1 set and the lags are still happening. :(

---

