---
title: "./configure --prefix=YOUR_PREFIX"
date: 2008-12-13
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by ubustu616 on 2008-12-13
i am trying to configure ffado.

i am pretty new to ubuntu and do not know what this command means:

./configure --prefix=YOUR_PREFIX



do i replace the YOUR_PREFIX with something?

help

---

### Post by ubustu616 on 2008-12-13
sorry, here is what i am trying to do

  $ svn co svn://svn.linux1394.org/libraw1394/trunk libraw1394-svn
      $ cd libraw1394-svn
      $ autoreconf -f -i -s
      $ ./configure --prefix=YOUR_PREFIX
      $ make
      $ sudo make install

---

### Post by babarosa on 2008-12-13
Hi,

yes you have to replace it with the path where you want your installation to be done (for example "/usr/local").

Take a look at [http://subversion.ffado.org/](http://subversion.ffado.org/)

Join the ffado user list and post your questions there. The list members (including the programmers themselves) are very helpul.

Do you know that there is a repository where you can install ffado from without compiling it ([http://www.ffado.org/?q=release/apt)?](http://www.ffado.org/?q=release/apt)?)

Regards, Michael

P.S. I just saw that you posted in another thread problems with ffado --> join the ffado list!

---

### Post by ubustu616 on 2008-12-13
Hey, thanks for the advise babarosa.

i have been using the FFADO Trac site and it is helpful. 

The link that you posted for FFADO compiling could not be found unless you are talking about the libffado-2.0-rc1.tar.gz download.

im thinking of just reinstalling it all under ubuntu studio 8.10. will this fix it?

helpp

---

### Post by ubustu616 on 2008-12-13
okay, i found your link... but it only for gusty/hardy distributions with i386 and i have an AMD64. shoot

---

### Post by babarosa on 2008-12-14
Okay, you didn't tell us which system you have ;-)
I use the 32bit-version of 8.04.1 on my machine which is at this time the best system for audio because there is no proper working rt-kernel for 8.10 (if in the meantime changes took place please let me know!)

Possibilities now:
1.) Try the repository for the 32bit version (the practical performance difference between 32 and 64bit-software is minimal anyway, hard disk speed is more prominent) if it works. You can de-install it if it fails. Probably you won't be lucky if you run version 8.10 (2 weeks ago I wasn't able to run the repositories version on Xubuntu 8.10). 

2.) Now join the mailing list, ask the guys if the self compiled version works for amd64. Additionally we will help you there through the compiling process.

Regards, Michael

---

