---
title: "8.10 oxygen8 v2 what applications to use"
date: 2009-03-05
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by evozero on 2009-03-05
Hi All,
I now have studio 8.10 installed and ran through the Seq24 introduction. All of it works fine once i got my head round JACK, made samples, linked apps and a created a song. I thought a keyboard could be used to play into Seq24 to speed up the process, So i borrowed my friends Oxygen8 v2 midi keyboard to see if i can play some bass lines etc. i have patched the Oxygen8 with JACK and can hear it and play along, but i was expecting to have the notes appear in Se24. Is it possible to do this? Should i use another application to play into with the Oxygen8. A bit lost what to use it for, any more tutorials out there for using midi keyboards on studio 8.10?
Many Thanks 
Ian

---

### Post by kayosiii on 2009-03-06
The app you want to install is patchage... This will let you connect midi apps to each other and hardware also audio for jack aware apps.
You will probably just need to wire the output of the Hardware device (keyboard) into the input of seq24. Midi connections are colour coded green.

---

### Post by evozero on 2009-03-06
Hi All,
Thanks for the reply, did try the suggestion, i can get the midi controller playing sound into Hydrogen,Qsynth, Seq24 and Zynaddsubfx no problem.
I was expecting to be able to add sequences and bass lines simply by playing the keys instead of using the mouse, is this possible?
Otherwise i am not sure what to use the Oxtgen8 for?
Cheers
Ian

---

### Post by evozero on 2010-01-14
Hi All,
I have just installed Ubuntu studio 9.10. My Maudio 2496 & oxygen are recognized, but; 
I still would like to know hot to configure this keyboard's advanced controls (the knobs and play controls).
How do i do this, and what applications can make use of these functions?
I read Ardour can use automation with this device, but i cant find a howto?
Thanks
Ian

---

