---
title: "Audigy 2 ZS front midi ports - do they work?"
date: 2009-01-23
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by Hooya on 2009-01-23
I have the Ubuntustudio-audio package installed.  I have a Sound Blaster Audigy 2 ZS, with the daughterboard installed on the front panel.  I know the headphone output on that daughterboard works as expected.  There are also two midi ports (In/Out) on the panel.

I'm trying to figure out if those ports are being seen by my system.  I want to be able to send and receive MIDI messages through those ports to external devices.  In Jack I see the following ports that seem relevent in the Writable Clients / Input Ports section:
Midi Through Port - 0
Audigy MPU-401 (UART)
Audigy MPU-401 #2

I also see those three ports in the Readable Clients / Output ports section.

If I understand correctly none of those are actually my MIDI ports, correct?  If they are, which one is the IN and which one is the OUT?  If I can get this much information I'll at least know to further troubleshoot my software settings.

Under the MIDI tab in Jack I see 4 midi_captures and 12 midi_playback ports but nothing else.

The two things I'm trying to ultimately accomplish are these:
1. Plug in a MIDI controller (keyboard) to my computer and have the sounds generated by qsynth

2. Plug an external MIDI device set to receive MIDI pitch wheel signals to the MIDI out port.
     EDIT: Solved this problem.  Turns out the device to receive signals was not set correctly, and the 401 #2 port is the one that I wanted to connect to my program to. (Seq24 is the only one I've found so far that can send pitch wheel signals, if anyone has suggestions on something more sophisticated and precise I'd love to hear it!)

Anyone know what is up?

---

