---
title: "8.10 non-newbie &quot;no video&quot; thread"
date: 2009-02-07
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by falkaholic on 2009-02-07
Hi,

I have NOT just  installed Ubuntu, and I've had video working many times.


I have a 8.10 install that won't play almost any video. I play around alot so I'm not too sure what broke my video.


Symptoms:

-vlc won't play anything but sound for every video format I've tried so far, it will give an error:

"No suitable decoder module:
VLC does not support the audio or video format "[CODEC]". Unfortunately there is no way for you to fix this."


-# gst-inspect-0.10 

(gst-inspect-0.10:12678): GStreamer-WARNING **: Failed to load plugin '/usr/lib/gstreamer-0.10/libgstffmpeg.so': /usr/lib/i686/cmov/libavcodec.so.51: undefined symbol: ff_gcd

[lists off 400 or so other items with no errors]

cannot find anything about this error, al I know if ff_gcd is a procedure.

-Kaffeine just opens and does a search and says the codec is already installed but never plays.

-mplayer DOES work, never really used to before, but I assume its works as it should.

-Movie Player either asks to look for the codec (and never finds it) or has a generic error.

-Flash video also doesnt play but has sound.

What I've tried:

-Removing all repositories except basic, uninstalling every video related package, and reinstalling them. No change.

-Pouring hours into it.

-Can't find anything on the interwebs about this, only slightly similar but not relevant fixes.

-Turning off Compiz

It kinda scary when VLC doesn't work. That program will play anything. 


Any ideas on how to fix this? Short of re-installing, I'm not sure what will fix this? I have a feeling if i purge some package, I might be able to clear this one.

---

