---
title: "11.04 not recovering after laptop closed (ASUS N53S)"
date: 2011-09-28
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by derhoggz on 2011-09-28
I installed Studio 11.04 after I was having some problems with the regular release getting some audio packages working.  Anyways, after I close my laptop while still running, I open it and just get a black screen.  Now matter how long I wait or haw many keys I mash the screen unlock dialog will not come up.  I don't recall having this problem with the regular distro.  If I don't close the laptop it is fine and always comes up with the screen unlock dialog.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2011-09-28
There are two log files that keep messages from suspend/hibernate:
- pm-powersave.log
- pm-suspend.log

Could you take a look into these and see if there are any problems reported?

Additionally, it could help if you post your hardware specs.

---

### Post by derhoggz on 2011-09-28
What should I be looking for in the log files?

Hardware:
Intel Core i7 2720QM
NVIDIA GeForce GT 540M
-I am using ironhide to switch between integrated and discrete graphics
4 GB RAM

Any other relevant specs?  Now that I'm thinking about it I didn't use ironhide on the previous install, but looking around I see no mention of trouble.

---

### Post by Toz on 2011-09-28
Also have a look at the **Supend and Hibernate** section here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Asus_N53]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Asus_N53")

---

### Post by ElighCS on 2011-10-04
I'm having the same problem with 11.04 (not the media edition) I was also having the same problem on my old Toshiba Satellite L300D. I don't think it ever enters sleep properly, when I tried it on a different piece of hardware it worked, but tried to enter sleep twice and threw an error on resume. I could just dismiss the error though.

---

### Post by ElighCS on 2011-10-04
Nevermind, that page you linked is awesome.

---

### Post by derhoggz on 2011-10-04
Oh wow, I had done everything else on that page but ignored the part on hibernation since it wasn't a problem on the original install.

Thanks.

---

