---
title: "Jacked Up"
date: 2010-05-23
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by desertskymc on 2010-05-23
Hi I recently upgraded, my lenovo laptop running ubuntu studio 9.04 via WUBI
to 10.04, while the overall functionality of the system is improved i have a problem launching Jack , i get the following error messages:

JACK is running in realtime mode, but you are not allowed to use realtime scheduling.
Please check your /etc/security/limits.conf for the following lines
and correct/add them:
  @audio          -       rtprio          100
  @audio          -       nice            -10
After applying these changes, please re-login in order for them to take effect.
You don't appear to have a sane system configuration. It is very likely that you
encounter xruns. Please apply all the above mentioned changes and start jack again!
07:31:34.873 JACK was started with PID=8730.
07:31:34.883 JACK was stopped with exit status=255.
07:31:34.883 Post-shutdown script...
07:31:34.884 killall jackd
jackd: no process found
07:31:35.293 Post-shutdown script terminated with exit status=256.
07:31:36.988 Could not connect to JACK server as client. - Overall operation failed. - Unable to connect to server. Please check the messages window for more info.

i read on the ubuntu studio site that in 10.04 there were changes regarding  /etc/security/limits.conf 
being really puzzled by Jack as a whole, (i checked audio on in the user permissions) can someone walk me through fixing this problem so jack is  no longer Jacked up! thanks :guitar:

---

### Post by sgx on 2010-05-23
Hi, in the release notes for Studio 10.04:

Beginning with the Ubuntu package jack-audio-connection-kit-0.118+svn3796-1ubuntu2 editing of /etc/security/limits.conf should not be required. JACK will write the following during post-installation to /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf 

# generated by jackd's postinst. 
# Do not edit this file by hand, use 
# dpkg-reconfigure -p high jack 
# instead 
@audio - rtprio 99 
@audio - memlock unlimited 
#@audio - nice -19 

Please note that creating or modifying /etc/security/limits.conf may cause conflicts with the JACK written /etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf settings.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Based on this, perhaps comment out the traditional lines most of us
used in the past, and reinstall jackd/qjackctl using synaptic, or perhaps a newer version is in a PPA repository. See a PPA topic:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1350304](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1350304)

Some of the long-running threads also hold valuable asides, and make for
good reading :)
Cheers

---

### Post by desertskymc on 2010-05-24
Hi sgx thanks for your response to my posting, I tried re installation of Jackd  and qjackctl from Synaptic , the same start up message error occurs,

i got the same impression from reading 10.04 release notes, that editing of /etc/security/limits.conf is not required, i havnt found any updated source of jack other than in synaptic, i did add a ppa repository from your link, thanks for that, does look interesting, but i am still not able to run Jack.
i am wondering if my sequence of installs, has something to do with it ie:
wubi/ 9.04...ubuntustudio via synaptic....9.10 upgrade to 10.04 upgrade via update manager? i had a few 'partial installation' messages the ugrades to 10.04 havnt gone smoothly on any of my  ubuntu installed  computers, but this laptop is  the only one incapable of launching Jack although everything else with the exception of my kodak camera and a scanner works better than 9.04 and the system is intact i believe.
should i try and reinstall ubuntu studio? i dont know if thats even possible from synaptic:confused:

---

### Post by sgx on 2010-05-25
this basic commandline usually works to start jackd

jackd -d alsa -r 44100

the commands

lspci   and

lsmod

will list your hardware, and loaded kernel modules. Comparing
them reveals if the modules needed by your hardware are loaded.
If you paste it here, someone will be able to point out changes
if needed

Cheers

---

