---
title: "10.04  no audio"
date: 2011-11-14
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by stg on 2011-11-14
I am going to try to be positive here.

been running the audio server here on 9.04 for a couple years, runs great, stopped getting updates months ago.

I figured I should move up to the 10.04 LTS to have updates and such and it has been a huge frustrating fail.  I rebuilt the 9.04 drive a few times and never had any real trouble, just poked around a bit and everything worked.  I can not get any audio out of this release.  My customary player is Banshee, I installed it and imported the media drive, it shows the media in its pane...but will not play it, click on a track and you get a red x.  The volume slider is inoperable, always muted and immune to clicking. 

audacious imports the library and actually plays and shows levels in its interface, but my output, envy24 control, gets no levels and I have no output to the meatspace amp.

This thing is supposed to be the multimedia build right?  wtf?  I never had any of this with 9.04.  What good is a "studio" OS that will not play audio?  Sorry, getting negative, anybody want to point me to a few more hours of trying to make the thing work?

---

### Post by sgx on 2011-11-16
perhaps pulseaudio has been introduced in the newer system, and needs to be uninstalled.

ps ux

will show running processes, if something with pulse in the name
is running, try using synaptic to remove it.

lsmod

use this command to list the kernel modules, snd_ice1712 should
be there to use an maudio pci card, which use envy24control as
a mixer. use

modprobe snd_ice1712  if it is not in the lsmod output.

Use alsamixergui to verify available audio ports.

In some cases, blacklisting a motherboard soundchip helps.
Find its kernel module using lsmod, and create a text file called
blacklist in /etc/modprobe.d My blacklist file contains only

blacklist snd_intel8x0  the motherboard soundchip.

Cheers

---

### Post by stg on 2011-11-21
Thank You!!

removal of puseaudio did the trick

Just for my education, what is the issue; incompatibility of pulseaudio with the MAudio hardware?

---

### Post by sgx on 2011-11-22
I believe Pulse is developed more for home theatre settings,
to overcome various kludges that people needed over the years,
and since high quality A/V entertainment is a more popular use of ubuntu than producing audio, it is allowed to control the
sound system, rather than waiting to be started. There has been
an effort to integrate Pulse and jackd, but for some users, its just an obnoxious trinket. To others, it is a valuable tool to
maximise their audiophile and internet gear. All the driver
and soundcard compatibility issues are still in the alsa folder.
:popcorn:

---

### Post by stg on 2011-11-23
Thank you for the explanation.

I will mark the thread solved with a couple observations for anyone with the same problem.

Be careful uninstalling *pulse* with synaptic.  If you uninstall too much you will break your system.  I tried uninstalling everything with pulse in the name and I would no longer boot to a desktop but to a white quarter screen command line that itself would not start gnome manually.  I do not remember the exact package that you do need to uninstall, but it has a number of dependencies.

You will still need the MP3 codecs, in older versions you were prompted if you wanted these at install but no longer.  The easiest way I found was to navigate to an MP3 on your drive and attempt to launch it.  It will launch "movie player" which will prompt you to install the missing codecs.

You will need to reboot before the audio will work.

It is a shame, 9.04 worked great out of the box, I do not understand why the devs did what they did but I'm sure they had their reasons.  This was a real pain to configure.

---

### Post by jejeman on 2011-11-23
Before uninstalling pulseaudio one should first try just to turn it off, and see if that solves the problem. A much easier thing to do.

---

### Post by stg on 2011-11-23
uhh, ok, how do you do that?

---

### Post by jejeman on 2011-11-23
I've already said that on forum, but here it is again

By adding in ~/.pulse/client.conf line:

autospawn=no

Pulseaudio can be killed. And stay dead. Even after reboot.
```
pulseaudio --kill
```

---

