---
title: "Fontforge Lookup Tables"
date: 2010-01-03
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by redyoshi49q on 2010-01-03
I am having trouble with the GPOS and GSUB lookup tables in Fontforge.  I have gotten chaining contextual substitutions and class based kerning to work perfectly inside of Fontforge (for example, text typed into a metrics window produces perfectly rendered font).  However, when an external program (such as OpenOffice, Firefox, or Gimp) uses the font file generated by Fontforge, none of the substitution or kerning information is used in the application, which causes the font to render incorrectly.

I filled the GPOS and GSUB tables following the guides on the Fontforge help pages, and the big yellow box on [http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/editexample6-5.html](http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/editexample6-5.html) seems to indicate that the stuff that I've done in my GSUB table might not work at all.  However, there doesn't seem to be any indication as to why the GPOS table shouldn't work.

I have tried opening the generated fonts in Fontforge, and the lookup tables still have the correct information in them.  This seems to indicate to me that the generated font has the information in the GPOS and GSUB tables (irrespective of whether that information is used or in a usable state).

Is there any setting in Fontforge that I might have missed that would cause the lookup tables to not work in applications?  Is there any process that I can go through to troubleshoot my font so I can figure out what's wrong?  Also, is there a program other than Fontforge that might be more likely to get the lookup tables to work?

Attached is a screenshot showing my font both in a Fontforge metrics window (the "good" render) and in OpenOffice (the render w/o substitutions and kerning).  It might do a better job at explaining what my problem is.

Thanks in advance for the help!

---

