---
title: "12.04 update failed/unable to clean install"
date: 2012-05-13
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by FunkyFlashFive on 2012-05-13
I've been running studio 11.10 for 5 months with some bugs, but mostly functional, and decided to upgrade to 12.04 when it released, but part way through the update there was a message about needing to close xscreensaver, and the screen locked up so I was unable to click on anything, and no shortcut keys worked. So I did a hard shutdown, and on the restart I get: 

```
init: mountall main process (422) terminated with status 1 mountall: /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6: version 'GLIBC_2.14' not found (required by /lib/libply.so.2) [    9.840784] init: plymouth-stop pre-start process (426) terminated with status 1
General error mounting filesystems. A maintenance shell will now be started. CONTROL-D will terminate this shell and reboot the system.
Give root password for maintenance
(or type Control-D to continue):

```

Any further keystrokes will result in a notice of login incorrect and another request for root password.

Starting in recovery mode has different problems, but is equally unhelpful, and so I burned a dvd of 12.04 to attempt to do a clean install, but it just stalls at a black screen with the curser in the upper right corner, no matter whether booting as a live dvd, or installing. 

My system is a core i7 on an asus mobo, with 16 gigs of ram, a 90 gig ocz ssd, 2 1TB seagate hdds, and an nvidia gtx560 gpu

---

### Post by jejeman on 2012-05-14
Try the nomodeset boot parametar when booting from dvd.

---

### Post by FunkyFlashFive on 2012-05-14
Thank you! This works, I'm in to the live dvd, hopefully i'll figure out how to reset permissions to be able transfer files out of my old home directory soon, and get 12.04 working!

---

### Post by jhsa on 2012-05-30
Hi, I'm new to ubuntu, so please be gentle.. Don't know if this is the right thread either but here it goes..
I've been using ubuntu studio 11.10 and want to leave windows for good but still got a few problems, specially with setting up bluetooth, but that's another story.
My question is, if I upgrade to ubuntu studio 12.04 will I lose all my installed applications and settings? and what's the best way to upgrade? through the update window that always pops up with all the updates and also ask if I want to upgrade?
Thanks in advance for your answers..

João

P.S. -  I'm still not very familiar with using the terminal commands.. windows trainning :P

---

