---
title: "14.04 upgrade or fresh install recommended"
date: 2014-04-26
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by kazakore on 2014-04-26
is it possible to upgrade through dist-upgrade or similar from 12.04 to 14.04 and if so is this route recommended? I'm guessing with changes in available packages maybe not... Not looking forwards to trying to remember and reinstall any additional programs and repositories I have added to the vanilla install but feel upgrading while I have half reasonable internet access (currently travelling in India so often don't) could be a good idea.

Or would people recommend waiting another month or two, until some further teething problems are ironed out?

Thanks for any replies and sorry for not doing more than a quick search before asking (again limited internet makes me lazy and go for the quickest and easiest way to me possible.)

---

### Post by kazakore on 2014-04-26
Maybe waiting for KXStudio to go to 14.04 would be a good idea as I also use their repositories... ;)

---

### Post by jejeman on 2014-04-26
I would never change/upgrade OS while on travel.

Upgrade is prone to more problems than clean install.

---

### Post by kazakore on 2014-04-26
I say travelling but it is open ended and I have no plans on going home. Hopefully be away 2 years minimum! Otherwise I would have said holiday ;)

---

### Post by su:bhatta on 2014-04-26
If you got a stable system thats works fine for you, no harm in waiting for the second point release maybe. 
That way as you say it will be more 'ironed out'.

Where you at in India right now? Cause I am at bangalore, in the south, maybe grab a coffee if you are here :)

---

### Post by kazakore on 2014-04-27
Auroville, on the edge of Pondycherry, so compared to the size of India not that far but still over 300km...

Been working on an organic farm here, where I will stay until next friday when I think I'll go and do two weeks at Sadhanna Forrest ( [http://sadhanaforest.org/](http://sadhanaforest.org/) ) before moving on (thinking a couple of weeks in Andaman Islands before heading vaguely northwards...) Here until a couple of bits of post arrive though ;)

---

