---
title: "11.04 question"
date: 2011-05-25
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by Snocrash on 2011-05-25
Hi All....

I was just wondering about the new release. Any big issues??

I am currently running Studio 10.04 for music recording and it is working very well. The issues seems to be with the system. I have not wiped the drives and done a clean installation since 8.04 or so. Just kept upgrading. Now the entire system seems to be getting a little flaky. Old libs, custom 2.6.33-rt29 kernel and Nvidia drivers, etc. So I figure it may be time to wipe it. Just wondering if I should upgrade to current or just install 10.04 again????

Thanks for info you can give.....

Rock on!!! :guitar:

-Sno

---

### Post by jejeman on 2011-05-25
I don't know what do you do, but for me 10.04 works better. I'm talking about all latency, xrun stuff. The rest is just the same-fine.
I have both installed, but I'm sticking with 10.04.

---

### Post by Snocrash on 2011-05-25
> **jejeman said:**
> I don't know what do you do, but for me 10.04 works better. I'm talking about all latency, xrun stuff. The rest is just the same-fine.
I have both installed, but I'm sticking with 10.04.

Kewl.... Thanks for the info... I was afraid of something like that. 10.04 dose work extreemly well.

Any other opinions out there??

Thanks...


-sno

---

### Post by Pablo_F on 2011-05-26
I stick to what works for me and this is lucid at this time. However, I am testing natty as well in another partition. 

There is not an rt patched kernel in natty. it is 2.6.38 generic. Alessio has the low latency version in his PPA. 

2.6.33 is the last kernel with the PREEMP_RT patch attotw.

I am waiting for >= 2.6.39 which does IRQ threading without rt patchs. So we will be able to use rtirq on a generic kernel for the first time. 
Also our beloved PPA'ers don't support natty as well as lucid just yet.

If your computer is laggy sometimes, check with htop. In my case, the ubuntuone daemon was very resource hungry. BTW, I miss a better ubuntuone integration in lucid. In natty U1 is a breeze, I love it.

Cheers, Pablo

---

