---
title: "16.04 niggles (mixer applet and qjackctl start minimsed)"
date: 2016-05-29
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by kazakore on 2016-05-29
Hi all. Just installed 16.04 yesterday and got most my configuration done to get it running as I like. This includes mapping volume keys to amixer, removing any autostarting of PA processes and having qjackctl start at boot, adding scripts so the PA sink actually work and more. So far there are a couple of minor points that I haven't managed to solve though.

1. xfce4-mixer applet has been removed. This is apparently due to it not being supported in the new XFCE4.12 as GStreamer is dropping the mixer support in GStreamer1.0 it relies on. Not GSteamer0.10 is still in the repositories so why isn't the xfce4-mixer applet? See this thread: [URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2322771"]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2322771
[/URL](EDIT: Installed manually from Trusty and appears to be working fine. See feel it should remain in the main repositories as long as GStreamer 0.10 is there as well!)

2. Where has the option gone to start qjackctl minimised? It used to be under Settings > Misc but is no longer there. Is there a commandline option to start minimised as I couldn't find mention of one in Help or Man pages.
(EDIT: Upgraded after adding the KXStudio repositories and the Start Minimised option is there, so maybe it has always only been in the version they have in their repos and not in the official Ubuntu one.)

3. Where has mp3gain gone? I use this very regularly! You have a GUI frontend for it available but not the actual backbone packages it relies on. (mp3gain or aacgain, although vorbisgain is there.) [http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=mp3gain](http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=mp3gain)

---

### Post by oscalypso on 2016-05-29
Hi 

a workaround for started jack minimized could be:
install **wmctrl**
run** wmctrl -c JACK Audio Connexion Kit**after jack startup

---

