---
title: "Load Times"
date: 2014-06-21
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by uudruid74 on 2014-06-21
I'm having a strange problem with X apps taking forever to load.  Even trivial things like simple text editors, zenity, etc, will take about 8 seconds to load (AMD64 machine, 1.6Ghz quad-core with 8GB of RAM).   This is purely a start-up issue.  Something is happening to delay the program's initial start-up.

Any takers on this?  I don't even know where to begin.  I run Ubuntu-Studio, normally with just Cairo-Dock and compiz and not full desktop.  So I'm wondering if something is looking for a particular service or something that isn't running and waiting to time-out?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-21
Check your hostname, /etc/hosts, /etc/resolv.conf and DNS settings.  X/Windows is a network-based protocol.  If you aren't certain, please post the results from those files PLUS the output of "route".

---

### Post by uudruid74 on 2014-06-21
> **TheFu said:**
> Check your hostname, /etc/hosts, /etc/resolv.conf and DNS settings.  X/Windows is a network-based protocol.  If you aren't certain, please post the results from those files PLUS the output of "route".

This is all automatically configured by the Ubuntu wireless tools, and looks OK.  The only questionable entry is the search line in resolv.conf.  Belkin is the local router and I guess it's caching DNS entries, but I don't see a hosts entry for it and the system doesn't know its IP.  I don't know the best way to "tag" this info, so I guess I'll use Quote?

[QUOTE=hostname]Taro[/QUOTE]

[QUOTE=cat /etc/hosts]127.0.0.1    localhost
127.0.1.1    Taro

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
[/QUOTE]

[QUOTE=cat /etc/resolv.conf]# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
search Belkin
[/QUOTE]

[QUOTE=route][FONT=courier new]Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
default         router.belkin   0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 wlan0
192.168.2.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     9      0        0 wlan0[/FONT]
[/QUOTE]

I think this could be related to my other problems - I get little system "hiccups" that act like its swapping (its not, and I have tons of RAM) - some sort of odd latency and X thinks the program isn't responding.   This can often end up with a 15 second to minute-long episode (like the system is having a seisure!) where all X programs (only X related, so this seems related, but includes dbus, ibus, applets, etc ... against network related?) use as much cpu as they can.  System load climbed past 11 last time!

Ideas?

Please disregard!  Fixed it - and it looks like the two issues were related.  I had over 1300 fonts installed.  Killed those and things load REALLY fast now!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-21
Why so many fonts?
Also ... might want to test PDF readers to be certain they still work acceptably for your needs.

---

