---
title: "No output with Delta 44"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2009-11-06
I've recently bought an M-Audio Delta 44 for some music production, but I am getting no output recognized. I'm using studio 9.10 64bit.
Under Pulse audio device chooser, I can only get a dummy load as an output, but input displays the card. The configuration profile in pulse only shows 2 options for stereo input or surround input.
I've tried installing the official M audio driver from OSS, but this resulted in the system not even recognizing the card. 
I have envy24control but it doesn't make much sense to me. aplay -l shows that it is installed ok. I have been through the comprehensive sound guide [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449&highlight=soundcard").
What should I try next?
Thanks in advance
Chris

---

### Post by sgx on 2009-11-06
Turn off any motherboard sound chip in your bios.

Start jackd with this command:

jackd -d alsa -r 44100

Then start qjackctl with this command:

qjackctl

You now should have an active jackd audio system, with a gui
patchbay.

Start zynaddsubfx synthesizer with:

zynaddsubfx 

In the qjackctl gui, press the connect button (lower left)
and in the audio tab, connect zynaddsubfx to system, and in the
alsa tab, connect the delta44 to whatever midi device you may have.
Zynaddsubfx has a vee kay button to display its virtual midi keyboard
to play this synth.

In envy24control, click the analog volume button (upper right) and
you can now control your delta44 volume.

Beyond this, pulse is a mess, it won't help with your delta44,
and may well interfere with future audio configurations.

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2009-11-06
Thanks for that, I can now have synths and hydrogen up and running with ardour. 
But as a follow up, why is it that I need to enter 
```
jackd -d alsa -r 44100
```
every time?
If I remove pulse completely would this step be eliminated? Is there any reason I need pulse if as you say it is a mess?
I would still like to be able to watch dvds and play music, are there any media players that can use jack seeing that VLC can't?

---

### Post by sgx on 2009-11-07
Hi, the jackd command is just the easy way to almost guarantee success. Now you can make the same settings or others you want or need in the qjackctl gui, and click its start button to start jackd. Take notes or screengrabs of changes, if it helps. There should be a text file called

.jackdrc in your /home/user folder, with the contents of the jackd command generated by starting it with qjackctl you can edit and refer to.

If everything works, its good luck not install or delete things without specific cause. When there are inexplicable errors that defy logic and search engines, then certain things become expendable. 

A little recorder app like timemachine is handy for quick recording, and
hydrogen sounds great with some of the rakarrack fx, but watch the volume,
as some rakarrack presets are very loud. Two GSCW drumkits for hydrogen can be found with google, quite large, but worth the download.

vlc, xine, xmms, and g-streamer have jack modules, not sure of specific ubuntu availability for those, you might check synaptic. 

Cheers

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2009-11-07
Those jack add ons all work great thanks, as does the GSCW1 drum kit.
But I don't seem to have a .jackdrc file anywhere in home (I checked the show hidden files tab).
If I try to open jack without the jackd command i get this output:

 p, li { white-space: pre-wrap; }  apparent rate = 44100
 creating alsa driver ... hw:0|hw:0|1024|2|44100|2|2|nomon|swmeter|-|32bit
 control device hw:0
 configuring for 44100Hz, period = 1024 frames (23.2 ms), buffer = 2 periods
 ALSA: final selected sample format for capture: 32bit integer little-endian
 ALSA: cannot set channel count to 2 for capture
 ALSA: cannot configure capture channel
 cannot load driver module alsa
 [COLOR=#999999]16:05:40.477 JACK was stopped successfully.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]16:05:40.477 Post-shutdown script...[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#990099]16:05:40.478 killall jackd[/COLOR]
 jackd: no process found
 [COLOR=#999999]16:05:40.887 Post-shutdown script terminated with exit status=256.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#FF0000]16:05:42.254 Could not connect to JACK server as client. - Overall operation failed. - Unable to connect to server. Please check the messages window for more info.[/COLOR]

As far as I can see, the settings are just the same.

---

### Post by sgx on 2009-11-07
Hi, the .jackdrc file should get created by qjackctl when you start jackd by pressing the qjackctl start button. I just remamed mine, scrolled my filemanager to the .files in /home/user, and watched the new .jackdrc appear when I clicked the start button. The file should reflect the settings you choose in the qjackctl gui.
Cheers

---

### Post by Justin Case on 2010-01-10
Nothing seems to be working.  I am using Ubuntu Studio 9.10 with an M-Audio Delta 44 sound card. Jack is actually working fine right out of the box...
But no sound output from the card. System/preference/sound   under Hardware tab shows ICE1712 {Envy24} PCI Multi-Channel I/O Controller Digital Stereo {IEC958} and under the Input tab shows the same.  Under the Output it shows Dummy Output Stereo.

Yes my motherboard sound is disabled in the bios. 

I have also tried this fix to no avail:
ICE1712.pcm.front.0 {
********@args [ CARD ]
********@args.CARD {
****************type string
********}
********type route
********ttable.0.0 1
********ttable.1.1 1
********slave.pcm {
****************type hw
****************card $CARD
********}
********slave.format S32_LE
********slave.channels 10
}

I found the following solution, and I think it may be the answer, but its a little unclear to me just where to comment out, and add lines. I am not real fluent in programing to say the least.  My wife programs in Oracle and gave up.  If anyone could provide better clarification it would sure help.  Or if there is another solution to getting the output from the Delta card recognized that would be great too.

Thanks in advance.
Heres the solution I found, but again, its unclear to me when I open gedit//etc/pulse/default.pa.  just where to apply this:
     
   Automatic sound card detection isn't able to configure the
   Delta card correctly, the card seems to be a bit too exotic
   for that. So I'd say it's a HAL and/or PulseAudio problem.

   Since the configuration process succesfully manages to open
   the device - after much struggling - you probably can make
   it work with static device configuration. The thing that the
   configuration finally stumbles is that the channel map for
   the sink and source aren't valid. That's because there isn't
   a default channel map defined for 10 and 12 channels.

   So, what you'll have to do is edit /etc/pulse/default.pa.
   Comment out module-hal-detect and module-detect, and then
   add these lines (if you don't need the sources, leave them
   out):

   # Load the on-board device: 
   load-module module-alsa-sink sink_name=intel-hda_out device=hw:0
   load-module module-alsa-source source_name=intel-hda_in device=hw:0

   # Load Delta 44:
   load-module module-alsa-sink sink_name=delta_out device=hw:1       channels=10 channel_map=left,right,aux0,aux1,aux2,aux3,aux4,aux5,aux6,aux7
   load-module module-alsa-source source_name=delta_in device=hw:1 channels=12 channel_map=left,right,aux0,aux1,aux2,aux3,aux4,aux5,aux6,aux7,aux8,aux9

# Set the default sink and source (not mandatory, intel-hda
# would probably be used without this):
set-default-sink
delta_out set-default-source delta_in


That configuration makes Delta a stereo device, in the sense
that if you play surround content, there will be sound only
in the first two channels. If you want a surround setup (or
want to have the stereo output on some other physical
connector(), edit the channel maps. Valid channel names are
listed in near the beginning of this page (under the "Device

---

### Post by sgx on 2010-01-11
does your ubuntu have alsactl or alsaconf in /sbin or
/usr/sbin? If so, if you are confident you can revert to your fix
if needed, run the command/script as root user,
and see if alsa configures your card properly.

Did you try with ubuntu studio 8.04? 
Cheers

---

### Post by Justin Case on 2010-01-11
No, there is no alsaconf or alsactl in /usr/sbin, and as expected the command isn't recognized. Alsaconf was actually the very first thing I tried. I actually did try 8.04, and got the card working, but Jack would not work no matter what I tried.  I even uninstalled Pulse in 8.04, and that didn't work. The last thing I did in 8.04 was rebuild alsa using 3 commands, and that worked, but I am kicking myself because I don't have a copy of what I did, and I cannot find it on the internet anywhere. What a total bug farm... I went back to 9.10 because I thought it might actually be easier to get the Delta card working than to get Jack working. 

Thanks
Justin

---

