---
title: "UBS 14.04 Color Bit Depth setting"
date: 2014-03-10
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by BlackMaxPhoto on 2014-03-10
HOW does one change the color bit depth in Ubuntu Studio 14.04?

:popcorn:
BC

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-03-10
What graphics hardware are you using, and do you already have an **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** file on your system?

What colour depth is the system using at the moment, what do you want it to use, and why do you think you need to change it?

If you are using a proprietary driver for your graphic card it is likely that there is an xorg.conf file already and it may be easy to add the required colour depth info to that.
If you use an open source driver there is probably no xorg.conf file, but it is easy to write one, and if it exists it is used by the system.

Let's see the output of ```
lspci
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` and we may be able to give you some clues where to go, if it's really necessary.

---

### Post by BlackMaxPhoto on 2014-03-10
lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. P4M266 Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8633 [Apollo Pro266 AGP]
00:10.0 USB controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80)
00:10.1 USB controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80)
00:10.2 USB controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80)
00:10.3 USB controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 82)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8235 ISA Bridge
00:11.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 50)
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 74)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: S3 Graphics Ltd. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
cat: /etc/X11/xorg.conf: No such file or directory

- the intent is to increase to at least 24bit, from what seems to be 8bit at present judging by the banding/pixelation seen on image files done on previous systems that didn't show banding before on those systems.

---

### Post by jejeman on 2014-03-10
Is it the same monitor?

---

### Post by jejeman on 2014-03-10
Well, I see you have S3 (VIA) graphic card - it is good that you have image at all.

---

### Post by BlackMaxPhoto on 2014-03-10
Though olddddddddddd, the hardware ran 16bit workflows via Photoshop CS3 under XP Pro in it's past life. 
... the banding issues were NOT seen in UBS 12.04 either ... (?)

The issue at hand is simply getting the display setting up, to be able to run 16bit RAW utilities for **2D STILL** imaging

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-03-10
Unfortunately the support for your graphic card is very poor for the newer version of xorg, so you may have problems getting any better display, but try the following:-

Use the ppa at [https://launchpad.net/~tormodvolden/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~tormodvolden/+archive/ppa) to install an updated version of the driver for that card to see if it helps.  All instructions to add the ppa are on that link.

or try making a new xorg.conf manually to see if that helps:-

Make a new file and save it as xorg.conf in your home.
Open the xorg.conf file in a text editor and enter the following text
```
Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```This shows the old resolutions I used in the past when I needed an xorg.conf file, so change those figures to your own requirements and save it.

Now copy the saved file you made to /etc/X11 with ```
sudo cp xorg.conf /etc/X11/
```
Logout and log in again to see if it works, but if it does not and, heaven forbid, you end up in a command line with no GUI, don't panic.  Login with your username and password (the password will not show on screen at all so just type and hit Enter) and then remove the new xorg.conf with ```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` and then try to get the GUI again with command **startx**.

Good luck.  I hope that helps you out, but as I said, I fear you may be unlucky.

---

### Post by BlackMaxPhoto on 2014-03-10
PERFECT
... problem solved

BTW ... old 32M video cards were DESIGNED to facilitate 16bit workflows at and beyond sVGA resolution, so all they need is software support.
All it took was the 'xorg.conf' configuration file to bring the graphics card to attention. Writing the config files was beyond MY ability, so THANX!

BC

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-03-10
I assume my xorg.conf worked, but what about the ppa?

It is very useful to know if it was a success, and also if you needed the ppa repository enabled or simply the xorg.conf file present.
Luckily I have a folder in my home where I have kept a copy of just abut every version of xorg.conf I have ever used, and it is amazing how useful it can be to have those memory aids occasionally both for myself and for queries like yours.

---

### Post by BlackMaxPhoto on 2014-03-11
As stated above, all that was needed was the config file to get the higher bit depth and a few more useful resolutions

... thanx again

BC

---

