---
title: ".25 kernel kills nVidia driver and/or sound"
date: 2010-09-29
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by fhaber on 2010-09-29
UStudio Lucid, newish install, newish user. Dell P4 1G. Chaintech AV710 sound, MB AC97 disabled in BIOS.

The Chaintech, driver and control panel work find in an alternate XP boot.  I haven't tried asio under Win yet, though.

I had no luck loading jackd, even after following the tips here.  Booting to the .31 realtime kernel changed nothing.  I'm using analog stereo out only for now, until I get more familiar with the multifarious nodes and mixers in Ubuntu. Both the Lucid audio control and Pulseaudio's showed the Chaintech and controlled the analog output properly, with or without amplifier. The Envy24 control is of course useless - it doesn't know this hardware.  I had sound 

..until today

Today's update killed my sound and threw a cannot load nVidia... msgbox. Following the prompts to write a new ?auto config and reboot gnome produced a boot with no sound.  I reinstalled alsa-base and one dependent, which restored sound, but now I can't reenable the nVidia driver, and am limited to 10x7 and no acceleration, which isn't a fatal, since I'm only interested in audio.

Video is the factory dogmeat MX440 card, I think 64MB.  I was getting some funnies with repeating text lines in windows and flashing on java-cum-frames websites. 

This is a test install, so do tell me if this video card is a known troublemaker.

---

### Post by fhaber on 2010-10-15
OK, bump, I guess.

I answered my own question. Jack 1 will run, for a while, with the regular .25 kernel and realtime NOT set.  Would you believe that nowhere in the first fifty google hits is there anyting but advice on how to set reserved mem, etc. for realtime?

Now, after the third clean install of US Lucid, audio has failed again after some "security" updates. Funny thing is, BOTH audio and accel nVidia video (such as it is) stayed functional after the latest install, DURING WHICH THE WHOLE KERNEL WAS UPGRADED TO .25?  What's up with this? Why do allegedly unrelated updates always kill sound and/or video? Do people here just reject all upgrades, forever?

While I had audio, Jack stayed up for ten minutes at a time, maybe, then crashed to silence (reboot cleared this).  I was doing most of my testing under pulseaudio.  Suddenly, nothing from the "clean" (good DACs) analog output on this card.  

It doesn't *feel* like a PCI bus problem.  XP on the same machine just soldiers on. Could someone give me some basic hints on how to repair alsa/pulse/etc. after a failure, so I can *evaluate* this distro at least, maybe, without losing all my hair?

These are questions, not just gripes. Anybody?

---

### Post by Pablo_F on 2010-10-15
Hi!

Could you run the alsa-info script and the realTimeConfigQuickScan script so we can try to help you?

For the first one you have to:

wget [http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh](http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh) -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh

The other one is for realtime configuration tweaking and you can find directions at linuxmusicians.com

Pleae don't post here the info. Upload it somewhere and give the URL (especially the alsa_info output which is rather big)

kernel security upgrades are important but sometimes a bit of a PITA. The linux kernel is the heart of ubuntu but you can always choose not to upgrade.

Anyway, take it easy and feel free to ask if you get stuck. Patience is a virtue.

Cheers! Pablo

---

### Post by fhaber on 2010-11-05
Finally got back to the machine with the problem. Dump link follows:

[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=b91fcf7a36978777f5abb1ee3ba569d17960a6d6](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=b91fcf7a36978777f5abb1ee3ba569d17960a6d6)

Thanks,

-frank

---

### Post by fhaber on 2010-11-06
Self-bump....

Clue: this may be a kernel/driver issue (I haven't tried xxbuntu-anything on this old box since v7, which wouldn't even run the live CD in runlevel 1 without a boot floppy with a couple of arcane parms thereon).

I got excited, nuked, and intalled Studio meerkat alternate.  Now nVidia is totally out of the picture, since 10.10 broke the 93 driver support. Running VESA in 12x10, I can get the audio to come up mostly, each boot, if I totally power off the machine (power strip or pull IEC plug) for a few seconds. You then get a little pop from the speakers when (after restoring power) you boot with the soft switch on the front of the box.

Note that in XP, the **driver seems to do this ??PCIbus reset/init** on load, since you get that pop again every time during a Windows boot.  In Ubuntu, you don't. 

So now who do I complain to (g).

More forthcoming, if this is not entirely replicable.

-frank

---

### Post by Pablo_F on 2010-11-07
Hi, 

I don't know if the problem is at driver level or at pulseaudio level. I would try to narrow down the problem by disabling pulseaudio. For this you have to avoid pulseaudio autospawning then kill it with "pulseaudio -k" . 

Then test the card with pure alsa. You have alsamixer, speaker-test... I have been googleing and there is something to help you. You also can ask in the alsa users mailing list.

Anyway, depending on your workflow pulseaudio might not be the best choice as an audio server. Try jack.

Cheers! Pablo

---

### Post by fhaber on 2010-11-14
Pablo,

Update: It's definitely the driver.  If I leave the power off for at least 15 seconds, I get the pop, the card inits as the BIOS enumerates, and sound works fine with Alsa, Pulse or Jack. 

I haven't tried the low-latency/RT stuff again, since I'm on Maverick, and may never do that.  I got the test nVidia-96 PPA to install, and, while GUI overhead is lower, I don't think I'd even trust this machine to do a 4-channel live record at 48/16. Some background task or other is bound to make the one CPU hiccup.

Where do you report driver stuff?  Launchpad? Debian's equivalent?  Finland?

---

### Post by Pablo_F on 2010-11-14
Launchpad and alsa-user mailing list, I think.

Regards, Pablo

---

