---
title: "9.10 breaks my jack USB audio when recording"
date: 2009-11-07
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by TKoorn on 2009-11-07
I am using a Yamaha uw500 usb soundcard to record.
In Jaunty it worked fine with jack and Ardour.

Now in Karmic I get the following:

jack starts and everything is fine. No xruns
Ardour connects everything still fine
Ardour playback.. all fine

I start recording ... nothing wrong for about ten seconds then the first xrun pops up after that the xruns seem to multiply exponentially. Ardour freezes and jack crashes.

I have tried a million settings but they all end up the same. I am afraid that it is something deeper than the settings in jack, but I have no idea what to do next.

---

### Post by TKoorn on 2009-11-07
It is not the USB, I tried it some more and the same thing happens with the internal soundcard.

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2009-11-08
Hello TKoorn, what are your current JACK/Qjackctl settings? And did you configure anything to optimize your system for audio production (realtime kernel, adjusting group permissions etc.)?

---

### Post by TKoorn on 2009-11-08
jackd -R -P89 -p128 -dalsa -dhw:0 -r44100 -p256 -n2 -i2 -o2

I have linux-rt running, I am in the audio group and I have changed limits.conf.

everything seems fine until I start to record.
The soundcards work fine when I use them with pulse.

I did notice a change from jaunty to karmic, I have fewer choices under input and output device. It used to give me a choice for hw:0 hw:0,0 hw:0,1 hw:0,2 hw:0,3 but now it just shows hw:0 hw:0,0 (and the same for hw:1)

the weird thing is that it seems to work fine for a bit and then the x runs start to pile up. It looks a bit like something is going out of sync.

---

### Post by TKoorn on 2009-11-08
Oh I just found out that this only happens in the sessions I started in Jaunty. I just started a new session (should have done that from the start, sorry about that) and I can record in that. So it could be a problem im moving sessions to the new version of Ardour.

---

### Post by TKoorn on 2009-11-08
Correction..

it does happen with a new session it just takes longer for it to occur :(

Apparently the older session that have more tracks and more effects and stuff cause jack to die sooner.

@AutoStatic BTW: I read your page on setting up the system and I followed all the instructions. The script that checks for RT/Low Latency settings says everything is okay.

---

### Post by AutoStatic on 2009-11-09
My USB card likes a sample rate of 48000 and 3 periods of playback latency most. AFAIK most USB cards like 3 periods most instead of 2, I don't know if your Yamaha card can handle a sample rate of 48000.

---

### Post by TKoorn on 2009-11-14
No the Yamaha doesn't do 48000, but I will try the 3 periods. I never tried that. Somehow I always try settings in powers of 2.

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by TKoorn on 2009-11-14
That seems to work.

Thank you very much

I now only have one weird thing but luckily it isn't a real problem.

If I [COLOR="Red"]pause[/COLOR] playback or record in Ardour I get a steady stream of xrun messages.
Everything is fine when I play or record.
Could that be some kind of sync thing going haywire?

Anyway it isn't a problem it only looks weird.

Thanks again

---

### Post by TKoorn on 2009-12-05
Apparently I had a denormal plugin in one of the tracks. Enabeling denormal use DC bias fixed it.
I don't know what it means but the xruns are gone so ...

---

### Post by RaumTrug on 2009-12-07
I'm bored so I explain a little what it's about, in case you care...

"denormals" are floating point numbers that don't really "fit" into the usual floating point scheme because they are very small. most processors support them, because they can give accuracy benefits in "no-brain"-coded formulas using floats/doubles, and one or another program might depend on that, but the cpu uses extra circuits to process them which are in most cases very, very slow compared to the normal fpu ones. expecially multiplications.

now imagine an iir filter (i.e. most filters/eqs will work this way) that calculates the audio data with recursion (it applies the last result in some formula to the next sample). now when the signal level is constant zero, the filter coefficients can drop lower and lower (for example multiplied with each other for each sample and then stored) until they become "denormals" and the alternative circuits get used: very high cpu load will be the cause, going on for a long time (one silly filter can sometimes be enough to max out a moderately fast cpu...) until one of the denormals drops below the smalles denormal number representable and finally becomes zero - then the high cpu load could magically disappear...

and most fx plugs run on when the program is paused. I guess inputs are muted then, and the plug is fed with a pure zero-stream (silence) during that time. when you record, the plugin is probably receiving some kind of noise (from mic or line) that keeps the number of denormal results small enough to be neglectable.

when sse came to the chips with 686, people included a "tweak" that, once activated, causes any floating point number result that is calculated or loaded and is denormal to be zero, effectively solvilg the cpu load problem with dsp stuff, and I guess that is what is being activated with the "denormal DC bias" option. so this won't work with cpu's that are from the pre sse era (then the plugin that causes such denormal recursion problems must detect & zero-out the denormals "manually" itself in the right place, or use a constant dc offset that is not zero and compensate before feeding the stream back). but who is still using 586 machines for music dsp nowadays?

---

