---
title: "32 vs 64 bit"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by wbm on 2011-10-18
Hello, I am confused about this 32 vs 64 bit install.I want a 64 bit system as I have 8 Gigs of Ram. Which of the following two installs should I choose? I have an Intel 2500K processor which of course can handle 64bit. The first option says Intel, the second says 64 bit, but then also says AMD. So is the first option both 32 and 64 bit? If yes, how or at what point do I choose if I want to install 32 or 64 bit?
Or, if it is the second one, will it work with my Intel 2500K?
Thanks!

[PC (Intel x86) alternate install DVD]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/11.04/release/ubuntustudio-11.04-alternate-i386.iso")  For almost all PCs. This includes most machines with Intel/AMD/etc type processors and almost all computers that run Microsoft Windows, as well as newer Apple Macintosh systems based on Intel processors. Choose this if you are at all unsure.[64-bit PC (AMD64) alternate install DVD]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/ubuntustudio/releases/11.04/release/ubuntustudio-11.04-alternate-amd64.iso")  Choose this to take full advantage of computers based on the AMD64 or EM64T architecture (e.g., Athlon64, Opteron, EM64T Xeon, Core 2). If you have a non-64-bit processor made by AMD, or if you need full support for 32-bit code, use the Intel x86 images instead.

---

### Post by dave01945 on 2011-10-18
amd64 is the 64bit version and will work on intel and amd processors i believe it is called amd64 as amd was the company that developed it. it is also called x86-64

---

### Post by wbm on 2011-10-18
Thank you!

---

### Post by nullakilla on 2011-10-24
> **wbm said:**
> .I want a 64 bit system as I have 8 Gigs of Ram. Which of the following two installs should I choose? 

You don't have to mess with 64 bits only if you want to have more than 3.2/2.5GiB or RAM in your system.

For high memory support in 32-bit systems you only have to install kernel with PAE support:

```

sudo apt-get install linux-image-generic-pae

```PAE --- Physical Address Extension. Which allows you to have up to 64 GiBs of RAM with 32 bit processor.

---

### Post by Supergoo on 2011-10-25
Go with the 64 Bit.... According to the Tech sheet its a i%, use the 64bit can not go wrong with that choice

---

### Post by Totalchaos on 2011-10-25
> **Supergoo said:**
> Go with the 64 Bit.... According to the Tech sheet its a i%, use the 64bit can not go wrong with that choice

It is very hardware specific actually. The fact that one machine supports 64bit, does not necessarily means  that it's  properly optimised  to handle  the ones and zeros  in 64bit mode. It's a long and boring topic of computer architectures and there are many paperworks written on this subject. My advise is NOT to trust that 64bit is better for your machines by default (unless there is a manual of something, that is recommending it). But you can do an easy benchmark test by counting jack server's xruns on both architectures on minimal latency.

---

### Post by satanselbow on 2011-10-25
availability of 64bit **application software** might be a better guide in the case of Studio.

---

### Post by wbm on 2011-10-29
So I am 3 days away from getting my new computer.
What should I install?
Ubuntu 11.10 with KX Studio
Ubuntu Studio 11.10 (is that even final?)
Dream Studio 11.04

32 or 64 bit?

I want to do audio recording. With that in mind I assume I need a low latency kernel. As far as I can tell, so far none is available for any 11.10 release.

Any advice is appreciated.

Thanks!

---

### Post by jejeman on 2011-10-30
I have no troubles with Ubuntustudio 10.04 64bit default kernel.

---

### Post by wbm on 2011-10-30
> **jejeman said:**
> I have no troubles with Ubuntustudio 10.04 64bit default kernel.

What are you doing with it? Ardour and audio recording? No RT or low latency kernel?

---

### Post by jejeman on 2011-10-30
> **wbm said:**
> What are you doing with it? Ardour and audio recording? No RT or low latency kernel?I do everything, including makeing music.
The default kernel is preempt kernel. And it's working fine.
[Here]("http://soundcloud.com/dzoni-promis/scream-in-doubt") you can hear the EP I've made so far.
Now, I'm working on more "conventional" EP (guitar, drums, bass, synth...) and it's working fine with both HDA and edirol fa-66 soundcards. Of course performance is much better with edirol card.

Since you are buying new hardware, maybe you should go for newer version of UbuntuStudio. I'm using old hardware.

---

