---
title: "Ubuntu Studio + Wine + Ableton Live + Delta 1010LT almost working"
date: 2008-09-18
forum: Ubuntu Studio
---

### Post by jstorer on 2008-09-18
Hi, I have Ubuntu Studio Hardy, Wine 1.1.4, Ableton Live Suite and an M-Audio Delta 1010LT.  Audio generated by Live is sent to the speakers, but there are a couple issues I'd like to improve upon.  When first playing audio, periodically, roughly every 2 seconds or so, there was a moment of silence, which seems to be tied to output buffer size.  After playing around with the output buffer size, I found that 6500+ samples provides the shortest amount of this periodic silence.  But now I notice that there is a periodic click.  I then tried to set up Jack, hoping that this would fix this issue, but when I start it and open Live, an error is displayed stating that no device is found.  Also, I'd like to get the output buffer size down in order to reduce the latency.  So, I'm hoping someone can provide some advice, as I'd love to not have to go back to Windows!  Any ideas?

Thanks!!

Jason

---

### Post by eric71 on 2008-09-19
The RT kernel, "audio" group and limits configuration should all be set up properly if you are using Ubuntustudio. So you are off to a good start.

Have you tried wineasio? It allows asio compliant windows programs running under wine to access jackd with low latency.

I used alien (can be installed with Synaptic) to convert the latest Jacklab rpm for wineasio to a .deb. Works fine. You can get the rpm here:

[http://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/linux/misc/jacklab/openSUSE-10.3/RPMS/i586/](http://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/linux/misc/jacklab/openSUSE-10.3/RPMS/i586/)

You then open a terminal and type "alien wineasio-0.7.4-5.1.i586.rpm" You will then have a deb you can install. Also, after installing the deb, open a terminal and type "regsrv32 wineasio.dll"
This will make the wineasio driver visible to programs running under Wine. Open up wine's configuration and set the audio driver to use alsa (not jack - seems strange, but that's how it works).

I've never used Ableton, but it probably has a setting where you can make sure it is using ASIO. Now with Jack running you should be able to get sound and at much lower latency.

I can't guarantee this will work, but if you are getting close without wineasio, it will probably put you over the hump. It works great with Reaper.

---

### Post by jstorer on 2008-09-19
That worked!  My latency dropped to 1/30th (like 3%) of what it was without the asio driver installed.  Thank you so much!

A couple corrections just to possibly make it easier for other people:
1) Download [http://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/linux/misc/ja...0.3/RPMS/i586/wineasio-0.7.4-5.1.i586.rpm](http://ftp.gwdg.de/pub/linux/misc/ja...0.3/RPMS/i586/wineasio-0.7.4-5.1.i586.rpm)
2) Install alien: sudo apt-get install alien
3) Convert to a .deb: sudo alien wineasio-0.7.4-5.1.i586.rpm
4) Install the .deb: sudo dpkg -i wineasio_0.7.4-6.1_i386.deb
5) Register the .dll: regsvr32 wineasio.dll
6) In Wine's configuration, set the audio driver to ALSA
7) In Jack's setup, you may need to increase the frames/period if you get some static (I used 256)

---

### Post by jstorer on 2008-09-19
Okay, after playing around a little more, I realized that I have another issue that really should be resolved:

Randomly (could be anywhere between a second and a minute) there are points where it seems as though the same sample (a 1000th of a second or so of sound) is played repeatedly for a random-lengthed fraction of a second.

Increasing the sample size (set in Jack setup) from 64, I found that there was noticeable improvement at 128, but negligible improvement beyond 128 or 256.

Any ideas?

Thanks,
Jason

---

### Post by jstorer on 2008-09-22
Hi, I'm still trying to figure this out.  Does anyone have an idea as to what could be going wrong, or know if this is an issue that is unable to be resolved?

Thanks,
Jason

---

### Post by dasacc22 on 2008-10-09
Hey,

Im trying to work the same thing out right now. Im on a 64bit system and downloaded a deb package from somewhere containing an older version of wineasio for 64bit.

I thought maybe it was related to being an older package with unresolved issues but if your using a newer release, I dunno.

Ive goofed with all sorts of settings with it getting better or worse, but haven't figured anything that works 90%. Yeah id settle for 90%.

Keep in touch with this thread as its about the only one ive found dealing with the issue. I wish i knew somewhere to open up a bug report but i think it might be related to wineasio and i dunno where to go for that specifically.

Ill post updates i have here.

Just to note, my soundcard is an Edirol UA25 usb sound card.

---

### Post by nunrgguy on 2009-09-17
Trying to get 8.0.4 (same result for .03) working here on 9.04 with Wine 1.129 but the program does not work. To get to install required C++ runtime libraries for vcredist_x86. Have you had any more luck?

live seems to install but then crashes out when run while creating a new set with a serious program error.

There's a known bug with mp3's for which you'll need to install an old itunes (v 6 or thereabouts), uninstall Quicktime and then install quicktimealt

---

### Post by IB1Dance on 2009-11-03
Hope someone can give me a few tips.

I've installed Ableton live 7.0.3 & would like to know if their are any solutions to getting this program up and running on Linux Ubuntu, running wine 1.1.32.

I have set-up my  audio settings in wine to jack and only jack.

I've read that in ableton I should set the audio to jack input 0 and output 1.
But their is no 'jack output' Also in jack 'connections' nothings has 
been recognised.

Also Ableton loads up in a small screen.Anyway to get it running in full screen?.

Anyone got this program running well enough to use? on the wine website Ableton version 7.0.3 is reported as platinum!?.

---

