---
title: "ATI x1250?"
date: 2009-11-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by avianrr on 2009-11-28
Ok, so I decided to try switching to Linux again since my last couple attempts lead me to compatibility problems I couldn't overcome.  I've solved all the software related problems by using open source applications whenever possible so now I have the same applications available in Linux.  However I'm now hitting the only thing I see as a major inhibitor to Linux... Hardware.  I've gotten everything working with almost no effort except my graphics.
I have a Toshiba L355D-S7825 laptop with AMD Turion X2-62 processor and ATI Mobility Radion X1250 graphics.  When I first installed Ubuntu the display drivers worked fine for 2D but I had no 3D support.  In trying to get the 3D to work something has gotten fouled up so now I don't even have proper 2D support.  At the very least I'd like to get the 2d working agian.... I'll reinstall if I have to but would prefer not.  If anyone has any suggestions I'd appreciate it as my desktop happens to have the an integrated x1250 graphics as well.  And I have to use that as it'll be several months at least till I can replace the nv 9800 GT that melted.

Ubuntu
Release 9.10 (karmic)
kernel Linux 2.6.31-15-generic
GNOME 2.28.1
Hardware
Memory:  2.8 GiB
Processor 0: AMD Turion(tm) 64 X2 Mobile Technology TL-60
Processor 1: AMD Turion(tm) 64 X2 Mobile Technology TL-60

---

### Post by carrollguthrie on 2009-11-28
I had many issues with my ATI video until I installed the ATI Linux drivers.
 
go to the ATI website and download the linux drivers for your chipset..
 
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.5.3.1&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.5.3.1&lang=English)
 
they are very easy to install, reboot and viola.  This solved my issues with ATI.  
 
Good luck..
 
Carroll

---

### Post by avianrr on 2009-11-28
Well, that killed my system... all I get when I boot is a blank screen (not even the backlight comes on)  tryed to uninstall them from the command prompt.  The only way I could get to the command prompt was to boot into recovery mode.  No luck... I'm now reinstalling the system as I see no other option to recover now.
 
anyone else have any ideas?

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2009-11-29
> **carrollguthrie said:**
> I had many issues with my ATI video until I installed the ATI Linux drivers.
 
go to the ATI website and download the linux drivers for your chipset..
 
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.5.3.1&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.5.3.1&lang=English)
 
they are very easy to install, reboot and viola.  This solved my issues with ATI.  
 
Good luck..
 
Carroll

ATI dropped support for that card (x1250) some time back. If you select that card on the ATI website, you end up downloading an old version of the Catalyst driver which is not compatible with the Jaunty or Karmic kernels. You either run an older version of Ubuntu or the open source drivers.

---

### Post by avianrr on 2009-11-29
> **alphacrucis2 said:**
> ATI dropped support for that card (x1250) some time back. If you select that card on the ATI website, you end up downloading an old version of the Catalyst driver which is not compatible with the Jaunty or Karmic kernels. You either run an older version of Ubuntu or the open source drivers.
 Figures, Every time I try to switch to Linux theres always 1 driver that kills the attempt.  Are there any 3rd party attempts at implementing the 3D drivers for this card?  I know a lot about programming (just not much about linux) and would be interested in helping, unless someone can buy me a new laptop! :D

---

### Post by steefjeqv on 2009-12-01
Hi,

Karmic loads the open source xorg-ati driver by default.
This driver does have 2D, 3D and much more, so your graphics should be ok by default.

Once you've tried to install fglrx (closed source ATI) you may have problems reverting to the open source drivers.

Greetings,
Steven

---

