---
title: "p4 2.6 gHZ, 1gb RAM, min. desktop, lousy video playback"
date: 2012-03-20
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by wayover13 on 2012-03-20
Just doing a little reality check here. I've got an older machine on which I've been running a modified version of Ubuntu for a few years. It's a P4 2.6 Ghz (single core, of course) with 1 GB RAM. HD is maybe half full.

I'm running a minimalist desktop (evilwm) and try to use all lightweight apps. With respect to the video question involved in this query, I'm using mplayer from the command line. I built the system up from a minimal, command line installation, by the way and have been dist-upgrading it since 8.04, I believe.

Anyhooz, I've been able to play videos fine on this machine using that scheme up until very recently. I mean, I had to be sure to not be running any hefty apps (say, gimp or libreoffice) while watching the video. But as long as I was careful about that, video playback worked fine.

I recently dist-upgraded from 10.04 to 11.10, though, and since then, video playback has gone to pot. It's jerky to the extent of being unwatchable, though the audio plays fine.

This seems kinda weird to me since I'm running all the same apps, and in the same way, that I've always run them on this machine. The only difference is that the apps, kernel, system files, are updated versions. Yet it's night and day when comparing video playback under the current "updated" system as opposed to the older, "outdated" system. In the former, it really doesn't work, for all intents and purposes, while in the latter case, it was quite servicable.

I know I'll have to update this machine at some point, but I'm trying t defer that as long as possible. So, in the meantime does anyone have suggestions for how I might restore acceptable video playback on this aging machine? Is it a lost cause?

Thanks,
James

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-03-20
A good first step is to identify your video card. The forum Search feature will help you identify other discussions about your specific hardware.

It is very common in Linux for certain hardware to work better in one release than another. Depending on your specific hardware, there may be a solution such as installing the correct driver or upgrading Xorg. But there is no "one size fits all" fix that I can tell you. :(

---

### Post by wayover13 on 2012-03-20
For what it's worth, the video card in this machine is ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV100 QY [Radeon 7000/VE]. But I've had no graphics issues at all since the last dist-upgrade, apart from the unacceptably-jerky video playback under mplayer (I should mention that vlc is slightly better but still too jerky).

I do regularly update the system using aptitude (just tell it to look for, download, and install updates). So I've got whatever is the latest Xorg release for 11.10.

James

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-03-20
I did a Search and found a couple of existing threads for your specific ATI card:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1838547](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1838547)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1553999](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1553999)

etc.

I cannot vouch for the accuracy/relevance of the information contained within, good luck! :)

---

### Post by wayover13 on 2012-03-20
> **snowpine said:**
> I cannot vouch for the accuracy/relevance of the information contained within, good luck! :)

Thanks for offering those links, snowpine. Since the second link is to a thread started by me almost 2 years ago and addressing this same card, it should be pretty accurate/relevant :). I'm kind of inclined against trying the radeon.modeset=0 option offered there since, as I've stated, in everything excluding video playback, I've had no graphics problems. But I may finally give it a stab.

James

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-03-20
Too funny; it didn't register with me that you were the same poster as the thread I linked to. :)

Sorry I am not familiar with your specific hardware. Is it a desktop computer with the option to simply, say, drop in a cheap nvidia card?

Anyway, as you've discovered, sometimes the LTS releases are the most stable... if 10.04 works for you, then it is good through April 2013. :)

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-03-20
If you're using Firefox, there's an add-on that may be helpful.  It's called flash-aid by a forum member, lovinglinux.  It'll remove/reinstall flash to clean up any conflicts from upgrading. May or may not help but I've had pretty good luck with it.  Upgrading doesn't have the greatest history, clean installs are usually preferred.

---

### Post by wayover13 on 2012-03-21
Thanks for the responses. snowpine seems pretty convinced that the video playback issues I'm seeing are related to my (older) video card. I certainly can't rule out that possibility, but it's not something about which I had initial suspicions. So, just wondering why we're assuming this is a video card issue? Especially considering that, other than video playback, the graphics on this computer seems to function fine.

James

PS Using a suggestion mentioned on another forum, I did manage to get one video to play back fine by using the -vo gl option when starting mplayer. But that was an .avi video, and the ones I really need to be able to view are .ogv videos: those don't play back very well, even when using the -vo gl option with mplayer.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2012-03-21
> **wayover13 said:**
> I'm kind of inclined against trying the radeon.modeset=0 option

Try it once by editing the boot line in grub. If it doesn't work well, then just restart and you're back to where you started..

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-03-21
What matters for performance is the codec used to encode the video, not the "container" (AVI, MKV, OGV, etc.) in which the video stream is stored.  Most modern video files use the H.264 codec rather than older ones like XviD (commonly stored in AVI container files).  H.264 is very efficient, but it achieves its efficiency by using a demanding algorithm that requires more CPU horsepower to decode.  If you play a file from the command line with mplayer, you'll see it report the audio and video codecs in the file like this:

```

==========================================================================
Opening video decoder: [ffmpeg] FFmpeg's libavcodec codec family
Asking decoder to use 2 threads if supported.
Selected video codec: [ffh264] vfm: ffmpeg (FFmpeg H.264)
==========================================================================
==========================================================================
Opening audio decoder: [ffmpeg] FFmpeg/libavcodec audio decoders
AUDIO: 96000 Hz, 2 ch, s16le, 128.0 kbit/4.17% (ratio: 16000->384000)
Selected audio codec: [ffaac] afm: ffmpeg (FFmpeg AAC (MPEG-2/MPEG-4 Audio))
==========================================================================

```

When my main desktop machine used a P4 like yours, I couldn't play H.264 files at all.  I became somewhat adept at using [mencoder]("http://en.gentoo-wiki.com/wiki/Mencoder#XviD") to convert from H.264 in the Matroska (.mkv) container to XviD in the AVI container.  XviD isn't as demanding as H.264, which is probably why you could play those AVI files, but H.264 has better video quality than XviD.

If you don't want to buy a new machine, you can radically improve your computer's handling of H.264 encodes by adding an NVIDIA card.  Any of the cards on [this page](http://www.newegg.com/Product/ProductList.aspx?Submit=ENE&N=100007709&IsNodeId=1&Description=nvidia&name=Desktop%20Graphics%20%2f%20Video%20Cards&Order=PRICE&Pagesize=100) will play H.264 encodes smoothly.  The proprietary NVIDIA driver for Linux offers the "VDPAU" interface to offload the video decoding to the graphics adapter, and mplayer has native support for VDPAU.  Make sure you buy a card that matches the interface on your motherboard.  PCI, PCI Express, and AGP all have different connectors.

Just a warning, though.  The emerging trend toward "High10" H.264 encodes cannot be decoded by these cards.  Current graphics hardware wasn't designed for the High10 standard.  For those you'll need a computer with a faster CPU than yours, regardless of the video adapter installed.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-03-21
> **wayover13 said:**
> Thanks for the responses. snowpine seems pretty convinced that the video playback issues I'm seeing are related to my (older) video card. I certainly can't rule out that possibility, but it's not something about which I had initial suspicions. So, just wondering why we're assuming this is a video card issue? Especially considering that, other than video playback, the graphics on this computer seems to function fine.


To be clear, I am not a Radeon user myself, therefore everything I've said is just an educated guess. :)

---

### Post by wayover13 on 2012-03-21
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> What matters for performance is the codec used to encode the video, not the "container" (AVI, MKV, OGV, etc.) in which the video stream is stored. . . .
Interesting information you've offered, SeijiSensei. Thanks for your input.

To further clarify what I'm up to, the following. I'm recording my desktop and have been using recordmydesktop for that. It worked fine under 10.04. It still works ok under 11.10--at least the recording part of the equation. What's stopped working for me is playback of the created file.

I was able to play back those ogv files I created using recordmydesktop under 10.04. Now, under 11.10 I can record them, but playback has gone haywire: all kinds of stuttering, even inversion of the video, and video/audio synchronization issues. Unwatchable, as I said. Playback results under VLC are somewhat better than under mplayer, but still unwatchable. If I transfer the files to some more capable machine, they play back fine, incidentally.

I tried playing an avi file I had on the P4 computer (not made with recordmydesktop, of course) and it too was way too stuttery to watch. Audio was fine, but video playback was not.

Then, using a tip I got in a different forum, I was able to get pretty good playback of that avi file by using the -vo gl switch when invoking mplayer. I decided to try some desktop recording using ffmpeg, which produces avi files. Those files played fine if I invoked mplayer -vo gl to watch them. I also fiddled a bit with xvidcap, which produces mpeg files, and those, too, played back fine using mplayer with the -vo gl switch.

Much as I'd like to just switch from recordmydesktop to ffmpeg or xvidcap, neither of those can be used productively for my project: ffmpeg because it lacks the ability to pause, xvidcap because I can't record sound with it (unless I can manage to implement alsa oss emulation). So I'm kinda stuck with recordmydesktop and the ogv format that I can't get to play back properly on this machine for some reason.

Looks like an upgraded video card might address my issues for the short term. I'll look into that possibility further.

Thanks,
James

---

### Post by TiberiusT on 2012-03-22
I've got a P4, albeit a 3.2Ghz one. I put an 8400GS PCI card in it - I think this is one of the very few NVidia PCI cards around which support VDPAU, they're all PCI-E nowadays.

Result: faultless playback of 1080p L4.1 H.264 video upto 30fps with no CPU overhead. I use XBMC as the player but anything that supports VDPAU would do it - the latest VLC 2.0 should do...

T

---

### Post by wayover13 on 2012-03-22
Ok. Stopped in at a local computer boneyard today and picked up an nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200] card for $15. Probably could have gotten a much better price had I waited and shopped, or something better than this 128 MB PCI card for the same cost. But I wanted to make this as quick and painless as possible. Fortunately, that did prove to be possible: I stuffed that card into the machine and after a little fiddling with modules (had to apt-get install nvidia-173 module), I was up and running. And now my ogv files play just as well as they did on this machine under 10.04.

Thanks again for suggestions made in this thread. I'd mark the thread "solved" except that I don't think buying a new piece of hardware really constitutes a solution--it's more like giving in than solving anything.

James

PS I wanted to use the nouveau driver since I've had system stability problems (random lock-ups) with the nvidia modules on my other (Arch) machine. Nouveau was giving me 1024x768 resolution when I first ran the card on this system though, and it looked like adding the nvidia driver might be the quickest and most painless way to get the 1280x1024 resolution I wanted. That did work out well--I'll have to wait and see whether I get those system stability problems under Ubuntu.

---

