---
title: "10.10 Audio plays at a higher speed than normal"
date: 2011-02-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by seshormerow on 2011-02-05
Hello.



I have been on Lucid for a while and decided to upgrade to Maverick. When I restarted after the upgrade I noticed that the startup jingle only played halfway the first time. I got skeptical and thought that the audio was just cut off too early.

I was going to watch some more videos in VLC that were on my computer that I was watching perfectly normal before the upgrade. The format was in MPEG with H.264 video and MP3 audio. The audio was playing very fast almost 4x the speed but the video was perfectly up to sync with the audio but my CPU was at 100% because it was playing so much more faster. Even the time meter was going with the audio and video.

I tried restarting the computer later to find that the startup jingle played as fast as the audio did a little earlier. I tried to play the video in Movie Player. Same thing. I tried watching something unrelated and a completely different format still nothing. I tried flash videos on YouTube and even HTML5 and still nothing different. SFX were even not playing to the end in the OS.

I tried to change the sample rate of pulseaudio by doing > gksudo gedit /etc/pulse/daemon.conf
When I tried to change them and restart PulseAudio
> pulseaudio -D
it didn't work...
> E: main.c: Daemon startup failed.

So then I restarted it multiple times playing around with it and it seemed to have no effect on it. I'm running out of ideas because I have been using jack and it not being able to find my output. I'm much of a newbie but am learning fast. I have a Sound Blaster Live! 24-bit and a Dell GeForce 440 MX AGP.

P.S. I am using a bit of an older system:p... I plan to buy a new video card soon. I'll try to see if that changes anything also.

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2011-02-06
You can change sample rate using alsamixer, just type it in from a terminal and scroll along with the arrow keys. Your GPU should not have an effect on the system sounds.

---

### Post by Leezer on 2011-02-09
I'm having this exact problem too.  I also have a GeForce 440 MX and Sound Blaster.  I have posted this on other threads but I have yet to get any answers.

---

### Post by woodmaster on 2011-02-09
> **cchhrriiss121212 said:**
> You can change sample rate using alsamixer, just type it in from a terminal and scroll along with the arrow keys. Your GPU should not have an effect on the system sounds.
how?  nothing there allows changing sample rate for me.  only dB levels.  Having same issue as the above posted.
```
lshw -c sound
  *-multimedia            
       description: Multimedia audio controller
       product: [SB Live! Value] EMU10k1X
       vendor: Creative Labs
       physical id: 6
       bus info: pci@0000:01:06.0
       version: 00
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=EMU10K1X latency=64 maxlatency=20 mingnt=2
       resources: irq:18 ioport:dfe0(size=32)

```

---

### Post by woodmaster on 2011-02-28
Bump,
Still no progress on this for me?

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2011-02-28
Some cards don't have that option in alsamixer, but press f5 to make sure. You could also try setting up an .asoundrc file:
[http://alsa.opensrc.org/.asoundrc#Converting_Sample_Rates_On_Input]("http://alsa.opensrc.org/.asoundrc#Converting_Sample_Rates_On_Input")

---

### Post by woodmaster on 2011-03-04
> **cchhrriiss121212 said:**
> Some cards don't have that option in alsamixer, but press f5 to make sure. You could also try setting up an .asoundrc file:
[http://alsa.opensrc.org/.asoundrc#Converting_Sample_Rates_On_Input](http://alsa.opensrc.org/.asoundrc#Converting_Sample_Rates_On_Input)
f5 didn't do anything and I only comprehend about 5% of what's on that page you linked to...

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-03-04
> **woodmaster said:**
> f5 didn't do anything and I only comprehend about 5% of what's on that page you linked to...

Use the alsa-info-script to provide detailed information.
Run this command in a terminal:
```
wget http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh 
```
Choose the upload option and provide a link for the output.
[Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"]

---

### Post by woodmaster on 2011-03-04
[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=8f192d271890ca28b07f09ea1d88ee765ce9631d](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=8f192d271890ca28b07f09ea1d88ee765ce9631d)

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-03-04
Looks like your onboard audio is default device, not the soundblaster. Is that intended?

---

### Post by woodmaster on 2011-03-04
no...not intended.  not sure how that happened.  Weird.  the sound plays too fast, but when I boot Puppy Linux(macpup 511), sound is perfect.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-03-04
Try selecting it in 'Sound Preferences'. You can disable onboard in bios as an easy fix.

---

### Post by woodmaster on 2011-03-04
switched to s/b card.  still plays way too fast.

---

### Post by woodmaster on 2011-03-06
bump anyone else got any ideas?  please?&#9786;&#9786;&#9786;

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-03-06
This may be of service:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592093](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592093)

What rate did you change to in daemon.conf? Have you tried ruling out the kernel?
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/MainlineBuilds](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/MainlineBuilds)

What is this output now:
```
aplay -l
```

---

### Post by woodmaster on 2011-03-14
> **lidex said:**
> This may be of service:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592093](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592093)
```
aplay -l
```

This had my fix which was to...
>  In Ubuntu 10.10; go to:
System>Preferences>Sound.
Click the Hardware tab.
Under "Settings for the selected device:" choose the profile "Analog Surround 4.0 Output + Analog Stereo Input".
Click the Close button.

The sound works perfectly!!

Thanks for all your help!

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-03-18
> **woodmaster said:**
> This had my fix which was to...
Thanks for all your help!

What an elegant solution - and one I never would have thought of. 
Very interesting...thanks for following up and please mark the thread solved using 'Thread Tools' up top.

---

