---
title: "9.10 pulseaudio redirect audio input to output"
date: 2009-10-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by thefloe on 2009-10-06
Hi,

I managed to setup my TV Tuner Card under 9.10 but still have no audio. After playing around I got the sound recorder to record the input. So how can I tell pulseaudio to play that sound directly?

Tobias

---

### Post by zebtonson on 2009-10-20
I'm working on the same problem.   I'm using tvtime with winTv 950q.   I found a post (can't recall where now)  which suggested using arecord and aplay to record and play it right afterwards.  create a sh file and post

```

#! /bin/sh

tvtime | arecord -D hw:1,0 -f S16_LE -c2 -r44100 | aplay -


```

I still haven't been able to get it working, I get the following error:

Running tvtime 1.0.2.
Reading configuration from /etc/tvtime/tvtime.xml
Reading configuration from /home/timaeus/.tvtime/tvtime.xml
arecord: main:608: audio open error: Device or resource busy
aplay: playback:2297: read error


I think that i got the wrong PCM name for '-D'. I hope this might get you going in the correct direction.  I'll try to update if i get it working.  

btw  the pulseaudio volume control actually shows graphical input coming in from the tv tuner card (just as a visual sanity check)

---

### Post by zebtonson on 2009-10-20
Ok update, i was able to get to get audio working with tvtime and wintv 950q using jack via the qjackctl.  All i did was go into the setup and set the wintv's audio input hw:1,0 and leave output as default.  I started jack and connected the system input to outputs.  


system:
Ubuntu 9.10 beta, 
tvtime 1.0.2-3
jackd 0.116.1-4

i hope this points you in the right direction.

---

### Post by James Haigh on 2011-05-23
This is a bug that seems to have been introduced in Karmic (9.10). This still hasn't been fixed in the latest release, Natty (11.04).

If this bug affects you, please vote for it:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/483812](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/483812)

---

