---
title: "2nd monitor resolution Nvidia"
date: 2009-05-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Cain67 on 2009-05-24
am trying to get the monitor resolution right

im runing ubuntu 8.10 on my desktop
graphics card is the 250GTS from Nvidia.
have 2 polyview 17" monitors. one VGA, the other DMI both plugged into graphics card

now i installed the drivers and that was all working fine.
set up the 2nd monitor and had the issue of the VGA only running at 1024x768 natively, however as in windows 7 i was running both monitors at 1280x1024 i know it is capable of that resolution.

CRT-0 resolutions : 1360x768, 1152x864, 1028x768
however the CM0 CMC 17" AD resolution supports the 1280x1024 im looking for

the monitors both run 1280x1024 in windows 7 with no issues.
[HTML]
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "CRT-0"
	HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
	VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
	Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	Option         "TwinView" "1"
	Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
	Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select @1280x1024 +1280+0, DFP: 1280x1024 +0+0"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load           "dbe"
	Load           "extmod"
	Load           "type1"
	Load           "freetype"
	Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Mouse0"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "Protocol" "auto"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Keyboard0"
	Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Device0"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	BoardName      "GeForce GTS 150"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection
[/HTML]
that there is the xorg.conf file, and has more info on the graphics card.
had a similar problem in windows xp, and never managed to fix it.
is there anyway to force a resolution on the monitor???

further help will be greatly appreciated
cheers

-------------------------------------
 
i then continued looking and added these lines under monitor
Subsection "Monitor"
Depth 24
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"

then reloaded x but it just stayed at the 1024 resolution, while losing the 2nd monitor and crumpling in the corner...

some one please help

---

### Post by Cain67 on 2009-05-24
just a quick question, i tried to save the configuration using the nvidia x server settings, however it cannot get rid of the xorg.conf.backup. any idea on how to solve this, just as a minor thing
cheers

---

