---
title: "Acer 5610 and 1920x1080"
date: 2011-12-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by hhbell370 on 2011-12-11
I have an old Acer Aspire 5610z that I cannot get working with my 42" 16:9 tv with vga input.  I am using 11.10 (up to date)(gnome-session-fallback) and when I use the display applet and choose 1920x1080 the tv shows numerous horizontal parallel lines,  I can see the desktop background color but nothing else is recognizable. I note that the Ubuntu display applet says it is a Westinghouse 32" tv, not a 42" tv.    I have used this tv with other older computers at that resolution with no problems.  lspci reports the Acer has Intel 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML graphics chip.  The tv manual says 1920x1080 is at 60hz.  I ran xrandr with no parms and it reports that the laptop is trying to use 59.9hz for that resolution.  Is that to far off?   I am open to any suggestions to get it working, going back to the old desktop computer is undesirable as it's quirky fan drowns out the audio.  Thanks for any help.  
Buddy

---

### Post by plantatree on 2012-12-21
Hello, I am also struggling to make my aspire 5610z with intel video as an media center computer with output 1920x1080. Unfortunately anything higher than 1600x900 results in the lines you are describing.

My guess is that there is something broken with the video bios or hardware. Very sad. Otherwise nice machine. Pls let me know if you have made it work somehow or if you have tried running windows just to see how ms drivers work.

I'm also noticing the refresh rate difference. But I've used monitor-edid tools to read what is the monitor idea of preferred mode and set it manually with xrandr. But no luck with that. Also I tried the hack with substracting 8 pixels from vres and addig them to blank time just to make sure bios does not handle this exact resolution badly. But with no luck. As I said everuthing over 1600x900 results in the moving lines on the screen you are describing.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-12-21
AFAIK your video h/w is limited to the max 2k x 2k.
There was a post a couple weeks ago about this..

If you stack the screens one above the other & not side-by-side you can avoid exceeding 2K.
If your internal screen is 1024x600 & ext scrn is 1920x1200 then 2944 >> 2K.

Stacked above/below you get 1920x1800 which is less than 2k..

xrandr --output <label2> --below <label1>

Check you are using the intel driver & not vesa or other fb driver..

---

### Post by plantatree on 2012-12-22
@[BicyclerBoy]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=816321"), thanks, that's good to know so I can use faster video. I guess you mean [1] and [2]. But this is not my problem. I start seeing the weird lines on the screen as soon as the kernel enabled framebuffer where both screens show the same content. Using clone mode of displays does not  help either.


[1] [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1140104](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1140104)
[2] [http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#the_Virtual_screen](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#the_Virtual_screen)

---

### Post by plantatree on 2012-12-22
I got it working in full HD resolution! Since it is obvious the video card is providing different (albeit just a little) timing than the cards that do work, I decided to try something very different in the hope to find a mode that will be liked by the monitor. My first attempt was running at 75Hz and OSD immediately showed OUT OF RANGE. Surprisingly though behind the OSD picture was perfect. Moving down to 65Hz made monitor firmware happy, still picture being nice. Changing only 1-2Hz doesn't help. I don't know how that can be done on windows but here is how to do it in X11 environment:
```
$ cvt 1920 1080 65
# 1920x1080 64.93 Hz (CVT) hsync: 72.98 kHz; pclk: 188.00 MHz
Modeline "1920x1080_65.00"  188.00  1920 2048 2248 2576  1080 1083 1088 1124 -hsync +vsync
$ xrandr --newmode "1920x1080_65.00"  188.00  1920 2048 2248 2576  1080 1083 1088 1124 -hsync +vsync
$ xrandr --addmode VGA1 1920x1080_65.00
$ xrandr --output VGA1 --mode 1920x1080_65.00 --below LVDS1
```This will make sure virtual screen is fitting 2048x2048. Thanks @BicyclerBoy!
Still struggling to make lightdm execute these as a setup script though.

UPDATE: for console frame buffer this can be added to kernel command line: video=VGA-1:1280x800, this is laptop screen's native resolution so if external monitor has higher resolution, there are just big black borders. It is possible to set it like: video=VGA-1:1920x1080-24@65 (kernel calculates cvt/gtf by itself) but it makes no real sense if integrated display is enabled.
UPDATE2: xrandr script needed correct selinux context, now it is working for lightdm as a display-setup-script

Now if somebody can advice how can I tweak the stupid VIDEO BIOS to produce the correct timings that would be awesome. It's a pain to configure it, especially on pre-configured multimedia live linux distributions.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-12-22
It is possible that the default built-in video mode for 60Hz uses reduced vertical blanking interval.
cvt -r 1920 1080 60

This does not work for CRTs with VGA.
Possible your TV's VGA input does not like reduced timing.. 

The intel driver (which by default you are using?) supports KMS so there is no other frame buffer driver used. The intel driver is the console frame buffer driver.
Same bug in both places ?

---

### Post by plantatree on 2012-12-23
-reduced does not help as well problem happened in the console as well. That's why I wrote about the kernel line I use in the previous post. It must be fixable in bios but no idea what to look for.
Another problem I just hit is xfsettingsd craches when that non-standard mode is in use so XFCE settings I have do not have effect. That's too bad really, I filed a [COLOR=Red][bug with XFCE.]("https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=9680")[/COLOR]

---

