---
title: "5.1 AC3 Digital Out with Pulse Audio"
date: 2008-05-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by scott_selberg on 2008-05-31
mesilliac had a great post on the Hardy Heron Development forum regarding configuring his host for 100% AC3 sound out using ALSA's a52 and pulse.  

I've had some issues and success trying to get it to work.  The original thread is closed so I can't add to it, but I wanted to see if other users had issues so I'm started a new thread.

The original post is at: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=714712]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=714712")

I've learned that I had to disable the automatic driver loading by commenting out the lines in the /etc/pulse/default.pa file:

I also needed to add the load-module command towards the top of the file near the other commented out load-module files. 

[FONT="Courier New"]
### Automatically load driver modules depending on the hardware available
.ifexists module-hal-detect.so
#load-module module-hal-detect
.else
### Alternatively use the static hardware detection module (for systems that
### lack HAL support)
#load-module module-detect
.endif
[/FONT]

In terms of how it works, it sounds great.  It is consuming 25% of the cpu, which I think is pretty expensive.  This is probably because it has to encode everything.

I've also had problems with pulse just stopping to work after a bit - or else my surround sound receiver gets confused and the sound stops.  Switching the receiver away from the computer and back seems to fix the problem.  My best guess is that the digital stream was temporarily corrupted for some reason (perhaps lack of system resources) and confused the receiver.  Switching away and back un-confuses the receiver.

---

### Post by jejo86 on 2008-10-01
i am having the same problems as "Bultot" in the original post has:
"After a while my sound stops. When I press Pause/Play it continues. " In my case i'd say it stops after about 30min. and its not the audio/video player, ive tried a few.
i have a ALC882M soundcard which has Dolby Digital Live. but i dont know how to enable it in linux. thats why i m trying the software encoding workaround.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-10-01
devguy came up with this for controlling digital streams with PulseAudio:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=776958](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=776958)

---

### Post by jejo86 on 2008-10-02
Stereo PCM works fine over SPDIF. We are having problems with the ALSA a52 plugin to encode every sound to AC3 and then output it through SPDIF.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-10-02
Oh, sorry. Do you have pulse set up for high priority?
if not, that may cause it to lose the stream occaisionally..

[http://pulseaudio.org/wiki/FAQ](http://pulseaudio.org/wiki/FAQ)

---

### Post by jejo86 on 2008-10-05
i just tried that, still the same problem. i come to think that not pulseaudio but the a52 plugin is the problem. when the sound stops, the light on my receiver indicating a Dolby Digital source turns off, but my audio player keeps on playing like nothing happened. when a new song starts, the sound comes back again. 
i've tried different setups

pcm.a52encode {
	channels 2
	type a52
	card 0
	format S16_BE
	bitrate 256
	}

with 2,4,6 channels S16:BE and S16_LE, different bitrates, etc. and even downloaded different alsa-plugin versions, the last one i tried was the latest stable: alsa-plugins-1.0.17. i m gonna try the 1.0.18 beta now, but i dont get my hopes up. the changelog doesnt say anything about tha a52 plugin.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-10-05
Hmmm, that is interesting. Do you get any messages in the logs when that happens, or does it seem that the a52 plugin is just suspending output as it evaluates the new song/stream.

---

### Post by jejo86 on 2008-10-05
yeah i just found out i get the same error message as "Bultot" in the original post: "module-alsa-sink.c: Got POLLERR from ALSA"

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-10-06
This person is getting that same error:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=937114](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=937114)

Have any of you filed a bug report at Pulseaudio or alsa?

---

### Post by jejo86 on 2008-10-07
yes, seems to be a common error message. he's got other symptoms though. he says his pulseaudio deamon dies and he has to restart it with pulseaudio -D. mine is still running, i just don't get no audio. i plugged in a headphone into my analog out and switched the audio stream from my digital out to my analog out after the sound has stopped. and i got an output on my headphones. switching the stream back to the digital out also worked and i had sound again. so i dont think that says a lot, maybe pulseaudio reinitializes the devices or sth. i dont know how it works. i ll now try to create a combined sink so i get an output on my analog out and digital simultaneous. i want to know if there is still sound on the analog out after the digital sound died. couldn't figure out yet how the module-combine works.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-10-07
You can try using the Simultaneous Output in the PA Preferences, PA Dev Chooser/Configure Local Sound Server. For some reason it works for me and I could have sworn it did not a few months ago when I tried it for my two sound cards but now it does for my sound cards and my usb headset. I have not tried it with any digital outputs because I am not using them, but if they are sinks in PA, they should work too. If you want to use module combine, there is something on that in my thread here if you have not already read it:


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=922860](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=922860)

---

### Post by jejo86 on 2008-10-12
ok i have enabled the check box "Add virtual output device for simultaneous output on all local sound cards." in paprefs. my analog and digital out are enabled now. the problem is, that pulseaudio defines my analog-out as the master, and the digital one as the slave. the digital out lags a few miliseconds behind so pulseaudio speeds up the audio every once in a while changing the pitch of the music, which sounds awefull.
besides that i still get the "module-alsa-sink.c: Got POLLERR from ALSA" error. but now instead of the sound stopping i hear a short crackling noise at which point a new entry with the above mentioned error messenge gets written into my syslog, but the sound keeps playing on both devices. 
so i now wanted to create my own combined sink, with the digital-out as the master, but it didnt work. here is my config:

/etc/pulse/default.pa

load-module module-alsa-sink device=ac3_enc sink_name=digital_out mmap=0
load-module module-alsa-sink device=stereo sink_name=analog_out
load-module module-combine sink_name=combined master=digital_out slaves=analog_out
set-sink-default combined

and my /etc/asound.conf

pcm.ac3_enc {
        type a52
	channels 4
} 

pcm.stereo {
	type hw
	card 0
#	device 0
}

i get this error message in the terminal: 

E: main.c: read() failed: Success
E: main.c: daemon startup failed.

and this one in syslog:

kernel: [ 7276.285423] pulseaudio[9082]: segfault at 00000000 eip 00000000 esp b676d1dc error 4

after starting pulseaudio (pulseaudio -D)

starting them individually like this:

load-module module-alsa-sink device=ac3_enc sink_name=digital_out mmap=0
#load-module module-alsa-sink device=stereo sink_name=analog_out
#load-module module-combine sink_name=combined master=digital_out #slaves=analog_out
#set-sink-default combined

#load-module module-alsa-sink device=ac3_enc sink_name=digital_out mmap=0
load-module module-alsa-sink device=stereo sink_name=analog_out
#load-module module-combine sink_name=combined master=digital_out #slaves=analog_out
#set-sink-default combined

works fine. any ideas? in your thread you used the "module-oss-mmap" but i dont know how to use them, dont know the names of the devices.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-10-12
ossmmap is how pulseaudio maps the devices. The names are established by you, you name them with name=. Anyway, if you got it working that is what matters
This is where I got the module combine thing from:

[http://pulseaudio.org/wiki/FAQ](http://pulseaudio.org/wiki/FAQ)

You might want to look at this and some of the other links.

---

### Post by mesilliac on 2008-10-26
I've just set up my audio on intrepid (with everything encoded to ac3 just as I had it set up in hardy), and for the most part it seems to be working without a hitch. Are you still experiencing the stops in output?

I did find that this problem is reproducible for me by opening System > Preferences > Appearance and clicking on a different theme while playing something in Totem. This almost always causes my audio output to stop. Pausing and unpausing totem resumes audio output.

Unfortunately I don't have the time right now to track down the problem further. I do suspect it has to do with alsa's a52 plugin somehow, but I can't immediately see why changing the theme triggers it.

---

### Post by grigio on 2008-11-04
What about [http://www.pulseaudio.org/ticket/167](http://www.pulseaudio.org/ticket/167) ?

I was used to run "**mplayer -ac hwac3 something**" on alsa, while I have no success via PulseAudio. Are u able to player an AC3 5.1 over SPDIF with Pulsaudio?

---

### Post by mesilliac on 2008-11-04
AFAIK pulse won't do it... but you can just use alsa :).

```

mplayer -ao alsa:device=spdif -ac hwac3 <file>

```
or if that doesn't work:
```

mplayer -ao alsa:device=iec958 -ac hwac3 <file>

```

This should work fine - even if you use pulse for everything else - as long as pulse isn't using your spdif at the time you start mplayer.

---

### Post by grigio on 2008-11-10
thanks it works

---

### Post by speedsix on 2008-11-17
I'm confused why people are re-encoding the digital stream, if you talk directly to the Alsa HW device, passthrough seems to work as normal. No need to shutdown Pulse either.

```
mplayer dvd:// -ao alsa:device=hw=0.2 -ac hwac3
``` 


Although oddly enough this works with Mplayer but MythTV refuses to output to Alsa HW 0.2

---

### Post by mesilliac on 2008-11-17
This setup encodes ALL of your system sounds into a52/AC3.

---

### Post by speedsix on 2008-11-20
> **mesilliac said:**
> This setup encodes ALL of your system sounds into a52/AC3.
I understand that but imo that's not the best way to go about things. You're degrading the quality by decode-reencoding, all for the sake of sounds when most people probably don't want them anyway (i.e watching a film)

---

### Post by mesilliac on 2008-11-20
Pre-encoded AC3 streams are not the only source of surround sound. An example could be a 5.1 FLAC music file.

I use this setup to pass 5.1 sound to my amp via digital out. The amp doesn't have analog surround inputs.

As stated above, even with this setup passthrough still works.

---

### Post by shamgar03 on 2009-06-10
Could someone re-post the guide? It seems to have fallen through the cracks of time...

---

### Post by davidwillis on 2010-05-04
very interesting... do you know how make a combined sink of the "monitor of internal audio analog stereo" (my speaker sounds) and my mic?  Also how do you see what sinks you have?  I just see internal audio analog stero and monitor of internal analog stereo in my options to record from in volume control. But what do I put in the module-combine line?

Thanks



> **jejo86 said:**
> ok i have enabled the check box "Add virtual output device for simultaneous output on all local sound cards." in paprefs. my analog and digital out are enabled now. the problem is, that pulseaudio defines my analog-out as the master, and the digital one as the slave. the digital out lags a few miliseconds behind so pulseaudio speeds up the audio every once in a while changing the pitch of the music, which sounds awefull.
besides that i still get the "module-alsa-sink.c: Got POLLERR from ALSA" error. but now instead of the sound stopping i hear a short crackling noise at which point a new entry with the above mentioned error messenge gets written into my syslog, but the sound keeps playing on both devices. 
so i now wanted to create my own combined sink, with the digital-out as the master, but it didnt work. here is my config:

/etc/pulse/default.pa

load-module module-alsa-sink device=ac3_enc sink_name=digital_out mmap=0
load-module module-alsa-sink device=stereo sink_name=analog_out
load-module module-combine sink_name=combined master=digital_out slaves=analog_out
set-sink-default combined

and my /etc/asound.conf

pcm.ac3_enc {
        type a52
	channels 4
} 

pcm.stereo {
	type hw
	card 0
#	device 0
}

i get this error message in the terminal: 

E: main.c: read() failed: Success
E: main.c: daemon startup failed.

and this one in syslog:

kernel: [ 7276.285423] pulseaudio[9082]: segfault at 00000000 eip 00000000 esp b676d1dc error 4

after starting pulseaudio (pulseaudio -D)

starting them individually like this:

load-module module-alsa-sink device=ac3_enc sink_name=digital_out mmap=0
#load-module module-alsa-sink device=stereo sink_name=analog_out
#load-module module-combine sink_name=combined master=digital_out #slaves=analog_out
#set-sink-default combined

#load-module module-alsa-sink device=ac3_enc sink_name=digital_out mmap=0
load-module module-alsa-sink device=stereo sink_name=analog_out
#load-module module-combine sink_name=combined master=digital_out #slaves=analog_out
#set-sink-default combined

works fine. any ideas? in your thread you used the "module-oss-mmap" but i dont know how to use them, dont know the names of the devices.

---

### Post by davidwillis on 2010-05-04
found this command to list sinks... it looks like I only have one.  Maybe that is the mic?

> david@david-desktop:~$ pacmd
Welcome to PulseAudio! Use "help" for usage information.
>>> list-sinks
1 sink(s) available.
  * index: 0
	name: <alsa_output.pci-0000_00_1b.0.analog-stereo>
	driver: <module-alsa-card.c>
	flags: HARDWARE HW_MUTE_CTRL HW_VOLUME_CTRL DECIBEL_VOLUME LATENCY DYNAMIC_LATENCY
	state: RUNNING
	suspend cause: 
	priority: 9959
	volume: 0: 100% 1: 100%
	        0: 0.00 dB 1: 0.00 dB
	        balance 0.00
	base volume: 100%
	             0.00 dB
	volume steps: 65537
	muted: no
	current latency: 65.76 ms
	max request: 11 KiB
	max rewind: 344 KiB
	monitor source: 0
	sample spec: s16le 2ch 44100Hz
	channel map: front-left,front-right
	             Stereo
	used by: 1
	linked by: 5
	configured latency: 66.00 ms; range is 66.00 .. 1999.82 ms
	card: 0 <alsa_card.pci-0000_00_1b.0>
	module: 4
	properties:
		alsa.resolution_bits = "16"
		device.api = "alsa"
		device.class = "sound"
		alsa.class = "generic"
		alsa.subclass = "generic-mix"
		alsa.name = "STAC92xx Analog"
		alsa.id = "STAC92xx Analog"
		alsa.subdevice = "0"
		alsa.subdevice_name = "subdevice #0"
		alsa.device = "0"
		alsa.card = "0"
		alsa.card_name = "HDA Intel"
		alsa.long_card_name = "HDA Intel at 0xd2300000 irq 22"
		alsa.driver_name = "snd_hda_intel"
		device.bus_path = "pci-0000:00:1b.0"
		sysfs.path = "/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1b.0/sound/card0"
		device.bus = "pci"
		device.vendor.id = "8086"
		device.vendor.name = "Intel Corporation"
		device.product.id = "27d8"
		device.product.name = "N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller"
		device.form_factor = "internal"
		device.string = "front:0"
		device.buffering.buffer_size = "352768"
		device.buffering.fragment_size = "176384"
		device.access_mode = "mmap+timer"
		device.profile.name = "analog-stereo"
		device.profile.description = "Analog Stereo"
		device.description = "Internal Audio Analog Stereo"
		alsa.mixer_name = "SigmaTel STAC9227"
		alsa.components = "HDA:83847618,00000100,00100201"
		module-udev-detect.discovered = "1"
		device.icon_name = "audio-card-pci"
>>> 


---

### Post by davidwillis on 2010-05-05
I got it!!!!    

This is how I did it.  First I created a null-sink, name it whatever you want..I named mine steam by accident, so that is what I am using...

> pactl load-module module-null-sink sink_name=steam

Then to get sound to it just use the loop-back (which just sends an input to a sink)

> pactl load-module module-loopback  sink=steam

I did that twice, because I wanted two inputs.

Now go and look at volume control.  First go to Recording, and select show "all streams"  you should have two loopback to nulll output from.  One I selected "internal audio analog stereo", and the other I selected "Monitor of internal Audio analog stereo".   I had to turn the null output down from output devices, because I got a lot of noise when it was on 100%.

Now I just start RMD and monitor of null output, and I am recoding the mic and the speaker sounds and don't hear it!!!

 ;D

---

### Post by davidwillis on 2010-05-05
sorry, that second line should be:

pactl load-module module-loopback  sink=steam

I fixed it in my last post

---

### Post by craftyguy on 2011-01-09
Sorry to resurrect an old thread, but accomplishing 5.1 AC3 re-encode with Pulse has not gotten any easier, and the thread linked in the original post no longer exists. 

Is there anyone who has this working that wouldn't mind posting their configuration?

Unfortunately this is the only thing keeping me from switching to linux full-time, and I've been struggling to get a working solution with pulseaudio for years :(

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-01-09
currently using 5.1 digital out in pulse (audigy 2zs) using basically what's shown here (on both 10.10 and 11.04
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1608804&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1608804&page=2)
Have a few comments in post 18 you may wish to ck. (am going to edit something else in in a moment that I noticed while doing in natty

Works well though for stereo tracks I prefer to use audacious and or mplayer w/ alsa - spdif to get 2 channel (2.1) digital output while leaving pulse set to 5.1 digital

---

### Post by craftyguy on 2011-01-09
> **mc4man said:**
> currently using 5.1 digital out in pulse (audigy 2zs) using basically what's shown here (on both 10.10 and 11.04
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1608804&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1608804&page=2)
Have a few comments in post 18 you may wish to ck. (am going to edit something else in in a moment that I noticed while doing in natty

Works well though for stereo tracks I prefer to use audacious and or mplayer w/ alsa - spdif to get 2 channel (2.1) digital output while leaving pulse set to 5.1 digital

Thanks! Just to clarify, are you able to output audio from multiple applications at once and have it encoded to AC3 and upmixed to 5.1?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-01-09
> Just to clarify, are you able to output audio

Sorry, I don't know why I saw that as 'decode' , instead of what you posted (re-encode).
Also what you're asking about i'd have no reason to want to do (if the source is not 5.1 (ac3,dts,flac or wma) then I prefer it as is or processed externally

---

### Post by craftyguy on 2011-01-09
> **mc4man said:**
> Sorry, I don't know why I saw that as 'decode' , instead of what you posted (re-encode).
Also what you're asking about i'd have no reason to want to do (if the source is not 5.1 (ac3,dts,flac or wma) then I prefer it as is or processed externally

Fair enough, I prefer to have stereo sources (mp3, etc) 'upmixed' to 5.1 (which then requires it to be re-encoded to AC3 on the fly to be played over spdif as 5.1)

EDIT: Followed instructions in the thread you posted (and ignored your bit about 2ch output in post #18 :P ), and it works exactly as I wanted it! 2ch sources are upmixed to 5.1 and encoded to AC3 on the fly! I owe you a beer!!

---

### Post by craftyguy on 2011-01-09
In order to preserve this method (since these threads will inevitably drop off the face of the planet at some point), I've done my best to make this in to a wiki page. If anyone finds any discrepancies, please feel free to make changes to the page :)



[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DigitalAC-3Pulseaudio](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DigitalAC-3Pulseaudio)

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-02-09
Great wiki page thank you..
Depending on the libavcodec version you get SMPTE or a52 (AC3) channel ordering..

I have to have an asound.conf entry route.
This entry also allows mixing etc.
The a52 bitrate can set to 640.
```

pcm.swap51 {
   @args.0 SLAVE
   @args.SLAVE {
               type string
               default "a52"
   }
   type route
   slave {
         pcm $SLAVE
         channels 6
   }
   ttable {
     0.0= 1
     1.4= 1
     2.5= 1
     3.2= 1
     4.1= 1
     5.3= 1
   }
}

```& use as
speaker-test -D swap51:\'a52\' -c6
speaker-test -D swap51: -c6

Using 10.04 & alsa 1.0.23..
I can not point pulseaudio at this alsa plug-in without pulseaudio crashing & not able to be restarted. This is no real problem as I don't need pulseaudio default audio device set to a52 plug-in.
If pulseaudio is pointed to this alsa plug-in device the only recovery is by editing
/usr/share/pulseaudio/alsa-mixer/profile-sets/default.conf 
& deleting entries that relate to a52

I still have reservations about the audio quality tho & after about 1hr the digital data is corrupted & a pause/play is required to fix.

---

