---
title: "Problem with nvidia-settings. Res no higher than 640"
date: 2010-06-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by slogum on 2010-06-30
I'm running dual-screen. On 24" at 1920x1080 and one 19" at 1440x900.

After installing Mint 9 I can't set the resolution any higher than 640x480 in nvidia-settings. I've installed the "recommended" nvidia-driver that Mint suggests.

Heres my xorg:

> 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Fri Apr  9 11:51:21 UTC 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	# generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
	# HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTS"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 640x480 +1920+300, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT-0: 1024x768, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 320x240 +1920+300, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT-0: NULL, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 640x480 +1920+300, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT-0: NULL, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


What could be the problem? Why can't I set the res higher than 640 in nvidia-settings?

Everything worked in Mint 8 (10.04). During installation the res was higher than 640.

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-06-30
Looks like xorg.conf only knows about one monitor.

When running nvidia-settings in "gksudo" mode, did you push the "detect display" button?  Did you see any indication that it found more than one?

---

### Post by slogum on 2010-06-30
> **dabl said:**
> Looks like xorg.conf only knows about one monitor.

When running nvidia-settings in "gksudo" mode, did you push the "detect display" button?  Did you see any indication that it found more than one?

Yes, it detects both displays. I can even activate both displays, but the only resolution I can set on my second monitor is 640x480 and lower.

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-06-30
I don't run dual monitors, but I think I see a similar problem and a possible solution in post #623 - 625 here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174&page=63](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174&page=63)

---

### Post by slogum on 2010-06-30
Solved.

Uninstalled the 173-version and installed the "recommended" version. Seems to be working fine now.

UPDATE:

After installing the "recommended" version, everything was working... I thought. Then only problem was I couldn't get the res higher than 1360x768, which fits perfect for my TV, but not for my other monitor. I was trying to get the res up to 1440x900 but, the most I could get was 1360.

So I went to the xorg.conf and played around with the options. I noticed that when I changed the HoriSync and VertRefresh under Section "Device" the avaliable resolutions changed. So now it's set like this:
    HorizSync       28.0 - 60.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 80.0

...and I have up to 1920 on the main monitor and 1440 on my second monitor. 

So there's the solution for you. Can anyone explain what these options does? :)

---

