---
title: "Nvidia GTX 285  Proprietary Drivers and Ubuntu"
date: 2011-03-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ameriveaux on 2011-03-21
Dear Ubuntu Community,

   I have recently made the final steps to my switch over to ubuntu,  after some years of deliberation. I have successfully installed it on my  newer HP  DV6 Laptop with no issues; using the wudi tool to download  the latest edition. 

However, on my older desktop ( custom built ) i have not been able to  successfully use ubuntu due to it not finding any monitor when i  download the proprietary drivers for my EVGA Nvidia GTX285 card. I am  stuck using 640x480 or less resolution on my Dell 2405 24" monitor. 

I have read and pulled articles from the internet, but my skill in  coding and altering ubuntu is limited. I am unsure how to progress thus  far with my failures. I would very much love to use ubuntu on my desktop  and more thoroughly switch my computing experience.

If anyone can help i would be most grateful. 

Thank you for reading!
                                                                                                  [IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/statusicon/user_offline.gif[/IMG]                                                                                                                      [[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/quote.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/newreply.php?do=newreply&p=10583185")

---

### Post by Keeepcool on 2011-03-21
If you have sucefully installed the Nvidia drivers in Ubuntu, after rebooting open the Terminal and try this:
sudo nvidia-xconf
It solved my problems of only having the 640x480 resolution after installing the Nvidia drivers for one GT425 M

---

### Post by ameriveaux on 2011-03-21
Hi buddy, thank you for responding. I tried that and it told me command not found. Is it something else?

---

### Post by Keeepcool on 2011-03-21
My bad, the command is:
sudo nvidia-xconfig
Try it now.

---

### Post by ameriveaux on 2011-03-21
Hey man, thanks for responding . That didnt work, its still acting like it cant find the monitor and im still stuck at 640x480. Here is my xconf. maybe this will help.

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 260.19.06  (buildmeister@builder101)  Mon Sep 13 07:06:38 PDT 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 285"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by ameriveaux on 2011-03-22
Any other suggestions?  Or perhaps a library specific to my issue where i can search for myself ? I think i might be a little in over my head here; but i am willing to work at it. Thanks!

---

### Post by slegrand on 2011-03-25
Hey man, try running

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

and configure using the utility.

---

