---
title: "10.04 - Graphics &amp; Sound works but crappy"
date: 2010-11-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by killboymota on 2010-11-11
every time i watch a video at youtube, or use audacious to listen to music (or instead use grooveshark) the sound jumps forward automatically for some strange reason. 

The other problem is the graphics. Everytime i enter a website i see the graphics but pixelated. At 100%. Well. i don't see all images or banners like this, just a few. (i.e:Google logo, flickr logo).

im using a laptop. Acer 5735Z. Mobile Intel Graphics Media Acelerator 4500MM

can anybody help me? 

Thanks!

---

### Post by Apot on 2010-11-11
For the Video have you tried a different driver for your video card? There might be an open source option and a proprietary one.

Under System->Administration->Additional Drivers

Possibly this could be a quick fix

---

### Post by ghormley on 2010-11-11
I have somewhat the same problem but have NO sound.  I have had sound under 10.04 but it seems to come and go with certain updates.  However, I have not identified which updates seem to cause the sound to go away.  I've had this problem since version 9.04 and though a recent kernal update may have solved the problem but since I lost sound again about a week ago, I guess that was not true.

I would love to find good instructions on how to restore my sound on my Dell desktop PC running 10.04.

John

---

### Post by killboymota on 2010-11-16
i have tried additional drivers but nothing appears on the list.

Maybe i have to update nvidia-glx drivers?

---

