---
title: "Trying to use Nvidia driver under 8.04 (hardy) results in a black screen after reboot"
date: 2008-07-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by WolverineFan on 2008-07-24
Ok, I've been struggling with this for 4 days now.  Time to hit the forums.

I have a machine that I recently upgraded from 6.10 to 8.04 (using the 6.10->7.04->7.10->8.04 method).  Everything worked fine until the final 7.10->8.04 step.

The graphics disappeared at some point during the last upgrade, and so I finished the upgrade from the command-prompt.  No problem.  After the upgrade was done, I did a reboot, and no graphics at all (in fact, it seemed to crash hard at that point since I couldn't even Alt-F1 to get to a prompt).  I didn't save any logs since I just assumed that a new Nvidia driver would solve my problems.

I downloaded the latest Nvidia driver for my built-in Geforce 6100 card I could find:  NVIDIA-Linux-x86-173.14.09.pkg1.run.  I ran the install, ran /etc/init.d/gdm start and it froze again (blank screen).  During the install it complained that some files it was trying to change were actual files and not symlinks, but again, I just chalked that up to an old driver.

To make a REALLY LONG story short.  I'm now at a point where I can get the Nvidia driver to work 100% of the time, as long as I FIRST start X using the "vesa" driver.  So it looks something like this:
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.vesa /etc/X11/xorg.conf
/etc/init.d/gdm start
sleep 5
/etc/init.d/gdm stop
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia /etc/X11/xorg.conf
/etc/init.d/gdm start

If I reboot and skip the "vesa" step, I get a blank screen.  Not a very happy solution.  I can't figure out what the vesa driver is doing to initialize things so that it works.  It's probably loading some kernel module or something, but I can't figure out what.

Help!!

---

### Post by WolverineFan on 2008-07-24
Oh, and I have no clue what logs would be useful in diagnosing the problem.  I've looked at the Xorg.0.log files generated by the vesa and nvidia xorg.conf files and there's very little different.  Let me know if there's anything else I can post that will help!

---

### Post by ecschiel on 2008-07-24
I have the same issue, but instead of restarting with vesa drivers i use window$ :lolflag:
Is not a big issue for me actually, because my uptimes are about 4 months, but if someone had find a solution for this it will be apreciated by a lot of ppl.
A long time ago, when i was researching about this, i found that this is a bug with AMD microprocessors (a Semprom 3000+ in my case). If i have some time tonight i'll try to find some of that info again (perhaps a solution)

---

