---
title: "ATI 10.6 driver installation"
date: 2010-07-16
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by akashi on 2010-07-16
Hi, I am trying to install the ATI Proprietary 10.6 driver on my Ubuntu 10.04 x86 but have some issues.

I've tried:
```
sudo chmod +x ati-driver-installer-10-6-x86.x86_64.run
sudo ./ati-driver-installer-10-6-x86.x86_64.run
```

The installation went fine, but after I rebooted the system the Ubuntu load screen (Ubuntu text with 5 red dots) has a poor resolution. I have Burn effects enabled on Compiz on minimizing and maximizing windows and the effects aren't as smooth as it was without the driver.

Also when I go to System, Administration, Hardware Drivers it shows the "ATI/AMD propriety FGLRX graphics driver" as **not** activated. 

Activating the above propriety driver does not solve any of the issues mentioned above. But activating enables the Catalyst Control Centre under System, Preferences. 

I deactivated the propriety driver, rebooted and it removed the ATI CCC too.

I then tried:
```
sudo dpkg -i fglrx*.deb
```

The above installed fglrx fglrx-amdcccle fglrx-dev & fglrx-modaliases

Now the Ubuntu load screen is fixed and the Compiz effects are smooth. I could not find the ATI CCC under the System, Preference menu. Also Hardware Drivers is showing it as deactivated??

I am also unable to run the fglrxinfo command when the driver is installed from the .deb files but is available from the 1st installation method.

Activating the propriety drivers bring backs the ATI CCC but reverts back to the problems as earlier.

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks in advance.

---

