---
title: "xorg.conf file coding"
date: 2009-03-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by dougfresh on 2009-03-07
Hey guys,

I need some help developing my code for my ATI Radeon x1650 Pro AGP card. I have the driver installed and its running nicely. Now I just need to configure the xorg.conf file... heres what it looks like right now:
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	2560 1024
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"fglrx"
EndSection

I have a Dell Monitor and an Envision (EPI?) monitor.... both 1280x1024 resolution. I'd like to have an extended desktop, and I've been reading a lot about the terms and what not but if someone who is experienced can help me code this, that'd be great...

Thanks

Doug

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-03-08
The best place to start is:
```
Xorg -configure
```
X probes, creates the file xorg.conf.new in your home folder and you can tweak it from there.

---

### Post by dougfresh on 2009-03-09
Cool thanks, now I just need a bit of coding verbiage to put this in motion... I can understand what my xorg.conf file is saying right now, but I've been reading around and seeing a lot of different people's xorg.conf in relation to this and I'm not sure what the correct way to do it is. Just need to know the structure of the code:

IE:

Section "Screen"
blah blah blah
blah blah ati
blah blah blah 1280x1024@60
blah blah blah

Section "Screen2?"
blah blah blah
blah blah ati
blah blah blah 1280x1024@60
blah blah blah

If you get my drift.... just need help with this part.

Doug

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-03-09
If you are using the flgrx driver you should be configuring your big desktop with the catalyst control center that came with it.

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-03-09
Well the [man page]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/hardy/man5/xorg.conf.5.html") explains what all the sections do and what their options mean but to be honest, no-one writes an the Xorg.conf from scratch any more because X is so much better at autoprobing than it used to be.

Also, multiple screens and so on is now handled by [XRandR]("http://keithp.com/%7Ekeithp/talks/randr/randr/"). There's a very good post [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174") that might start you off in the right direction. There are specifics for nVidia [too]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/dual-monitors-with-nvidia.html").

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-03-10
Multiple screens on a single gpu in a big desktop is not handled by XrandR with the fglrx driver, the driver does it. The driver will call XrandR for using multiple gpus, but not for one gpu unless the screens are running as separate x sessions.

You can use the aticonfig to configure the driver, it has options that are not yet in the Catalyst Control Center.

aticonfig --help

---

### Post by dougfresh on 2009-03-10
everytime I change it to overlay dual monitors, it fixes it for the login but not the user... ideas?

---

### Post by dougfresh on 2009-03-10
I tried copying over the settings generated from the aticonfig to the xorg.conf file and I got the "running in low graphics" start again.... :/

> daniel@daniel-desktop:~$ aticonfig --initial --input=/etc/X11/xorg.conf
Uninitialised file found, configuring.
Using /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Saved back-up to /etc/X11/xorg.conf.original-0
aticonfig: Writing to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' failed. Bad file descriptor.
daniel@daniel-desktop:~$ 


and take a look at this
> daniel@daniel-desktop:~$  aticonfig --dtop=horizontal --overlay-on=1
Warning: Failed to set hardware overlay to head 1 immediately.
Warning: Option 'DesktopSetup' doesn't affect running session.
Using xorg.conf
Saved back-up to xorg.conf.fglrx-10


---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-03-10
You seem to be still not understanding how it works. aticonfig will configure the driver when you do

sudo aticonfig --option

replacing option with whatever available option you want to use. putting those options in xorg.conf will cause conflicts and the driver will crash. 

You really need to stop trying to use xorg.conf to configure the fglrx driver.

---

### Post by dougfresh on 2009-03-10
I am doing the sudo config and its not changing anything, I realized that after I made my posts earlier but it doesnt seem to be USING the settings, I have 12 back ups already and its not changing anything for the user settings.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-03-10
You need to restart x before they take effect.

---

### Post by dougfresh on 2009-03-10
I have restarted my comp a few times, i'll try it again.

still no go, it loads up fine at login and then when the user is loaded it goes back to default cloned settings from my xorg file... dunno why.

---

