---
title: "Ubuntu-Svideo to TV"
date: 2009-01-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by one1ring on 2009-01-30
Do we need a special software on ubuntu to connect the laptop to a tv by s-video?
It's not working for me.

---

### Post by Macintosh SE on 2009-01-30
You shouldn't, but you may need to edit your xorg.conf file. Could you post the output of:```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
When I connected my Ubuntu machine to a TV (via Composite video cables) I had to edit this file.

Thanks!

---

### Post by vincentsrose on 2009-01-30
I am having a similar issue. I connected my ATI Radeon HD 2400 XT video card s video connector to my tv and it doesn't work :( here is the out put from what was posted before please help.:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
	Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

---

### Post by Macintosh SE on 2009-01-31
Are you in the United States? If so, paste this code under the "Device" section:

```

	Option		"TwinView"
	Option		"TwinViewOrientation" "Clone"
	Option		"MetaModes" "1024x768,640x480"
	Option		"ConnectedMonitor" "CRT,TV"
	Option		"TVStandard" "NTSC-M"
	Option		"SecondMonitorHorizSync" "30-50"
	Option		"SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "60"
```

This should allow you to output to both your CRT monitor and CRT television simultaneously, at different resolutions using NTSC for the TV.

If you are not in the US, you will need to use PAL for the TV standard. I am not exactly sure how you would do this.

If you are using an LCD TV, you will probably want to change the resolution. I am also not totally sure as to how this will work on a laptop (with integrated screen), but it worked perfectly for my desktop.

Finally, I have a NVIDIA MX4000 graphics card. I don't know if this will work for ATI cards.

---

