---
title: "8.10 upgrade - No sound on spdif with built in Realtek"
date: 2008-12-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by alain_sat on 2008-12-01
Hi,

I upgraded yesterday from Ubuntu Hardy heron ro Xubuntu 8.10 and lost my sound.

This is the hardware

Realtek ALC 883 8 -Channel High-Definition Audio CODEC
ASUS Noise Filter
Support Jack-Sensing, Enumeration, Multi-streaming
Coaxial S/PDIF out ports at back I/O 

And the link to my motherboard [http://www.asus.com/products.aspx?l1=3&l2=11&l3=584&l4=0&model=1912&modelmenu=2](http://www.asus.com/products.aspx?l1=3&l2=11&l3=584&l4=0&model=1912&modelmenu=2)

I tried to upgrade the driver but that brought even more troubles so I made a fresh install again.

I read something about the alsa drivers but I'm still not a Linux guru.

Any help would be appreciated.

thanks.

---

### Post by utherpendragonfly on 2008-12-01
I'm pretty new to Linux myself. I've had no sound for 2 days with 8.10 and I've tried numerous complicated procedures using the command line and fiddling with different control settings and nothing has worked. Then just now I discovered a new post that recommended this:

Right-click on your speaker icon in the tray, select preferences. A window will pop up. Select your Alsa mixer; mine is: HDA Intel (Alsa Mixer). From there select PCM. If you look back up at your speaker icon, it should not be zeroed out. If it is, turn it up and you should have sound again.

...and my sound is back! Wow! I can't believe how simple that was! Hope it works for you.

---

### Post by alain_sat on 2008-12-04
Thanks I will try that out this evening.

---

### Post by alain_sat on 2008-12-04
Unfortunately it didn't work.
Still no sound on the spdif and no alsa driver too.
I connected on the front to the headphones analog speakers and that works but as it is an HTPC this is not an option.
It's a xfce trouble as the Unbuntu 8.04 on the same hardware does give sound on the spdif and uses Intel Alsa mixer.
On Xubuntu I don't even have preferences when I rightclick.

---

### Post by alain_sat on 2008-12-06
I don't know how but today the volume apears green and works.
What I did was installing alsamixer but that didn't work that day, so I'm not sure.

---

