---
title: "Can't play video (Installed Codecs)"
date: 2008-06-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Herzchell on 2008-06-10
Greetings, This is the first thread I open on this forum, I've been using Ubuntu since Feisty Fawn and I'm happy with the distribution so far, I'm currently using Hardy Heron, god knows I've had several issues with linux but non of them have been hard to fix, until recently I came across something I don't even know how to search for, It all starts with me watching videos happily on VLC, all of a sudden I got the "urge" to explore new horizons and thought "Well you've always had Mplayer laying around, why don't you give it a try", and I fell in love with it, not that vlc didn't do the trick, but i just liked Mplayer better, anyways the thing is that not long after switching to Mplayer, i kept installing and uninstalling stuff that i didn't consider necessary, i don't recall alot but i do remember Installing Smplayer and setting video files to always open with Smplayer, the first one i tried was a .wmv file, but it only reproduced sound, I thought "Well you must not have the appropiate codec" Alas.. I did... I optimistically thought it might be a good idea to just uninstall every single codec & player I had, restart (just in case) then reinstall everything, And it did work!!!, But... for a short period of time... Because when I shutdown my PC, and turned it back on I lost usage of such privileges to watch videos.. Anyways I'm stuck here and need help, I've had to do this several times now and have no Idea of what may be happening, I will provide you with information that may prove useful but since I am clearly a noob may not even be what you need.

First I ran Mplayer on console, this is the output I got:

> herzchell@Brain:~/Videos$ mplayer HSDPI.avi
MPlayer 1.0rc2-4.2.3 (C) 2000-2007 MPlayer Team
CPU: Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 CPU 3.00GHz (Family: 15, Model: 4, Stepping: 9)
CPUflags:  MMX: 1 MMX2: 1 3DNow: 0 3DNow2: 0 SSE: 1 SSE2: 1
Compiled with runtime CPU detection.
mplayer: could not connect to socket
mplayer: No such file or directory
Failed to open LIRC support. You will not be able to use your remote control.

Playing HSDPI.avi.
AVI file format detected.
[aviheader] Video stream found, -vid 0
[aviheader] Audio stream found, -aid 1
VIDEO:  [XVID]  592x448  12bpp  25.000 fps  902.5 kbps (110.2 kbyte/s)
Clip info:
 Software: VirtualDubMod 1.5.10.1 (build 2439/release)
xscreensaver_disable: Could not find XScreenSaver window.
GNOME screensaver disabled
==========================================================================
Opening video decoder: [ffmpeg] FFmpeg's libavcodec codec family
Selected video codec: [ffodivx] vfm: ffmpeg (FFmpeg MPEG-4)
==========================================================================
==========================================================================
Forced audio codec: mad
Opening audio decoder: [libmad] libmad mpeg audio decoder
AUDIO: 48000 Hz, 2 ch, s16le, 128.0 kbit/8.33% (ratio: 16000->192000)
Selected audio codec: [mad] afm: libmad (libMAD MPEG layer 1-2-3)
==========================================================================
AO: [pulse] 48000Hz 2ch s16le (2 bytes per sample)
Starting playback...
VDec: vo config request - 592 x 448 (preferred colorspace: Planar YV12)
VDec: using Planar YV12 as output csp (no 0)
Movie-Aspect is 1.32:1 - prescaling to correct movie aspect.
VO: [xv] 592x448 => 592x448 Planar YV12 
X11 error: BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation)
X11 error: BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation)
X11 error: BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation)
X11 error: BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation)
X11 error: BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation)
X11 error: BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation)
X11 error: BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation) 
GNOME screensaver enabled

Exiting... (Quit)

Note that while mplayer was running it only reproduced sound.

And this is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, oh by the way, I have an x1300 ATI Radeon card and the latest ATI drivers (8.5).

> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "dbe"
	Load  "v4l"
	Load  "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	    "AIGLX" "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
	Option	    "XkbVariant" "intl"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	VendorName   "Generic LCD Display"
	ModelName    "LCD Panel 1280x1024"
	HorizSync    31.5 - 64.0
	VertRefresh  56.0 - 65.0
	Gamma        1
	ModeLine     "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
	ModeLine     "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
	ModeLine     "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
	ModeLine     "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -hsync -vsync
	ModeLine     "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
	ModeLine     "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BoardName   "ati"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	BusID       "PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual   1280 1024
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1280x1024@60" "1280x960@60" "1024x768@60" "800x600@60" "800x600@56" "640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Hope it helps. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2008-06-10
If the problem persists, consider a clean reinstallation of 8.04. Then apply this how-to:
[http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/multimediaubuntustep1](http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/multimediaubuntustep1)

and afterwards this one:
[http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/multimediaubuntustep2](http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/multimediaubuntustep2)

Always works.  :-)

---

### Post by Herzchell on 2008-06-10
Wow! It hasn't even been 5 minutes and someone already replied, Hmm.. I am considering your suggestion, however, I wish there was a different way to fix this, since it has taken me some time to set my O.S. but i'm pretty sure I'll have to re-do everything again, Thanks Pjotr123.

---

### Post by Herzchell on 2008-06-10
I didn't know about this Tutorial Pjotr123, Did you do this?, well, I guess I'll just reinstall, I kind of enjoy it anyways, THANKS Pjotr123!! It's been a satisfactory experience, though the problem persisted but hey! This has happened to me more often on my Windows Box. Have a nice one.

---

### Post by cozmicharlie on 2008-06-10
Before you go to such drastic steps try this first.  Open smplayer, in the menu go to options>prefernces>general.  About half way down is a box that is labeled Output Drivers>Video.  Try changing the settings here.  Use xv first and see if that gives you video.  If not try some other settings.  If these don't help then I would do as pjotr123 suggests and start over.  This tutorial is also very helpful [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683).

Good luck

---

### Post by Herzchell on 2008-06-11
Night cozmicharlie, Tried your suggestion and i got video, question is, what difference is there between X11 & xv drivers?, is there a performance difference? way to re-enable xv? on the xorg.conf maybe?

---

### Post by Herzchell on 2008-06-11
Well I got an unexpected result, I chenged the driver to X11, after I closed the application and re-opened, the xv driver was selected as default and functions properly, I hope it stays like this. Thank you really.

---

### Post by cozmicharlie on 2008-06-11
> **Herzchell said:**
> Well I got an unexpected result, I chenged the driver to X11, after I closed the application and re-opened, the xv driver was selected as default and functions properly, I hope it stays like this. Thank you really.

That is great - glad it is working for you.

To answer the questions in the post above:  The difference is they are just different and which one works depends on your hardware.  In Ubuntu (or any Linux) you don't have drivers like Windows but you can think of these like drivers.  In Windows you need different drivers to run hardware on different configurations - same here even though these are not drivers.

I am not sure you can set this in a config file.  I know each of the video players has this in the options or preferences so I just set it there.

Enjoy your new set up!

---

### Post by cozmicharlie on 2008-06-11
Also - mark this thread solved so others can benefit.

---

### Post by gnimsh on 2012-02-11
I know this has been solved but I'd like to point out this can also be solved by using gstreamer-properties.

Open a terminal, type gstreamer-properties and hit enter. Click the Video tab and in the plugin, choose No Xv. This worked for me.

---

