---
title: ".3GPP corrupt issue"
date: 2013-11-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by chris.minglana on 2013-11-29
I have been googling and downloading for about an hour now to get some of my old .3GPP audio files to play so I can hear what they say but to no avail. To make a long story short, the corrupt audio files contain the audio of my cheating on me and I want to know what is on the audio files. I have tried every converter or repair trick (from zipping then unzipping and reopening to VLC and many other players and converters) and finally decided to find a forum that may help. I searched the forum and could not find anything related to .3GPP other than ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471687](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471687)) so I signed up for this page in hopes I could find out what was going on.

Unfortunately, I cannot upload the file because it gives me a red X and says Invalid File. If anyone could help me get this closure, it would be highly appreciated.

---

### Post by grier-devon on 2013-11-29
have you tried ffmpeg?

---

### Post by chris.minglana on 2013-11-29
Yes, I have tried that and VLC. To no avail. I dont even care if bits and pieces are missing from it. I just wanna hear what it has on the file.

---

### Post by grier-devon on 2013-11-30
Well I have been doing some google searching on the topic and from the sounds of it if ffmpeg and VLC could not do the trick the file may be to broken. I am hoping for someone with more knowledge on the subject to come post but that was the conclusion I came to from the internet. Sorry and the best of luck to you.

---

