---
title: "Resolution Problem"
date: 2009-08-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by davey486 on 2009-08-02
I have a VIA IGP Chrom9 video adapter. With jaunty, I can't seem to get openchrome, or even vesa to work. xorg made a very general xorg.conf file and every time I try to do something, like add "Driver "openchrome"" or "Driver "vesa"" my screen comes back blank. I did what was at [http://forum.netbookuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=836]("http://forum.netbookuser.com/viewtopic.php?id=836") and thought maybe that would help. I pasted the section into my xorg.conf and when I restarted xserver, the logon screen was blank, but I knew it was there because of the sound so I typed in my info, user name, password, and it logged in fine, at 1024x768 with a refresh rate of 0. This didn't seem right to me, but I went on using my computer anyway and then turned it off. When I turned it on in the morning, the login screen didn't come up and there was no sound. So I rebooted in recovery mode, and used the "xfix" option in the menu, and here I am, using my computer at 800x600. I am very happy with 1024x768 if someone could help me get there. Oh yeah here is my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Graphics Card: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 [Chrome9HC]      (Rev 01)
Olovia LT20S 20" LCD TV

I don't know much about Linux and Ubuntu, so any help would be appreciated,
Thanks

---

