---
title: "ATI Proprietary driver is installed but....."
date: 2008-05-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ladysun1 on 2008-05-03
Well I finally got my Ubuntu Hardy install to use the ATI driver but I still cannot verify it when I run fglrxinfo.  Still shows those mesa drivers.  

Below is my /etc/Xorg.conf file :)

Could someone tell me what I missed here?    I'm using the Radeon X1600.




# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "GLcore"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by ozymo on 2008-05-03
Just out of curiosity, is this the /etc/Xorg.conf file or the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

Typically, the xorg.conf is stored in the /etc/X11/ directory.

If you have the file as /etc/Xorg.conf, try this:

```

cp -v /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.original
cp -v /etc/Xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by ladysun1 on 2008-05-04
> **ozymo said:**
> Just out of curiosity, is this the /etc/Xorg.conf file or the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file?

Typically, the xorg.conf is stored in the /etc/X11/ directory.

If you have the file as /etc/Xorg.conf, try this:

```

cp -v /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.original
cp -v /etc/Xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

Hope this helps!
It was the xorg.conf file.  Is this file copying the xorg.conf file to the X11 path?

---

