---
title: "Monitor Resolution &amp; Refresh Rate Problem"
date: 2009-01-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by PurpleDog on 2009-01-28
Hi, I am new to Linux and cannot get my display right. I have installed Ubuntu 8.10 and after install my resolution was 800x600@50Hz. Then there was a prompt that told me to update my NVIDIA graphics driver and I proceeded to do the automatic update and install process and then it said that it was successful. Now I only have 640x480@50Hz.

I normally run my PC 1024x768@100Hz. My graphics card is NVIDIA GeForce 7600 GS. My monitor is a Philips Brilliance 202P4.

**Help ! What do I do now ?????**

**Following is the stats of my monitor:**

Size and Deflection - 21-inch/51 cm, 90 degrees deflection angle
Dot Pitch / Grille Pitch - 0.25 mm
Tube Type - Aperture grille, flat, high-contrast, anti-glare, anti-static, anti-reflection, light transmission 41%
Phosphor - P22
Recommended Display Area - 15.4" x 11.6" / 392 X 294 mm
Maximum Display Area - 16.0" x 12.0" / 406 x 305 mm
Scanning - Horizontal Scanning: 30-130 kHz, Vertical Scanning: 50-160 Hz
Video Dot Rate - 320MHz
Input Impedance - Video: 75 ohm, Sync: 2.2 k-ohms
Input Signal Levels - 0.7 Vpp, Separate Sync
Sync Input Signal - Composite Sync
Sync Polarities - Positive and Negative
White Color Temperature:
9300 K degrees: x = 0.283 / y = 0.297 
6500 K degrees: x = 0.313 / y = 0.329 
5500 K degrees: x = 0.332 / y = 0.347

**This is what my xorg.conf document looks like:**

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by birddog165 on 2009-01-28
The prompt that you got, was it the Restricted Drivers stuff?

You can't just open the properties are resize the monitor can you? or are you saying that the only available size is the 640x480?

---

### Post by PurpleDog on 2009-01-28
Hi.

I don't really know what you mean but when I use the "Change Screen resolution" shortcut it only gives me 640x480@50Hz.

---

### Post by birddog165 on 2009-01-28
If you were to click on System > Administration > Hardware Drivers, a window will pop up and tell you if the drivers are activated. Make sure that you have a driver activated.

---

