---
title: "(17.10) ASUS GL503 no sound on headphones"
date: 2018-01-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by alextop99 on 2018-01-30
Greetings.

I have installed the Ubuntu 17.10 on a Asus Rog GL503 laptop and  I can't get sound on my headphones when I plug them, I can only hear popping sounds.
"aplay -l" lists my card properly and nothing is muted on "alsamixer".  It states that my card is a HDA Intel with chipset ALC295.
Can you please help me?


Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by tinylagarto on 2018-01-30
Just in case. Do you have other headphones to try? 
Does the sound work via speakers and/or other sources?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2018-01-31
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/AlsaInfo](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/AlsaInfo)

---

### Post by alextop99 on 2018-02-18
I tried with other headphones and I still have the same problem. The speakers work and also my usb headphones work.

Here is my AlsaInfo: [www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=37a1e0d93ce4d3c4b1d430b9487cd2e0cc40c12d](www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=37a1e0d93ce4d3c4b1d430b9487cd2e0cc40c12d)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2018-02-18
Your headphone volume is 0 in the info:
```
Simple mixer control 'Headphone',0
  Capabilities: pvolume pswitch
  Playback channels: Front Left - Front Right
  Limits: Playback 0 - 87
  Mono:
  Front Left: Playback 0 [0%] [-65.25dB] [off]
  Front Right: Playback 0 [0%] [-65.25dB] [off]
```

You did have this turned up when you tried the headphones, correct?

---

### Post by alextop99 on 2018-02-21
Yes it was turned up. I updated/upgraded my ubuntu and now it works.

---

### Post by alextop99 on 2018-02-21
Update:
I found the cause of this glitch. On my laptop I have a dual boot system with Windows. If I restart my laptop from Windows and then boot into linux this glitch appears. If I shutdown my laptop before booting linux everything works.

---

### Post by etiaro on 2018-04-30
How did you installed it on gl503? I can run it only with "acpi=off" or "acpi_osi=" but in first case lot of things not works, in second touchpad :/

---

### Post by mghebrishvili on 2018-12-25
> **alextop99 said:**
> Update:
I found the cause of this glitch. On my laptop I have a dual boot system with Windows. If I restart my laptop from Windows and then boot into linux this glitch appears. If I shutdown my laptop before booting linux everything works.
Have you found any other solution for this? I have the same problem on the same laptop. In my case, I didn't try shutting down windows, instead after restarting to ubuntu I would force shut it down and it worked after that.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2018-12-25
Old thread closed. Please start your own thread if you need help with this issue instead of posting in someone else's.

Thanks

---

