---
title: "AC3 5.1 SP/DIF passthrough"
date: 2011-12-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jamespetts on 2011-12-31
In recent versions of Ubuntu, I have been unable to get the digital output on a M-Audio Revolution 7.1 soundcard to pass through AC3/DTS signals to the decoder. Recently, I have read that this is because the Pulse audio driver that comes with recent versions of Ubnutu does not support this passthrough. One tutorial that I found recommended uninstalling Pulse completely and replacing it with ALSA, which I tried, but the last step of the process (installing various esound packages) failed without any meaningful error message, and the system was entirely devoid of all sound until I uninstalled the packages that I had installed and re-installed Pulse audio. 

Has anyone had any success in getting AC/3 passthrough to work in Ubuntu 11.10?

---

### Post by jocko on 2011-12-31
It works for me, but not when using pulseaudio...
To get passthrough from mplayer, start it like this:
```
mplayer -ao alsa -afm hwac3 [COLOR=Blue]filename[/COLOR]
```where [COLOR=Navy]filename[/COLOR] is the actual name (including path) of the file you want to play.
To make mplayer always use alsa and always try ac3 passthrough, put this in your ~/.mplayer/config (the folder .mplayer is hidden in your home directory, press ctrl+h to show it):
```
[default]
afm=hwac3
ao=alsa
```For gnome-mplayer, add this to the same file:
```
[gnome-mplayer]
ao=alsa
afm=hwac3
```Note that it only works when nothing else is using alsa (including pulseaudio), so close all other applications that play sound before you start mplayer (sometimes pulseaudio ties up alsa for a few seconds, so you may need to wait a while before you start mplayer).

Other applications give varying results. Vlc works from time to time, totem never works (it always use pulse with no way to set it to use alsa directly).
The version of pulseaudio in 11.10 is supposed to have passthrough support, but I've never figured out how to get it working (maybe it only works on some sound cards).

---

