---
title: "g.726 audio codec support"
date: 2009-01-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by tescott on 2009-01-03
I've got a couple of Panasonic BL-C131A webcams set up around the house.  They stream MPEG-4 video and G.726 audio.  I've got video working just fine (installed the 'restricted' codec set), but can't seem to get audio working.  The webcam software points me to here for audio problems:

[http://panasonic.net/pcc/support/netwkcam/technic/info/hcm5xx_G726_inst.html](http://panasonic.net/pcc/support/netwkcam/technic/info/hcm5xx_G726_inst.html)

This includes installation instructions for getting the G.726 codec installed on a Windows machine, but of course Linux is not supported.

Is there a way to get this codec installed from another source?  I did a search in the Synaptic manager on G.726 and found 'twinkle' has support.  I tried installing that but I still don't get any audio.  I'm viewing the webcam via Firefox.  Are there further steps maybe that I need to perform to get the codec recognized by Firefox (if it really was installed by installing twinkle)?

Thanks.

---

### Post by tescott on 2009-01-05
Anyone have any ideas?  I saw someone run into similar problems on another forum dating a couple of years back but there were no follow-ups for that person either.  I don't think they ever solved it.

Thanks,
--tim

---

### Post by tescott on 2009-01-17
Anyone?  I normally hate bumping, but I get the feeling that threads get lost pretty quick on this website and I'd really like to find a solution.

Thanks,
--tim

---

### Post by jvcastle on 2009-01-23
> **tescott said:**
> Anyone?  I normally hate bumping, but I get the feeling that threads get lost pretty quick on this website and I'd really like to find a solution.

Thanks,
--tim

Tim and other linux folks with the Panasonic BM-C131A camera or similar  TRY THIS!!!  

I've been hunting and pecking on this for quite a while.  I tried Firefox under wine with the IE tab plug-in, but that seemed to crash (since I didn't have any real underlying IE, which that needs to work, I think).

So -   I did this:

1. Installed "ies4linux"
code:

wget [http://www.tatanka.com.br/ies4linux/downloads/ies4linux-latest.tar.gz](http://www.tatanka.com.br/ies4linux/downloads/ies4linux-latest.tar.gz)

tar zxvf ies4linux-latest.tar.gz

cd ies4linux-*

./ies4linux

2.That installed an executable, "~/bin/ie6" - I just made a new Menu item and added it to my panel.

3.Ran the new "ie6" and went to the  camera.  I then enabled the "MJPEG" refresh rate (from my default of 60 sec) - and waited until the pop-up from Panasonic appeared to install it's plug-ins, let it install and... - Voila! SOUND!!!

I didn't get the MPEG-4 plugin to work yet, but the MJPEG is fine, and yes this is IE6, but hey, it works.

This was installed on 64 bit Ubuntu 8.10, a Dell precision 380 dual-dual core, using its internal audio.  The install failed the first time, but I ran it again and it worked fine.  I did get a warning on install that my wine was an older version, and some other warning, but I ignored those.  And yes, I do have a MS license for this machine (pretty much don't run the 64-bit XP it came with since anything I don't have in Ubuntu, I have inside wine).

Hope that helps !!!!!

 -jvc

---

### Post by tescott on 2009-01-25
Thanks for the tip.  I will definitely give it a shot!!!

--tim

---

### Post by tescott on 2009-01-25
Success!!!  Well.  Sort of.

Step 0) for me was to install Wine.

When I installed ies4linux, I encountered a seg fault.  Ran it again, and it definitely got further, but failed with another seg fault at the Flash player installation.  I tried again and it bombed at the same spot.  On the 4th run, I just removed the Flash install checkbox and it was able to complete successfully.  Wahoo!

I got sound working too, but only through ie6.  I was hoping that Firefox would magically start giving me sound too, but no such luck.  Oh well.  Can't have everything.

Thanks a bunch for the tip!

---

### Post by tescott on 2009-01-25
One side note -- I installed ie6 and although it works, it doesn't appear to close properly.  I have to actively kill it.  Maybe this is a side effect of Wine?  At any rate, just wanted to pass on the comment.

---

### Post by jvcastle on 2009-01-26
> **tescott said:**
> One side note -- I installed ie6 and although it works, it doesn't appear to close properly.  I have to actively kill it.  Maybe this is a side effect of Wine?  At any rate, just wanted to pass on the comment.

hmmm, yes, I just noticed that - it stays connected, and you have to kill it.  Must be a bug or something. - So provisional success...

---

