---
title: "How to watch movies on tv from my laptop"
date: 2009-02-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by notanerd on 2009-02-12
Hi everyone I am trying to watch movies on my tv from my laptop. I have a s-video output from the laptop and an rca video input on the tv. I have the right cable to connect them but have no idea how to make it work. I have looked on the forums for information but don't understand what I am reading. I have an ATI Mobility Radeon 9600.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2009-02-13
> **notanerd said:**
> Hi everyone I am trying to watch movies on my tv from my laptop. I have a s-video output from the laptop and an rca video input on the tv. I have the right cable to connect them but have no idea how to make it work. I have looked on the forums for information but don't understand what I am reading. I have an ATI Mobility Radeon 9600.

Any ideas?

Unfortunately I don't have an ATI in my 'buntu box, but I do what you want to do (run videos on my computer and display on TV) via my Nvidia settings interface.

For ATI I suggest you install the ATI Catalyst Control Centre ( go to Applications > Add/Remove then select Show: All available applications and type ATI Radeon in the search field.

This application should allow you to set up 2 screens (your monitor and your TV).

---

### Post by notanerd on 2009-02-19
ok i installed Catalyst Control centre but it won't open. It comes up with an error saying that I don't have an ati driver installed

---

### Post by konqueror7 on 2009-02-19
have you first tried using the laptop's monitor switching buttons?

---

### Post by notanerd on 2009-02-19
I just tried the button and had no success. Thanks for the suggestion though

---

### Post by konqueror7 on 2009-02-19
see if you can find a solution [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=803724")...

---

### Post by notanerd on 2009-02-19
Didn't help it has no instructions on that page

---

### Post by notanerd on 2009-04-10
i recently had success using a video projector with my laptop. It was connecting using a straight vga cable. If this works should i expect a vga to rca to work?

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2009-04-10
> should i expect a vga to rca to work?
No, you need a converter.

---

### Post by notanerd on 2009-04-11
excuse my ignorance but what would the converter be?

---

### Post by notanerd on 2009-05-13
I finally got catalyst 9.3 installed and working. I can set up cloning through Catalyst Control Centre so that I can watch movies on my tv.

But my problem now is that video playback is crappy now. Watching on a small screen is fine but once I go to full screen the playback is choppy lagging. This happens when using VLC and also online with youtube and google videos.

I have googled this error and it seems like i need to edit my xorg.conf file but I don't know what it is that I am meant to change

here is my x.org.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "UseFastTLS" "1"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by notanerd on 2009-06-10
OK so I have got it to work. I removed fglrx because it was too slow and choppy. But I found some commands that enabled 2 screens to work with the s-video cable. They are as follows

xrandr --output S-video --set load_detection 1
xrandr --addmode S-video 800x600
xrandr --output S-video --mode 800x600

After entering those commands my computer was on my tv. I have to mirror the resolutions in System/Preferences/Screen Resolution if I want to watch movies on the tv, but that is no great hassle. Hopefully this can help some people. Thanks to all those who made suggestions.

---

