---
title: "10.04 mic not working"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by calvimm on 2010-05-11
Hello all.

I just upgraded to 10.04 and my mic has stopped working on Skype as well as Sound Recorded. I've visited a bunch of other forums with the same issue and have tried installing backports and reinstalling ALSA but nothing has worked. When i click on Sound Preferences and then Input tab, there is not even a device shown. Help!

thanks

---

### Post by lakosshoots on 2010-05-11
Same here. No input device in input tab other than webcam which terminates in skype. Bug I guess. Anyone that can help?

---

### Post by swaprava on 2010-05-11
> **calvimm said:**
> Hello all.

I just upgraded to 10.04 and my mic has stopped working on Skype as well as Sound Recorded. I've visited a bunch of other forums with the same issue and have tried installing backports and reinstalling ALSA but nothing has worked. When i click on Sound Preferences and then Input tab, there is not even a device shown. Help!

thanks

 I'm also a similar victim. I used skype in 8.04, where it was working perfectly. All the posts I see is on configuring ALSA properly. Though it is properly configured, the sound control of 10.04 doesn't show alsa as an option to be chosen. I guess this might be a problem. There used to be a GUI of Alsa before (same as the one seen by typing alsamixer on terminal). However, the proper config of alsamixer is not useful to fix this issue... Hope the developers fix this soon.

---

### Post by mmfhaq on 2010-05-12
[B]I also met with Same Problem: [I]Microphone is not Working
[/I]I Use ACER ASPIRE 4736G Laptop
[/B]

---

### Post by fonsi2099 on 2010-05-12
I had many times the same problem, I resolve that only deinstalling pulseudio, (Synaptic Packet Manager) and installing ALSA... it works fine after restart.

---

### Post by Norami on 2010-05-12
Try this out in command line:

```
$ alsamixer -Dhw
```

It will bring up a UI through the command line, make sure you mic is not muted or at 0%. I had the same issue, then found out that it was just on 0%.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-13
> **calvimm said:**
> Hello all.

I just upgraded to 10.04 and my mic has stopped working on Skype as well as Sound Recorded. I've visited a bunch of other forums with the same issue and have tried installing backports and reinstalling ALSA but nothing has worked. When i click on Sound Preferences and then Input tab, there is not even a device shown. Help!

thanks

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449")
> If it is not listed, then there are a few things that you can do.

    *
      If your soundcard is an onboard sound card, then it might be disabled in the system's BIOS. You will have to reboot and hit the key that lets you enter into the BIOS (usually Delete, F2, or F.
    *
      If your soundcard is not onboard, make sure that it is properly seated in the PCI slot. If your card is working under Windows then this is not a problem.


---

### Post by spufidoo on 2010-06-12
I get this problem too - microphone not working in Skype after upgrade to 10.04 from 9.10.

When will the developers fix this? Is there anything I can do to assist?

---

### Post by ghicking on 2010-06-12
I solved it this way:

sudo apt-get install pavucontrol

This installs the gui which allows you to control pulse audio

Applications --> Sound and Video --> PulseAudio Volume Control

Select 'Input Devices' tab.

You should see your mic and probably find the volume is at zero.  Mine is a mic integrated into the webcam (QuickCam Communicate STX) and has it's own volume control. (see screenshot)

Best of luck!

ghicking

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-06-12
If not a volume level issue, try this. 
Use a terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
Enter these commands, one line at a time:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install linux-alsa-driver-modules-$(uname -r)
```
Reboot.

---

