---
title: "9.04 - &quot;Allow flipping&quot; setting in nvidia-settings does not persist on reboot"
date: 2009-10-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mskoh52 on 2009-10-04
Hi all, hope this isn't a redundant topic. I tried searching for this and nothing came up. I just installed 9.04 on a freshly formatted partition and installed the proprietary nvidia drivers that came with the "Hardware Drivers" tool in order to get my dual-monitor setup working.

Everything worked fine, except when I tried to switch between virtual desktops, minimize windows, other things of that nature, there would be this really annoying flicker. The same thing happened in 8.04 and the solution there was to uncheck "Allow flipping" in the nvidia-settings program, so I did this and it worked, but when I reboot, the problem crops up again. The only way to stop it is to go back into nvidia-settings and check then uncheck the "allow flipping" box.

I've tried running it with gksudo and it still resets upon reboot. Anybody know what's going on here? It's really annoying to have to open that stupid program up every time I restart my computer, which is often since hibernate and suspend don't work (but that's for another thread I guess).

---

### Post by dcclabough on 2009-10-04
i have no idea, but it occurred to me that if you click the "save to configuration file" under the "X server display configuration" menu, then that might do something.  
it doesn't make much sense that it would be an option under one menu and apply to the rest, but worth a shot i guess

---

### Post by mskoh52 on 2009-10-04
> **dcclabough said:**
> i have no idea, but it occurred to me that if you click the "save to configuration file" under the "X server display configuration" menu, then that might do something.  
it doesn't make much sense that it would be an option under one menu and apply to the rest, but worth a shot i guess

Hmm, that didn't work, but I've sort of narrowed the problem down some. The settings ARE saved correctly in ~/.nvidia-settings-rc, but for some reason Ubuntu isn't reading this file on startup. If I reboot, don't touch anything except open a terminal and run

```

nvidia-settings -l

```

then the flicker goes away.

So I guess the question now is, why isn't this file being read when Ubuntu first starts? This might be as good a time as any to ask if there is any good documentation on the boot process in 9.04? I've been meaning to get down into the guts of how everything boots up, just for fun, but I can't find anything to get me started.

---

### Post by dcclabough on 2009-10-04
i guess worst case, you can write a script with the command and have it run on startup... shouldn't have to though... let me know what you find

---

### Post by fanglinyong on 2009-10-04
i think you should run your nvidia-settings by root :```
sudo nvidia-settings
```and  you should saved your settings to yours x.org(all this you can see in the nvidia-settings pannel!!remember!
you can saved your settings by root! and after you reboot your pc you will found that your settings kept!

---

