---
title: "5.1 Digital Surround HDMI Audio work partially on front channels (L+R)"
date: 2014-07-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Constantinus on 2014-07-08
Hi,

I currently facing issue with HDMI 5.1 Digital surround using AMD Radeon 5450, the sound works but only front left and front right, the rest just don't output any sound on speaker test. I have tried installing proprietary driver from AMD and also the beta (AMD Catalyst 14.4 and 14.6 beta version 1) but unfortunately no luck. i connect the PC directly into my HDTV also i have tried connecting via my 5.1 amplifier with no luck.

below is the result of aplay -l :
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC887-VD Analog [ALC887-VD Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: ALC887-VD Digital [ALC887-VD Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 1: HDMI [HDA ATI HDMI], device 3: HDMI 0 [HDMI 0]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

I a noob in linux/ubuntu, so please do advise me on what information should i get for further troubleshooting.

Thanks,

---

### Post by Constantinus on 2014-07-22
Hi, Anybody faced some issue with me?

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2014-07-22
in Settings - Sound, Do you see an option for 5.1? I run HD7770 open source drivers and I have this option.

---

### Post by Totzo on 2014-07-22
Not really a solution but here's my tuppence worth: I just decided to go for an hdmi setup due to my soundcard not playing well with spdif passthrough. I bought a nvidia gt 630 for £40 and HD audio works great. I've no experience with amd drivers but the nvidia ones seem to work well for me and I'm no linux guru :)

---

