---
title: "10.04 sound doesn't work"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by elquin on 2010-04-30
Hi, all.
I just installed 10.04 but sound doesn't work.

------------------------------------------
$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/PM/GMS, 943/940GML and 945GT Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/PM/GMS, 943/940GML and 945GT Express PCI Express Root Port (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 3 (rev 02)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 4 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA AHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family SMBus Controller (rev 02)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility X1400
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Agere Systems ET-131x PCI-E Ethernet Controller (rev 02)
05:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)
06:00.0 CardBus bridge: Texas Instruments PCIxx12 Cardbus Controller
06:00.1 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Texas Instruments PCIxx12 OHCI Compliant IEEE 1394 Host Controller
06:00.2 Mass storage controller: Texas Instruments 5-in-1 Multimedia Card Reader (SD/MMC/MS/MS PRO/xD)
06:00.3 SD Host controller: Texas Instruments PCIxx12 SDA Standard Compliant SD Host Controller
----------------------------------------------------

I searched several other threads about it but didn't work.
Please, help me..

---

### Post by andey on 2010-04-30
same for me i think, odd tho

VLC no sound
Youtube no sound

Amarok yes sound
Startup/shutdown yes sound

---

### Post by mustard greens on 2010-05-13
I have exactly what andey has.  sound seems to come back after several reboots, then gos again if I use amarock.  Ive read about this somewhere, but now cant find the post.  for what its worth, my compiz settings are also reseting after every log out.  all problems occurred after 10.04 upgrade.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-13
OK. Update your kernel:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
Now reboot so we can work with the latest kernel.
Install alsa backports:
```
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-alsa-lucid-generic
``` Reboot again.

Now this. Can you post the output of these terminal commands for me please:
```
uname -a
aplay -l
cat /proc/asound/version
head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#* 
```
Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
Please post text output using code tags. *_Also helpful is the make/model of your PC/Laptop._*

Is this new install or upgrade?

---

### Post by mustard greens on 2010-05-13
mine was an upgrade.  I am unsure how to do the clean install without wiping out my home partition.  am unsure how to get the full stats on my machine.  it is a desktop dell w/ 2G duel core RAM and built in sound/video cards.
heres the list you asked for,

aaron@hal:~$ uname -a
Linux hal 2.6.32-22-generic #33-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 28 13:27:30 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux
aaron@hal:~$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC888 Analog [ALC888 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
aaron@hal:~$ cat /proc/asound/version
Advanced Linux Sound Architecture Driver Version 1.0.22.1.
Compiled on Apr 29 2010 for kernel 2.6.32-22-generic (SMP).
aaron@hal:~$ head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#*
Codec: Realtek ALC888
aaron@hal:~$

---

### Post by mustard greens on 2010-05-13
oh yeah, and my sound is currently working.  seems to come back with enough reboots/logouts then quit once I use amarock.  amarock will continue to have sound and system sounds still work, just flash and VLC and movie player quit.

(edit)
 all sound has now quit on me including amarock.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-13
OK, try this. Go here and do 'Part A':
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578")

Next use the alsa-upgrade-script link in my sig to update alsa to latest version - 1.0.23

---

### Post by mustard greens on 2010-05-14
part "A" was not possible to complete.  it requires going to system>preferences>sound.  there is no "sound" option under either preferences or administration.  I have had several people send me to "system>preferences>sound" but there is no such option!  I am pulling my hair out here.

furthermore, these instructions are listed as being for all distributions EXCEPT lucid.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-14
Try using your menu editor, the entry may not be enabled. Or use the Alt+F2 run dialog:
```
gnome-volume-manager
```
My main concern with an upgrade is cruft carried over from your previous install. Pulse config could be an issue. This is the main thing:
```
$ mkdir ~/pulse-backup && cp -r ~/.pulse ~/.asound* /etc/asound.conf /etc/pulse -t ~/pulse-backup/
$ rm -r ~/.pulse ~/.asound* 
$ sudo rm /etc/asound.conf
```
and certainly won't hurt.

---

### Post by mustard greens on 2010-05-15
when I try to run gnome-volume-manager I get a message of no such file or directory, so this may be the problem.  but also, I could not find this app in synaptic. 

I did run the other three clean up commands, but they came up that the files to be removed had already been removed or did not exist.

I appreciate the time and help you have given already, but do you have any advice on the gnome-volume-manager?

---

### Post by mustard greens on 2010-05-15
when I try to run gnome-volume-manager I get a message of no such file or directory, so this may be the problem.  but also, I could not find this app in synaptic. 

I did run the other three clean up commands, but they came up that the files to be removed had already been removed or did not exist.

I appreciate the time and help you have given already, but do you have any advice on the gnome-volume-manager?

I am also in the process of backing up my home partition to try a fresh install.  will let you know how that gos.

---

### Post by Praetor77 on 2010-05-15
Did you try alsamixer?

---

### Post by mustard greens on 2010-05-15
yes Ive tried alsa mixer though Im unsure if it looks correct or not.  I took a screen shot-

[ATTACH]157034[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by emastro on 2010-05-15
Same problem here.

Used to have Kubuntu, got fed up with all the KDE4 problems so I decided to try Ubuntu and a few new ones.

Clean install, system partition completely wiped. System comes up fine, graphics ok, no audio whatsoever. I have had problems in the past with Kubuntu absolutely refusing to use the SoundBlaster and sticking to the on-board VIA VT1708A, but the audio preferences panel in Lucid seems to allow me to correctly select the desired audio card and even remembers the selection between reboots (yay).

No errors anywhere, except in /var/log/messages where I get a lot of "ratelimit.c: X events suppressed" - and no audio whatsoever.

On the other hand, if I connect the speakers to the output of the embedded VIA card, audio works.

And yes, I have checked that

a) the computer is turned on
b) it boots
c) the speakers are connected
d) I am in the same room as the speakers and I would be able to hear the sound if it came out
e) I am not deaf
f) the speakers work fine when connected to another computer or iPod
g) Alsamixer shows no muted channels

so we can dispense with the usual questions.

I followed the instructions in Part A of this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578), right to the point where pavucontrol gives me a "connection failed: connection refused" even though pulseaudio is already running, as ps awx shows (I get a socket already in use error if I try to start it manually, which makes sense); also, pulseaudio stays up if I try to stop it from the init.d startup script and it respawns if I kill -9 it, so there must be something else that invokes it but I don't know what - to be honest I've never really investigated the intricacies of the Linux sound subsystem, for about the same reasons I've never really investigated the mechanisms of corpse putrefaction: I know it happens, I reckon it does stuff that's probably useful, but it's really not something I want to think about.

Any idea why Ubuntu is trying to decide for me which audio card I should use?

(I know, I know, "disable it in the BIOS". The option isn't there. I've looked. Quite a few times)

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-16
I'm not sure what package contains gnome-volume-manager. You could try:
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop
```
Otherwise make sure you have installed:
```
gnome-control-center
gnome-media
gnome-media-common
gnome-system-tools
```

---

### Post by charles_pty on 2010-05-16
I am using the same ubuntu version 10.04 but as a virtual machine on virtual box (windows xp sp3 host) sound doesn´t work either, can someone please help.

kind regards

---

### Post by mustard greens on 2010-05-17
so I have completely reinstalled and am currently having no sound problems.  I have checked and I do have all the gnome packages you listed lidex.

interestingly I still dont have a "sound" option under preferences, but instead I do have the "volume control" option.  I realise now that they are one and the same, but when I boot the live CD or from a secondary installation of lucid on a different partion, there is a sound preferences option under preferences labeled **sound**.  this was a source of much confusion as people were asking me to find this sound option.

I dont know why my fresh install still says "volume control" and not "sound".  I even went through and deleted all my gnome config files from my imported /home only for this one feature to remain unchanged. 

so for now I am completely up to date and my sound is working.  thank you for your diligence lidex.  my advice to all others is back up your /home and do a clean install.

---

### Post by cairnsww on 2010-05-18
Can I come in here as I seem to have a similar, if not identical problem?

I installed from scratch and should not be carrying any debris from my previous install (08.04 where the sound, eventually, worked perfectly. (I wish that I could remember everything that happened before it worked - but the biggest deal was an update).

The data requested for the other problem is, for my machine:

bill@Lucy:~$ uname -a
Linux Lucy 2.6.32-22-generic #33-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 28 13:27:30 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux
bill@Lucy:~$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: STAC92xx Analog [STAC92xx Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
bill@Lucy:~$ cat /proc/asound/version
Advanced Linux Sound Architecture Driver Version 1.0.21.
bill@Lucy:~$ head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#*

The funny thing is that when I move the mouuse there is a bit of a rustle from the speakers. No other sound at all.

Any suggestions?

What should the setting be for 'Profile" in sound settings? 

Bill

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-18
Try an alsa upgrade via the alsa-upgrade link in my sig.
What is the codec of your sound chip:
```
head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#*
```
And what is your PC make/model?

---

### Post by cairnsww on 2010-05-19
bill@Lucy:~$ head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#*
Codec: SigmaTel STAC9227

The machine is a locally manufactured Intel based machine (Mecer). Standard Intel mother board and chip set.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-19
> **cairnsww said:**
> bill@Lucy:~$ head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#*
Codec: SigmaTel STAC9227

The machine is a locally manufactured Intel based machine (Mecer). Standard Intel mother board and chip set.

Thanks. Did you try the upgrade?

---

### Post by ubu84 on 2010-09-08
I recently had this same problem after upgrading my kernel image.  I looked over this thread and found the most helpful suggestion was:

rm -r ~./pulse

You should make a backup of this dir before rm -r.  I usually roll with two disks, one with a alpha or beta version of Ubuntu and the other is my prod machine.

After I did rm -r ~./pulse and rebooted, the directory was recreated and my sound came back.

One thing worth noting is that when I had this problem there wasn't anything under the hardware tab in gnome-volume-control.  Earlier in this post someone was telling Mustard Greens to run gnome-volume-manager, but the correct command is gnome-volume-control.

Cheers!!

---

### Post by enigmaingr on 2010-09-08
Hi,

Still having problems with no sound after running the upgrade script.  Here are the vitals:

Linux brent-desktop 2.6.32-24-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Fri Aug 20 14:24:04 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC662 rev1 Analog [ALC662 rev1 Analog]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: ALC662 rev1 Digital [ALC662 rev1 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
Advanced Linux Sound Architecture Driver Version 1.0.23.
Compiled on Jul  6 2010 for kernel 2.6.32-24-generic (SMP)
Codec: Realtek ALC662 rev1

---

### Post by ubu84 on 2010-09-08
Did you try backup up the .pulse directory, rm -r .pulse, and then rebooting?

---

### Post by enigmaingr on 2010-09-08
> **ubu84 said:**
> Did you try backup up the .pulse directory, rm -r .pulse, and then rebooting?

Is that referring to this set of instructions:

$ mkdir ~/pulse-backup && cp -r ~/.pulse ~/.asound* /etc/asound.conf /etc/pulse -t ~/pulse-backup/
$ rm -r ~/.pulse ~/.asound* 
$ sudo rm /etc/asound.conf

If so, yes, and it all came back with no file found

---

### Post by ubu84 on 2010-09-08
I forgot to mention that I'd done the following:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
```
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-alsa-lucid-generic
```

and then rm -r ~./pulse

I didn't do all the steps mentioned earlier in this thread because I didn't find them necessary.  If lspci sees the audio device then it's there and it's available, it's just a matter of figuring out why Ubuntu isn't utilizing the correct driver/resources to use the audio device.

Give the above a shot, check dmesg before and after doing this and look for anything referring to audio devices and what not.

---

### Post by enigmaingr on 2010-09-08
> **ubu84 said:**
> I forgot to mention that I'd done the following:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
```
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-alsa-lucid-generic
```

and then rm -r ~./pulse

I didn't do all the steps mentioned earlier in this thread because I didn't find them necessary.  If lspci sees the audio device then it's there and it's available, it's just a matter of figuring out why Ubuntu isn't utilizing the correct driver/resources to use the audio device.

Give the above a shot, check dmesg before and after doing this and look for anything referring to audio devices and what not.

Did all of the above (and thanks for the help BTW) to no avail.  Still says that no such file exists when I do the rm - r ~./pulse sequence.  However, when I did dmesg, it came back with a plethora of this error:

rt2500pci_set_device_state: Error - Device failed to enter state 1 (-16)

---

### Post by ubu84 on 2010-09-08
No problem, I've turned to the forums quite a few times to figure out problems, so I figure I can return the favor from time to time.

Run the following command and post the output:

```
ls -latrh /home/<user>/.pulse
```

<user> is your username

---

### Post by enigmaingr on 2010-09-08
> **ubu84 said:**
> No problem, I've turned to the forums quite a few times to figure out problems, so I figure I can return the favor from time to time.

Run the following command and post the output:

```
ls -latrh /home/<user>/.pulse
```

<user> is your username

Certainly.  Here it is:


total 80K
lrwxrwxrwx  1 brent brent   23 2010-09-08 23:04 18fcd2ac6c67c75ab3a4657d4c294e8d-runtime -> /tmp/pulse-IFklqyPX3gAO
-rw-r--r--  1 brent brent  696 2010-09-08 23:04 18fcd2ac6c67c75ab3a4657d4c294e8d-stream-volumes.tdb
-rw-r--r--  1 brent brent  696 2010-09-08 23:04 18fcd2ac6c67c75ab3a4657d4c294e8d-card-database.tdb
-rw-r--r--  1 brent brent  56K 2010-09-08 23:04 18fcd2ac6c67c75ab3a4657d4c294e8d-device-volumes.tdb
drwx------  2 brent brent 4.0K 2010-09-08 23:04 .
-rw-r--r--  1 brent brent   42 2010-09-08 23:04 18fcd2ac6c67c75ab3a4657d4c294e8d-default-source
-rw-r--r--  1 brent brent   43 2010-09-08 23:04 18fcd2ac6c67c75ab3a4657d4c294e8d-default-sink
drwxr-xr-x 47 brent brent 4.0K 2010-09-08 23:04 ..

---

### Post by ubu84 on 2010-09-08
Now do this:

```
cd /home/brent
tar cvf pulsebackup.tar .pulse/
rm -r .pulse

```

This will create a tar ball that you can restore.  Reboot your machine after doing the above steps.

---

### Post by enigmaingr on 2010-09-08
> **ubu84 said:**
> Now do this:

```
cd /home/brent
tar cvf pulsebackup.tar .pulse/
rm -r .pulse

```

This will create a tar ball that you can restore.  Reboot your machine after doing the above steps.

Gotcha. Still no sound

---

### Post by ubu84 on 2010-09-08
If you bring up gnome-volume-control do you see any devices under the Hardware tab?

---

### Post by enigmaingr on 2010-09-08
> **ubu84 said:**
> If you bring up gnome-volume-control do you see any devices under the Hardware tab?

Yes.  It reads: Internal Audio
                1 Output / 1 Input
                Analog Stereo Duplex

---

### Post by ubu84 on 2010-09-08
Make sure you have the correct output device selected.  It's easy to choose the wrong type of output.  I don't really have anything else that I can suggest.  I'm all out of ideas for now...sorry man.  Good luck!!

---

### Post by enigmaingr on 2010-09-08
Thank you so much!  I played around with those controls a little bit.  Turns out my new monitor was missing a cord that I needed all along besides the VGA.  Now I have sound!

---

### Post by ubu84 on 2010-09-08
Sweet!!  Glad I could help.  The next time around you'll know to check all physical connections before moving forward in the troubleshooting process.  I'd assumed that you'd done this already, but whatever.  Live and learn, right?

---

