---
title: "5.1 surround Sound with ATI HDMI"
date: 2011-12-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by theKAB on 2011-12-03
Hello,

I have a desktop that I have recently started turning into a HTPC.  I have it running on Zorin OS 5, which is pretty much the same as Ubuntu 11.04 (it's even labeled as such in the system monitor).  A few days ago I installed a ATI Radeon HD 5450 graphics card in it.  I got the video working without any trouble, but I can't get it to put out surround sound through the HDMI port.  The sound does work, but only in 2 channel stereo.  When I go into "Sound Preferences", my graphics card is listed as:

```
Manhattan HDMI Audio [Mobility Radeon HD 5000 Series]
1 Output
Digital Stereo (HDMI) Output
```Running the aplay -L command in the Terminal gives this

```
default
    Playback/recording through the PulseAudio sound server
pulse
    Playback/recording through the PulseAudio sound server
hdmi:CARD=Generic,DEV=0
    HD-Audio Generic, HDMI 0
    HDMI Audio Output
dmix:CARD=Generic,DEV=3
    HD-Audio Generic, HDMI 0
    Direct sample mixing device
dsnoop:CARD=Generic,DEV=3
    HD-Audio Generic, HDMI 0
    Direct sample snooping device
hw:CARD=Generic,DEV=3
    HD-Audio Generic, HDMI 0
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
plughw:CARD=Generic,DEV=3
    HD-Audio Generic, HDMI 0
    Hardware device with all software conversions
```As a side note, I have a laptop running Ubuntu 11.04 and Windows 7 with an ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4670.  I got surround sound to work in Windows by installing an additional driver from Realtek, but I can't find any similar drivers for Ubuntu.  

Any advice you can give me on either front would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by theKAB on 2011-12-05
Bump

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-12-05
Never used AMD video card but.
You have to use the AMD Catalyst video driver to use the HDA-intel audio codecs (HDMI HDA audio).
It is possible the open source driver has some audio support.

alsa 1.0.24 is recommended.

---

### Post by theKAB on 2011-12-05
I am using the AMD Catalyst driver and alsa 1.0.24 on both machines.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-12-06
With hdmi display & AVR switched on, then X server started & active..
From a X screen terminal (not a console):

speaker-test -c 6 -r 48000 -D hw:0,3

dmesg | grep HDMI

cat /proc/asound/card0/eld#1.0
if this fails have a look for any eld* files..

Does the attched hdmi audio device support real multi-channel or just matrix AC3 ?

---

### Post by theKAB on 2011-12-08
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> With hdmi display & AVR switched on, then X server started & active..
From a X screen terminal (not a console):

speaker-test -c 6 -r 48000 -D hw:0,3

dmesg | grep HDMI

cat /proc/asound/card0/eld#1.0
if this fails have a look for any eld* files..

Does the attched hdmi audio device support real multi-channel or just matrix AC3 ?

It supports real multi-channel.  I am not sure how to get to the X screen terminal.  I looked for the eld files in the /proc/asound/card0/ directory anyway, but I didn't find any.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-12-08
<ctrl>+<alt>+<t>  or pick terminal from the menu or type terminal in the unity search thing..

No ELD files means hdmi handshake from receiver to alsa has failed or no hdmi audio device connected.

In **addition** to the previous cmds asked for can you:

glxinfo | grep OpenGL

I can't help without actually data..

---

### Post by theKAB on 2011-12-08
Ok.  The speaker-test -c 6 -r 48000 -D hw:0,3 command gave this output:

```
speaker-test 1.0.24.2

Playback device is hw:0,3
Stream parameters are 48000Hz, S16_LE, 6 channels
Using 16 octaves of pink noise
Channels count (6) not available for playbacks: Invalid argument
Setting of hwparams failed: Invalid argument

```dmesg | grep HDMI
```

[   33.698579] HDMI hot plug event: Pin=3 Presence_Detect=1 ELD_Valid=0
[   33.712238] HDMI hot plug event: Pin=3 Presence_Detect=0 ELD_Valid=1
```cat /proc/asound/card0/eld#1.0
```

cat: /proc: Is a directory
cat: /asond/card0/eld#1.0: No such file or directory
```glxinfo | grep OpenGL

```
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5000 Series  
OpenGL version string: 4.1.10665 Compatibility Profile Context
OpenGL shading language version string: 4.10
OpenGL extensions:

```

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-12-08
Can check your AMD catalyst install with these:
fglrxinfo
fgl_glxgears

You made a typo:
cat: /asond/card0/eld#1.0: No such file or directory

speaker-test -c 2 -r 48000 -D hw:0,3

It could be odd that presence detect is false when eld_valid is true.
But this PD bit could indicate state change only.


If considering the open source radeon driver:
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTAyMzA](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTAyMzA)

---

### Post by theKAB on 2011-12-09
fglrxinfo gives this:

```
display: :0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5000 Series  
OpenGL version string: 4.1.10665 Compatibility Profile Context

```fgl_glxgears:

```
1756 frames in 5.0 seconds = 351.200 FPS
1810 frames in 5.0 seconds = 362.000 FPS
1879 frames in 5.0 seconds = 375.800 FPS
1866 frames in 5.0 seconds = 373.200 FPS
1832 frames in 5.0 seconds = 366.400 FPS
1809 frames in 5.0 seconds = 361.800 FPS
1873 frames in 5.0 seconds = 374.600 FPS
1896 frames in 5.0 seconds = 379.200 FPS
1886 frames in 5.0 seconds = 377.200 FPS
1800 frames in 5.0 seconds = 360.000 FPS
1866 frames in 5.0 seconds = 373.200 FPS

```I ran the cat /proc/asound/card0/eld#1.0 command again (and spelled it right this time :) ) and got the same result:
```
cat: /proc/asound/card0/eld#1.0: No such file or directory
```speaker-test -c 2 -r 48000 -D hw:0,3 played the test tone and gave this:
```
Playback device is hw:0,3
Stream parameters are 48000Hz, S16_LE, 2 channels
Using 16 octaves of pink noise
Rate set to 48000Hz (requested 48000Hz)
Buffer size range from 64 to 1048576
Period size range from 32 to 524288
Using max buffer size 1048576
Periods = 4
was set period_size = 262144
was set buffer_size = 1048576
 0 - Front Left
 1 - Front Right
Time per period = 10.979886
 0 - Front Left
 1 - Front Right
Time per period = 10.989953

```It played the tone several more times before I closed the terminal, but didn't display anything different.

I haven't really thought about using the open source driver.  I'll look into it a little over the weekend.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-12-09
If the catalyst driver does not work the open source will not..

Your hdmi audio receiver is not handshaking with ELD data.
There should be hdmi eld events in dmesg.
There should be eld data in /proc/asound/card0/eld... etc.

speaker-test can only test PCM not AC3/DTS pass-thru'.

Can you connect to a named brand AVR HT amp or TV ?

---

### Post by theKAB on 2011-12-10
I have it connected to a Pioneer 520K right now, and I have had it hooked up to my Vizio TV.  In either case I can only get stereo.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-12-10
Does your AVR have EDID/ELD management options ?
- cache
- modify
- pass thru'

The TVs audio capabilities are limited c.f. the AVR.

Are you sure there are no eld files in /proc/asound/card0/ ?

Are you sure the Catalyst drivers are recent enough ?
Should have AMD splashed/sploshed everywhere not ATI.

---

### Post by theKAB on 2011-12-11
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> Does your AVR have EDID/ELD management options ?
- cache
- modify
- pass thru'

The TVs audio capabilities are limited c.f. the AVR.

Are you sure there are no eld files in /proc/asound/card0/ ?

Are you sure the Catalyst drivers are recent enough ?
Should have AMD splashed/sploshed everywhere not ATI.

It turns out that there is an eld#0.0 file in my /proc/asound/card0/ directory.  It's the only eld file in that directory.  I guess I just overlooked it.  Sorry if it caused you any inconvenience.  I ran the cat /proc/asound/card0/eld#0.0 command and got this:

```
monitor_present        0
eld_valid        1
monitor_name        
connection_type        HDMI
eld_version        [0x0] reserved
edid_version        [0x0] no CEA EDID Timing Extension block present
manufacture_id        0x0
product_id        0x0
port_id            0x0
support_hdcp        0
support_ai        0
audio_sync_delay    0
speakers        [0x0]
sad_count        0
```

My amp does have a "Pass Thru" setting, but I don't have it set to that.

I'm using the "ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver".  I'm starting to think surround sound just won't work for this card without the Realtek surround sound driver that's only available in Windows.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-12-11
No. The Realtek sound device is just a HDA-intel codec..There is no special driver required just snd_hda_intel (& a snd_..._hdmi).

The RealTek driver (windows) is just pimped nonsense.

I don't mean audio pass-thru.. It could be ELD management or called EDID/ELD  control.

You do have the amp turned on before loading X server ?
Can logout/login to restart X.
Your eld file is blank, no ELD received after presence detected..

Is there any audio setup stuff in Catalyst control centre ?
I think you need to find a AMD HDMI user.
Unfortunately (for you) the best support & documentation in with nVidia.
AMD wins the multi-monitor support.

---

### Post by MoreOrLess on 2011-12-11
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> If the catalyst driver does not work the open source will not work
It could be a bug in Catalyst. BTW, HD 5k HDMI support is forthcoming..
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTAyNDY](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTAyNDY)

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-12-12
see post #9

What is needed is an AMD HD5000 series user with working HDMI audio.

---

