---
title: "9.04 mic...no sound"
date: 2009-11-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jauntybluefish on 2009-11-17
My last effort to fix this.
No mic sound when using Skype.
Normal playback and other sounds working fine.

aplay -l readout

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: SB [HDA ATI SB], device 0: ALC883 Analog [ALC883 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 1: default [VOIP USB Phone           ], device 0: USB Audio [USB Audio]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

Volume settings in Gnome alsa mixer are all unmuted, but the two input checkboxes in the bottom left of the gui always stay unchecked no matter how many times they are checked.
In Skype, when I have the USB phone plugged in it is recognised and I can hear the person on the other end but they cannot hear me.

PLEASE..anybody out there who can help me.
I am on the point of ditching Ubuntu because if i want to use skype I have to boot Windows and it's driving me mad.

Thanks
Andy

---

### Post by gisebrecht on 2009-11-17
This is from
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gst0.10-python/+bug/443146](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gst0.10-python/+bug/443146)
It worked for me, all I had to do was reboot.
Changed the audio out from amplified to not amplified.
Grant



Solved for me with a small workaround after googleing a bit, it is not the best solution but it will suffice until an official fix is released. My hardware config:
 jmr@wopr:/etc/modprobe.d
$ lspci -nn | grep -i audio
00:1b.0 Audio device [0403]: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller [8086:27d8] (rev 02)
 jmr@wopr:/etc/modprobe.d
$ cat /proc/asound/card0/codec#* | grep Codec
Codec: Realtek ALC883
Codec: LSI Si3054
 The workaround:
 sudo gvim /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
 Add the following line at the end of the file:
 options snd-hda-intel model=laptop
 Finally after every reboot you must do:
 killall pulseaudio
sudo alsa force-reload

---

