---
title: "8.04 ... ummmm, about nspluginwrapper..."
date: 2008-11-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by longtex on 2008-11-17
... I think it's causing problems (still?). In playing e.g. youtube vids, it will play once (actually, it'll repeat the same one multiply, okay) but if you switch to another vid, there's no picture, although sound is okay. You can exit FF and when you come back in, it's okay... once.

ps -ax  while FF is running shows> 
10429 ?        Sl     0:10 /usr/lib/firefox-3.0.3/firefox
10452 ?        Sl     0:44 /usr/lib/nspluginwrapper/i386/linux/npviewer.bin --plugin /usr/lib/flashplugin-nonfree/libfla

I'm thinking I should be running something in the x86-64 libs, not i386... obviously something's not quite al dente.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-11-17
A native 64-bit version of Flash was released today. It's a Flash 10 Alpha release, but it seems to work a lot better than 32-bit Flash 10 "stable" running through nspluginwrapper 1.1.2.

See [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6200737&postcount=456](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6200737&postcount=456) if interested in the 64-bit version.

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2008-11-17
Hardy's nspluginwrapper is too old to work correctly with Flash 10 (it's a bug in the "windowless mode" support).

If you don't want to try the 64-bit plugin (it's an alpha release, so may not be stable), my PPA has updated nspluginwrapper and Flash 10 packages (it's a lot cleaner than following manual steps to install Flash/nspluginwrapper).

See: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578)

---

### Post by longtex on 2008-11-18
> **psyke83 said:**
> Hardy's nspluginwrapper is too old to work correctly with Flash 10 (it's a bug in the "windowless mode" support).

If you don't want to try the 64-bit plugin (it's an alpha release, so may not be stable), my PPA has updated nspluginwrapper and Flash 10 packages (it's a lot cleaner than following manual steps to install Flash/nspluginwrapper).

See: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578)

Do we need to anything to uninstall the previous crapola?

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2008-11-18
> **longtex said:**
> Do we need to anything to uninstall the previous crapola?

The guide covers pretty much everything. The flashplugin-nonfree and nspluginwrapper packages will upgrade smoothly, but you need to follow the guide to resolve other issues (such as ensuring libflashsupport is removed - it's evil).

If you performed manual installs of Flash (instead of using the official package), do this before following the guide:
```
$ sudo updatedb
$ locate libflashplayer.so
```

Delete all references to *libflashplayer.so.

---

### Post by longtex on 2008-11-19
Well... it's certainly different... After following the steps (64-bit, A, and B) I am now back to no youtube at all. Just before I ran through these, youtube was mostly working... it was unstable, in that it would always run a vid when FF first started, then would sometimes run s different video and sometimes not, but upon exiting FF and restarting would play that "new" vid. It is now back to playing only once and then freezing for a time (off wanking about with something) before starting to respond again, but not displaying anything vid-ish - no box, no "loading", nothing but a blank space where the vid window should be. Exiting FF and restarting will display once. Going to a terminal while FF is not responding and killing the npviewer task will bring back the response, of course.

Am I just not getting the updates added, or what? Any idea at all? What should be the code file date, or does that tell us anything?

---

### Post by longtex on 2008-11-19
> **Temüjin said:**
> A native 64-bit version of Flash was released today. It's a Flash 10 Alpha release, but it seems to work a lot better than 32-bit Flash 10 "stable" running through nspluginwrapper 1.1.2.

See [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6200737&postcount=456](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6200737&postcount=456) if interested in the 64-bit version.

After trying pyke's instructions, the alllmost-working FF went back to previous behavior. I had missed yours, and thought perhaps this would be the key, but now it not only doesn't run videos, FF itself is screwed up. It now STARTS in a non-responding mode for quite a spell, even without a youtube tab (although it does have an about:plugins tab). When it finally comes up, I look at ps -ax in terminal and see a number of zombie FF's - I think roughly the same as # of tabs. I'm about ready to shitcan the whole installation - if I could remove FF and start over, I'd do that, but it won't remove, claiming other stuff is dependent on it, so I guess I'm stuck with a complete rebuild... 

Hey, thanks, anyway - I do appreciate the help, I'm just too stupid to follow it properly.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-11-19
I'm using the new alpha version Flash 64 bit and it works great for me.

---

