---
title: "12.10 - audio controls - &quot;configuration/profile&quot; support still missing?!"
date: 2012-10-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by edgue on 2012-10-22
Hello there,

I was really frustrated when I realized that 12.04 changed the default audio controls ... by removing the ability to specify a "profile" for each sound device. Basically this prevents you from switching a device to "off".

Now I remember two things:
a) I complained here and there ... and on some mailing list I was told "well, during some meeting of the corresponding developer group, it was decided to re-establish this feature for 12.10"

b) I think I ran one of the alpha or betas of 12.10 in a virtual machine ... and yes, there I saw sound settings with "profile" support again.

But now .... I just installed 12.10 final ... and again, no more way to configure profiles. 

Probably I am the only person on the planet that cares; but maybe not ... so in case anybody else can comment on this topic ... feel free to do so ;-)

And just to be precise:
* I do know that can use the "pulse volume controls" to access profiles. But I find it annoying to be forced to use that stuff.
* In case you are wondering why anybody wants to switch off devices: my laptop runs in two configs ... standalone; then there should not be any sound
coming from it; and in a docking station, connected to a USB headset; then all sound should be coming from the headset. The only way to accomplish such a setup is to disable the laptop internal audio by profiling it to "off".

---

