---
title: "14.04.3 Firewire capture no longer working"
date: 2015-09-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by cscj01 on 2015-09-01
I have Ubuntu 14.04.3 x64.  I have been using Kino and Kdenlive to capture video from my Sony GV-D200 cassette recorder.  These are Hi-8 cassettes that I recorded and am now digitizing.  Until recently (I'm not sure when, but it has been since I installed 14.04) I have been able to capture the tapes.  After a spell of inactivity, I tried to resume this activity.  Now, neither Kino or Kdenlive recognize my device.  The only things I have done to the system since it was working is apply the upgrades.  Here are some results from commands.
```
dvgrab
Error: no camera exists

```
```
lsmod | grep firewire
firewire_ohci          40409  0 
firewire_core          68769  1 firewire_ohci
crc_itu_t              12707  1 firewire_core
```
```
more /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-firewire.conf
# Select the legacy firewire stack over the new CONFIG_FIREWIRE one.

blacklist ohci1394
blacklist sbp2
blacklist dv1394
blacklist raw1394
blacklist video1394

#blacklist firewire-ohci
#blacklist firewire-sbp2
```
```
lsmod | grep 1394


```
```
lspci | grep -E -i "(1394|firewire)"
05:01.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6306/7/8 [Fire II(M)] IEEE 1394 OHCI Controller (rev c0)
```This is the message I get from running coriander:

Screenshot from 2015-09-01 17:06:30[ATTACH=CONFIG]264164[/ATTACH]```
[plugctl -n
raw1394 - couldn't get handle: Invalid argument
This error usually means that the raw1394 driver is not loaded or that /de.v/raw1394 does not exist.
``````
sudo ln /dev/fw0 /dev/raw1394
ln: failed to create hard link ‘/dev/raw1394’: File exists
``````
ls -l /dev/raw1394
crw------- 2 root root 249, 0 Sep  1 16:25 /dev/raw1394

```I also tried editing /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-firewire.conf, commenting the first 4 entries and uncommenting the last 2, and then rebooting.  All this changed was my /dev/raw1394 was deleted, so I relinked /dev/fw0 to /dev/raw1394.  The commands gave me the same results except for the listing of /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-firewire.conf.

Since this worked before under 14.04 and my PC is the same (no changes in hardware), I am at a loss.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by cscj01 on 2015-09-01
Well, I am a little red faced about this.  Seems the problem was a loose cable connection from the recorder to the firewire adaptor.  Should have checked it first thing, but I was in too much of a hurry and didn't think things through.  Hopefully, someone else can read this and learn to think before they go off on a tangent.

---

### Post by PopsTheSailor on 2015-09-02
Hoping for a little advice here. I'm about to start capturing my old Hi-8 tapes off of a Sony DVR-22. I don't have the cable so I'm going to buy one. Do I just get a USB to 1394 Firewire cable?

---

### Post by GeorgeKar on 2015-09-07
I have recently a same problem..I have Windows 7 in an other partition and I found that neither that os can work with ohci driver. So I found a solution...I open the pc and i uninstall the firewire card. Then I place card again in the position and now is working fine..(although not from Kdenlive, only from dvgrab, you can use dvgrab -i to open interactive use of dvgrab, press ? to read which key press to capture, to rewind, etc..)

---

### Post by PopsTheSailor on 2015-10-24
Bump. I didn't really see an answer to my question. Will a USB to i1394 work? I have a laptop so I can't put a 1394 card in it.

---

### Post by royleith on 2016-05-10
@PopsTheSailor

Those USB to Firewire cables and convertors have been reported to work in some video instances, but they are just wiring interconnects and contain no USB to protocal conversion. When used with, say, an audio Firewire interface, they stop the USB ports from working at all.

There are some expensive, true USB to Firewire protocol convertors, but I suspect they will have problems supporting full Firewire 400 interfaces.

---

