---
title: "White screen after shutdown in Jaunty"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-04-24
I'm having the same issue as [this user]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1119762") on the System76 forum.  After the logout splash screen my screen goes white, then starts to dim around the edges before the system finally shuts down.  So far, my system hasn't locked at the white screen as mentioned in that thread, but I've only rebooted three or four times since I started having this problem yesterday after installing Jaunty.

My video card is an nVidia GeForce 8400M GS.  I'm currently using the 180 driver, but I tried the 177 driver and had the same problem.  I don't see anything unusual in my xorg.conf file, but I'm no expert when it comes to video problems.

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by zougoulou59 on 2009-04-25
Hi

I have the same problem here,
my video card is also an GeForce 8400M.

---

### Post by HUS on 2009-04-25
Hi

here too, exactly the same problem on dell xps m1330, nvidia 8400M GS

:/

---

### Post by p3y on 2009-04-25
The same on an Acer Aspire 5920 with Nvidia 8600GT. I already upgraded the drivers to 180.53 but it did not help. Using the nv-driver the problem does not occur.

I think I'll try the current beta...

---

### Post by s3MA00RRNY on 2009-04-25
Yeah, same here as well. It sounds like everything is still working, but I can't see anything. I am relieved to know that my graphics card isn't fried though. Just another minor flaw. I knew I should have waited for the bugs to iron out before upgrading.

---

### Post by s3MA00RRNY on 2009-04-25
Bug filed: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules/+bug/367059](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules/+bug/367059)

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-04-25
Except that it also involves a white screen, that bug doesn't seem to be related to my problem.

---

### Post by Votritis on 2009-04-27
I have the same problem!My video card nVidia GeForce 8600mGS(acer aspire 5920g)  driver 180.44,ubuntu 9.04

---

### Post by jasonwert on 2009-04-28
I'm having the same white screen issue. I have a Dell XPS m1330 with the GeForce 8400M graphic card. 
I'm currently using Jaunty, but also experienced the screen in Intrepid and when I ran CrunchBang Linux.

---

### Post by skillllllz on 2009-04-29
I too am seeing this issue on my Dell Inspiron 1420n, after upgrading to Jaunty. I am using the nvidia driver if that helps.

---

### Post by smcoll on 2009-05-11
i solved this issue today when i installed the Nvidia beta drivers per [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1125400]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1125400").  i can't say for sure that was what fixed it, because during the procedure i discovered that Firestarter was hanging on shutdown, so i removed it.  i would be interested to know if anyone else having the white screen problem also has Firestarter and if that was causing an issue on shutdown.

---

### Post by natirips on 2009-05-28
I have the same issue since I switched to 9.04, GeForce 8400M G on Acer Aspire 5520G. Everything was fine with Ubuntu 8.04. Also everything is fine with Paldo 1.17. I am using only 64-bit OSes.

When I shutdown all I get is the shutdown splash screen for a moment and then the white screen. If I leave it for hours if dimms into something greenish. I tried both the 173 and 180 drivers. I get better performance with the 173 driver though so I use that one.

It succesfully shutdown only once. I can usually shut down from the white screen if I press the power button a few times, but often I have to do a hard shutdown.

@smcoll: I don't have firestarter installed. I don't want to try that howto because I'm supposed to be able to fix my xorg after if it crashes in the process, but according to my past expirience every time X wouldn't start I eneded up reinstalling.

Edit:
[This (http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152932)]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152932") fixed my problem (at least for now): remove the "splash" word from /boot/grub/menu.lst so it look like this:

```
title		Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-11-generic
uuid		8fa6e2a2-6d4c-4925-8aab-3c2b56b49c14
root (hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic root=UUID=8fa6e2a2-6d4c-4925-8aab-3c2b56b49c14 ro quiet 
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic
quiet
```
It seems a bit slower now (shutdown and startup) but works for me.

---

### Post by skillllllz on 2009-06-02
> **natirips said:**
> I have the same issue since I switched to 9.04, GeForce 8400M G on Acer Aspire 5520G. Everything was fine with Ubuntu 8.04. Also everything is fine with Paldo 1.17. I am using only 64-bit OSes.

When I shutdown all I get is the shutdown splash screen for a moment and then the white screen. If I leave it for hours if dimms into something greenish. I tried both the 173 and 180 drivers. I get better performance with the 173 driver though so I use that one.

It succesfully shutdown only once. I can usually shut down from the white screen if I press the power button a few times, but often I have to do a hard shutdown.

@smcoll: I don't have firestarter installed. I don't want to try that howto because I'm supposed to be able to fix my xorg after if it crashes in the process, but according to my past expirience every time X wouldn't start I eneded up reinstalling.

Edit:
[This (http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152932)]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152932") fixed my problem (at least for now): remove the "splash" word from /boot/grub/menu.lst so it look like this:

```
title        Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-11-generic
uuid        8fa6e2a2-6d4c-4925-8aab-3c2b56b49c14
root (hd0,0)
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic root=UUID=8fa6e2a2-6d4c-4925-8aab-3c2b56b49c14 ro quiet 
initrd        /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic
quiet
```It seems a bit slower now (shutdown and startup) but works for me.


I have verified that removing "splash" from /boot/grub/menu.lst does make the white screen go away. Does anyone have any suggestions on how to properly fix this issue?

---

### Post by natirips on 2009-06-02
> **skillllllz said:**
> I have verified that removing "splash" from /boot/grub/menu.lst does make the white screen go away. Does anyone have any suggestions on how to properly fix this issue?
Also, with splash screen on, (on my laptop Acer Aspire 5520G at least) it is possible to shutdown from the white screen by waiting for a few seconds, then closing the lid, opening it and closing again. It's down after that. Strange...

---

### Post by pveurshout on 2009-07-31
I recently installed Jaunty on my new laptop (nVidia FX770M graphics) and also experience this problem. So far it has shut down properly after showing the white screen for a few seconds (actually its half white, half white + dimming/brightening parts of the screen seemingly randomly), but yesterday it hung until I did a manual shut down by pressing the powerbutton for a few seconds.

Apart from an easy fix -a simple driver update (if that causes the problem) would be nice for a n00b like me ;)- I was wondering whether the occurring of such a situation can physically damage any hardware components (screen, graphics card) as it does get quite bright?

---

