---
title: "Wow 4.0 wont allow over &quot;fair&quot; graphics with Nvidia GTX 260"
date: 2010-11-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by battlemage04 on 2010-11-07
ive recently come into Linux from Windows... (insert as much hate for microsoft as possible in one forum post, here.) its just happened that ive come to this point upon the release of 10.10 ubuntu and i like the setup.

anyway i figured out how to install the latest nvidia driver, and am aside from having trouble with the "modules" i think most of the installation went well enough. however, settings on World of Warcraft do not reflect the capabilities i KNOW that this graphics card should possess. can someone walk me through a method (preferably a quick and easy one)  to make sure all of the features are open for use by the video card?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-11-07
Are you using the OpenGL version of WoW?

---

### Post by battlemage04 on 2010-11-08
thats a damn good question... i cant find any documentation with my WoW disk that says anything about the graphics.

here is my xorg.conf

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 260.19.12  (buildmeister@builder101)  Fri Oct  8 13:54:10 PDT 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-11-08
[http://forums.nvidia.com/index.php?showtopic=15607](http://forums.nvidia.com/index.php?showtopic=15607)

---

### Post by krupintupple on 2010-11-08
i'll hopefully be able to expand on this once i'm home and not on a break, but take heart: when i ran WoW on a dual-boot computer, i found that - even with the exact same hardware - it ran a LOT smoother and faster in Linux.

also, welcome to the club :)

---

### Post by battlemage04 on 2010-11-09
oh wow... well i added the -openGL and then.. the settings allowed in the wow video control were EVEN WORSE! >.< although on the plus side.. it did allow for 4x multi-sampling.. which was interesting.

---

### Post by bxcrx on 2011-01-09
Same problem here 

Running 10.10 x64 
Wine ver 1.2.x
Nvidia 8800 GTS Card
Lasted nvidia driver

The video setting only allows me to move the video settings slider from low, to fair.  Anything between fair, and ultra is a red bar.

When I used -opengl the video settings only allowed me to use "low".

When I boot the same system into the Windows 7 partition I can move the slider to Ultra with no issues.

I tried using the config file from Windows with no change.

---

### Post by svinkle on 2011-05-13
This has to do with the [kernel's CPU frequency scaling]("http://wine.1045685.n5.nabble.com/Bug-24119-New-WoW-Cataclysm-installer-complains-about-Insufficient-CPU-speed-td2651258.html#a2837538"). Add the [CPU Frequency Monitor]("http://maketecheasier.com/how-to-control-your-cpu-frequency-in-ubuntu/2009/04/10") to one of your panels and set it to something other than the default setting. I have mine set to "Performance" which stablizes my CPU frequency. Now I can set the graphics in WoW higher than "fair". Some things are still limited though, due to my hardware.

Hope this helps. :-)

---

### Post by cwwilson721 on 2011-05-19
Don't believe the above posts (most of them). It has NOTHING to do with "Frequency Scaling" or the CPU, or ANYTHING LIKE THAT.

Here is what is happening (and why you can't do anything about it):
[LIST]
[*]wine uses OpenGL. Even calls to D3D are 'translated' to OpenGL within wine (for lack of a better term)
[*]Since Linux does NOT use D3D, it uses OpenGL for 3D video/gaming.
[*]The 'Advanced' features for WoW video are for D3D.
[*]Since wine/WoW uses OpenGL and NOT D3D, it cannot use these 'Advanced' features.
[*]WoW in OpenGL mode do not use anything above Shader 2.0, so things like sunshafts, etc, are NOT available.
[/LIST]

It has NOTHING to do with hardware, CPU scaling, GPU scaling, or anything. It has to do with the translations between OpenGL > wine > WoW (And THEIR implementation of OpenGL, which is not a full one).

If you want speed/FPS, run in OpenGL with settings at their lowest (Not just the slider, but all the settings), then tweak all the individual settings ONE AT A TIME until you acheive the balance betweeen FPS and 'eyecandy' that you want.

The wine forum here at Ubuntuforums.org has a TON of posts about WoW. Search there.

---

