---
title: "7600GS Limited to 1024x768?"
date: 2009-06-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ExoriaX on 2009-06-17
Experience on Linux or Ubuntu: New but will gladly to do anything to get a problem fixed.
Driver Version: 180 from Hardwares Driver (Max is still 1024x768)

I got 2 questions:

1. Why does Ubuntu use 50Hz instead of 60Hz? Windows usually use 60Hz.

2. On windows, I am able to change resolution to 1280x960 and my monitor is (CRT 17"). On Ubuntu I can't change resolution higher than 1024x768. It is really bother me because the GUI is too big. 1024x768 on windows look better than this but I still always use 1280x960 on windows.

So, I am wondering how can I change resolution to 1280x960 it is the highest my monitor can do on Windows and will looks much better than 1024x768 on Ubuntu.

Any help appreciated.

Thanks,
Exor

---

### Post by AoSteve on 2009-06-17
Do a search on Xorg.Conf file editing.  

However, I'm gonna say this as I had the same problem.  If you're running a standard VGA, the card won't read the monitor nearly as well as DVI-D.   I had more than a handful of troubles with my setup of my LG 20" lcd and my 8800GTS.   I couldn't get to 1680x1050 for ANYTHING.

I was running a SVGA (dsub) to DVI connector for my video card so I could use a SVGA cable.  A new cable fixed me up instantly.  [Monoprice]("http://www.monoprice.com") hooked me up with a DVI-D cable in about two days and ubuntu booted into my monitors native resolution without even needing my help :)

[My thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1182435") is pretty much a detailed round of events I had with it LOL!

If this isn't a help, just ask, I'll reply and help you get it fixed up if I can.  :)  Good luck bud!  Happy Ubuntuing!

---

### Post by Therion on 2009-06-17
Go to Applications > Add/Remove.
Make sure the filter is showing "All available applications" from the dropdown menu.
Type **nvidia** in the search bar.
Install the "NVIDIA X Server Settings" package.
Once installed go to System > Administration > nVidia X Server Settings and then click on *X Server Display Configuration*, choose your preferred screen resolution and save the new profile.

---

### Post by ExoriaX on 2009-06-17
Awesome! Therion, your explanation worked great! It looks awesome now.

Thanks very much.

---

### Post by Therion on 2009-06-17
Great...  Glad that worked out for you.  

That's an awesome little package that lets you tweak the bejeezus out of your nVidia graphics card.  Go nuts.

---

### Post by ExoriaX on 2009-06-19
I am now having problem with saving configuration. I am able to get backup deleted from another thread.

Every time I save it to X config, I log out and log back in. The resolution went back to 1024x768 (Wanted 1280x960).

I don't know what to do now.

Any help appreciated.

Thanks,
Exor

P.S. I might not be back till this Sunday June 21st.

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2009-06-19
It seems u have to use nvidia-xconfig with write permissions to xorg.conf.
Do this:
Right-click on the System menu, chose edit menus, on the menus list (left) scroll down to system->administtration (if necessary, click on the triangle left of "System" to be able to see tha administration menu), select "Administration", and on the right menu (items) select "NVIDIA X server settings", click on properties and modify the command to look like this:

gksudo /usr/bin/nvidia-settings

Click close and close.
Select the resolution and refresh rate, click apply then "Save to X Configuration File".

The changes should remain permanent.

---

### Post by AoSteve on 2009-06-19
I always just open a terminal and use

```

sudo nvidia-settings

```

:)   That way others that may use my system can't destroy my Xorg.conf file LOL

---

