---
title: "No Graphics Drivers Installed...help me."
date: 2008-10-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by SyntaxMage on 2008-10-27
Alright, I'm still a total noob to ubuntu, but I'm learning. So here's the problem. I just installed Ubuntu 8.4 on our family computer because everyone was sick and tired of windows and it's gosh darn need to be slower than a snail on flypaper. Anyhow, when it installed it doesn't read any graphics drivers. Not even disabled ones. Screensavers not working consequently, also no desktop effects. If anyone could tell me how to find out what kind of card is in the comp and how to get the drivers and such it would be much appreciantd. Thanks. 

linux noob for now,
syntaxmage

---

### Post by xnerdx on 2008-10-27
Run this command in terminal (Applications>Accessories>Terminal)

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

Post your results here

---

### Post by SyntaxMage on 2008-10-27
here's what i got:

mike@family-desktop:~$ lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video (rev 01)
mike@family-desktop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [KM400/A] Chipset Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 PCI Bridge
00:0a.0 Communication controller: Agere Systems V.92 56K WinModem (rev 03)
00:0b.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): VIA Technologies, Inc. IEEE 1394 Host Controller (rev 80)
00:0f.0 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VIA VT6420 SATA RAID Controller (rev 80)
00:0f.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 81)
00:10.4 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 86)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237 ISA bridge [KT600/K8T800/K8T890 South]
00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 60)
00:11.6 Communication controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. AC'97 Modem Controller (rev 80)
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 78)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8378 [S3 UniChrome] Integrated Video (rev 01)
mike@family-desktop:~$

---

### Post by xnerdx on 2008-10-27
Okay I just remembered I need a copy of your xorg.conf. Go into terminal and run:
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Enter your password then it will open a text file copy and paste the information in the text file here, or upload a copy.

---

### Post by SyntaxMage on 2008-10-27
sorry it took so long. here's what i got:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by xnerdx on 2008-10-29
Well because I had the same problem when I was using 8.04 this may or MAY NOT help you, we will see :). Find this code
```

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```
in the xorg.conf
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
When you find that in the xorg then edit it to look like this:
```

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver  "via"
BusID   "PCI:01:00:0"
EndSection

```

After you do so save the file, either by closing it and answering yes to the prompt, or by clicking the disk, or file save...ect. After you have saved it close it and the press CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE on your keyboard. Your computer will seem to have "crashed"! NOTE: THATS NOT WHAT IS IT DOING! After this is done we should be set.
Explanation: Based upon your xorg.conf your video device had no drive set to it, so the automatic configuration may have caused it to be running the vesa drive (Vesa is the worst possible drive for any graphics card, its purpose is to emulate graphics for the user so that the user can reconfigure the drive or it is there just in case no supported driver is present). What we did is we went into the xorg.conf file and manually set the driver for the video card. Now just in case you don't know the xorg.conf is somewhat similar to registry or device manager in windows... I guess you could say that. It stores information about devices that are connected to the computer (Keyboard, Mouse, Monitor, GPU, ect) and it sets up the drives and options that should be used for this device. Also, when you do the CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE command it brings up the black screen for a couple seconds and then goes to the login screen, hopefully doesn't prompt you about running in low-graphics mode due to bad xorg.conf, yet if it does run in low-graphics mode and post here and I will tell you what to do. Anyways, the CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE command what it does is "reset" or "reload" the xorg.conf file without restarting the computer and loading up the kernal ect... Anyways post back here with your results, if you are able to load into your account after the xorg.conf reset then go into System>Preferences>Appearance then in the box go to the last tab and try clicking one of the other enhanced graphics settings, if it lets you change it, and it wouldn't before, then were good :).

---

### Post by SyntaxMage on 2008-10-30
Alright. A couple of things. First, I did what you said, saved it, CTRL+ALT+Backspace and it did what it was supposed to do, no prompt about running in low graphics mode, but the desktop effects still refuse to work. Also I wanted to say thank you A LOT for the explination. It makes it much easier to learn things when someone is explaining them rather than just telling me what to do. Thank you again for that. Anyway, not sure what you think I should do now.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-10-30
I don't want to sound pessimistic, but it is possible that your graphic card does not support hardware acceleration, which is needed in order to be able to get compiz running. I had a similar problem with my mother's computer and posted about it on this Thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=948135](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=948135)
Check out Ajmorris's advice.

---

