---
title: "14.04 - video files associations"
date: 2021-08-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by marchello_lippi2 on 2021-08-06
Hi all, 

One of my machines still runs on 14.04 (lubuntu desktop), I know it's outdated and not supported anymore, but the hardware is rather old and weak, also it works just fine except one issue with video files associations.

So, I can open vlc manually and through its menu open any video file, this works. 
I can double-click on any .ts video file in GUI file manager, this works.

No other video file like .mpeg, .avi etc can be opened by double-click in GUI file manager. Somehow it opens terminal window instead of video player. 

Tried uninstalling vlc and installing it again. Tried installing many video players that I was able to google. No luck. 

What configuration file(s) content should I share in order to get some help from you?
Please advise.
Thanks for your attention.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-08-06
Ubuntu 14.04 LTS is in extended support and now Ubuntu 14.04 ESM and is supported by Canonical via Ubuntu Advantage

Refer 
- [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades)
- [http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2019/05/02/ubuntu-14-04-trusty-tahr-reached-end-of-life-on-april-25-2019-esm-available/](http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2019/05/02/ubuntu-14-04-trusty-tahr-reached-end-of-life-on-april-25-2019-esm-available/)

FYI:  I used devices from 2003 & newer in testing Lubuntu releases up to 19.04 (pentium 4, pentium M, pentium D etc) when 32-bit was dropped; then for subsequent 18.04 re-spins, so I can't imagine anyone is using pentium 3 or older equipment than that (though I don't think pentium III will boot anything past 11.04 anyway).

FYI:  Lubuntu support ended for 14.04 in 2017-April; 3 years only

---

