---
title: "Dual-Screen View in ubuntu?"
date: 2009-04-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Davestom on 2009-04-30
Hey Everyone, using the following guide, I got both screens to work;
**LINK:** [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/dual-monitors-with-nvidia.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/dual-monitors-with-nvidia.html)

but my problem is that both screens show the same, and I would like to have 1 screen showing Desktop1 and other Desktop2. How can I do that? (I guess its something with xconf to do ?)
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Wierd enough, I have nVidia, but it doesnt seem installed.. lol.. it didnt work before, but suddenly it worked.. wierd..

---

### Post by cerz on 2009-04-30
System->Preferences->Screen Resolution?  uncheck mirror monitors.
You can have the two monitors showing different things, but when you select your second desktop, _both_ monitors will still switch to a fresh view.

There probably is a way to do what you're saying, and have other desktops displayed on your second monitor, but I don't see why you'd want to do that as opposed to having a single desktop displayed that's two monitors wide, because that way you can a) still have multiple work spaces using desktop switching b) drag windows between monitors without relying on a compiz fusion plugin.

---

### Post by Davestom on 2009-04-30
> **cerz said:**
> System->Preferences->Screen Resolution?  uncheck mirror monitors.
You can have the two monitors showing different things, but when you select your second desktop, _both_ monitors will still switch to a fresh view.

The mirror image is unchecked :-S And if I check it, it says ERROR. - but it detects both screens.. kinda wierd.. Im totally confused.. but found this guide:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773584](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773584)

- gonna respond if it works..
and its ... -> preferences -> Display

---

### Post by Davestom on 2009-05-02
Okay.. I got it installed but without all that crap they are writing about,

You can go in nvidia x server and choose what you want (in my case: TwinView), then you can aply (by clicking the (disabled) screen) - but this only works once.. 
=> So if you want to keep these seetings you have to find the script in Xserver (I can post where when Im on ubuntu) and then replace it with your xconf. -file, but remember to backup your old :)

---

