---
title: "Switching primary monitors"
date: 2009-06-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mjb222 on 2009-06-07
Hi,
I'm rather new to Ubuntu and Linux, and am trying to do dual screens.  I got dual screens working, but the monitor i want to be the primary one (with the menu bar, etc) is my 1440x900, but right now the other one (1280x1024) is primary.  Its pretty much the same problem as this thread 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1052784](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1052784)
but I can't parse how to do their solution.  I dont want to do TwinViewXinerama, as the all programs on 2 screens would be annoying.  here is my xorg.conf file.

Thanks in advance!

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "nvidia"
    Option        "NoLogo"    "True"
    Option "RenderAccel" "1"
    ##This turns on NVidia’s TwinView
    Option "TwinView" "1"
    Option "MetaModes" "1440x900,1280×1024"
    Option "SecondMonitorHorizSync" "31-83"
    Option "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "56-76"
    #Option "NoTwinViewXineramaInfo"
    Option "TwinViewOrientation" "LeftOf"
    Option      "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
    Load        "glx"
EndSection

---

