---
title: "12.04 EQ control?"
date: 2012-09-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2012-09-26
I have an HP DV7-6135dx and I've given up on ever getting Ubuntu to work with the Beats audio 5 internal speakers so I've moved onto just using my headphones.

Both of my headphone jacks work fine.  (Unlike the tons of responses people have confused problems with.)

What I would like to do is have some Equalizer control of the sound.  

I recently installed  Pulseaudio equalizer and I thought everything was great.  ...then a few hours later all hell broke loose in my system, lol.

I lost all OUTPUT selection and control.  The sound did work but the was no volume control and PA EQ stopped working.

I finally had to Reformat and reinstall 12.04.

Are there any good and trusted EQ's for 12.04 that'll get gid of that tin sound I'm hearing from the speakers & HP?

Thanks

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2012-10-08
I'm at a loss, Am I posting something wrong all of a sudden or are my questions too hard?  Please advise.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-10-09
Nope, not posting anything wrong. Your thread has had 128 views and obviously these users, like myself, have nothing useful to offer. It happens. ;)

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2012-10-09
lol, I blame my laptop.  When I used my dinosaur big box desktop, just about every question had already been asked and answered.  Now since getting this thing, there hasn't been a single hard question answered yet.  I wish I were one of those Linux wizards. ;)

---

### Post by ca_20gti on 2012-10-10
Yeah i used that and it did the same to me....


Try here if you use rhythmbox.. works quite well


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1994693](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1994693)

---

