---
title: "10.04 fglrx bad rendering in gdm and without desktop effects"
date: 2010-12-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by moseby on 2010-12-23
My new machine with a fresh install of Lucid boots up and displays the standard gdm login screen showing the list of users which looks fine.  After you hover over a name or other option menus on the display, the pop-up or screen change is rendered poorly. It very slowly fixes itself over time. After I login everything works just fine even with the extra "desktop effects"

I recently discovered that if I set the desktop effects to none, I get the same effect on my desktop.  I've attached a screen capture to illustrate what I see but find hard to describe.  The little horizontal bars will gradually be fixed over a minute or so.  Dragging the window around smears that effect around the screen.

I've been sniffing around the web off and on for a couple months now but haven't found anything that sounds similar. 

Now for some hopefully helpful configuration data:

This system is based on an Asus M4A89GTD PRO/USB3 motherboard with integrated ATI radeon video, and a 6 core processor.  Lucid 32bit.

$ uname -a
Linux gandalf 2.6.32-26-generic-pae #48-Ubuntu SMP Wed Nov 24 10:31:20 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux

$ fglrxinfo 
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon HD 4290
OpenGL version string: 3.3.10317 Compatibility Profile Context

$ sudo lspci -vv -s 01:05.0
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Device 9714
	Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8454
	Control: I/O+ Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR+ FastB2B- DisINTx+
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B- ParErr- DEVSEL=fast >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR+ <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 0, Cache Line Size: 64 bytes
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 29
	Region 0: Memory at d0000000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
	Region 1: I/O ports at b000 [size=256]
	Region 2: Memory at fe5f0000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=64K]
	Region 5: Memory at fe400000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=1M]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI- D1+ D2+ AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0-,D1-,D2-,D3hot-,D3cold-)
		Status: D0 PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
	Capabilities: [a0] Message Signalled Interrupts: Mask- 64bit+ Queue=0/0 Enable+
		Address: 00000000fee3f00c  Data: 41a1
	Kernel driver in use: fglrx_pci
	Kernel modules: fglrx, radeon


This problem was occurring before I recently added the second monitor. I have not edited this config by hand.

$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "0-CRT1"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
	Option	    "TargetRefresh" "60"
	Option	    "Position" "1920 0"
	Option	    "Rotate" "normal"
	Option	    "Disable" "false"
	Option	    "PreferredMode" "1680x1050"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "0-DFP1"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
	Option	    "PreferredMode" "1920x1080"
	Option	    "TargetRefresh" "60"
	Option	    "Position" "0 0"
	Option	    "Rotate" "normal"
	Option	    "Disable" "false"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "Monitor-CRT1" "0-CRT1"
	Option	    "Monitor-DFP1" "0-DFP1"
	BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Virtual   3600 1920
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by moseby on 2011-01-01
bump

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2011-01-01
What version of fglrx are you using? If you're using the one included with Lucid,, I suggest removing it and installing a newer Catalyst/fglrx

---

### Post by moseby on 2011-01-02
I was running version 8.791-0ubunutu1.  Upgraded to the latest from the ati web site; 8.801-0ubuntu1.  No change in behavior.

---

### Post by Ter Rymon on 2011-02-23
Question? Do your opengl apps/screensavers display ok?

---

### Post by moseby on 2011-02-26
Everything works perfectly once I log in with desktop effects enabled. The issue only appears on the login screen, or when desktop effects are disabled.

> **Ter Rymon said:**
> Question? Do your opengl apps/screensavers display ok?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2011-02-26
I'm guessing it's a 2D issue, so try using the old 2D rendering method. Press Ctrl+Alt+F1 to go to the terminal:
```
sudo service gdm stop
sudo aticonfig --set-pcs-str=DDX,ForceXAA,TRUE
sudo aticonfig --input=/etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo service gdm start
```

---

### Post by moseby on 2011-02-26
Thanks for the help. 

Unfortunately, the configuration changes you suggested did not change the behavior by themselves.  I did however notice that there was another driver update on the ATI site, 

```
ati-driver-installer-11-2-x86.x86_64.run 
   which produces:
fglrx_8.821-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
fglrx-dev_8.821-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
fglrx-amdcccle_8.821-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
fglrx-modaliases_8.821-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
```

The New driver resolved the issue.  I don't know where the persistent options from the "aticonfig --set-pcs-str" are stored.  If the settings survived the upgrade then the solution may have been a combination of your settings and and the new driver.

Thanks again.
John

---

