---
title: "Need help scanning VERY LONG documents"
date: 2012-02-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by klemorali on 2012-02-01
I'm dealing with time vs temperature charts. These are documents generated by analog recording instruments very much like a dot matrix printer. some of them reach lengths of 35 ft. Our current solution is to take advantage of the folds and scan overlapping sections on a flatbed scanner and save the files to PDF. While this system works it is extremely time consuming and we often end up with computer crashes and sub par quality scans. During peak production we often end up with over 50ft of chart to be handled a day. We have only 24 hours to document, digitally scan, and turn the chart over to the client. 
 
A few facts about the documents and the devices that might help me obtain assistance. 
 
The devices are Chino or Yokogama recorders.
 
They are capable of a feed operation which would essentially scroll the entire length of a given document at a consistent speed.
 
There are markings printed on the document at predetermined lengths (as well as a dark lines and the alternating color of lines in the paper) which are used for reference points over the length of the document.
 
What I have in mind would be to use a webcam and capture video of the chart being fed thru the reader. This would give me a compilation of images that could be stitched to one another via the reference points to make one complete image of the entire document. The stitching needs to be automated as manually stitching the images together would permit tampering/human error which would not be acceptable. ideally I would hand the video over to a script or a program and receive my image in return to be archived (probably converted to PDF). 
 
My problem is that after days of searching for a way to accomplish this I am still empty handed. Could anyone provide me with some guidance or direction to pursue this project. Maybe someone has already done something similiar that I have failed to locate.
 
As far as operating systems go we have a rather mixed environment. All servers are running ubuntu 10.04 providing samba shares primarily and almost all PCs are windows vista/7 with 1 or 2 ubuntu desktops. Our scanners are brother MFC-6490CW and HP 8500 Officejets. the primary scanning software is HP solution center and paperport.
 
At this time we have a complete mishmash of old webcams being used for ZM. I plan on purchasing a newer linux compatible webcam for this project and ubuntu is the target operating system for this solution.
 
 
Thanks for taking the time to consider my issue.
 
 
*Shortly after breaking down and asking for help I have discovered ImageMagick. I still welcome any and all advice and I will probably post solved sometime tomorrow.*

---

### Post by klemorali on 2012-02-01
I stand corrected. Image Magick does not currently support Image Registration at least according to the posts I have read in the forums. Can anyone point me to a way to do Image Registration in Linux?

---

### Post by flemur13013 on 2012-02-01
> Can anyone point me to a way to do Image Registration in Linux?

Linux is pretty deficient in multimedia  - that's the only reason I still have windows around.

Perhaps irfanview or photoshop; both run OK under wine, especially irfanview, and both have some 'panorama' ability, tho I haven't personally tried it with them. Another option might be the excellent 'Autopano' program if it runs under wine (I never tried).  It can handle gigantic images.

If you try the wine route, ifanview is a lot simpler than PS (and free!), and works under wine with minimal hassles (PS tends to have conflicts, e.g. Alt-leftmouse - it's fixable, tho) ; use the "portable" install.

---

### Post by klemorali on 2012-02-01
After a good bit of work I believe I have found a solution that may be acceptable. 
 
I will build a box with the camera and a light mounted as well as a small motor to feed a document through the viewable area at a constant speed. High quality images will be taken at specific intervals. This will probably be handled by a daemon which would rely on a start button. The images will then be stitched together via ImageMagick at the appropriate points to create one continuous document image. The daemon will also stop the process when it takes a photo with no content which can be determined by Imagemagick as well.

---

