---
title: "14.04 - capture LP's to disk?"
date: 2014-04-20
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-20
I'm an old guy, so I have many vinyl LP's from the 60's, 70's.  I have a Dazzle DVC-100 USB analog capture device that I have used to capture my old VHS tapes to disk.  That got me thinking about this stack of vinyl - is there a way to take either the output from an old (70's) turntable and/or output from a receiver (70's) using that turntable to connect the outputs to the analog RCA sound jacks on the DVD-100 so I can capture to disk?  If so, does something like Audacity work for that?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-04-20
Yeah, Audacity works quite well for that.
Just make sure the input settings are right in the Edit>Preferences.

Not vinyl, but I transfered some ole tapes to a hard drive some time ago with Audacity.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-20
Great!  Time to set it up and give it a go - hopefully tomorrow sometime after family has left.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2014-04-20
Keep in mind that to connect a vinyl player to anything you need a pre-amp. (and some decent place to ground the vinyl player to). Even though vinyl players use RCA connections the signal is not at line level, and even simply amplifying it up will not give you correct levels so a pre-amp specifically made for use with vinyl players in needed.

Since the Dazzle DVC-100 is made for video capture it's unlikely that it would have a phono pre-amp included. If you have a separate amplifier with phono inputs and line outputs then that should of course do the trick.

(What comes to software, I agree with deadflowr, Audacity does pretty good job and even has some tools you can use for dust/scratch removal etc. if you want)

---

### Post by Clockmender on 2014-04-20
I agree with the poster above, however, may I suggest loading Calf Plugins and using the Stereo Tools plugin connected through Jack - you will need a Jack configure programme like QjackCtl, Patchage, Gladish or Claudia if you really want the best, to increase the signal before you put it into Audacity. You can up the volumes in Audacity as well. This is how I have got my vynil onto disk, using an old Panasonic turntable connected to the audio input ports of my on-board sound card or my E-MU 0404 card normally used for midi, low latency audio, etc. The other alternative is to process the sound in something like Guitarix before you record it, use an appropriate amp setting or route the player through your normal amp and record off the speaker ports, taking care not to over-amplify. Having said all that Calf Stereo tools on its own works for me and if you want the tone sorting - pipe the audio through Calf 12 Band Equalizer bedore you put it into Audacity.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2014-04-20
> **Clockmender said:**
> I agree with the poster above, however, may I suggest loading Calf Plugins and using the Stereo Tools plugin connected through Jack - you will need a Jack configure programme like QjackCtl, Patchage, Gladish or Claudia if you really want the best, to increase the signal before you put it into Audacity. You can up the volumes in Audacity as well. This is how I have got my vynil onto disk, using an old Panasonic turntable connected to the audio input ports of my on-board sound card or my E-MU 0404 card normally used for midi, low latency audio, etc. The other alternative is to process the sound in something like Guitarix before you record it, use an appropriate amp setting or route the player through your normal amp and record off the speaker ports, taking care not to over-amplify. Having said all that Calf Stereo tools on its own works for me and if you want the tone sorting - pipe the audio through Calf 12 Band Equalizer bedore you put it into Audacity.

The problem with that setup is that converting from phono input to line level signal is not just a question of amplifying the signal, vinyls use RIAA eqialization to boost high frequencies and reduce low frequencies (to avoid various sound issues created by dust, scratches, and variations in turtnable RPM etc). A phono preamp will in addition to amplifying the signal apply correct equalization to get the original levels back.

In theory you can of course use a a decent parametric EQ to try and match the RIAA EQ but getting the correct levels manually would quite likely be difficult. And knowing you can get an actual phono preamp for less than $20 I'd definitely recommend just buying one...

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-04-20
I recently used a cheap Shenle *"USB powered vinyl archiving turntable". *It has preamp and a nice and easy to use USB connection (P&P). The results? Well, IMO not bad (not good either). You can check for yourself: [https://mega.co.nz/#!EBkTESSC!tB6gm5lyrmuZEdOIVwWTTjxIV4DU9zoyBYDo1I5y_PQ](https://mega.co.nz/#!EBkTESSC!tB6gm5lyrmuZEdOIVwWTTjxIV4DU9zoyBYDo1I5y_PQ) (warning: ~100MB file). It's some Belorussian "folk-inspired" symphonic and choir music released in USSR in 1968, the software used was the aforementioned Audacity and no other post-processing added.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-20
Didn't think of the preamp.  May take a look on line for schematics that balance.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-04-20
My turntable was essentially broken, so I bought a new one [with a preamp built-in]("http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002GYTPAE/").  Mine uses RCA jacks, but there is also a [USB version]("http://www.amazon.com/Technica-AT-LP60USB-Automatic-Turntable-USB/dp/B002GYTPB8/").  

It works well, but I've found the process of dubbing the records into Audacity and filtering the result pretty time-consuming.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-21
Yeah, I looked at different schematics for preamps, and after realizing my new laptop has microphone in but no stereo line in I came to the conclusion that it wasn't worth my effort.  So instead I just ordered a cheap POS USB turntable so I can just get the music captured.

I know that feeling of how time consuming it is - after getting all my DVD's scanned to disk for a media center, I then moved on to capturing all the old VHS tapes.  That was a REAL time killer.  You don't know exactly when it's going to end, so you have to keep track of it so you can stop the capture.  It's a real snoozer having to wait the actual time instead of the fast processing Handbrake does with a digital media.  I know the LP's are going to be the same, and I imagine I'm going to have to separate each track out, then set things up for XBMC so I can add them to the media center where I put the MP3 from my CD's.

Personally, I'm going to be glad when this is all over ;)  My niece's husband suggested I place an add in the local ad sheet to get paid for doing that for others - I had to laugh!  ;) ;)

Well, thanks everyone! When the cheapy turntable gets here and I give it a try I'll let you know if I find it even worth doing or not.  I've lived without having the old stereo and turntable running for several years now - I just thought it would be great if I can get all that old music loaded off the LPs (and bring back some "hazy" memories - Inagodadivida [sp?], Focus, et al).

---

### Post by Clockmender on 2014-04-21
You could of course search for a digital version of the music on the net - providing you do not infringe any copyright. It is debateable whether you hold a license-to-use copyright in perpetuity once you have bough one version of a music piece, like a vynil copy, personally, I think you do.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-21
I thought seriously about that, and then I thought "why not just do them the hard way and get a kick out of listening to the old vinyl and the sound".

Thanks!

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-04-21
> **Clockmender said:**
> You could of course search for a digital version of the music on the net - providing you do not infringe any copyright. It is debateable whether you hold a license-to-use copyright in perpetuity once you have bough one version of a music piece, like a vynil copy, personally, I think you do.

The head of litigation for Sony BMG would [beg to disagree]("http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2007/10/sony-bmgs-chief-anti-piracy-lawyer-copying-music-you-own-is-stealing/").

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-21
+1.  I believe you only own the media, not any right to get the music again by other means.  Some of the copyright information even suggests that it is somewhat like an OS - you are only "leasing" it as obviously you don't own the actual music.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-04-21
You've purchased a *license* to use the music under terms specified by the rights holder. You don't "own" the music in any way.  If you don't like the terms under which the license is granted, your only legal option is not to buy the music in the first place.  As you say, software basically operates within the same set of rules.

The situation is more complex, some might say perverse, when it comes to products with copy protection.  Under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, circumvention of copy protection schemes is a felony.  The Copyright Office conducts proceedings to determine whether some types of circumvention may constitute "fair use" and thus be exempted from the DMCA's provisions.  Copying of DVDs for personal use was [proposed for such an exemption]("http://www.publicknowledge.org/news-blog/blogs/the-1201-hearings-protecting-business-models-or-promoting-creative-progress"), but the request was [rejected]("http://www.copyright.gov/fedreg/2012/77fr65260.pdf") by the Office.
> The Register [of Copyrights] further observed that the law does not guarantee access to copyrighted material in a user&#8217;s preferred format or technique. Indeed, copyright owners typically have the legal authority to decide whether and how to exploit new formats.

---

### Post by Clockmender on 2014-04-23
Hmmmm that stirred the hornet's nest! I did qualify my remark with the words " providing you do not infringe any copyright" so my point is valid. It may be cheaper to get what you want in digital format from a **_ligitimate_** source, such as iTumes, etc or simply search something like Spotify, make yourself a playlist and listen to them whenever you want to. Spotify is free if you don't mind adverts now and then or very low priced per month if you want just music. (I don't have any commercial interest in them by the way). If we are to believe Sony's lawyers, presumably **_any_** digital copying of your vynil records is illegal and presumably this dates back to the early days of tape recorders as well? So, sorry Squakie you cannot play your records into a PC and save them in digital format without Mr Sony, *et al* coming after your ass! We should have discouraged you from such activity in the first place, not told you how to do it. I shall now delete all digital copies of music made from my vynil.

PS. Who amongst you thought I was referring to illegal peer-to-peer sites? tut tut tut...

---

### Post by sffvba[e0rt on 2014-04-23
I think it best if we stick to answering the OP's question and not delve too deep down the slippery slope of copyright law's and all  manner of DRM related complications.

edit - Also *moved *to **Cafe **as this is not an Ubuntu support question.

---

### Post by Gilad_Pellaeon on 2014-04-23
A decent turntable/cassete deck/cd player (all in one unit) like this one below I just seen on ebay (although i've seen ones that looked exactly like this model with a USB port on the right hand side) would work fine to record audio from the LP's and then from there edit to your heart's content in Audacity. Heck, even if it's just recording the audio output from those LP's and saving to FLAC so that you'd have a digital copy to put on burnable discs and or copy to USB flash drives it'd be worth it as those vinyl record's won't last forever.

[http://www.ebay.com/itm/Retro-Thomas-Pacconi-Classics-Record-CD-Cassette-AM-FM-Radio-Oak-Player-AS-IS-/310939748621](http://www.ebay.com/itm/Retro-Thomas-Pacconi-Classics-Record-CD-Cassette-AM-FM-Radio-Oak-Player-AS-IS-/310939748621)

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-23
I bought a USB turntable from EBay for about that same price.  Should be here later in the week.  Like all the other stuff I did for the media centers this is going to be another big learning experience.  I don't even begin to understand a lot of the options I saw in Audacity.  So, I guess it will be scan a few in and just play with stuff to see what it does.

At any rate, I think my original question has been answered, and with that in mind I'm going to mark the thread as solved,

Thanks everyone!

---

### Post by Clockmender on 2014-04-24
Last thought Squakie, then I will shut up (he said to huge sighs of relief):

1) Install Time Machine - ("sudo apt-get install timemachine" in a terminal or use Synaptic).
2) Connect it to you playback ports in whichever Jack Control client you use.
3) Click the big green icon on Time Machine and play the record on your shiny new turntable.
4) Click the now big red icon to stop recording.
5) This will create a .w64 extension file in your Music directory.
6) Open this file in Audacity and select the bit containing the track - there may be a little intro and outro to cut off Do this by holding you mouse at the start of the track and dragging it to the end of the track, i.e. select the bit where you see peaks in the track. then let go of the mouse key.
7) Click **File** - **Export Selection** make sure the option pulldown is set to mp3 files and give it a name.

This is the easiest way to record sound on Linux and make it into an mp3 file, in my humble opinion. Time machine always starts to record from 10 seconds **_before_** you press the icon BTW. Audacious will play .w64 files if you don't want to export them as .mp3's.

---

### Post by Gilad_Pellaeon on 2014-04-24
> **Clockmender said:**
> Last thought Squakie, then I will shut up (he said to huge sighs of relief):

7) Click **File** - **Export Selection** make sure the option pulldown is set to mp3 files and give it a name.

This is the easiest way to record sound on Linux and make it into an mp3 file, in my humble opinion. Time machine always starts to record from 10 seconds **_before_** you press the icon BTW. Audacious will play .w64 files if you don't want to export them as .mp3's.

Or if you want to retain quality export it to .FLAC files. Because to be honest mp3 is a horrible format as documented quite well here. :D

[http://productionadvice.co.uk/why-mp3-sounds-bad/](http://productionadvice.co.uk/why-mp3-sounds-bad/)

---

### Post by Clockmender on 2014-04-24
I agree with the captain on FLAC format, but for the beginner perhaps the more commonly used format would suffice...

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-04-24
Flac is by far the better format.
But you should really be formatting to what the devices you will be using can play.

---

### Post by Clockmender on 2014-04-24
- which is normally an mp3 player when you are away from your computer........

I remain committed to FLAC otherwise or uncompressed formats for all my production work on both Ubuntu machine and my Mac. The only drawback is that you need [COLOR="#FF0000"]**_BIG_**[/COLOR] disks.

PS. like your splats deadflowr

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-29
If XBMC supports flac, then I'll use that, and only convert later those that I might actually need for another device.  In that idea, does flac work with the audio players in Android?  I'd also like to be able to load some of the audio there as well.

And now for more:

I tried out the cheapy USB turntable I bought used off EBay.  I would assume it's because it's so cheap so it's using a ridiculous cartridge, but even after doing the remove clicks thing on the menu in Audacity, the audio is terrible - sounds like a really beat up album, when in fact the one I am testing with a GOOD album.

I've been thinking of taking the USB turntable apart, pulling out the "guts", putting them in a separate "box" and just running my good turntable to load LP's to the PC via that "box".  Everything in the cheap turntable is powered via USB - there is no AC.  So moving the guts I would get the preamp and the USB interface, plus no motor load on the USB and using a FAR superior turntable and expensive cartridge (assuming it all still works ;), might need a new belt for the turntable by now as I don't remember it being direct drive.

Now I know this is more work than the average person would do, but I can't afford to spend $250-$300 for a decent USB turntable, and I do have the skills to do what I'm thinking about.

Does that sound crazy???

And.....

in my testing, I was trying to figure out Audacity and not getting very far.  The only thing I found for reducing "noise" was the remove clicks thing.  I'd like more noise filtering but don't have a clue how to do it.  I'd also like to have the volume set to some "normal" level - it currently has low volume.  Is there a "magic button" somewhere in Audacity that will auto-adjust the volume level after the initial recording has been done?

Again, thanks for helping someone who is a novice at all things audio/video out ;)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-04-29
*Thread moved to **Multimedia & Video**.*

***The Cafe*** is not a support forum. ;)

---

### Post by mcduck on 2014-04-30
> **squakie said:**
> 
Now I know this is more work than the average person would do, but I can't afford to spend $250-$300 for a decent USB turntable, and I do have the skills to do what I'm thinking about.


If you already have a good LP player, then there most certainly is no need to spend hundreds of dollars on a new one. All you need is a preamp, and you can get a decent one for around $20. (for example [this Behringer one]("http://www.amazon.com/Behringer-PP400-Ultra-Compact-Phono-Preamp/dp/B000H2BC4E/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1398881135&sr=8-2&keywords=phono+preamp") is definitely going to be higher quality than what a cheap USB turntable would come with)

However if you thing building one from the parts of the USB turntable is an interesting project then that might of course work as well. :D

(Actually I even found [another Behringer one with USB interface]("http://www.amazon.com/Behringer-UFO202-Audio-Interface/dp/B002GHBYZ0/ref=sr_1_15?ie=UTF8&qid=1398881135&sr=8-15&keywords=phono+preamp") for $30, that would definitely be easy and decent quality setup. )

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-04-30
Dang!!  Never saw that when I was looking at preamps - the ones I saw were running $100 or more - hence why I bought the cheapy turntable.  This device costs less than that cheapy turntable!  I'll have to wait until May sometime, but this looks like a great device to fill my needs!

Thank you!
Dave

---

