---
title: "nvidia driver problem with GF7300GS"
date: 2009-02-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by abraxas334 on 2009-02-02
Hello, 
I need some help desperately. Until a week ago i had a lovely dual screen set up with hardy and using some nvidia drivers (not sure which ones) and the twin view option. Then the Kernel update came and everything worked fine apart from my fonts appeared tiny and the resolution on both screens seemed to be different. The update had somehow changed my xorg file and removed some essential stuff. So i tried to fix it by installing new drivers various different ways.
1. i used envy installing 177 drivers couldn't get dual screen to work only low resolution 800X600
2. the graphical bit under preferences and then nvidia-settings which kept saving that i had to run nvidia-xconfig as i wasn't running any drivers even tho i was (i am pretty much back to this problem now)
3. i downloaded the 180 version from the nvidia website did a reconfig of my xorg file and installed this driver. It actually got recognised by the nvidia settings tool but still weird fonds. The i accidently deleted the package folder to which i had extracted the nvidia installer and everything got messed up again

At this point i decided to upgrade to intrepid.

when booting i again got only low resolution bla bla. I had now decided to unplug my second monitor to get at least the drivers to work. I did the following Administration->Hardweardrivers it found the nvidia one i installed 177 i ran nvidia-xconfig rebooted and tried to run the settings tool but said again i have to run nvidia-xconfig. I then did a reconfigure of the xorg file again and did the same thing as described above again the same problem. And now i really don't know what else to do and it has been 3 days and i just want to get it back to its original state.
my current xorg file looks like this: i have one monitor attached at the moment and supposedly the 173 driver installed running intrepid.
```


# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Thu Jun 26 06:22:40 UTC 2008

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "Unknown"
	HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
	VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
	Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load           "dbe"
	Load           "extmod"
	Load           "type1"
	Load           "freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Disable	"dri2"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Mouse0"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "Protocol" "auto"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Keyboard0"
	Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Device0"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	Driver	"nvidia"
EndSection


```
any help would be great i just want to go back to my original setup which had been working so well for a year.
Thanks

---

