---
title: "13.04, AMD Radeon HD6450, HDMI, no selection for HDMI sound it settings"
date: 2013-10-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-10-09
I searched the net last night and followed a thread that went through launchpad and onto another post to supposedly get Catalyst installed which, according to the thread, would allow my sound to work over HDMI.  It didn't help.

Hardware involved:

ASUS F1A55-M LE FM1 motherboard, A8 quad-core @ 3ghz, 4 gig of memory (so far it's been enough since I'm only running Ubuntu on the box), SATA hard disk, SATA DVD/RW, USB wireless keyboard and mouse, USB network wireless adapter.  It has built-in graphics from the APU, but I wanted HDMI so I added an AMD Radeon HD6450 in one of the PCIe slots.  Everything has been working to my satisfaction except the sound just doesn't work through the HDMI.  If I go to Sound Settings the is no option for HDMI there - only the digital and analog choices.

The launchpad thread (I think it was from 2012 but does link to 13.04) seems to indicate something with hda sound, but it also makes it sound like it is for Intel chips only.  I followed it anyway, and then followed the link inside a link from the thread that said to install Catalyst and gave the instructions.  It apparently never installed - no Catalyst anywhere on the system.

Does anyone have any ideas what I'm missing and can provide a thread or net post to follow?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-10-09
*Thread moved to **Multimedia & Video**.*

Bemused as to why you would post this in the ***Absolute Beginner's Section***, squakie.

Anyhow, Catalyst Control Centre can be installed from the repos without jumping through hoops (I presume that is what you're wanting to install). Try searching for and installing:

fglrx-amdcccle

You may also want:

fglrx

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-10-10
I honestly posted it there as I assumed it was a beginners type of question that others might have.  guess not.  thanks for the info - I'll try those and see what happens, but I think it also had something to do with also having some patched version of something-hda-something in conjunction with catalyst.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-10-10
now things are worse.  Tried installing those and rebooted for them to take effect - catalyst issued a warning in the bottom right corner of the desktop saying unsupported hardware, and I lost the top bar and the Unity dash bar.  Used terminal to start synaptic again, removed those and installed their counterparts with -updates as the suffix and rebooted again.  Didn't get the warning from Catalyst, but still no top bar, no Unity bar, and now I can't do things like exit firefox or any windowed program I can run from my desktop.  "Exit" does nothing, clicking the "X" to close out just makes those three options dark, but nothing closes.  I have to use terminal to shutdown and reboot.

So, I'm stuck.  I have no idea how to recover this and I'd sure hate like heck to have to completely reinstall Ubuntu.

EDIT:   At least the HDMI sound option appears now.  Too bad I can't use it in XBMC - says unsupported graphics device now.
 
I tried unnity --reset from a terminal window with no change.

All my icons are on the desktop - it doesn't appear as if the desktop itself is expanded beyond the physical screen - it's just missing unity things.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-10-10
Lost everything.  Couldn't reboot, couldn't open/close anything, couldn't do ANYTHING.  On another PC I downloaded the beta for 13.10 - won't let me even move an app to the desktop - gives an error "the specified location is not supported - for everything.  I rely on the desktop, not the unity menu.  I know 13.10 is in beta, and I downloaded what was supposed to be the latest (9/25/13 on the website).  I thought with it being this close to release it would at least do that, but no go.  No driver for my video card, so no HDMI sound option.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-10-10
Well, now things absolutely refiuse to work after I installed the beta2 driver from AMD as recommended.  I'm going to go back to just 13.04, not attempt to install any driver.

After I do that, any input on a cheap video card with HDMI output that has a driver that WILL work with 13.04 and the coming 13.10?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-10-10
Strange as you were wanting to install Catalyst, but when you successfully did, it crashed the machine. Extremely odd things weren't back to square one when you removed whatever you'd installed in the first place, both from my instructions and the paper trail of weblinks you'd followed.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-10-10
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/864735](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/864735)

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-10-10
I already followed the bug report - that's what got me into the mess to begin with.

BUT......I can report PROBLEM SOLVED!!!  I *think* that the "normal" fglrx installed some additional packages that when I used synaptic to remove fglrx (and the catalyst console) it didn't remove those other packages - they must have replaced some existing packages as even an apt-get autoremove did nothing.  So, installing fglrx-updates and console messed up because of those changed packages. I didn't re-install 13.04 to test that, but I'm pretty sure that all that is required in 13.04 to fix my problem would have been to not install normal fglrx but instead use fglrx-updates. That's my suspicion anyway.  Don't know if that makes sense or not Buckyball.

The good news:  I'm running 3.10.  I used terminal to install synaptic and then used synaptic to install fglrx-updates and console.  I then went to sound settings and there was the HDMI option now - and it works!

So, SOLVED!!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-10-10
Good news, however the magic happened. ;)

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-10-11
I'm in the process of going back to 13.04.  When I have that installed the first thing I'm going to do is install synaptic, then mark fglrx for install and see what it would replace and install.  Then I'll exit out and restart synaptic so I know I'm at the original starting point and see what it would update and install for fglxrx-updates.  The comparison of those lists should show the problem.  Then I'm going to install fglxrx-updatesto be sure it works OK that way in 13.04.  Maybe it will help someone in the future with the same our other cards supported in fglrx-updates but not fglxrx (or for that matter someone could change the fglrx-updates package such that installing it removes the conflicting entities and restores the correct one).

I'll let you know the results.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-10-11
Okay, so much for that idea.  The only differences are the flgrx driver and control cetner versus the fglrx-updates driver and control center.  I installed fglrx - it said my card not supported, even though it recognised it as Radeon HD6450.  I marked the 2 fglrx packages for removal and marked the fglrx-updates packages for install and applied.  After reboot, fglrx-updates control center recognised and accepted my card.  So, my original problem all linked back to following the links off the launchpad bug report and work around.

However, I still have an interesting problem:  in 13.10, with the fglrx-updates driver installed, I had the HDMI option under sound options.  In 13.04, with fglxrx-updates installed, I *don't* have HDMI as an option under sound control.

So, it looks like to make it work I have to go to 13.10.  If someone could please tell me why a drag and drop from the unity dash (not the sidebar but in the menus)works in 13.04 but not 13.10, and if there is a fix in 13.10, it would greatly help.  Right now if i go to 13.10 I have to do eveything through the ubity sidebar or menus.  seems like there is something broke in 13.10.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-10-11
AH-HA!!!  Found it, and wouldn't you know the video drivers have nothing to do with it??

Here's link to the solution:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/226090/how-do-i-output-audio-through-hdmi](http://askubuntu.com/questions/226090/how-do-i-output-audio-through-hdmi)

---

