---
title: "180.22 Nvidia Drivers. Major Problems. I goofed."
date: 2009-01-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-01-29
I got antsy to install 180 drivers. I'm running Intrepid 64 bit with a 9600 GT. I was previously running 177 drivers. I have video tearing out the wazoo in Ubuntu Intrepid but Ubuntu Hardy worked great (with compiz turned off, at least). I was so sick of booting to Vista to watch movies that when I heard 180 is out I was like GAHHH MUST HAVE.

So I downloaded it. Saved it to desktop. CTRL ALT F1, killed gdm, and ran sudo sh nvidia180driver... now my system is screwed up. I tried to restore it to my backed up settings when it prompted me about it. BUT, didn't work.

I don't know what to do. What makes it worse is that I can't access everything on my screen. I was running dual screen in twinview, and now each screen is the same. The thing is, it acts as if my icons aren't properly placed with the resolution. I'm clicking on "System" yet it's opening Firefox, which right next to System is my Firefox icon to quick launch it. When I click to the side a bit, trying to hit System, it's just dead. 

I have no idea what else to do. I either need to nuke the driver I got and start up with 180 properly or at LEAST get back to 177.

What can I do, folks?

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-01-29
My system is pretty much un-usable now. My resolution versus the icons on the screen don't match up. I cannot see part of my top gnome taskbar. I cannot see applications, system, places, etc. I cannot get to anything to change my resolution.

I used a command I found on forums, known as gksu jockey-gtk which opens my driver manager. I installed 177 and rebooted. But STILL it boots to low graphics mode. I check again, 177 is installed. It's activated. Yet... low graphics mode.

Why is it I have 177 installed and I'm not back to where I started before I had this problem? 

I don't even care if I have 180 drivers. I just need my system usable. It's so saddening to have this happen after I followed the instructions on Nvidia's web site.

Awesome. Just plain awesome.

Help... asap...



9600GT 512mb 256bit PCIEx16 2.0 graphics card
Dell Monitor - 1920x1080
eMachines Monitor - 1440x900 (secondary)
Ubuntu Intrepid 8.10 64 bit

I previously had twinview working fine with my 177 Nvidia drivers. 

Another Question - What are all of the dependencies required for 180 drivers to work the way they need to? I remember seeing a list but I cannot find it. Can anybody fill me in?


EDIT -

Here's a weird problem, though. I'm in low graphics mode now on my single main screen and I went to synaptic and found the 177 drivers. Hardware Drivers under system-admin didn't pick any proprietary drivers up. In synaptic I installed "nvidia-glx-177" but it returned with an error.

E: /var/cache/apt/archives/nvidia-glx-177_177.82-0ubuntu0.1_amd64.deb: subprocess pre-installation script returned error exit status 2



Come onnnnnnnnnnnnn. I can't catch a break with this. What do I need to do to get my system working again?

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-01-30
The one thing I can't seem to understand is I removed everything in synaptic related to nvidia 96, 173, 177, and 180 drivers. Yet when I boot up in low graphics mode and install 177 (just to get back to where I started), and reboot, it still boots in low graphics mode.

Any idea why? I need this system running asap. :(

---

### Post by Branimir on 2009-01-30
Set resolution in gnome panel. It overrides nvidia control panel settings.

Greetsa, Branimir

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-01-30
In system-preferences-screen resolution? K I'll give that a shot when I get home.

Any idea if nvidia-settings-manager is supposed to work with 180 nvidia drivers? When I installed 180, suddenly it was gone. Like I said, that was how I was able to easily set up twinview. :(

---

### Post by smothpocket on 2009-01-30
I think it removes the shortcut, but you can still get to it at /usr/bin/nvidia-settings... there's also a removal script there if you want try removing them with that.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-01-30
All right. I'm calm. I'm very calm. Really...

The highest resolution gnome allows me to have is 1280x1024. It's been a day. I'm behind on my work. This little iBook with a 12 inch screen just can't compare to my desktop with dual screens... gahh...

Why can't I just zap anything afiliated with Nvidia all together and install the 180 drivers (I think .11 or something) in synaptic? I just don't get how me following Nvidia's instructions resulted in THIS. It's unreal.

I don't even care about 180 drivers anymore. I just need this computer running.

I'm in dire need of help. :(

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-01-30
> **Roasted said:**
> I got antsy to install 180 drivers. I'm running Intrepid 64 bit with a 9600 GT. I was previously running 177 drivers. I have video tearing out the wazoo in Ubuntu Intrepid but Ubuntu Hardy worked great (with compiz turned off, at least). I was so sick of booting to Vista to watch movies that when I heard 180 is out I was like GAHHH MUST HAVE.

So I downloaded it. Saved it to desktop. CTRL ALT F1, killed gdm, and ran sudo sh nvidia180driver... now my system is screwed up. I tried to restore it to my backed up settings when it prompted me about it. BUT, didn't work.

I don't know what to do. What makes it worse is that I can't access everything on my screen. I was running dual screen in twinview, and now each screen is the same. The thing is, it acts as if my icons aren't properly placed with the resolution. I'm clicking on "System" yet it's opening Firefox, which right next to System is my Firefox icon to quick launch it. When I click to the side a bit, trying to hit System, it's just dead. 

I have no idea what else to do. I either need to nuke the driver I got and start up with 180 properly or at LEAST get back to 177.

What can I do, folks?


I had the same problems but fixed it like this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1054842]()

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-01-30
I'm sorry, but when did it become a standard that you have to be a programmer to install a video driver?

I don't mean to sound like an absolute *** about this, but in all sincerity, I followed Nvidia's instructions. What on earth happened that I'm stuck with a non functional system? I went into the #Linux IRC chat and EVERYONE in there was shocked that upon installing 180 drivers that it doesn't AUTOMATICALLY uninstall anything that would interfere with it.

I'll take a look at that link later when I get home. I'm just so disgusted that for once I didn't do something completely stupid to warrant this kind of computer behavior. Normally I'll mess around with stuff and it'll break and it's like, aw, okay, my fault.

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-01-30
> **Roasted said:**
> I'm sorry, but when did it become a standard that you have to be a programmer to install a video driver?

I don't mean to sound like an absolute *** about this, but in all sincerity, I followed Nvidia's instructions. What on earth happened that I'm stuck with a non functional system? I went into the #Linux IRC chat and EVERYONE in there was shocked that upon installing 180 drivers that it doesn't AUTOMATICALLY uninstall anything that would interfere with it.

I'll take a look at that link later when I get home. I'm just so disgusted that for once I didn't do something completely stupid to warrant this kind of computer behavior. Normally I'll mess around with stuff and it'll break and it's like, aw, okay, my fault.

I agree with you completely. But this is how I got it working, and at the end I must say it was not that difficult. Most of the things which are needed are there already, and if you use Synaptic to uninstall all of nVidia you're almost home free.
I also don't like this method but,at least for me, it works.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-01-30
One thing I really don't get is, okay I removed everything regarding Nvidia in synaptic. I rebooted and I'm in low graphics mode now. Why is it I can't go to hardware drivers and see 173 and 177 listed like before? Why is it they aren't there??

EDIT - Okay. I have a fresh install here. I have no drivers installed. My hardware manager comes up with 173 and 177 listed. 

What do I do from here to get 180 drivers WITHOUT completely FUBARing my system again? I don't care if it's the ABSOLUTE latest drivers... but if I can install 180 drivers with the same ease of installing 177 drivers, then I'd be game for it. Otherwise, I'm not interested and I'll stick with 177.

Another edit to add to this - Do 180 drivers help with video tearing with videos in VLC and other Linux programs?

---

### Post by talent03 on 2009-02-02
Well Roasted, I think the 180 drivers may help you with the video tearing. If you want to install a version of 180 drivers there is one in the intrepid-updates. System->Administration->Software Sources then click on updates. Select Pre-released updates, then open Synaptic. You have to install nvidia-180-modaliases. 

Once installed, you can continue with your normal procedure of going to Hardware Drivers. Just select 180, let it do its thing and restart. You are done. I have to warn you that this driver worked almost perfectly for me, but it only had a resume from suspend problem. 

I need suspend so I downgraded with Hardware Drivers, no problem. The version is 180.11, there are definitely newer drivers but you would have to go about the same install procedure that you attempted before that messed up your system. I would not recommend that if you had problems before. Just stick with the way the system manages it. You can hold off on 180 if you like until Jaunty as I think they have the latest Nvidia drivers in there. Those have fixed the suspend bug. Anyway, good luck.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-02-03
Suspend doesn't matter to me. If 180 drivers can be installed without having to do a fresh install like I did, I'm fine with that.

I understand 180.11 is in the repos, which is what you speak about above and sounds like a likely source to get 180 installed without issue. I tried installing 180.22 from nvidia's web site following their exact directions, which resulted in the problems I had.

I'm guessing that .22 is more of a "testing" version than .11?? Otherwise I can't imagine why .11 would be in the repos and not .22. Is there much of a difference between .11 and .22?

---

### Post by talent03 on 2009-02-05
I don't know too much about the differences. I am sure you can read through the release notes for them at the nvidia site. As for them not having it in the repos is because they only put them in there as soon as it is packaged and tested, but usually once ubuntu releases an OS, the packages hardly ever change after the fact. If you want the latest... you might want to go with debian or compile by source yourself. The latest software is always fought hard to be included in the next release of Ubuntu, because they don't change versions later. That is my understanding.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-02-05
> **talent03 said:**
> I don't know too much about the differences. I am sure you can read through the release notes for them at the nvidia site. As for them not having it in the repos is because they only put them in there as soon as it is packaged and tested, but usually once ubuntu releases an OS, the packages hardly ever change after the fact. If you want the latest... you might want to go with debian or compile by source yourself. The latest software is always fought hard to be included in the next release of Ubuntu, because they don't change versions later. That is my understanding.

How's that make sense about 180.11? Was .11 released before Intrepid, therefore including it in the repos? I can't imagine it was, considering I only heard about .11 around December. How would it make sense to only add software to the repos with new releases?

---

### Post by talent03 on 2009-02-05
You are getting the nvidia driver from Ubuntu Updates. I think the wiki explains it better.

"The proposed updates are updates which are waiting to be moved into the recommended updates queue after some testing. They may never reach recommended or they may be replaced with a more recent update.

Enabling this is reasonable if you want to participate in testing minor updates, or know that your specific problem has been solved here but the package hasn't reached recommended yet."

Sounds like testing ground for new updates, but many times they don't make it out of proposed.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuUpdates](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuUpdates)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBackports](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBackports)

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-02-06
So... basically... is 180 in testing? Is there a version of 180 that is stable yet?

---

### Post by l3dx on 2009-02-06
> **talent03 said:**
> Well Roasted, I think the 180 drivers may help you with the video tearing. If you want to install a version of 180 drivers there is one in the intrepid-updates. System->Administration->Software Sources then click on updates. Select Pre-released updates, then open Synaptic. You have to install nvidia-180-modaliases. 

Once installed, you can continue with your normal procedure of going to Hardware Drivers. Just select 180, let it do its thing and restart. You are done. I have to warn you that this driver worked almost perfectly for me, but it only had a resume from suspend problem. 

I need suspend so I downgraded with Hardware Drivers, no problem. The version is 180.11, there are definitely newer drivers but you would have to go about the same install procedure that you attempted before that messed up your system. I would not recommend that if you had problems before. Just stick with the way the system manages it. You can hold off on 180 if you like until Jaunty as I think they have the latest Nvidia drivers in there. Those have fixed the suspend bug. Anyway, good luck.

I used this approach, and it solved my issues. Before doing this I completely removed old nvidia drivers. Both the one from the repositories,a and the one I tried to install manually from nvidia.com

Unfortunately I'm not 100% sure what my exact steps were, but something like this:

```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-glx-whatever --purge
```

and

```
sudo sh NVIDIA-driver-filename --uninstall
```

then follow the steps described by talent03 (thanks btw! :))

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-02-06
What benefits have you seen from 180 versus 177? I'm having video tearing in VLC and any other media player I use, both with and without Compiz enabled... so I'm curious about the video tearing issue, if it's solved with 180 drivers or not.

---

### Post by l3dx on 2009-02-06
I had some compiz issues. Someone else has described it in  [this topic]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1024570"). And the driver update at least fixed my bugs :)

---

