---
title: "8.04: sound only works for movie players"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by kakyoism on 2008-04-30
[My Laptop:]
Sony VAIO VGN-NR298D
Creative SoundBlaster 24bit 5.1ch external

[System]
ubuntu 8.04 LTS

[Syndrome]
After initial install, everything works (except for 5.1 surround, but I'm currently ok with that).
Then after I played a movie using built-in Movie Player, all other applications lost sound, only movie-related applications have it, such as mplayer. Switching sound device didn't help.

Any ideas?? I'm really surprised because in 6.06 or 7.10 I didn't have this problem.

Thank you!

---

### Post by Gunman1982 on 2008-04-30
With built-in movie player you mean Totem? try to execute :
killall esd
after you used the movie player, if that tells you no process was running try this command:
sudo esd

Just a wild guess though

---

### Post by Ravenna on 2008-05-17
I've been having a similar problem lately.  It's an odd sound problem.  I had Rhythmbox open last night, and then pulled up an .ogm file in totem.  It locked up after it played 3 seconds and I had to force it to quit.  I tried closing Rhythmbox to see if it was fighting for the sound drivers (though it's not been a problem before), but it didn't work.  This morning, I brought up the same .ogm file it totem, and it worked fine with sound and everything, though it locked up after a bit.  Then I opened a music file in audacious (which wasn't playing anything just after I upgraded to 8.04) and that worked with sound for once.  Now totem won't play the .ogm, and the .avi files I tried play but no sound.  I'm going to try restarting my computer to see if that resets totem, but that doesn't solve the underlying problem.  Anyone have any clues?

---

### Post by Ravenna on 2008-05-17
Well, it seems to have fixed itself.  I don't know what happened, but it appears to work now.

---

