---
title: "Screen Resolution"
date: 2008-10-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by OwenG on 2008-10-21
Hi,

I've just moved the monitor on the PC I run Ubuntu 64 desktop and have lost the screen resolutions I previously had. I can only get 800x600 or 640x480 now. I've had a look at a few other posts about this but haven't been able to fix it. I'm using an N-vidia 7200 card with an Iiyama Vision Master Pro 454 monitor.
My xorg.conf looks a lot leaner that most of the ones I've seen on the forum (see below)

[I]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"uk"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"pc105"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
[/I]
Does anybody know what I need to put in the monitor and device sections?

Cheers, Owen.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2008-10-21
Possibly nothing.  Just run ```
gksudo gtk-displayconfig
``` and you may be able to set the resolution you want.  It will, of course, depend upon having the correct driver for your graphics card.

---

### Post by OwenG on 2008-10-22
I ran the code but nothing happened, it just returns to the prompt. I tried it in a terminal window as well as the failsafe (text only) mode.

I'm not using the N-vidia driver as I can only get 640*480 screen with that driver, and the screen jumps about like a bag of frogs if you click anywhere.

How do I flush out the current driver and what do I replace it with?

Why does this screen res. thing happen, even Vista (spits to the ground [http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon12.gif](http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon12.gif)) copes with a new monitor without any bother.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-22
> **OwenG said:**
> I ran the code but nothing happened, it just returns to the prompt. I tried it in a terminal window as well as the failsafe (text only) mode.

I'm not using the N-vidia driver as I can only get 640*480 screen with that driver, and the screen jumps about like a bag of frogs if you click anywhere.

How do I flush out the current driver and what do I replace it with?

Why does this screen res. thing happen, even Vista (spits to the ground [http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon12.gif](http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon12.gif)) copes with a new monitor without any bother.

Hi and if you are using Hardy 8.04 you may have to install displayconfig-gtk via synaptic manager.
Also I believe the command is ```
gksu displayconfig-gtk
``` If you have installed the drivers for the nvidia card this command may also help along with the nvidia-settings with the command ```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

Moved :)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2008-10-22
Whoops!  Sorry about the typo, that's the trouble with acting quicker than my fingers work.

---

