---
title: "10.04 on Dell Mini 10 - No sound after kernel update"
date: 2012-10-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by KiwiPete on 2012-10-30
Hi

I am running Ubuntu 10.04 on a Dell Mini 10 netbook.
This has worked brilliantly for 18 months +.

Several times when running Update Manager and a new kernel is installed the system loses sound. I have usually managed to solve the problem following advice from several sources - both try to fix alsa packages / drivers. Here are links:
[http://sgmustadio.wordpress.com/2011/05/27/fixing-no-sound-issues-after-updating-ubuntu-10-04/](http://sgmustadio.wordpress.com/2011/05/27/fixing-no-sound-issues-after-updating-ubuntu-10-04/)
and
[http://www.winko-erades.nl/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=16:ubuntu-1004-upgrade-nosound&catid=6:ubuntu](http://www.winko-erades.nl/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=16:ubuntu-1004-upgrade-nosound&catid=6:ubuntu)

Recently however after Update Manager added a new kernel, sound stopped working and nothing I have tried fixes it. I have tried booting using previous kernels (by pressing Shift key on startup) - no help.

I also tried booting to 12.04 from USB and even then the sound is not working.

Yes, I tried the obvious sound settings to make sure nothing was muted.

Any advice welcome...

KiwiPete

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-10-30
Hi,
Please post output of:
```
aplay -l
```
Also, check audio with an older live cd/usb and its state in BIOS. I think the problem may be other than OS settings/drivers.

---

### Post by KiwiPete on 2012-10-31
Hi Varunendra

Here is the result of aplay -l

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC268 Analog [ALC268 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

I will have to hunt around and find an older live cd/usb and give that a try. Can you explain what you mean when you say "..and its state in BIOS"?

Thanks

KiwiPete

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-10-31
> **KiwiPete said:**
> what you mean when you say "..and its state in BIOS"?I meant to check whether the sound device is enabled in BIOS just to make sure. But it is no more needed since the *aplay* output clearly shows that the device is detected and recognized by the OS. And if the live 12.04 is the one that you have installed and working earlier, then it suggests a bad port or a hardware connection problem. Trying an older version was to just double-check that.

---

### Post by KiwiPete on 2012-11-01
Thanks Varunendra.
So what else can I try to fix the problem?

KiwiPete

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-11-01
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1885240](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1885240)

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-11-01
I'm not well-versed in troubleshooting sound issues, so can only suggest the most obvious things to try. Someone on this forum used to use a script which could not only provide a detailed sound-setting report, but could also fix some common issues automatically. Unfortunately, I can't remember the user's name nor the link to that script. You may try to search for those posts though (they should be dated between 2010-11).

Among the 'obvious' things, one is to try a different OS on the same netbook to see if it gives you sound. If you have none available and need to download one, some smaller and portable ones are Slitaz, Slax & Puppy Linux. Slitaz was just 37MB in size when I last checked. The other two should be around 200MB.

If even a different OS detects the card fine but can't give you sound, then almost certainly it is a hardware problem and you need to consult the Dell service center.

Sorry for such vague references, but that's all I could think of in the limited time I have right now. Maybe a couple of days later I may get enough time to search for more logical solutions, but I think trying a different OS should be the first approach anyway to avoid unnecessary messing with files and settings.

Good luck!


**EDIT :**
Oops! I'm late..!
Thanks mörgæs, you are a life saver :)

---

