---
title: "14.04  No Recording"
date: 2015-01-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2015-01-02
I have a 14.04 64bit machine that plays sound from various media without any problem - however, I cannot record sound from my browser using **Sound Recorder**.   I have VirtualBox installed with a 12.04 guest and can record the same (radio) program via my browser using the 12.04 **Sound Recorder** within VB.  If you look at my attached vboxaudio.png you will see that in the Sound Recorder window the **Record as:** line is filled out with CD Quality, Lossy (.ogg type) whereas in the 14.04.png picture this line is empty and remains empty, if I click on the down arrow - there are no options.  Also - in 14.04, the Sound Settings window shows (only shows - there are no other options) it is recording from the Rear Microphone whereas the voxaudio.png shows a number of input options (although I'm not sure this is relevant).  As far as I can remember I have install restricted-extras and build-essentials on my 14.04 machine (I do this with every build).  I must admit, I suprised Sound Recorder is not working 'out of the box'.  It has, for me, worked on all other versions.  Any help appreciated.

---

### Post by jimbo10 on 2015-01-02
the mic' doesn't work on UBUNTU....see my other 'thread'....... "[microphone on headset not working]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2259093")  "

it SUX!!

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2015-01-02
I am not using a mic - never have done.  Example - I open a bbc iplayer radio program and play it throught my firefox browser; I hear thr audio through my speakers.  Prior to 14.04 when I launch Sound Recorder and hit record it picks up the audio from the motherboard and records the sound.  It is working this way on my machine in Virtualbox with ubuntu 12.04.  Something seems to be missing or mis configured in 14.04.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-01-02
gnome-sound-recorder is [broken & basically dead]("https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=677199"). There is a new one but not in Ubuntu yet.
In the meantime you can try this one - (it's possible 14.04 will never get a usable g-s-r 
[https://launchpad.net/~osmoma/+archive/ubuntu/audio-recorder](https://launchpad.net/~osmoma/+archive/ubuntu/audio-recorder)

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2015-01-02
I sometimes use Audio Recorder (link in post #4) but prefer Audacity for streaming audio recording. Audacity has more flexibility as to format and quality, and allows editing. Here is a how-to post with the Audacity settings needed for recording streaming audio:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2234397&p=13073700#post13073700](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2234397&p=13073700#post13073700)

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2015-01-02
Wow - never realise/knew it didn't work in 14.04, wonder why it is part of the standard install(?).  Thank you both for the above posts - I'm am now recording with Audio Recorder and will look into Audacity.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2015-01-03
> **Quarkrad said:**
> Wow - never realise/knew it didn't work in 14.04, wonder why it is part of the standard install(?).  Thank you both for the above posts - I'm am now recording with Audio Recorder and will look into Audacity.

I think you would like Audacity for all it can do. Give it a try. There is a bit of a learning curve, but the how to post should help. For other uses, Audacity has extensive help available from the menu and online.

---

