---
title: "On 14.04 trying to get old home videos off DVD - Any tool that works?"
date: 2014-06-15
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ewangr on 2014-06-15
I have a couple of DVDs I recently found after going through some boxes of some family videos. Unfortunately I made a "real" DVD of these so I have 4 VOB files containing 7 videos. This results in stuff being split across files, etc.

I first tried KDENlive to edit the VOB files, but it gets more than a little confused by the format. I then thought I might be able to use a DVD ripping program (particularly since I didn't CSS protect my own stuff), but it appears these all broke in 14.04? Is there anything I can use?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-15
vobcopy.
handbrake.

---

### Post by ewangr on 2014-06-15
> **TheFu said:**
> vobcopy.
handbrake.

VOB Copy literally just copies the VOB files, which you don't need a separate utility for. Handbrake seems to have issues with the fact I had created a menu for the DVD (some old version of Nero I suspect), and so only does the first video.

I guess I'll just get out my old Wndows laptop and use MakeMKV, but I always hate when I can't find a Linux equivalent...

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-06-15
VOB files are mpeg2 - you can convert them as needed to other formats.  It is possible to convert these 1 VOB file at a time or to mux them all together in a single command input to ffmepg, avcon or mencoder (my experience).   Should be able to just copy those files over from the DVD to the HDD, then point handbrake at the file. 

Are you seeing something different?

---

### Post by ewangr on 2014-06-15
> **TheFu said:**
> VOB files are mpeg2 - you can convert them as needed to other formats. 

That's not quite true, which is where the .IFO and other files come in. Per the definition:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VOB](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/VOB)

"OB can contain digital video, digital audio, subtitles, DVD menus and navigation contents multiplexed together into a stream form."

In my case the muxing of the navigation seems to confuse Handbrake, which is why I can't get all the content out of each file as it doesn't know what to do with the "non-video" portions of my stream - at least that's how I interpret the issues it's having. If I copy over the VOB files and play them direct from VLC, it doesn't always play the complete file.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-06-15
What are you trying to accomplish, 1 large file of your 7 vids sans menu, ect. or 7 indivuall files sans menu?
vobcopy can  rip to 1 large file or can rip per individual title number
(- read man vobcopy or if using unity open the Dash & type - 
```
manpages:vobcopy 
```
will open in yelp
You can then convert the 1 large  or individual titles  as you wish

Or something like k9copy to identify & rip individual titles, ect. though vobcopy should suffice..

---

