---
title: "11.04 can't recognize or play DVDs. HELP!"
date: 2011-05-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Newuser901 on 2011-05-14
I've tried everything that I can find. Nothing is working. I'm sitting here with my netflix delivered copy of Farscape: peacekeeper wars. And I can't play it. 8( I have another DVD that is a how to for comps(A+ level type stuff) and it won't work either. If I go to home and look it only says cd/DVD drive. I have two. I'm very new to ubuntu. Are they supposed to do like windows and show they have anything. Let alone play stuff? Should they already be mounted or do I need to? I think I even set the stupid region if I didn't before. I hate that stuff! 

Can anyone help. I'm am totally confused!

---

### Post by handy on 2011-05-14
Add the Restricted Formats:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/#Playing%20Restricted%20Formats](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/#Playing%20Restricted%20Formats)

& the Medibuntu repo:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu)

They should get you out of trouble. :)

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2011-05-14
```
sudo apt-get install libdvdread4
```
then:
```
sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/install-css.sh
```
you may have to reboot, but that should work.

---

### Post by Newuser901 on 2011-05-14
I was missing a few of those. Or atleast I hadn't installed them. Had hopes when one was dvd viewing. but still nothing.

Is it bad I have the css-50/52 whatever packages that say for deb releases only installed?

DOH. I'm stupid. I had to select device.(that wasn't working before though.) Now it's up with menus. Is there any way to get auto play when you pop in a cd/dvd?

---

### Post by dik angga on 2012-06-15
> **cottfcfan said:**
> ```
sudo apt-get install libdvdread4
```
then:
```
sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/install-css.sh
```
you may have to reboot, but that should work.

i have that problem too..
i've following ur advice but no changes 
still can't read dvd

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2012-06-15
Have you enabled the Medibuntu repository & upgraded that may help?
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu)

---

### Post by dik angga on 2012-06-15
yhea..but any DVDs still no change

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2012-06-16
I take it that you have already installed the restricted extras?
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```
and that you have the canonical partners & independent repos enabled?

---

### Post by dik angga on 2012-06-16
> **cottfcfan said:**
> I take it that you have already installed the restricted extras?
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```
and that you have the canonical partners & independent repos enabled?
yes..i enable it..
but still not to detect dvd movies..
but why always movies..???
i try another kind of dvd..is normal..it can run

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2012-06-16
Sorry can't help you anymore.
All my dvds play fine. Mind you I am using 12.04, not 11.04, maybe the later version has more up to date codecs.

---

### Post by dik angga on 2012-06-16
> **cottfcfan said:**
> Sorry can't help you anymore.
All my dvds play fine. Mind you I am using 12.04, not 11.04, maybe the later version has more up to date codecs.
but i prefer maverick cuz ubuntu 11.04, 11.10, 12.04 is so damn..
why i said that..?? that ubuntu couldn't installed well on my acer aspire 4736..

my monitor always black (no light) but the OS still running normally and i hear login sound too..

---

### Post by Freiberg on 2012-06-19
Installing the restricted extras, Medibuntu, and libdvdcss2 worked perfectly for me.  Thanks!

---

