---
title: "9.04 refresh rate stuck at 60Hz"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ieee488 on 2009-04-23
Just did a fresh install.

Initially, my display was at 1680 x 1050, so I changed it to 1024 x 768. There was some brief pop-up which I didn't read carefully. Now my refresh rate is stuck at 60Hz. Click on Detect Monitor does not good.

Help!

I have a really old ATI video card.

Am I forced to go back to 8.04 ?

---

### Post by jukingeo on 2009-06-27
> **ieee488 said:**
> Just did a fresh install.

Initially, my display was at 1680 x 1050, so I changed it to 1024 x 768. There was some brief pop-up which I didn't read carefully. Now my refresh rate is stuck at 60Hz. Click on Detect Monitor does not good.

Help!

I have a really old ATI video card.

Am I forced to go back to 8.04 ?

Don't bother going back to 8.04.  I am still using 8.04 and due to updates, for some reason ATI cards no longer have extended refresh rate support.  I had it on my monitor prior to a move, but after I moved and set up my computer after 3 months of being boxed up, I updated Ubuntu.  Big mistake, now I can't get my monitor off of 60hz.  I heard this was a problem mainly with ATI cards and those that have Nvidia there is a work around for them.

I have a funny feeling this is another one of those Mfg, not cooperating with Ubuntu developers type things.  As you can see we are not the only ones that have this problem and it seems for us ATI users we have little to no choice.

At any rate, I heard that viewing a monitor at 60hz with an LCD display isn't as bad as with a CRT so lucky me, my neighbor was selling a 17" Dell LCD monitor in mint condition for $50.  I hooked that up to my computer and it works perfectly fine AND with much less flicker than with a CRT.  I would say this flat screen at 60hz looks like my CRT when it was running at 75hz.  Not bad if you ask me.  So what am I going to do with my CRT monitor?  Well, I am hoping that I will not have too much difficulty in setting up two displays on my machine in Ubuntu.  If it isn't too difficult to set up, then I will install an NVidia card in my machine for the second display.  Hopefully then I can set that one past 60hz.

I am still wondering though if only Ubuntu users are having this problem with ATI cards.  It does get me wondering if I should try a different Linux platform such as OpenSUSE.

Anyway, I saw your post here and like with myself, not really many were responding to the 60hz situation.  I am not going to hold my breath either and I don't recommend you should.  I have a funny feeling there will not be a solution to this problem for a VERY long time.

Geo

---

