---
title: "8.10 minimal, intel AC'97, no sound, but system beeps"
date: 2009-03-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by superkret on 2009-03-13
Hi, after 2 hours of fiddling around without success, maybe you can help:

After a minimal install of ubuntu 8.10 on my toshiba tecra s1 notebook, normal sound works neither from the internal nor external speakers. System beeps do work, though. I've turned up all sliders in alsamixer, tried installing gnome-alsamixer and turned everything on in there. Then I manually reinstalled alsa, also to no avail.

aplay -l gives me: ```
aplay: device_list:215: no soundcards found...
```

lspci finds the card: ```
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 03)
```

Following the [[COLOR="Blue"]Comprehensive Sound Problem Solutions Guide[/COLOR]](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449), I should now install the drivers from the alsa-project's website, where I found [[COLOR="Blue"]this[/COLOR]](http://www.alsa-project.org/main/index.php/Matrix:Vendor-Intel).

Can my ICH4-card use the intel8x0 driver? Where else could I look for the solution if it isn't driver related?

I had a regular Ubuntu 8.10 installed previously, where everything worked, so I got the feeling, it's just something that I still need to install, which doesn't come with the minimal installation.

Maybe someone can at least give some hints.

---

### Post by ExtrazE on 2009-03-14
superkret
This is my first post in the forums. Hope it follows all the rules.  I had a similar problem on my hp pavilion dv1000 notebook.
My hardware: Obtained by typing in a terminal $lspci -l
[FONT="Arial"]Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 03)[/FONT]

I installed ubuntu 8.10 and everything was great. About a week ago sound stopped working in everything. Volume controls worked, but not sound was coming from the speakers. I accidentally found out that system beeps worked in the terminal still. No MP3, videos, youtube, etc sound worked though. I googled the heck out of it with little success. I tried the alsa slider stuff in the terminal found in many other posts. I reinstalled all the "driver" stuff from following various guides and other posts. No help.

I booted ubuntu 8.10 from the live cd and sound was fine so I knew it was a software setting on my PC. 

What fixed it for me was an accident. I double (left)clicked the speaker icon found on the top panel (bar across the top of desktop). It brings up a window with several settings in it. The "Master" volume slider was all the way up. The "PCM" slider was all the way down, and there was a little red x on the speaker below the slider. I click the x, turned the slider up and bam, my music started playing through the speakers. I have no idea what this setting is or how it got muted. I am pretty new to ubuntu and linux so I can't provide any other insight. I do know that my volume control keys and mute button only effect the "Master" volume not the "PCM"

It may be a shot in the dark but I hope this works for you too. Good luck

---

### Post by superkret on 2009-03-14
Thanx for your help. I'm sure this would fix it for me. But the whole point of my minimal installation was to run ubuntu without gnome, in order to have a fast, lean machine. I had ubuntu installed regularly before and sound worked without problems. I also read a post from someone with the exact same problem who fixed it by installing xfce.
But since I want to run my system without a desktop environment, that fix would defeat the whole purpose of my experiment. So I'll probably have to keep trying or otherwise do a fresh install once 9.04 comes out and hope that the problem is fixed by then.
I just can't believe you need a desktop environment installed to have sound working.

Edit: By now I've tried installing the drivers from the alsa-project website which sadly didn't do anything at all.

---

### Post by superkret on 2009-03-15
I've found this in my .xsession-errors file. Maybe someone here knows what to do. I'm still stuck.

```
ALSA lib pcm.c:2196:(snd_pcm_open_noupdate) Unknown PCM default
ALSA lib pcm_hw.c:1429:(_snd_pcm_hw_open) Invalid value for card
ALSA lib confmisc.c:768:(parse_card) cannot find card '0'
ALSA lib conf.c:3513:(_snd_config_evaluate) function snd_func_card_driver returned error: No such file or directory
ALSA lib confmisc.c:392:(snd_func_concat) error evaluating strings
ALSA lib conf.c:3513:(_snd_config_evaluate) function snd_func_concat returned error: No such file or directory
ALSA lib confmisc.c:1251:(snd_func_refer) error evaluating name
ALSA lib conf.c:3513:(_snd_config_evaluate) function snd_func_refer returned error: No such file or directory
ALSA lib conf.c:3985:(snd_config_expand) Evaluate error: No such file or directory
```

---

### Post by superkret on 2009-03-15
I installed everything that's mentioned here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=997506](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=997506)

Then I opened gnome-alsamixer and unmuted everything. This fixed it.

---

