---
title: "10.04 LTS Latest Kernel, No Sound"
date: 2012-09-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jda8818 on 2012-09-28
Hello everyone,

Have been running AlsaUpgrade-1.0.24-2.sh etc successfully for years following kernel upgrades. but the latest upgrade fails the -c (compile) step with:

```
alsa-driver-1.0.24  not found
```Should I try the -25 version?  The redux posts seem to indicate that some people are reverting to the -24 script from the -25.

Thanks in advance,

J

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-09-28
What's wrong with default alsa kernel modules in lucid 10.04.3?

There is a alsa user space 1.0.24 ppa (iquik).
There is a DKMS loading (automagic) alsa kernel backports package in proposed..

That is reported to be enough for HDMI HDA..

---

### Post by jda8818 on 2012-09-29
Dear BicyclerBoy:

Unfortunately, I'm not exactly sure just what you're talking about.  

I'm talking about HDMI sound wipeouts with every kernel upgrade.  I have been successfully running the AlsaUpgrade script (v.24) repeatedly, with each kernel upgrade. However the latest kernel upgrade does not respond to the script.  

I'm unsure how to  proceed ...

Thanks in advance,

J

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-09-29
Your alsa upgrade method is very difficult & prone to trouble..
And it stops working every other week.
And almost no one has any idea what it does..

Now that 10.04 is so old it is becoming harder to keep some parts up-to-date.

There are package managed ppas etc to provide update kernel & user space components of alsa.
There packages work & continue to work with each/every update.

Lucid 10.04.3 (section proposed):
The "linux-backports-modules-alsa-generic" package gets you to alsa 1.0.23 in the kernel.
(synaptic pack manager select it/install)

The iquik audio ppa gets your users space alsa to 1.0.24.
[https://launchpad.net/~team-iquik/+archive/alsa/+packages](https://launchpad.net/~team-iquik/+archive/alsa/+packages)
(add the ppa/reload/mark updates)

These are not the latest but they have been found to be good-enough to get HDA HDMI working.

---

### Post by jda8818 on 2012-09-29
BicyclerBoy:

Maybe it's time to do a new 12.04.1 LTS install.  I gather HD HDMI sound works fine in this environment; I can tell you I'm certainly tired of running these scripts all  the time.  And I'm not sure I want to  go to the trouble to follow your other suggestions involving backports, ppas etc. etc.

I'm not a Unity fan, but I guess I'll give it a try.

Thanks for your response and interest,

J

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-09-29
You prob never needed to run those scripts..
The backports install is one click in synaptic package manager;done;never again..

The ppa is a couple of cut & pastes into terminal; done;never again..

My 10.04.3 LTS HTPC box has a dozen extra ppas & a handful important programs compiled.
At the moment this is still better than jumping to 12.04 LTS but the tipping point is coming..

---

### Post by jda8818 on 2012-09-30
BicyclerBoy:

Installed (fresh) 12.04.1 ...

All went well.  Only had to choose HDMI output in the  sound configuration app.  Sound fine.  Firefox (Flash) OK etc.

Printer OK, Dropbox OK, Updates OK etc etc.

All seems fine, except I cannot find the screensaver options in Unity.

Any ideas??

Thanks in advance,

J

---

### Post by jda8818 on 2012-10-01
After trying 12.04.1 (Unity) I have decided to move to Mint, which works as expected.

A disappointment I'm sorry to say.

Thanks to everyone for their help with 10.04.

J

---

