---
title: "How to change monitor range"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ixxalnxxi on 2009-04-25
Ubunti 9.04:
Problem: Unable to run certain programs because monitor goes out of range
Monitor: AOC 22LVWK (22")

Alright, I've edited my /etc/X11/xorg.conf several different times. I change it so that my monitor has a valid Vertrefresh and HorizSync. (59 & 65, respectively) 

After editing, I restart my computer (seeing alt+ctrl+bksp no longer works)

Once computer hits desktop, I go to my terminal and run sudo ddcprobe to get stats on my monitor, but the monitorrange value never changes, it always remains the same.

What is it that I need to do to successfully change my monitor range?

I've googled this problem and browsed the forums for about a week now.. but I can't seem to find the answer. Any help will be appreciated, thanks.

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-04-25
What exactly does your xorg.conf look like now? Did you specify the hsync and vrefresh ranges in it? Are they correct? According to the [online user guide]("http://www.fixya.com/support/p504271-aoc_22lvwk_monitor/manual-30175") I found, the hsync range is 30-80, and the vrefresh range is 50-75.

Let's have a look at your xorg.conf at any rate.

---

### Post by ixxalnxxi on 2009-04-25
**/etc/X11/xorg.conf** reads as so:

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon Mar 23 15:33:27 PST 2009
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "AOC 22LVWk"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 63.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 56.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7600 GS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7600 GS"
    BusID          "PCI:5:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "ConnectedMonitor" "DFP"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1680x1050_60 +0+0; CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT-0: 1680x1050_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-04-25
> 
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "AOC 22LVWk"
[B]HorizSync 30.0 - 63.0
VertRefresh 50.0 - 56.0[/B]
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

should look like


```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "AOC 22LVWk"[B]
HorizSync 30.0 - 80.0
VertRefresh 50.0 - 75.0[/B]
Option "DPMS"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by ixxalnxxi on 2009-04-25
That's what it originally looked like. I'll set it to those values then restart and let you know the results

---

### Post by ixxalnxxi on 2009-04-25
Thanks for your reply,


I changed from the values listed to:
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0

I did this by going to terminal and doing "sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf" and did the changes there

Then I restarted my computer, went to terminal and typed "sudo ddcprobe" and it showed me this as my "monitorrange":

monitorrange: 30-83, 50-76

And again, when running the app I get monitor out of range. Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-04-25
Well, you could wipe your xorg.conf and start over. Couldn't hurt, as long as you make a backup.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Then from there, use nvidia-settings to set it up again.

I'm no expert when it comes to X, I just smelled smoke as they say.

---

