---
title: "10.04 LTS convert HD videos with ffmpeg and retain the quality"
date: 2010-08-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by fred2028 on 2010-08-18
I am currently running Clip Bucket on my Ubuntu 10.04 LTS server. It uses ffmpeg to convert videos. Currently, it reduces the quality (gets very pixelated) even though I set the max resolution to 1920x1080, video bitrate to 1024000 kb/s, and frames to 60/second. Also, maximum upload size for PHP is 2 GB, and the video is only 1280x720 and 50 MB. I have compiled ffmpeg and am using the libx264 codec to convert. How can I ensure that there is no video quality loss?

---

### Post by ron999 on 2010-08-18
Have you tried converting the files using ffmpeg from the command line?

---

### Post by fred2028 on 2010-08-18
> **ron999 said:**
> Have you tried converting the files using ffmpeg from the command line?
 How do you do that?

---

### Post by ron999 on 2010-08-18
> **fred2028 said:**
> How do you do that?

Well first you need to know what format the original file is.
Which codecs are used.
Use MediaInfo or similar to show this.

Then decide what format you want the result to be.
For example mp4 with x264 video and aac audio. Something like that.

---

### Post by jabeavers on 2010-08-19
I always use the -sameq argument to get the same quality in the output file. With it, you don't need to set bitrates. For example:

$ffmpeg -i input.file -sameq outfile.format

ffmpeg is pretty good at guessing codecs from the file extension you put on the output file. If you want to use a certain codec use -vcodec codec for the video codec and -acodec codec for the audio codec. To see a list or codecs ffmpeg has available type:
$ffmpeg -codecs

HTH,
John

---

### Post by fred2028 on 2010-08-20
> **jabeavers said:**
> I always use the -sameq argument to get the same quality in the output file. With it, you don't need to set bitrates. For example:
 
$ffmpeg -i input.file -sameq outfile.format
 
ffmpeg is pretty good at guessing codecs from the file extension you put on the output file. If you want to use a certain codec use -vcodec codec for the video codec and -acodec codec for the audio codec. To see a list or codecs ffmpeg has available type:
$ffmpeg -codecs
 
HTH,
John
The thing is though, FFMPEG is being used by ClipBucket (a PHP YouTube-like script), so I never actually run any CLI scripts. However, woudl compiling FFMPEG differently have an affect? If so, could you recommend how I should compile FFMPEG to get the optimal results? The guide I used to install/compile FFMPEG is [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=786095](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=786095)

---

### Post by Vrroom on 2010-08-20
If you are not comfortable with command line...you can download a GUI for ffmpeg from [here]("http://ubuntu-vibes.blogspot.com/2010/08/encode-ffmpeg-video-converter-with-gui.html")

If you still find problems then download devede from synaptic and choose last option to convert your videos

---

### Post by Stigmata13 on 2010-08-20
You should give Handbrake a try.
Here's how to install it.

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:handbrake-ubuntu/ppa
sudo apt-get update
```Then, edit your software sources and add the following lines:
```
deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/handbrake-ubuntu/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/handbrake-ubuntu/ppa/ubuntu) lucid main 
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/handbrake-ubuntu/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/handbrake-ubuntu/ppa/ubuntu) lucid main 
```Now you should be able to install it simply by typing the following into terminal:

```
sudo apt-get install handbrake-gtk
```I've found handbrake to be pretty simple and reliable for video conversion.

---

