---
title: "m3u lists"
date: 2010-08-19
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by amorphouskev on 2010-08-19
I'm a new convert to Ubuntu (2 weeks). I've found this forum to be full of SOOOO much useful info that I've yet the need to post a thread asking for assistance.

Situation:
-Saved all my Windows iTunes playlists as .txt files
-Switched to Ubuntu
-Converted the .txt files into .m3u
-Managed to make 1 of the playlists recognizable to rhythmbox by editing the file etc... 
-I did the rest of my iTunes playlist files the same way as the first file I converted - and NONE of the rest are readable by rhythmbox (or any other player)

So I've decided to go through my playlists (some containing close to 1,000 tunes), and copy the format of the ONE playlist that rhythmbox formatted, and can read.

I'm wondering if there's a way to write a script (existing, or one I can create) that will make it possible to read the text within the m3u files and get rid of ALL text that is not associated with the directory (/home/kevin/Music etc...)

Or if anybody has any knowledge on how to better make this work. I've thoroughly searched the forums, and net for a way to make it possible and haven't stumbled across anything - so any help is majorly appreciated!

---

### Post by amorphouskev on 2010-08-22
Anybody?

---

### Post by bartman789 on 2010-09-19
Hi,

I'm a noob too (as far as making the complete move from Win to Linux).

What were the file format changes you had to make to get Rhythmbox to recognize the .m3u generated by iTunes?

I've exported a few of my iTunes playlists to .m3u, but Rhythmbox can't seem to read them. The playlist shows up in Rhythmbox, but has no songs in it. I can see the actual songs in my Library view, so I know the songs are there.

Thanks.

---

### Post by amorphouskev on 2010-11-10
Thought I'd bump this thread since I'm still searching on how to get ANY of the ubuntu-compatible media players to recognize existing playlists.

I have m3u files I did a 'Find & Replace' changing all the windows information (ie. C:\My Music\ etc... ) to /home/kevin/Music etc... and nothing is able to detect these playlists (or they show up completely empty.

I'm currently using Songbird as my default player.

Any help?

---

