---
title: "10.04 kernel headers update - no more sound"
date: 2011-01-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by d3ngar on 2011-01-05
Hi,

I recently updated to the new kernel headers (2.6.32-27), but unfortunately I now have no sound. I have since downgraded to 2.6.32-26.

I have a Sony Vaio Laptop (VPCEC3S0E). It is from their current e-series.

I have tried most of the common fixes (checked alsamixer and etc), but it just simply stopped working in the latest version, but works fine without any problems in 2.6.32-27.

The microphone does still work though.

The soundcard is a Realtek ALC269
The output of alsa-info.sh is posted here: [http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=b8aac6ad5f5c8654824344fadd5fb76aba009f27](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=b8aac6ad5f5c8654824344fadd5fb76aba009f27)

Thanks for your help.

Chris

---

### Post by d3ngar on 2011-01-07
Something else I noticed:

Unfortunately the sound device is now always muted when I start the computer. I have to start a terminal, start alsamixer, turn up the volume and only then can I hear something.

Pretty annoying...

Saving the alsa settings does not make a difference.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-01-07
If you had installed alsa-driver-modules from ppa it was probably for that kernel and there is not one available for the latest version. A couple of things you can do here. You can remove alsa-modules and/or backports and upgrade your alsa install via the link in my sig. Or you can install one of the mainline kernels:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/MainlineBuilds](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/MainlineBuilds)
Or you can upgrade to maverick, which has a later kernel incorporating alsa 1.0.23. Or you can stay with the kernel that works until the ppa catches up. BTW you can use whatever kernel works for you - you're not limited to the latest one in
the repo.

As for your mixer levels resetting.
Open this file for editing:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/pulse/default.pa
```
Scroll down to this line:
```
load-module module-device-restore
```
Comment it out so it looks like this:
```
#load-module module-device-restore
```
Save. Close. Logout/in.

No help? Comment out line 372 in /etc/init.d/alsa-utils
Should look like this when you're done:
```
# mute_and_zero_levels "$TARGET_CARD" || EXITSTATUS=1
```

That's assuming you already tried:
```
sudo alsactl store 0
```

---

### Post by d3ngar on 2011-01-12
Hi,

I've upgraded this machine to 10.10 and, not sure if it's the new ALSA version or what not, but it's now working like a charm again...

Thanks,

Chris

---

