---
title: "9.10 on Eee 900: No Microphone, Webcam, &amp; Wesnoth screen doesn't fit"
date: 2010-03-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mgco on 2010-03-18
I'd like to know if anyone has installed Wesnoth to a netbook with ~8" display and how you managed to have it fit properly. Thanks.

Also how come the microphone (tested on soundrecorder) & webcam (don't know what to use as of the moment) don't work yet? Appreciate the advice.

---

### Post by barrieluv on 2010-03-18
The microphone issue is solved by right clicking the volume tray icon > Sound Preferences > Input and changing Connector to Microphone Two.  Then adjust the input volume as required.

To test the webcam, first ensure it is enabled in the bios settings (F2 at boot splash) and then install the Cheese app through Synaptic.

Don't know abut the Wesnoth thing, though...

---

### Post by barrieluv on 2010-03-18
Actually, thinking about it, Eeebuntu 4 (soon to be renamed) uses a configuration tray applet called Jupiter which allows you to use the 1024x768 resolution on the 900.  It works very well on EB4.  You could try installing it on Karmic, but entirely at your own risk.  There is a link to the .deb on this page:
[http://www.fewt.com/2010/02/meet-jupiter.html](http://www.fewt.com/2010/02/meet-jupiter.html)

---

### Post by mgco on 2010-03-18
@[barrieluv]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=853287") thanks for the input! i'll be sticking with koala for the moment since it runs fine on the 900. I'll be checking out Mic 2 & Bios and update this thread. Thanks

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-03-19
if you did not get the webcam working
open a terminal type, gstreamer-properties click enter
click video try v4l1 and v4l2
click the bottom test buttom for each 1

if gstreamer is not loaded get it in the add/remove

on 910 cheese is loaded try the cam in cheese
do not think  about skype yet get it working your on your own with skype

---

### Post by mgco on 2010-04-09
got to get the microphone to work... thanks!

i'm hesitant to try out the webcam though... disappointed that it doesn't work out of the box :(

---

### Post by Denispsy on 2010-04-09
I have Leeenux 3.0, made from Ubuntu 9.10 Minimal Karmic Koala, running on my EEE Pc 4g, and the webcam doesn´t work. I tried to enable through BIOS, but it doesn´t appear on the Onboard Devices. I tried gstreamer, but none of the options recognized my webcam. I know it is working because I removed from the case and plugged into a XP computer, and worked. What can I do?

---

