---
title: "9.10 Flash problem?"
date: 2010-01-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by David Stodolsky on 2010-01-17
Can anyone tell me why the Flash video on this page will not play in FireFox or Chrome-beta 4.0.249.43-r34537, but is fine in Safari on Mac? FF and Chrome play the video on YouTube fine. (9.10 64 bit, Flash 10.0.42.34).

<http://www.globalclimatescam.com/2010/01/danny-glover-hatian-earthquake-caused-by-global-warming/>

---

### Post by lyall on 2010-01-18
go to the following link for more info
[http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Karmic]("http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Karmic")
go down to 2.6 Internet Applications

it will help to install Flash

bookmark the link for your future, there is a lot of info to help you along the way

good luck and have fun learning

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2010-01-18
First, uninstall the flash you have. Then do:
```
sudo apt-get clean && sudo apt-get autoremove
```
Then get the [64bit flash]("http://download.macromedia.com/pub/labs/flashplayer10/libflashplayer-10.0.42.34.linux-x86_64.so.tar.gz") file.

Right click it and **extract here**. You will be left with **libflashplayer.so** file. Put the libflashplayer.so file in your home folder.

Then do:```
sudo cp /home/your_user_name/libflashplayer.so /usr/lib64/mozilla/plugins
```

Make sure to put *your name* where I wrote your_user_name.

Restart firefox if open.

For chrome, I believe libflashplayer.so goes into /usr/lib64/firefox/plugins

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2010-01-18
Works perfectly on this install of Karmic. 

That said the CONTENT of the video and page are not to my liking (MY opinion).

Global warming never existed, it's based on commercialism. 

However, I'm a STRONG believer in climate change that's NATURAL and will happen anyway. 

Just Google and see how far south the ice came 10,000 years ago.

We're at the end of an ice age so what can you expect!!!!!

---

### Post by David Stodolsky on 2010-01-23
> **HappyFeet said:**
> First, uninstall the flash you have. Then do:
```
sudo apt-get clean && sudo apt-get autoremove
```
Then get the [64bit flash]("http://download.macromedia.com/pub/labs/flashplayer10/libflashplayer-10.0.42.34.linux-x86_64.so.tar.gz") file.

Right click it and **extract here**. You will be left with **libflashplayer.so** file. Put the libflashplayer.so file in your home folder.

Then do:```
sudo cp /home/your_user_name/libflashplayer.so /usr/lib64/mozilla/plugins
```

Make sure to put *your name* where I wrote your_user_name.

Restart firefox if open.

For chrome, I believe libflashplayer.so goes into /usr/lib64/firefox/plugins
It isn't clear to me how to uninstall Flash. I got it from the Adobe site.

---

### Post by vayira on 2010-01-25
I've been having a lot of probs with flash too. (9.10 64bit)

To uninstall I renamed this directory
/home/YOURNAME/.macromedia 
to something else (which deleted the plugin from firefox for me)
(at the end of the process I deleted that file)

Then I downloaded the latest flash from here
[http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/](http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/)

Ubuntu tried to install it for me & failed. 

So I unziped the libflashplayer.so file from the libflashplayer-10.0.42.34.linux-x86_64.so.tar.gz that had been downloaded & put it into this directory 
/usr/lib64/firefox/plugins

When I restarted firefox I had a good version of flash working. However, I then had no flash in Chrome. 

I put it in 
/usr/lib64/mozilla/plugins
and that fixed chrome too.

---

### Post by Raijin8 on 2010-01-27
@David Stodolsky
I'm pretty sure you can just uninstall flash in synaptic. The package is called adobe-flashplugin.

---

