---
title: "5.1 channel in pulseaudio/ subwoofer not working"
date: 2009-05-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by huzefa.mansoorali on 2009-05-11
I have a 5.1 usb soundcard to connect my 5.1 altec lansing speakers. I used pulseaudio while i was using ubuntu intrepid to direct sound through usb sound card. Everything worked fine i got sound from speakers (FL, FR, RR, RL, Cen, subwoofer). now after upgrading to Jaunty, when i play sound the sound comes from 5 speakers only and not subwoofer. I opened pulseaudio mixer from manager, it shows sound from each channel except "low frequency emitter" channel. I guess that is the channel direct sound to subwoofer. has someone been facing same issue? did someone had woofer working after upgrade to jaunty?

---

### Post by M.H. on 2009-05-11
Hi huzefa,   

change the following line in your /etc/pulse/daemon.conf 
> ; disable-lfe-remixing = yes
to
> disable-lfe-remixing = no

and restart pulseaudio afterwards.

This worked for me.  

Best regards, 
  M.H.

---

### Post by huzefa.mansoorali on 2009-05-11
You are a life saver. it worked!

---

### Post by Fabioamd87 on 2009-06-07
Thank you.

---

### Post by Fuxy on 2009-08-31
Thank Man! 
Yore a Life saver :)

---

### Post by TheScientist on 2011-02-19
This saved MY life too, thank's a lot! :)

---

### Post by Its_Rishi on 2011-02-20
> **M.H. said:**
> Hi huzefa,   

change the following line in your /etc/pulse/daemon.conf 

to


and restart pulseaudio afterwards.

This worked for me.  

Best regards, 
  M.H.
im using ubuntu 10.10 maverick edition i can't set my audio options to 5.1 there isn't any 5.1 option located at sound preferences>hardware>profiles.
Help me...!

---

