---
title: "9.10 : Headphones jack creating interference through speakers"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ThinkDave on 2009-11-06
When plugging headphones into my laptop the speakers are muted but i start getting strange "running" (as in the hard drive/fan spooling) noises coming through my speakers. As soon as i remove my headphones the sound disappears it is very strange indeed. Anyone have any ideas or have seen a similar issue? This has only happened since updating to 9.10 and doesn't happen in Windows Vista.

This is using pulse audio on a fresh install of Karmic.
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)

---

### Post by conchyliferous on 2009-12-09
I have the same problem. Any news about it?

I have the same audio card:
```
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
```

---

### Post by ThinkDave on 2009-12-23
Well nice to see I'm not alone. Although I have still not been able to fix it. Anyone?

---

### Post by enrico_pv on 2010-01-12
I'm having here the same issue. Fresh install of Ubuntu 9.10 on Toshiba Satellite U305 (HDA Intel, ALC268 sound card) and same noise whem I plug the headphones.

I'm using pulseaudio too.

No similar issues when I was using Hardy Heron (always with pulseaudio) on the same laptop.

Thanks,
Enrico

---

### Post by conchyliferous on 2010-01-12
I still have the same problem. What shall we do? :(

---

### Post by enrico_pv on 2010-01-12
I found a post here about similar issues

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+question/93364](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+question/93364)

however that solution didn't fix my problem (i.e., in my case it is not related to power off strategy implemented in Karmic).
However I added the following line to 

/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf

options snd-hda-intel model=toshiba position_fix=1

I rebooted and everything was ok.
Not sure if this is an elegant solution or not, however for my toshiba u305 it worked.

Thanks,
Enrico

---

### Post by ngdias on 2010-12-30
The solution also worked for me! I'm using a Toshiba U300.

Thank you very much :)

---

