---
title: "Ubuntu 9 and two video cards"
date: 2009-08-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by risheda1 on 2009-08-31
The OS I am running is Ubuntu 9.04.  TThe system has two types of video cards installed:  an embedded VGA and an add-on PCI video card.  The system is used as a media server and the contents of the system is managed using SSH and RDP.  As a result, the system does not have any peripherals connected to it (monitor, keyboard, mouse).  The problem I am experiencing is accessing RDP when the add-on card is installed.  Whenever the add-on video card is installed SSH is accessible, but to RDP is not.  I execute the lspci command and I see the following video cards:
00:08.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 [Chrome 9 HC] [1106:3371] (rev 01)

I checked out my Xorg.conf and it has generic settings that's connected to the onboard VGA.

*************************************************************************************************
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
*****************************************************************************************************
The reason I am using the add-on card is to connect my TV to the TV/Out port.  I have not yet tried to connect my TV to the card because I am having this SSH/RDP issue.  Could someone help me resolve this issue?

Thanks

---

