---
title: "5.1 surround USB Alsa"
date: 2010-09-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by gaz2373 on 2010-09-23
Hi, I have managed to set up 5.1 surround from a budget usb sound card using a CM6206 chip (Its' Great watching HD tv in full 5.1 via mythtv)

I added the driver to alsa-base.conf with complied ALSA 1.0.22 and all works well except there is no spdif input option for capture.

I have googled and found a patch to try and solve this was included in the latest ALSA release but when I compile Alsa 1.0.23 I can't even get my machine to boot with the card plugged in giving a cpu no response for 61s error.

Has anyone else had any luck in setting up optical input spdif with this chip? Running 9.04.


Any further info required on the setup let me know.

Cheers

---

### Post by pidou46 on 2010-12-01
gaz2373,

I running into trouble with the same kind of sound card (CM6206)

I curently run ALSA 1.0.21 on my Debian Squeeze and I've some problem to access the device: 

```
root@serveur:~# amixer                                                          
amixer: Mixer attach default error: No such file or directory 
```

Do you have the same type of problem before installing ALSA 1.0.22 ?

Note: I'm alsow an ubuntu user but this is for my Dockstar server

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-12-02
> **gaz2373 said:**
> Hi, I have managed to set up 5.1 surround from a budget usb sound card using a CM6206 chip (Its' Great watching HD tv in full 5.1 via mythtv)

I added the driver to alsa-base.conf with complied ALSA 1.0.22 and all works well except there is no spdif input option for capture.

I have googled and found a patch to try and solve this was included in the latest ALSA release but when I compile Alsa 1.0.23 I can't even get my machine to boot with the card plugged in giving a cpu no response for 61s error.

Has anyone else had any luck in setting up optical input spdif with this chip? Running 9.04.


Any further info required on the setup let me know.

Cheers
Use the alsa-info-script to provide detailed information.
Run this command in a terminal:
```
wget http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh 
```
Choose the upload option and provide a link for the output.
[Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"]

---

