---
title: "Encoding DVD Video into OGG/Theora Format"
date: 2009-01-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Keenan-Windel on 2009-01-11
**Edit: I discovered after posting this guide that ffmpeg2theora sometimes produces video that runs too fast. I'm now directly using ffmpeg to encode my theora video. Sorry for the mistake.**

This is a complete guide for encoding DVD audio/video into the ogg/theora format in a Matroska container. I use the ogg/theora format because these codecs are free software and unencumbered by patents. I use the Matroska container for the same reason, and because I found it easiest to remux the audio and video using a Matroska muxing program. The ogg/theora video created will play in VLC or virtually any other Linux video playback program. There are several steps involved in the encoding process: first, rip the DVD to VOB files on your hard drive; next, combine the VOB files using mencoder; then demux the audio, encode the video, and remux the audio and video using a Matroska container. The resulting .mkv file will be approximately one third to one fourth the size of the orginal DVD if you follow this guide exactly (you can easily make the resulting file larger with more quality or smaller with less quality). A typical main feature from a DVD, for instance, is 4.5 GiB, but I encoded such a video to 1.3 GiB using the ogg/theora codecs with a quality sufficient for archiving. 

Note: There are no doubt other ways to encode in Linux. These steps worked for me, but there may be more efficient ways to accomplish the same tasks. Please use this guide for legal purposes.

**Download Necessary Programs**

You will need several programs to encode your ogg/theora file from DVD audio/video. Download and install these programs using synaptic or a similar program (apt-get, etc.):

libdvdcss2 (see [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/PlayingDVDs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/PlayingDVDs) for instructions on installing).

ffmpeg (to encode audio).

k9copy (a DVD ripping program for KDE, so if you're using Gnome you will also be installing the minimal, necessary KDE dependencies).

mencoder (we'll use mencoder to combine the VOB files generated by k9copy).

ffmpeg2theora (this program uses ffmpeg to encode the video).

avidemux (we will use this program to separate (demux) the audio from the video so that we have an audio file to convert to ogg and remux).

mkvtoolnix-gui (a GUI tool for remuxing the audio and video).

**Rip the DVD**

Now that you've downloaded and installed the necessary programs, it's time to rip (extract the audio and video contents) from the DVD to your hard drive. Note that you need at least 5 GiB of space on your hard drive to do this.

1) Insert your DVD into the drive and start the program k9copy.

2) Make sure you have pointed k9copy to the drive containing your DVD (choose your "input device" from the menu at the top) and click on "open." This will open your DVD and a series of boxes marked "Titleset 1," "Titleset 2," etc. will appear in the main window.

3) One of the titlesets will be much bigger than the others. Click on the box next to the BIGGEST TITLESET ONLY, which is almost always the main feature, and a checkmark will appear there. Remember or write down the titleset number.

4) Select "Folder" from the "Output device" menu above the main window.

5) Click on the "Copy" icon at the top. A pop-up dialogue will appear. Click on "Okay" and the data will begin to extract from the DVD into a folder called "dvd" and a subfolder called "VIDEO_TS" in your home folder. This process takes 20 minutes or more on my modest computer.

**Combine the VOB Files**

If you navigate to your home folder and to dvd/VIDEO_TS you will see a number of .VOB files and some other files. We are going to combine the .VOB files of the main feature into one .VOB file using mencoder.

1) Open a terminal (Main Menu > Accessories > Terminal) and navigate to your VIDEO_TS folder in the terminal using the "cd" ("change directory" command):

Code:
cd /home/yourname/dvd/VIDEO_TS

2) Next we are going to list the files in the VIDEO_TS folder using the "ls" command.

Code:
ls

A lot of files will appear in the terminal. Notice that the .VOB files are listed in this format:

VTS_04_0.VOB
VTS_05_2.VOB

3) Remember the number of the titleset you selected in k9copy? You are interested in the .VOB files where the middle number matches the titleset number you selected (in this case I selected titleset 5 in k9copy, and I am interested in the .VOB files with a 05 in the middle). 

Note: check the VOB file numbered 0 (a zero at the end like VTS_05_0.VOB) with Movie Player, which should play it, and see if it contains the beginning of the main feature or images from the DVD menu. If the later is the case, start with 01 (like VTS_05_1.VOB) in the code below and forget about 0. 

Use mencoder to merge these series of files together, and list them in order from first to last, starting with 0 or 1:

Code:
mencoder VTS_05_1.VOB VTS_05_2.VOB VTS_05_3.VOB VTS_05_4.VOB -ovc copy -oac copy OUTPUT.VOB

Be sure to list ALL of the files in the titleset series IN ORDER. This process takes 10 minutes on my machine.

**Encode the Video**

Next we're going to do the actual encoding using ffmpeg2theora.

Code:
ffmpeg2theora --nosound -v 6 OUTPUT.VOB

These commands convert the video from OUTPUT.VOB into theora format. Don't worry about the audio right now. The -v is for video quality, and I set it to 6, which you can change to your liking. A higher value will be a bigger size and higher quality, a lower value like 5 a smaller size and lower quality. This process takes many hours (at least 5 on my machine and sometimes 8 or 9 hours), so you might want to run it at night while you're sleeping.

**Extract the Audio**

Next we'll extract the audio using avidemux, which you can find in the "Sound and Video" section of your main menu. Load avidemux and follow these steps:

1) Select "open" and find your merged VOB file that contains the audio (OUTPUT.VOB). Highlight it and click "Open."

2) When prompted, allow avidemux to index the file. This process takes about 10 minutes on my computer.

3) Select an audio track (Audio > Main Track). Try out the video by clicking on the play button to make sure it's English audio (or the language you want) and do select the 2 channel audio only.

4) Go to Audio and select "Save," choose a name for your track, like OUTPUT.ac3, and click "Save." This process will take a few minutes, at which time you can close avidemux.

**Encode the Audio**

Next, encode the audio to ogg-vorbis format. Enter the terminal and navigate to the directory that contains your OUTPUT.ac3. Use ffmpeg to encode the file, which will take some time:

ffmpeg -i OUTPUT.ac3 -aq 70 -acodec vorbis -f ogg OUTPUT.ogg

This command sets the audio quality to 70 and encodes the sound into the ogg/vorbis format. Again, you can raise or lower the audio quality depending on your needs.

**Place OUTPUT.ogv in MKV Container**

We have a little necessary step here in order to ready your video for mkvmerge-gui, which is to use ffmpeg to put your encoded video into a Matroska container.

Code:
ffmpeg -i OUTPUT.ogv -an OUTPUT.mkv

This will take a few minutes.


**Merge Audio/Video into a Matroska Container**

We're almost done. It's time to merge the files into a Matroska container using mkvmerge-gui. Select the program from your main menu and open it.

1) Click the "add" button and add your OUTPUT.mkv that you just created with ffmpeg. Then the "add" button again and select your ogg audio (OUTPUT.ogg).

2) Click the "Start Muxing" button.

3) Select a good filename for your video that's different from OUTPUT.mkv and start muxing. Keep mkvmerge-gui open for the next step.

**Test the New File**

The audio and video might not be in sync, so test the new file OUTPUT.mkv to make sure everything is okay. If the audio is lagging behind the video, simply highlight the audio track in mkvmerge-gui and go to "Format specific options," where you can delay the audio. Or, if the audio is ahead of the video, simply highlight video and delay it in "Format specific options." Then mux the file again ("Start muxing"). It's trial and error, really, and I would recommend starting with a delay of only 50-75 milliseconds and go from there. The audio/video will eventually sync.

Once you have a perfect file, delete the other files you used from your computer, as they'll just be taking up space.

Have fun encoding, and do let me know, all of you encoding experts, if I've left anything out or if you have ideas or suggestions.

---

### Post by Cornova on 2009-03-15
> **Keenan-Windel said:**
> 
Code:
mencoder VTS_05_1.VOB VTS_05_2.VOB VTS_05_3.VOB VTS_05_4.VOB -ovc copy -oac copy OUTPUT.VOB


I get the following message in the terminal when I use the above code:

[QUOTE=The Terminal]Exiting... (No output file specified, please see the -o option.)[/QUOTE]

Anyone know what needs to be added to the syntax?

Edit: seems you just need to add '-o' before 'OUTPUT.VOB'

Anyone know why the audio is so low in .vob  compared to what it is on the DVD?

---

### Post by francishemingway on 2009-04-11
Hi, 
I've been doing a similar thing this week: trying to play DVD's on my Playstation 3. What I've ended up doing is using Handbrake, which has been recently ported from Mac OS X to GTK+ and Linux. It may need some codecs from Medibuntu - not sure. 

Url is handbrake.fr I think.

---

### Post by SunnySan on 2009-06-30
the correct command is:

```
mencoder.exe  -o %destinationFile% %sourceFile1% %sourceFile2% -ovc copy -oac copy
```

just had same problem. now it's working 
Thanks

---

### Post by wolfcm on 2009-07-02
Thanks Keenan-Windel, great how-to. BTW, stripping the audio with ffmpeg seems to be simpler than using avidemux, for example:

```
ffmpeg -i <yourmovie.vob> -vn -acodec vorbis -aq 70 OUTPUT.oga
```

or, for PCM output (to pipe to the encoder of your choice):

```
ffmpeg -i <yourmovie.vob> -vn OUTPUT.wav
```

Anyway, it saved me the extra trouble of installing avidemux. Thanks again!

---

### Post by wolfcm on 2009-07-10
culicoco, please do not post blatant advertisements on these forums, especially when the advertised item is an extremely suspicious-looking piece of proprietary software. 

I would advise anyone reading this thread to avoid using non-free software like the "Tipard Video Converter". With Free applications like ffmpeg, there is absolutely no need to resort to these questionable products.

---

### Post by benj1 on 2009-07-10
> **wolfcm said:**
> culicoco, please do not post blatant advertisements on these forums, especially when the advertised item is an extremely suspicious-looking piece of proprietary software. 

I would advise anyone reading this thread to avoid using non-free software like the "Tipard Video Converter". With Free applications like ffmpeg, there is absolutely no need to resort to these questionable products.

plus its windows only.

you would have though that if youre going to go to the trouble of signing up to a forum, find a suitable thread and add your comment/advert, you would at least find a forum for an OS compatible with your product.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-07-11
Hi wolfcm,

> **wolfcm said:**
> culicoco, please do not post blatant advertisements on these forums, especially when the advertised item is an extremely suspicious-looking piece of proprietary software. 

Thanks to the moderators for fast action on this one :-).

Andrew

---

