---
title: "8.10 Upgrade Graphics driver query"
date: 2009-01-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by smirnoff76 on 2009-01-01
Hi all, 

I am currently using 8.04 but am wanting to upgrade to version 8.10.
I did this previously but had problems with the graphics / compiz so in the end i went back to the previous version. This I am pretty certain was due to the fact that 8.10 was using a different driver to what I was using in 8.04

What I am wanting to do is find out what graphics driver I am currently using (i have no idea how to do this??) so when I install 8.10 I can then go back to the driver I am currently using now, can anyone tell me how to do this??

Thanks in advance!!!

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-01-01
Hi and the model of the graphics would help?
Also if the graphics are integrated?

---

### Post by smirnoff76 on 2009-01-01
Hey overdrank, 

The machine is actually a laptop so yes the graphics are integrated. 
The graphics are ATI Radeon 200 series.

Thanks!!

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-01-01
What you need to do is completely remove any proprietary driver and use the VESA driver and set desktop visual effects to none (disable compiz) before upgrading.

Then make sure you have all the updates before enabling the restricted driver again.

I have a machine with a 200m and had no problems with a clean Intrepid install by following these steps. I think it is important to update to the -29 kernel before getting the restricted driver because I have seen some people havng problems with the driver who have not updated first and it is certain that having old versions of the driver around will screw up the upgrade.

There were problems with the radeon and fglrx driver in the -27 kernel that was caused by a conflicting file which both drivers needed. This has been fixed in -29.

I hope that helps.

---

### Post by smirnoff76 on 2009-01-02
Hi Markbuntu

Thanks very much for that is just what I needed. 
Will get that started this weekend!!

---

