---
title: "8.04 Ubuntu on a laptop with second monitor"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by louish on 2008-04-30
Hi all.

I'm looking for help trying to get a second monitor to work with my laptop running Ubuntu 8.04.   I can get it to "detect/use" the external monitor during a reboot, but once the login screen pop's up, the external monitor turn's off.   When I go into "screen resolution" and try to click "detect" nothing happens.

Has anyone else has any luck getting a external monitor to work with a laptop?

TIA

Louis

---

### Post by Kristian_eh on 2008-06-14
Bump for great justice.

I have the exact same problem.

I'm using a HP compaq nc400 and some Prosonic TV

---

### Post by ag65151 on 2008-06-14
You don't say, but I bet both of you are using the OS ATI driver for your video cards. And I would venture you have older cards as well.

I have already opened a [bug ]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/231081") for this problem. I have not seen any action on the bug, however. I have switched to the vesa driver and it gives me my external monitor as a clone of the built in LCD.

I feel your pain, but I haven't had much success asking about this problem here or with the xorg group.

---

### Post by Kristian_eh on 2008-06-15
But are there any downsides on using the vesa driver?

---

### Post by lanphamjr on 2008-06-25
UHG... I'm having the same problem with my Dell E1705.  It will install using the external, but once it's installed, and the system reboots...the external ceases to work.  It's a real pain in the ***.  It won't even detect the external if I try to set it up in "Screen Resolution"  Any ideas... anyone?

---

### Post by Wulvor on 2008-06-25
I find that screen resolution applet useless, it never works for me.  The only way I have got anything to work without using a text editor  was to run sudo displayconfig-gtk in terminal, using that applet and using the ATI restricted drivers.  I have other issues after getting my second screen to work, but using that utility did the trick for me.

---

