---
title: "640x480 resolution max NVidia FX 5500 PCI 256MB"
date: 2009-10-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by rompstar on 2009-10-03
Hi,

I have a GeFORCE nVIDIA 5500 PCI 256MB graphics card by BGF.

I went to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers and I press Enable on (version 173) Nvidia Accelerated 3rd party driver and then I rebooted.

I went back after I rebooted and that driver is selected and Active and in use, little green circle...  But my max resolution is 640x480.

I tried: gksudo nvidia-settings

but I was unable to change the resolution in there from the 640x480 max, my choices that I was presented with are:

Auto
640x480
340x280

Please help me to get unstuck from this crazy resolution that I can't do anything in.  I am running 9.04 Server with XWindow intalled, as I like to use a lot of different GUI Admin tools for Oracle.

Here is a copy of my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-10-03
the card on the pci bus is likely the issue, i have seen a few threads regarding pci nvidia cards not functioning correctly.

considering agp cards are widely used the bugs get fixed.

you can report any issues with nvidia, developers are here at these nvidia forums.

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=46678](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=46678)

read within the link before starting a thread.

the low resolution is likely because your monitor modes are not being detected.

this is always a proprietary driver issue and may be best obtaining the newest driver from nvidia's site assuming it's newer and more improved and may resolve this issue.

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-10-03
it may be possible to use xrandr to fix the resolution for now.

[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2)

---

### Post by Jackelope King on 2009-10-03
I'm having a similar problem with my card and I hope you don't mind me piggy-backing here for a moment. My card is a NVidia 512MB Nvidia GeForce 9300M GS, and when trying to plug it into my external monitor (aspect ratio 16:10) I literally get no resolution options from the NVidia X Server Settings window that are in the 16:10 ratio. Any way I could manually had 1280 x 800 or somesuch to get the aspect ratio correct?

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-10-03
> **Jackelope King said:**
> I'm having a similar problem with my card and I hope you don't mind me piggy-backing here for a moment. My card is a NVidia 512MB Nvidia GeForce 9300M GS, and when trying to plug it into my external monitor (aspect ratio 16:10) I literally get no resolution options from the NVidia X Server Settings window that are in the 16:10 ratio. Any way I could manually had 1440 x 900 or somesuch to get the aspect ratio correct?

i don't have much experience with externals however just assuming.

system> preferences> display

i believe mirrored will cause both monitors to have the same resolution.

"don't break anything"

if you do' don't attempt to fix anything you don't understand without asking or reading about first !

---

### Post by Jackelope King on 2009-10-03
The display window obtained by System > Preferences > Display first prompted me by asking whether or not to use the proprietary driver software (I usually select Yes, but this time I chose No).

The option to select 1280 x 800 was available in the drop-down menu. I selected it and hit "apply". The error message "Could not apply the selected configuration: could not set the configuration for CRTC 321" came up.

I then selected the NVidia XServer (driver version 180.44), and went to X Server Display Configuration. The option for 1280 x 800 does not exist in the drop-down menu. Is there a way to add this resolution to my X Configuration File somehow?

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-10-03
when you activate a driver' don't go anywhere, reboot first.

---

### Post by Jackelope King on 2009-10-03
I activated this driver some 3 months ago ;)

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-10-03
with both the connected run

```
xrandr -q
```

paste the output

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-10-03
> **rompstar said:**
> my max resolution is 640x480.

Normally, resolution problems are caused by one of the monitor, the graphics card, or the graphics driver not passing the EDID information to X that lets it automatically set the correct refresh rate, and so it defaults to really low values that won't damage any monitors. You can manually set the values for your monitor by putting the VertRefresh and HorizSync ranges in your xorg.conf. You should be able to get these numbers from the manual or specifications for your monitor. These values go in the "Monitor" Section of xorg.conf.

You can edit xorg.conf with ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``````
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       aa-bb
        VertRefresh     cc-dd
EndSection

```You'll need to replace aa-dd with the values for **your** monitor.

---

### Post by Jackelope King on 2009-10-03
> **inobe said:**
> with both the connected run

```
xrandr -q
```

paste the output
```

Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 1024 x 768, maximum 1280 x 1024
default connected 1024x768+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1280x800       50.0  
   1024x768       51.0     67.0* 
   960x540        52.0  
   840x525        53.0  
   800x600        54.0  
   800x512        55.0  
   720x450        56.0  
   700x525        57.0  
   680x384        58.0     59.0  
   640x512        60.0  
   640x480        61.0     62.0  
   576x432        63.0  
   512x384        64.0  
   400x300        65.0  
   320x240        66.0  
   1280x1024      50.0  
```

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-10-04
give us a description on the second monitor, make and model also is it dvi or s-video ?

---

### Post by Jackelope King on 2009-10-04
The second monitor is a **Viewsonic Q19WB-2 19" Wide 5ms Widescreen LCD**, with an aspect ratio of 16:10, vertical refresh rate of 50 ~ 75Hz, and a horizontal frequency of 31 ~ 81kHz with a VGA connection.

---

### Post by Jackelope King on 2009-10-05
Ka-bumpity. I managed to bork my install trying to fix this last night and had to reinstall Jaunty.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by rompstar on 2009-10-18
Thanks for all the help, here is what I see in my:

raymond@dragonfly:~$ xrandr -q
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 640 x 480, maximum 640 x 480
default connected 640x480+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   640x480        50.0* 
   320x240        51.0  
raymond@dragonfly:~$ 

I have a Viewsonic VA712b, it does both VGA and 

its specs are here:

[http://tom.viewsonic.com/support/lcddisplays/va712b/#specs](http://tom.viewsonic.com/support/lcddisplays/va712b/#specs)

According to that it can do 1280x1024, all that I see is 640x480

Can anyone help ? maybe it is a setting file thing, since the hardware is capable of displaying a higher resolution or is it still this PCI problem ?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-10-18
> **rompstar said:**
>  I have a Viewsonic VA712b, 

Then, according to the page that you posted, you want

```
        HorizSync       30-82
        VertRefresh     50-85
``` in the Monitor section of your xorg.conf.

---

### Post by rompstar on 2009-10-18
cool, like this ?

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       30-82
        VertRefresh     50-85
EndSection


I removed the Nvidia drivers for now and went to the default and am now at 800x600, but I know it can do better, let me reboot and try that out.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-10-18
> **rompstar said:**
> cool, like this ?

Just like that.

Work out how you're going to restore your xorg.conf backup from the command line before you reboot, just in case it all goes pear-shaped. As a hint, it's exactly the same *cp* command that you used to create the backup in the first place, but with the *source* and *target* reversed.

---

### Post by rompstar on 2009-10-18
cool, that I know how to do :- ) just am not good at graphics and drivers and stuff like that :- )  Thanks for help, will let you guys know how that goes!

---

### Post by rompstar on 2009-10-19
adding those changed into the file didn't work, I got a blank screen and a message by viewsonic that frequency was out of range or something like that.

Currently I am under 800 x 600 using a default driver by Ubuntu.

I got Ubuntu 9.10

---

### Post by ilpiero on 2009-10-20
Hi all, im experiencing almost the same problem, i posted a topic here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1295551]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1295551")

I think the problem is just the monitor, a different video card would'n change anything.

I can add that, with mandriva and puppy, the monitor works flawlessy, so it's a sort of Ubuntu specific issue.

I haven't yet tried to add the HorizSync and VertRefresh lines,but apart from that everithing else falied, i will try and let you know soon.

Cheers!

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2009-10-20
Hello,

check the entire thread I'm providing you out. What you have to check out is to which package the driver of your graphics card belongs to.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118926&highlight=nvidia](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118926&highlight=nvidia)
Regards!

---

### Post by ilpiero on 2009-10-20
Claus , first of all thanks for the reply, I've read your post but, if I stand correct, you are suggesting me to remove the drivers installed with the restricted driver manager, download them from nvidia and install them again?
Right now I don't have access to the computer, but they seem to be the same version, and, apart from that, the open driver couldn't go above 800x600...

Anyway after adding the refresh rates in the monitor section I'll give it a try and let you know...

Thanks !

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2009-10-20
Hello *ilpiero*,

first of all you are welcome. I hope that you will be able to solve your problem, learn by that and be able to face similar problems in the future.

Now, no, not really, I do not mean what you are telling me...

1) NVidia FX 5500 PCI is the model of your card.
This model in order to work needs a driver.
You can find in general 4 different driver categories of nvidia drivers. Yours, belongs to 173 series and the latest driver from the nvidia web site is (at the time of writing this post) 173.14.20.
You can verify the model of your card by going straight to the source:
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.14.20.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.14.20.html)

2)In order for this driver to work you have to install it either via the above web site or via the ubuntu package. Try whatever is easier for you.

3)If you try step 2, you might be ready to work your display straight away. If not, then what you have to do it edit the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. And I think that you have to edit it manually.
a)one thing you can do and experiment is the thing I told you in a previous post.
b)the other thing it to create it step by step with a harder way, which depends mostly on the hardware and the specs of it you have on your computer.

All the above is what I learned trying to make out how to configure my card, which belongs to another category: that of 96. I hope that it will be helpful to you as well.

I think that experimenting might be unavoidable, yet since this card is supported I think that you will be able to have a descent resolution after all.

EDIT: In case it is the fault of the monitor, then I think that doing what I suggest you, might solve your problem, because mine as well is referred without a specific vendor's name...

Regards!

---

### Post by rompstar on 2009-10-20
The 173.14.20 driver does not work!!!! same resolution problems..  I installed is manually from the command line and that did not work.

That is a waste of time, no longer would consider a NVidia card in the future, waste of time.  I think I am just going to farm this off to some Window person and get my self an ATI card.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2009-10-21
Hello,

have you got rid of everything nvidia, before attempting to install the driver from their site?

Also, how did you install that driver in the first place? You know you have to kill your gdm before installing it?

Sometimes it needs more patience...

PS: Even if you are able to install the driver you have to fix some of the resolution settings yourself.

Regards!

---

### Post by ilpiero on 2009-10-21
I haven't tried yet (sorry, the machine it's not at home now) but just to make things clear:

The nvidia diriver works as intended, i can see desktop effects, use TV out...

The resolution is stuck at 640x480 only with that particular  monitor (Lg studioworks 700) the computer was tested with other screens without problems. 

I cannot set a decent resolution even without the restricted drivers (max res is 800x600 in that case)

Other distros (mandriva, puppy) manage to set 1024x768 without problems. 

my xorg.conf is (almost) the default one, no modelines added.

To be sure that the problem is just the monitor/ubuntu combination i should use the same screen on a computer mounting an ATI card, but unfortunately i cannot do this test.

thanks again

bye!

---

### Post by Rhodman on 2009-10-21
Hi All, 
I've been reading this thread because I'm having a similar issue. nVidia FX5500 video card on a Dell 19" LCD (Ubuntu 8.04). I've tried loading and unloading various levels of nVidia drivers with the same results. Stuck at 640x480 resolution. Part way through the thread was a mention to edit the xorg.conf file with values for my monitor. I went to the dell website and got the particulars for my specific monitor. Then I came back and using the terminal, entered gedit /etc/Xll/xorg.conf. In my system, under the section "monitor", there was only the line Identifier "Configured Monitor". I added the following lines of text: HorizSync 30-83 and VertRefresh 56-75. Saved and closed xorg.conf. Then I went to System, Preferences, Screen resolution and there were now multiple settings for me to use. I picked a nice 1024x768 and now my screen is at an acceptable level. I'm a newbie and it takes me time to carefully use terminal, but I appreciate all the help in these forums. Someday soon I will be able to rid my computers of Windows.
Thanks again.

---

### Post by rompstar on 2009-10-21
mehh :-) that don't work for me, I tried that, 800 x 600 is what I am getting now using the default drivers, not Nvidia, the NVidia resolution is so bad that one can't do anything.

When I put this into the config file:

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
HorizSync 30-82
VertRefresh 50-85
EndSection

and reboot, my monitor display a message, that the resolution is out of sync.

HFreq 81KHz, and VFreq 65Hz, that is under what my monitor can support, I tested this under the default drivers and I get a black screen, and I tested this later under NVidia and I get a black screen too.

So, not sure, ehh, I just stay in this 800x600 mode for now and get a ATI card.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-10-22
> **rompstar said:**
>  HFreq 81KHz, and VFreq 65Hz, that is under what my monitor can support, 

If you know the numbers, use them. It's not rocket science. You're telling X what timings to use because the monitor itself refuses to tell X what timings it can do. If your monitor says, "actually, I can't do those timings" (as it is in this case) then it means that X is using the wrong numbers.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2009-10-22
Hello,

> **ilpiero said:**
> 
The nvidia diriver works as intended, i can see desktop effects, use TV out...

The resolution is stuck at 640x480 only with that particular  monitor (Lg studioworks 700) the computer was tested with other screens without problems. 


So what you have to fix is only the resolution. This is what I can get. Now in order to do that something like:

> Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV17 [GeForce4 MX 440]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x854" "1280x800" "1280x768" "1200x800" "1152x864" "1152x768" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

might help you. Yet the numbers you have to put are the ones that your card supports. Watch out about the default depth. I got it by default from an old installation and it didn't bother me much.

> **Rhodman said:**
>  I added the following lines of text: HorizSync 30-83 and VertRefresh 56-75. Saved and closed xorg.conf. Then I went to System, Preferences, Screen resolution and there were now multiple settings for me to use.

That means that you had to configure manually the xorg.conf file. Nice work!

> **rompstar said:**
> 

HFreq 81KHz, and VFreq 65Hz, that is under what my monitor can support, 

If these are the numbers your monitor supports, why do you use higher values in your xorg.conf file? I had done the same as you did, and I got exactly the same message. Judging from my experience, putting the right numbers, your resolution will be slick and smooth.

This link might help you as well:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution)

Regards!

---

### Post by rompstar on 2009-10-22
I am no monitor guy :- ) beats me, I just put whatever they wrote under the specs for the monitor, but since you guys say I should try it, let me do that right now, thanks!

I will report soon.

:guitar:

---

### Post by RedBird on 2009-10-31
Wow!! Great! Thanks Claus7..
I did that with some modifications and now my monitor works like a charm..
Thank you..

Here is my modifications if anyone needs them:
```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Default Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     1280 1024
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by jaw1959 on 2009-10-31
have you tried switching to the 96 driver? I asusme you're trying to us the 173 driver as I was with my FX5200, where I had the same issue.  I switched to the 96 driver (using "system->administration->hardware drivers") and it seemed to work fine.  I only use the machine for a MythTV frontned, and as it's only a P4 1.7ghz machine, with an FX5200, it's not doing anything special, so the 96 driver works fine for me.  It seems to do all the normal desktop things I need it to do, and if you're using that card, I can't imagine you're doing any high-end gaming...give that a try (if you haven't already)

---

