---
title: "VIA KM400A Graphics Processor Help"
date: 2009-03-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mooseman91 on 2009-03-01
I can't get Integrated VIA graphics card to work. I have tried editing the xorg.conf file but I don't know what to edit it I have read the instructions online but i can't seem to get it to work. My xorg.conf file reads
"# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection"

---

### Post by taelmx on 2010-11-03
I need help with this too! Did you ever get this to work? I'd rather not spend $$$ on getting a new graphics card for an older computer! The again, 800x600 HURTS MY EYES!

Do you have an HP a810e by any chance?

---

