---
title: "Matrox G550 Acceleration with 8.04"
date: 2008-05-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ebike on 2008-05-14
Hi All,

Anyone have a good xorg.conf file for this card? The default "automatic" setting provides an xorg.conf that has nearly nothing in it, and hardware is not accelerated so I cannot use composite or Beryl etc 

I need these to work so that I can use the Avant window manager toolbar.

---

### Post by ebike on 2008-05-15
Bump!

---

### Post by cb951303 on 2008-05-15
other day I was looking for a open source graphic card for dual monitor support and I came across G550. and I'm pretty sure that I read on its official page that this card does not have a 3d accelerator. Taht's why I'm thinking to get an ATI x850 now :)

---

### Post by ebike on 2008-05-16
But you can turn on OpenGL accelleration for this card, I have had that working before. I thing that is all you need for Compisite, is it not?

---

### Post by cb951303 on 2008-05-17
sorry my bad,
you should be able to run AWN with it. can you post your xorg config?

---

### Post by ebike on 2008-05-18
I have acceleration enabled now, but I cannot turn on "Normal" window effects in Prefernces/Apperances Here is my xorg.conf

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load "glx"
    Load "dri"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth 16
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode 0666
EndSection


Any Suggestions?

---

### Post by cb951303 on 2008-05-18
your device section lacks the appropriate matrox module
try this (this is my xorg conf with working composite except I use nvidia, but I changed that for you)

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"mga"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

```

restart X server and type "glxinfo | grep rendering" in console. if it says "Yes" then you're ok!
if that doesn't work than add ```
Load "dri"
``` under "load "glx"" line and restart X server. type "glxinfo | grep rendering" again

let me know ;)

---

### Post by ebike on 2008-05-20
Hi,

Yes I had done the "dri" thing and got acceleration working.

However Compiz still does not work. I tried running it from the command line to see what it was complaining about and it stated it could not find the Xgl extension for my card.

So, I gave up on Compiz and tried Xcompmgr and that works!! I Ran Xcompmgr from the command line and tried Avant and up it popped.

Anyone know how I get Xcompmgr to come up on boot?

---

### Post by jp734 on 2008-05-21
I got mine to work but is really slow. G550 will not work with XGL but will on AIGLX.

I could not get it to work also before until I tried this command.

"echo SKIP_CHECKS="yes" >> ~/.config/compiz/compiz-manager"

I am attaching a copy of my xorg.conf file too. If you have any suggestions to speed it up. Appreciate it. There's gotta be a way to make this faster.

---

### Post by jp734 on 2008-05-21
oops. miss the xorg.conf.txt file

---

### Post by Dobroslav on 2009-11-02
Can somebody help me with same problem? Using Ubuntu Karmic, I just want to turn on normal effects and if possible, to turn on AWN via Compiz. Changing xorg.conf was not helpful. I got "yes" when I type glx|grep rendering on clean install without xorg.conf.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2009-11-02
It might be worth trying the Matrox drivers. 

[http://www.matrox.com/graphics/en/support/drivers/](http://www.matrox.com/graphics/en/support/drivers/)

G series-> pick your version (EG dual DVI), go to the bottom of the screen-> next-> drivers-> next-> OS-> next-> Download. 

I really doubt that it will help, but hey, its worth a try eh?

---

### Post by Dobroslav on 2009-11-02
Heh, I've downloaded driver, I got error ```
ERROR: The X server drivers included in this installation package
-e        do not support the current version of your X server.
```

:P :P :P

---

### Post by Dobroslav on 2009-11-04
bump!

---

### Post by Robstarusa on 2010-01-10
I have 2 of these cards (pci-e x1) on 9.10.  I'd love to get quad monitor (or at least dual) working.

---

