---
title: "Nvidia 180.51 no direct rendering"
date: 2009-05-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Marquis Textures on 2009-05-12
Hello, first post :).  Been looking all around since yesterday to solve this problem with no avail thus far.  Yesterday I updated to 9.04 Jaunty and also downloaded Nvidias official newest 180.51 drivers and installed with many problems.  Now my desktop will startup fine but heres the information I think you'll need to help with my problem.


> glxinfo | grep rendering
NVIDIA: could not open the device file /dev/nvidiactl (Permission denied).
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
> xorg.conf
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Fri Apr 17 00:40:10 PDT 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "nvidia"
    Load           "type 1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "dri"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
It's probably something very simple that I'm just missing here, but hopefully I posted in the right place!

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-05-12
Hi and welcome, what is the model of the nvidia graphics? How did you install the nvidia drivers?
Did you try and install the drivers from, system, administration, hardware drivers?

---

### Post by Marquis Textures on 2009-05-12
> **overdrank said:**
> Hi and welcome, what is the model of the nvidia graphics? How did you install the nvidia drivers?
Did you try and install the drivers from, system, administration, hardware drivers?


My card is EVGA GTX 260.  I used the nvidia installer through tty1 after killing gnome.  Ran sh nvidialinuxdriver etc.  I heard something about the latest one having problems updating the xorg.conf properly but never figured anything out.  Oh and I had tried from hardware drivers but those were not working for me either.

---

### Post by Marquis Textures on 2009-05-12
I need nvidia-glx-180 correct?  But when I try to install that in synaptic it has me remove ubuntu-desktop, xorg, xserver-xorg. xserver-xorg-core, xserver-xorg-input-all, mouse, kbd, on and on down to all the xorg-video.  Same happens when I activate through Hardware Drivers now too.

---

### Post by Marquis Textures on 2009-05-12
Update, I now have nvidia-glx without trouble using the PPA's.  When I run glxinfo | grep rendering as root I get Direct Rendering: Yes and no when not as root.  Is there some sort of permissions I need to allow?

If I run
```
sudo chmod a+rw /dev/nvidia*

```

It works just fine, but is not permanent after a restart.

---

