---
title: "9.10 Dual Monitor Setup Problem"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by figmentx on 2009-10-31
I just performed a fresh install of 9.10 (not an upgrade) using wubi.  I'm trying to enable dual monitors but get errors.

I have activated the nvidia drivers (popup you get on fresh install 185.18.36)

When I issue a **sudo nvidia-settings** the first oddity I notice is that **twinview is grayed out** and can't be selected.  Any ideas on this as I prefer twinview.

Next if I choose Seperate X screens, and then apply, it tells me it can only apply some of the settings until a restart, I say ok, apply what is possible.

Then I click "save to X configuration file" and that's when I get a popup window stating:

[B]"Failed to parse existing X config file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'!"
[/B]
Nvidia-settings closes and there's a message in the terminal window stating:

[B]VALIDATION ERROR:  Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
Undefined Device "(null)" referenced by Screen "Default Screen".[/B]


I checked the xorg.conf, and I'm not sure exactly to what it's referring to...

```

Section "Screen"

	Identifier	"Default Screen"

	DefaultDepth	24

EndSection



Section "Module"

	Load	"glx"

EndSection



Section "Device"

	Identifier	"Default Device"

	Driver	"nvidia"

	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"

EndSection

```

I've got 2 gtx260's and have the monitors plugged into seperate cards.. not sure if that makes a difference or not.

---

### Post by figmentx on 2009-10-31
Ok, I've plugged both monitors into a single card which resolved my issue of not being able to select twinview.  It lets me apply twinview now, and both monitors are working correctly, however when I attempt to save to x configuration file, I'm still getting the same segmentation fault as before...

[B]VALIDATION ERROR:  Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
Undefined Device "(null)" referenced by Screen "Default Screen".

Segmentation fault
[/B]

Can anyone with dual monitor/nvidia share their xorg.conf config so that I can make a comparison and find out what I'm missing?

---

### Post by GriZzlEnLS on 2009-10-31
I am having the same issue as you are. I am able to use one monitor only with my 2x 260 216 and 9400GT for 3 monitor setup. Any help on the post would mostly likely help both of us.

---

### Post by bedhead75 on 2009-10-31
I read in another thread that it's simply a bug when using nvidia-settings to save to xorg.conf, even when run using sudo.  The trick is to preview whatever nvidia-settings will save, cut and paste it into a text editor, and manually copy over the old xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by GriZzlEnLS on 2009-10-31
Hey I posted on another site to check and see if maybe I could get some help. Well I was able to atleast save the file. Here are the directions. 

As I understand this issue, you will need to create a new xorg.conf on order to allow nvidia-settings to save to it, so:

sudo nvidia-xconfig (although it's probably a good idea to backup your xorg.conf first)

Then run nvidia settings as root:

sudo nvidia-settings

Also, I am not sure exactly what set up you are looking for but I always use 'twinview'

So, the above should allow you to save the new Xorg.conf that you configured with the nvidia-settings gui, oh and hit 'apply' to test your entries before saving.

It helped me out hope it helps you as well!

---

### Post by figmentx on 2009-10-31
Awesome.. thanks GriZzlEnLS.

Yeah, the **sudo nvidia-xconfig** command fixed the problem for me.. apparently the existing xorg.conf was corrupt/incomplete.  Once I ran that, i check and it had much more info it the conf file.. then I ran **sudo nvidia-settings** again and clicked the save config to file button and it stuck.  Rebooted and everything works.

THANKYOU!

---

