---
title: "9.10 64bit problem with imageshack-uploader"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by K. Hendrik on 2009-11-01
Hi,
I installed the imageshack-uploader in ubuntu 9.10 64 bit when I try to start it i get this error:
```
imageshack-uploader: error while loading shared libraries: libavcodec.so.52: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```
apt says that libavcodec52 is already installed, how can i fix this?

---

### Post by K. Hendrik on 2009-11-01
bump

---

### Post by Enissay on 2009-11-13
Same problem here :(

---

### Post by Excedio on 2010-01-05
Also having this problem. Any solution yet? Also going to contact [s]Imagesgack[/s] [CodeMinders]("http://codeminders.com/") about this, they are the developers of the software.

---

### Post by Linuxforall on 2010-01-05
Do you have Sun Java loaded, most uplploaders need Java to work.

---

### Post by Excedio on 2010-01-05
Ok...I emailed the programers for the software and with this:
 
> 
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]Hey There[/SIZE][/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]I recently made the switch from Photobucket to Imageshack &#8211; I found out that Photobucket will no longer be supporting Linux so I dropped them. Then I saw that Imageshack had a bulk uploader (developed by you all of course :-)), and that it was available for Linux&#8230;natively&#8230;AWESOME! I downloaded the DEB file and installed it, however, when I clicked on the program in Applications > Internet > Imageshack Uploader it did not do anything. I then ran it in the terminal and got this:[/SIZE][/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]excedio@excedio-desktop:~$ imageshack-uploader[/SIZE][/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]imageshack-uploader: error while loading shared libraries: libavcodec.so.52: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory[/SIZE][/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]excedio@excedio-desktop:~$[/SIZE][/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]I am currently using Ubuntu 9.10 64bit. Please help, I really want to support your software.[/SIZE][/FONT]

 
and here is the reply I got:
 
> 
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]Excedio,[/SIZE][/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]There is some problem with Ubuntu 9.10. We are looking into it. [/SIZE][SIZE=3]Also you probably aware that uploader is open source. So, if somebody is willing to [/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]take a look at the problem and send us patches it would help.[/SIZE][/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri][[SIZE=3]http://code.google.com/p/imageshack-uploader/[/SIZE]]("http://code.google.com/p/imageshack-uploader/")[/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]We do not have Ubuntu 9.10 handy, so we will need to install it first to test and debug and [/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]that might take few days.[/SIZE][/FONT]
 
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]Sincerely,[/SIZE][/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]Vadim Zaliva,[/SIZE][/FONT]
[FONT=Calibri][SIZE=3]President, Tristero Consulting[/SIZE][/FONT]
 

 
Since I am far from being a programer, maybe someone else in the forum can help out. Also, I am posting this same information in this ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8613309#post8613309](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8613309#post8613309)) thread. It's related to the same thing.

---

### Post by Excedio on 2010-01-05
See here:
 
[http://code.google.com/p/imageshack-uploader/issues/detail?id=181](http://code.google.com/p/imageshack-uploader/issues/detail?id=181)

---

### Post by K. Hendrik on 2010-02-27
Good link!
```
sudo getlibs /usr/bin/imageshack-uploader
```
did the trick.

how do I mark this thread as solved?

---

### Post by Excedio on 2010-02-27
> **K. Hendrik said:**
> Good link!
```
sudo getlibs /usr/bin/imageshack-uploader
```did the trick.

**how do I mark this thread as solved?**

Directly above your initial post. Click "Thread Tools" and then "Mark as Solved"

---

