---
title: "Questions for building a package with the AMD proprietary graphics installer."
date: 2013-09-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by guitarMan666 on 2013-09-24
I have a Richland-based APU and I've installed the proprietary drivers that come along with Ubuntu 13.04. They work okay, framerates are decent if not stellar and there is a lovely "AMD Unsupported Hardware" watermark that I don't particularly care about. I'd like some opinions and answers that I'm having trouble finding docs on and on Google.

**Question 1** 
The proprietary driver installer offers the option of building a deb package for Ubuntu Raring. When I try to do it, it says that it can't find debclean. I installed the package that seems to provide it, but get the same errors. Does debclean need to be run as root and should I run the installer as root if I'm just building a package?

**Question 2** 
The version of the driver that I need should be coming with Ubuntu 13.10, if I install the package generated by the proprietary driver installer AMD makes, will it upgrade appropriately upon the release of 13.10?

**Question 3** 
This is the opinion question: should I just wait for the upgrade to 13.10 or should I go ahead and build the package/install the newer driver? And is that driver working well with Mir?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-09-25
For question1, devscripts package provides 'debclean' command. You can find a full list of dependencies here: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Raring_Installation_Guide#Installing_Catalyst_Manually_.28from_AMD.2FATI.27s_site.29_BETA.2FEXPERIMENTAL](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Raring_Installation_Guide#Installing_Catalyst_Manually_.28from_AMD.2FATI.27s_site.29_BETA.2FEXPERIMENTAL)
^That link is probably your best bet because 13.8 beta is the latest driver available (13.9 is actually based on 13.6)

For question 2, it depends on what version you're installing and whether the version in Saucy > than it. If so, apt should cleanly replace it.

For questions 3, if it was me and I wanted to use fglrx/Catalyst, I would do a clean install of Xubuntu 13.10 so I wouldn't have to worry about early Mir/XMir hiccups with the driver (unless I really, really liked Unity).

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-09-25
*Thread moved to **Multimedia & Video**.*

---

