---
title: "9.04 + TV card = WOW!"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-04-24
Not sure if this is the best place to post this thread, but since most users experiencing problems with TV cards come here, then here it go. 

My analog TV card is working like never before after installing Jaunty. I was using Hardy and decided to do a complete clean install, using ext4 for everything, including the /home partition.

For my surprise, all that heavy interference my card was suffering previously (I guess due to HDD activity), has disappeared. The image quality improved a LOT, the image is sharper and there is much less grain. I still don't believe it's my TV card, which is a Pinnacle PCTV Stereo. Even when I was using Windows, I never got an image so good as I get now. I'm loving Jaunty!

If you have an analog TV card, then you might want to give it a try. I recommend.

---

### Post by spitslover on 2009-04-29
I'm a newby and I've got some questions. I've got a Pinnacle PCTV USB Pro analog TV-card and I've installed Ubuntu 9.04 yesterday. My question is: what application are you using to watch TV? The card is seen as /dev/video0 and my PC is a Dell P620 portable.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-04-29
> **spitslover said:**
> I'm a newby and I've got some questions. I've got a Pinnacle PCTV USB Pro analog TV-card and I've installed Ubuntu 9.04 yesterday. My question is: what application are you using to watch TV? The card is seen as /dev/video0 and my PC is a Dell P620 portable.

Thanks in advance

I use TVTime, which you can install via Add/Remove, for watching TV and my own Firefox extension for recording, scheduling, etc (link in my signature).

You could also try Kaffeine.

To setup my  TV card with TVTime, I did the following, but I'm not sure if an USB card works the same way:

First install TVTime. You can find it in the Add/Remove manager or run the following command on a terminal.

```
sudo apt-get tvtime
```

Then you need to edit /etc/modprobe.d/options

Run the following command to open it with the text editor:

```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/options
```

In the editor, add the following line to the end of the file

```
options saa7134 [COLOR="Red"]**card=26**[/COLOR] [COLOR="Red"]**tuner=33**[/COLOR] alsa=1
```

You need to change the values in red, since they are card specific. You can try to find it [here](http://www.google.com/search?q=PCTV+USB+Pro+card=+tuner=+site:ubuntuforums.org&hl=en&sourceid=mozilla-search&num=20&start=0&start=0).

Back to the terminal run: 

```
sudo modprobe saa7134 [COLOR="Red"]**card=26**[/COLOR] [COLOR="Red"]**tuner=33**[/COLOR]
```

Reboot. Open TVTime through the Applications menu or by running this command:

```
tvtime
```

Configure TVTime with the OSD menu.Some important settings:

Input Configuration > Change video source: Television
Input Configuration > Television standard: NTSC, PAL-M....
Channel Management > Change Frequency table: Cable

Then do a channel scan:

Channel Management > Scan channels for signal

This should be enough to make TVTime tune some channels.

---

### Post by spitslover on 2009-04-29
Thanks a lot.

I will try it out. I've already installed tvtime but didn't changed the file. I've only need one channel because in front of my tv-card there is a sat-receiver (in my caravan) and I'm changing the channels on this receiver. I didn't know that tvtime worked with analog tv-cards. If this works well then I want to try your FoxMediaCenter. It looks just the soft I need.

I wille keep you informed and try it out this weekend.

---

### Post by maxw on 2009-05-03
As a newbie, I would be very interested to get greater explanation of the modprobe solution for configuring analog card for use in tvtime, and especially how to determine card specific values. I have Hauppuage 150...

Thanks

---

### Post by spitslover on 2009-05-08
Hello [lovinglinux]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=649167")

I've tried everything out and it wend from bad to worst. I had to reinstall Ubuntu because the system was dead and could not be recovered anymore. 

Yesterday I tried it again and when I start tvtime it crashes all the time. When I try the same Pinnacle PCTV analog USB pro device in a windows environment it works well. But I want to get away from the ... windows.

I hope that there are still a few suggestions for me so I can solve the problem after all.

---

### Post by ed325i on 2009-05-08
Does anyone know how to get TVTime to work with a Hauppauge WinTV-*HVR*-*850* HDTV Adapter (USB)?  Thanks.

TVTime keeps wanting to use my USB webcam as the TV source.

---

