---
title: "(11.10) No green/white/red slider over master volume control in alsa mixer"
date: 2012-03-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Rixonomic on 2012-03-27
The sound is not working in my freshly installed Ubuntu 11.10, so I've been going through the sound troubleshooting guide ([https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iTlJ8BfqXUjaHO__TEdlkvuqB1WLOkGaudngc5SFLMI/edit#bookmark=id.2rzn5uz8d2h4](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iTlJ8BfqXUjaHO__TEdlkvuqB1WLOkGaudngc5SFLMI/edit#bookmark=id.2rzn5uz8d2h4)) attempting to locate the problem. 

Everything was checking out fine until I got to the alsa mixer and noticed that I have no green/white/red slider over the master volume control. I can select it but I can't turn it up. It's not muted... It's just not there. :confused: The little box with the double zeroes (unmuted) is there, but no slider. Now, I'm completely new to Ubuntu and linux altogether, so for all I know it's supposed to be like that. But I just had to wonder, could this be my problem? And if so, how do I fix it?


Additional info with regard to my audio predicament:
The system recognizes my sound card, the drivers are installed, and it is enabled. The volume is up, the speakers are internal (laptop) so (at least for now) I'm assuming they're properly connected.

This is my third fresh install of Ubuntu 11.10 on this laptop in a week.** The volume worked fine on the first install** (also my first experience with anything linux). Then I tried to upgrade to the Lubuntu desktop with Ubuntu still installed, and ever since then all sounds have been gone. Even after one fresh install of Lubuntu and two more fresh installs of Ubuntu, still the sound has not returned.

---

### Post by Rixonomic on 2012-03-27
Ooooooohhhhh...I'm just a n00b :/

So apparently there's an external volume control knob on this laptop that, until moments ago, I was entirely unaware of...

That is all.

---

