---
title: "9.10 no sound, HELP!"
date: 2010-03-20
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by joshwaaa on 2010-03-20
Hi All,

I cant get any sound to work on my ubuntu desktop. It appears to be using the right driver/modules and does not have any errors.

I have tried the following guides with no success:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSoundProblems](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSoundProblems)

 $uname -r
2.6.31-14-generic

$ sudo grep -i 'audio' /etc/group
audio:x:29:joshk

$  aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: V8235 [VIA 8235], device 0: VIA 8235 [VIA 8235]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: V8235 [VIA 8235], device 1: VIA 8235 [VIA 8235]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

$lspci
0:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 50)
        Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device a002
        Flags: medium devsel, IRQ 22
        I/O ports at e400 [size=256]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: VIA 82xx Audio
        Kernel modules: snd-via82xx

$ cat /proc/asound/modules
 0 snd_via82xx
 1 snd_mpu401


I have tried these options:

$ cat /etc/modules
snd-via82xx

$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf 
options snd_via82xx index=0
options snd-via82xx dxs_support=2

I have ensured everything is turned on(not muted) and turned off in alsamixer.

the following makes no sound out of known good speakers: 
$ aplay /usr/share/sounds/alsa/Front_Center.wav

I have tried this also:
system > preferences > multimedia systems selector:

alsa and the via8235

as a last resort I tried this:
sudo apt-get --purge remove linux-sound-base alsa-base alsa-utils
sudo apt-get install linux-sound-base alsa-base alsa-utils

I cant work this out... Anyone?

Cheers,

Josh K

---

### Post by coolcaseley67 on 2010-03-20
hi 

- make sure your up to update
- make ubuntu is using you sound card ( you've done that )
-see if there is a bug open 
 i google'd 0:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc.  VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 50) in linux/ ubuntu 

other people have had the same issues and ubuntu know it there but does not want to use it .!

---

### Post by joshwaaa on 2010-03-22
I have noticed quite a few bug reports for the via-82xx chipset. However most people resolved this issue by turning off a software modem..... Unfortunately I dont have one of those installed :(
 
I have done updates recently and even reinstalled the alsa.
 
Any more suggestions?

---

### Post by Gregorybekkers on 2010-03-22
What kind of pc/ laptop?

---

### Post by joshwaaa on 2010-03-27
ok, I got the sound working ... now I am having sound issues watching movies from a network share.

The sound device continually changes to "dummy output device" and then there is no sound output. To get it back I have to sudo alsa force-reload.

It seems to happen everytime there is a network delay, the movie will stop for a second and then when it plays the sound is gone. 

any ideas?

Cheers,

Joshwaaa

---

### Post by joshwaaa on 2010-03-27
Ive marked this thread as solved and will start a new thread for my other problem.
 
For those interested, to get the sound working  I reinstalled pulse, changed my output device to surround 5.0 and added myself and the user root to every group I could find relevant:
 
audio
video
pulse 
 
etc...
 
Hope this helps.
 
Cheers,
 
Joshwaaa

---

