---
title: "8.04 to 10.04 - pulseaudio still boned."
date: 2010-11-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by captaintrav on 2010-11-01
PulseAudio STILL won't save what I have selected as the default output device.   It still won't see the HDMI audio device unless I add this to default.pa:

>  load-module module-alsa-sink device=hw:0,3

I had this bug, hopefully it's dealt with.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/570015](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/570015)

But, if I log out and back in, the (terrible) indicator applet's volume thingie doesn't work anymore, and the default output device is back to the onboard analog instead of the other device which is named "internal audio" (helpful!) that I need to select for HDMI.

---

### Post by captaintrav on 2010-11-03
Ok, I fixed this so I'll post the answer in case someone else ever needs this fixed.  The /etc/pulse/default.pa that I was using in 8.04 was changed because I needed to add an entry to make pulseaudio see my HDMI audio device.  Since I had edited it, during the upgrade process, I'm fairly sure that I was asked whether to replace it with the package default for the new pulseaudio package, or keep the old version.  The old version wreaks havoc with on 10.04.

After I replaced default.pa with the correct one, all my issues are gone.  Instead of needing pulse audio to see a separate device, I am able to select the "HDMI" profile for the device in the sound preferences, under the hardware tab.  FWIW, the hardware tab showed no devices before.  Don't keep old /etc/pulse/default.pa files!

```
sudo cp /etc/pulse/default.pa.dpkg-dist /etc/pulse/default.pa
```

---

