---
title: "NVIDIA Drivers problem"
date: 2009-04-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by sungrazer on 2009-04-13
Just got a new system w/ a GTX 260 (actually two of them, for CUDA work) and a fresh install of 8.0.4.  I'm trying to get the NVIDIA drivers to install but it's just not happening...  Here's what's been tried:
1. Looked at 'Admin'->'Hardware Drivers' but there were no drivers listed so nothing to see here.
2. Installed EnvyNG and let that do the install -- it seemed to be happy but after the reboot it took me to low graphics mode and I couldn't find a configuration that worked
3. Downloaded and installed latest NVIDIA driver from NVIDIA website.  Reboot took me to low graphics mode and no configuration would work.
4. Explicitly followed the directions given [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=").  After restarting gdm it again came up with the low graphics mode and, again, I can't get any configuration to take hold.  (Aside: does that config functionality even work?? It never has for me on any Ubuntu machine!)

So the NVIDIA installer left my xorg looking as follows:

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Tue Mar 24 06:15:32 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

I'm not particularly worried about hardware acceleration and funky desktop effects -- just getting 1900x1200 resolution would be a great start!  AFAIK, CUDA doesn't care about that stuff anyway. So anyone got any ideas/insight?? 

Thanks!

---

### Post by sungrazer on 2009-04-14
*bump*  Anyone??

---

### Post by Unterseeboot_234 on 2009-04-14
I was using 8.10 on one partition and 8.04 on another partition just for Cinelerra. Envy installed the nVidia on the 8.04. It was later I installed 8.10, the clean Ubuntu install saw I needed a proprietary hardware driver. Because Envy does not work with 8.10, I let the Ubuntu install warn about and install the "vendor supplied" driver install. However, I only had "Auto" for resolution (about 1024x768) and I want 1152x864 for Cinelerra video editor, so I keep 8.04 on its own partition which does have many resolutions choices.

Somehow, 8.10 nvidia cross-pollinates 8.04 partition and then I only have auto resolution where before I had choices on one partition.

A recent update for nvidia XServer Settings from Update Manager gives me my choices back on resolutions. All of this is spooky, fuzzy, and non-geek.

IIWY: Reformat to 8.10, allow the Properietary Driver nVidia from Ubuntu warning, update to nVidia version 180, "tested by Ubuntu Users" BECAUSE Envy mods the kernel and Envy tells you to delete Envy before any Ubuntu upgrades.

---

### Post by sungrazer on 2009-04-14
I have made some progress in terms of the root cause of my problem... still can't fix it though.

dmesg shows:
```
 dmesg | grep NVIDIA
[   59.295531] nvidia: module license 'NVIDIA' taints kernel.
[   59.547236] NVRM: loading NVIDIA Linux x86_64 Kernel Module  96.43.05  Tue Jan 22 17:37:40 PST 2008
....
[   69.682122] NVRM: API mismatch: the client has the version 180.44, but
[   69.682125] NVRM: this kernel module has the version 96.43.05.  Please
[   69.682126] NVRM: make sure that this kernel module and all NVIDIA driver
[   69.682127] NVRM: components have the same version.

```

It seems that I have not managed to completely purge my system of the nvidia-glx drivers/kernel and there's a conflict.  I can't for the life of me find where the remaining components are though!  I have done *sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia** and have explicity purged every available nvidia-glx module (including those that weren't even installed, just to be sure!).  

Where is the 96.43.05 version coming from?  I tried grepping for it but came up empty-handed.  I did find an older nvidiafb.ko file and moved it, but it made no difference on reboot.

---

### Post by sungrazer on 2009-04-15
*bump again*  Anyone have any insight?

---

### Post by andrea000 on 2009-04-15
Envyng will work on 8.10 that is what i used to 
install my driver.I had to goo back a version
on my driver i had about the same problem with
8.10's Proprietary Driver

---

### Post by DJonsson2008 on 2009-04-16
EnvyNG, Envy, sh Nvidia...run, and apt-get install nvidia_new all do inexplicable things to the OS, Desktop and modules. 

I'm having similar problems and am just about to the point of buying another hard drive and reinstalling 8.4 from scratch, testing sound, video and essential functions on it and then moving my apps, home and other details to the new drive. 

In another thread I've listed the minor destruction
that can also effect the desktop, bookmarks, panels, usb devices and so on simply in the process of attempting to install video drivers. 

Its frustrating that no one here is ratcheting this discussion up to a more functional level of abstraction. Simply saying; install 8.10 OR  try numerous links that repeat the same list of procedures OR 
take your chances with Nvidia proprietary solutions, is a loop that leading many of us nowhere.

8.4 is LTS, Nvidia is a major if not THE major video card player, one would think SoundBlaster and Nvidia despite being (TM) items would be a robust and solid part of any OS that is claiming to be LTS.

Again I've worked enough with Windows and Mac to know such seemingly arcane and esoteric mal-functions are not isolated Ubuntu characteristics. I recently had a problem with USB DELL 922 all-in-one on a XP for instance, DELL eventually provided its users with an application that cleaned up all garbage related to all the accumulative methods of DELL 922 driver install that solves 95% of the problems people are having.  

With the Nvidia setup and Hardy 8.4 I see a similar dilemma, presently
the only solution I can find is re-installing the OS.

I'm beginning to suspect that the various methods of Nvidia driver install have some deep effect on the kernel, yet can't find any
scientific or practical discussion of what is happening.

It seems with Unbuntu it is very wise to build the machine / Os installation at the beginning, and make sure the functionality you
need is there for the next 3 months or whenever you plan on adding
new hardware, because the act of updating the drivers seems as unpredictable as its unforgiving.

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-04-16
> **sungrazer said:**
> *bump again*  Anyone have any insight?

try adding the source and installing from synaptic.

you don't have to manually install the driver, simply add this source to your list.

please add the "stable source"

[http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos/](http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos/)

thanks to this amazing site

[http://www.avenard.org/media/Home.html](http://www.avenard.org/media/Home.html)

when you add the source you may need to manually select the driver in synaptic.

you don't need to remove the previous versions, when you select the 180.44 driver" the older version will automatically be removed.

here is what needs to be selected

nvidia-settings
nvidia-180-kernel-source
nvidia-180-modealiases
nvidia-glx-180
nvidia-common

install them and restart, upon restarting check "hardware drivers" select 180 driver and activate it, logout and and back in' the driver should then be doing it's thing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
possible scenario


tried it on another machine, once the source was added and and i clicked "reload" i was notified of the update, i installed the update and rebooted to a desktop running the 180.44 driver.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7081301&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7081301&postcount=2)

---

### Post by DJonsson2008 on 2009-04-16
I've attempted the avenard method already, it seems to work as well
as the other methods suggested. 

The 180 drivers have issues with my Nvidia 8400GS card, irregardless
of install method with 173-180 I get intermittent unusable/scrambled log
on screens. Driver 169 only had one issue and that was giving me the wrong resolution of logon screen, which I now know how to adjust in
the grub menu list. 

So all I'm trying to do is roll back to 169 which I believe
to be nvidia_glx_new in the Synaptic restricted repository, somewhere
between envyNG, Nvidia...run, avenard depositories this option no longer
seems available despite my attempts to uninstall all of the above according to instructions, rollback to 169 nvidia_glx_new evades me.

BTW, what advantage does Nvidia driver 180 give over 169 anyhow?

---

### Post by DJonsson2008 on 2009-04-16
Presently the most cogent feedback on my system seems 
is from var/logs/Xorg.0.log

(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)

Which is mystifying because the nvidia restricted drivers have been loaded from the repositories via synaptic.

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-04-16
> **DJonsson2008 said:**
> 

BTW, what advantage does Nvidia driver 180 give over 169 anyhow?

quite a few fixes

# Fixed a problem that could cause Xid errors and display corruption in certain cases when OpenGL is used to render to redirected windows, for example when Java2D is used with the -Dsun.java2d.opengl=true option.
# Updated glGetStringi(GL_EXTENSIONS, i) to no longer return NULL in OpenGL 3.0 preview contexts.
# Fixed OpenGL crashes while running KDE4's Plasma.
# Fixed OpenGL crashes when using a large number of texture objects.
# Fixed the timestamp reporting in the GL_NV_present_video extension on SDI II with Quadro FX 4800 and 5800.
# Improved power management support on some systems, such as Hewlett-Packard xw4600 workstations.
# Fixed a problem that caused the screen to flicker momentarily when OpenGL applications exit unexpectedly on GeForce 6 and 7 series GPUs.
# Fixed an X server crash when an X client attempts to draw trapezoids and RenderAccel is disabled.
# Improved recovery from certain types of errors.
# Fixed a bug that caused Autodesk Maya to freeze when overlays are enabled.
# Fixed an interaction problem between OpenGL and memory tracking libraries such as MicroQuill SmartHeap.
# Added support for RG renderbuffers in OpenGL 3.0.
# Added support for OpenGL 3.0 floating-point depth buffers.
# Fixed a problem that caused Valgrind to crash when tracing a program that uses OpenGL.
# Updated VDPAU to support VC-1/WMV acceleration on all GPUs supported by VDPAU; see the README for details.
# Fixed VDPAU corruption on some H.264 clips.
# Updated VDPAU documentation in the README and in vdpau.h, in particular regarding how to use the deinterlacing algorithms in the VdpVideoMixer object. Explicitly documented "half rate" deinterlacing, which should allow the advanced algorithms to run on more low-end systems.
# Implemented a "skip chroma deinterlace" option in VDPAU, which should allow the advanced deinterlacing algorithms to run on more low-end systems. See vdpau.h.
# Fixed VDPAU VC-1 decoding on 64-bit platforms.
# Updated the VDPAU wrapper library to print dlerror() messages when driver loading problems occur.
# Improved VDPAU's handling of some corrupt H.264 streams, and some corrupt/invalid MPEG streams on some GPUs.
# Fixed VDPAU to correctly handle WMV "range reduction" on some GPUs. A minor backwards-compatible API change was made for this; see vdpau.h's documentation for structure field VdpPictureInfoVC1.rangered.
# Fixed a problem that caused surfaces to be marked as visible too early when the blit presentation queue is in use.
# Fixed VDPAU to prevent some cases of "display preemption" in the face of missing H.264 reference frames on some GPUs. 


i am running a 64bit platform and do a lot of multi media stuff, i use kde4, there is a rendering fix, almost a complete overhaul for me.

[IMG]http://www.itsyourpc.org/duane/files/nvidia_180_44.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-04-16
> **DJonsson2008 said:**
> Presently the most cogent feedback on my system seems 
is from var/logs/Xorg.0.log

(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)

Which is mystifying because the nvidia restricted drivers have been loaded from the repositories via synaptic.

i have kubuntu 8.10 on this system, if you have 8.04' notice what the topic starter also has !

---

### Post by DJonsson2008 on 2009-04-16
I can certainly appreciate the enhancements 180 brings to the table, but on 32/Hardy 8.4 with Nvidia 8400 the latest 180.44 gives me a badly scrambled logon screen, sometimes in quadplicate windowing, if I jam past that I get flashing unreadable screens rendering Ubuntu and Xbuntu useless. 

XP on the same machine runs ok with Nvidia drivers, 
Ubuntu Vesa drivers work fine -- so the card is O.K. 

Hardy 8.4 LTS just isn't working with 180.44 whereas 169 was at least on the surface usable for most things.

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-04-16
it's a newer xserver/ xorg on 8.10.

since 8.04 is LTS "long term support" not much will change but security and patches if i am not mistaken.

newer xorg, newer driver.

same xorg, newer driver may not work.

just my best guess, maybe someone will prove me wrong.

---

### Post by inobe on 2009-04-16
here is an example, this person couldn't even get the video card detected, it was detected as an unknown device, the card was a 9400gt and that was ubuntu 8.04.

this person needed to install 8.10 just to get the video card working.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118516](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1118516)

---

### Post by DJonsson2008 on 2009-04-16
Well it certainly sounds like Hardy 8.4 users had best stick with Nvidia Series 7 video cards. 

When I get another HD I'll try a fresh install of 8.4, with Nvidia 169.* drivers to see if I can get stable results with my Series 8. I'm reluctant to upgrade to 8.10 as I like the LTS concept.

---

### Post by rockrman on 2009-04-16
Ubuntu 8.10
nvidia 8400GS

I have problems with 185.19 beta. My conf is with a 15" Samsung monitor @1024x768 (dvi>DFP-0) and a 32" Samsung TV @ 1360x768 (hdmi>DFP-1). With 177.82 drivers no problems so far but now I upgraded to 185.19 for vdpau support.
If my 32" tv is on since boot, there are no problems but if I change input from hdmi to TV or I switch off and then on again... my systems hangs with blinking keyboards leds and must reset.

Gone back to 177.82 at the moment

---

### Post by sungrazer on 2009-04-16
Well thanks for all the feedback everyone!  I wish there was a solution that didn't involve taking drastic measures, but there wasn't...  Ultimately, I fixed the problem by doing a fresh install and then taking the following steps:
1.  Get all recommended updates, etc
2.  Download NVIDIA driver from NVIDIA website
3.  sudo apt-get install build-essential
4.  gedit /etc/modules and add nvidia to the list
5.  In synaptic, uninstall any nvidia* packages that are installed
6.  If not taken care of by #5, uninstall any and all 'linux-restricted*' packages
7.  Install NVIDIA drivers as follows:
    ctrl-alt-f1
    [login]
    sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
    sudo sh ./NVIDIA-xxxxxxx.run  [install NVIDIA driver]
    sudo reboot 

I can see both GTX260's, desktop effects are fully working, etc, etc.  The 96.whatever driver that kept showing up appeared to be part of the default installation and had to be removed before doing anything.  I guess in previous attempts, even though I'd uninstalled it, there were traces left that just wouldn't go (presumably somehow left by envy, envyng, etc?).

I agree strongly with an earlier poster that it seems you should get everything working on your Ubuntu system prior to relying on it in any way.  Also, I think it's crucial to very carefully document each step you take and note what does/doesn't work.  

The end of another Ubuntu learning exercise...

---

### Post by sandy8925 on 2009-04-18
> **DJonsson2008 said:**
> 

BTW, what advantage does Nvidia driver 180 give over 169 anyhow?

What are you talking about ? The advantages are huge! The performance is way way better. Everything runs smoother and the system looks and feels more responisve. Videos play smoother,desktop effects are faster etc. etc. I would definitely recommened installing the latest drivers.

---

### Post by DJonsson2008 on 2009-04-18
It all sounds great, but with Hardy and my 8400GS video
card the drivers do not work dependably, rendering me
with useless scrambled screens, and I think many others
have having the same frustrating results.

The attempts to move from 169 to 171 to 180 had destructive effects on my on my desktop and usb configuration mentioned and illustrated elsewhere.

I'd like to get the latest 180 drivers to work but will
need to get it working on another HD before stuggling again
with my current installation.

---

### Post by davedumas0 on 2009-04-19
i have the same problem my system specs are 


asus striker 2 extreme
qx9650
gtx 260 896MB
ocz ssd 60GB
ubuntu 8.10


iv tried a few different ways to install the driver (reinstall ubuntu after it does not work)ie: system/admin/hardware driver,ctrl+alt+f1 and installing from nvidia still does not work help please im geting frustrated

p.s. any help will be vary appreciated thx

---

### Post by DJonsson2008 on 2009-04-19
I did a fresh install on a 2nd hand hard drive today
of 8.10 Xubuntu and the nvidia drivers were seen and installed
right away with no problem. I can even switch between 
177 and 180 with no problem. I'm not eager to go beyond
the more or less built in Ubuntu restricted driver 
hardware devices ever again.

Somehow it seems the various methods of nvidia driver install
break the other methods or at least the restricted driver 
install. If somebody knew exactly what was going on with the
kernel and modules they could perhaps debug it, but it seems to 
me the entire thing could involve some residual code that gets placed somewhere in the OS every step along the way of installing/unistalling the various versions of the 
nvidia drivers. 

For now on my bread and butter 8.4 install I'm using vesa 
drivers and 1024 wide resolution tweaked manually in the xorg.conf files, just to get my work done. 

9.4 is out next week, or perhaps there will be a further kernel and video driver update set that comes with 8.4. I doubt if I'll move all my work to this slow and small 2nd hand drive I tested today.

I'm digging for an answer to the nvidia puzzle but it may lay in a future update, upgrade to 8.10 or 9.4 or perhaps wait for  a fresh install on a newer faster drive with a full restore of my data, software and so on...not this week anyhow.

It is very nerve wracking to say the least because one would think that nvidia drivers would simply work one way or another, and that 8 series would not be on the bleeding edge. With Hardy 8.4 it seems to be at the moment, unless a kernel / video / module update in the near future corrects it -- the fastest route to get the drives to work in fact may be a fresh install or an update to a newer version of the OS. Each of the later methods of course have their own issues, so it may be best to wait and see.

---

