---
title: ".exe video with ubuntu"
date: 2013-04-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by lernall on 2013-04-13
someone shared with me a video file and its extension is exe
how can i run it

---

### Post by sammiev on 2013-04-13
.exe video. Hmmmm I would not open it at all. Open at your own risk it's likely not a video.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2013-04-14
.exe is an extention for Windows executables. Just delete it.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2013-04-14
I have dim memories of self-extracting executables but certainly more recent memories of Windows virus transmission in this format...

---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-04-14
> **sammiev said:**
> .exe video. Hmmmm I would open it at all. Open at your own risk it's likely not a video.

I think sammiev meant to say "I would **not** open it at all" and neither would I.

---

### Post by monkeybrain2012 on 2013-04-14
It is probably a downloader (for Windows). I have seen them on some download sites but I have never used them.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2013-04-14
> **coldraven said:**
> I think sammiev meant to say "I would **not** open it at all" and neither would I.

You are correct. Sorry to the OP for that.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-04-14
This is a common trick used by malware writers -- take a video file, add  malware, change it to an executable, compress that inside a .RAR file -- and post that to the Internet.  When folks see the RAR file, they run WinRAR on it, get an EXE file, run that -- and BANG, their PC is infected.

---

### Post by cubakashtro on 2013-04-20
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> This is a common trick used by malware writers -- take a video file, add  malware, change it to an executable, compress that inside a .RAR file -- and post that to the Internet.  When folks see the RAR file, they run WinRAR on it, get an EXE file, run that -- and BANG, their PC is infected.

There is such thing as .exe video files. my Samsung Surveilance DVR automatically saves my backed up video feed as .exe video executables on my flash drive. They are supposed to be standalone video files. Becareful nontheless. & ive been using ubuntu since 2009 never encountered a virus infection.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-04-21
> **cubakashtro said:**
> There is such thing as .exe video files. ...

True ... but when you simply run the .exe file in Linux, since there is typically no AV product installed, there is no way to know whether or not there is malware hidden inside the file.

---

