---
title: "Ubuntu 11.10 + nVidia = Frustration"
date: 2011-10-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by markherring on 2011-10-22
Just done a clean install of 11.10 on a Toshiba Satellite S2450-101 with an nVidia GeForce4 420 Go graphics card and the frustration is building! First off after installing nVidia drivers 96.43.20 and rebooting i was presented with a black screen. I could type my password and i would hear the login sound but the screen stayed black. This was sorted by booting to a command prompt running nvidia-xconfig and then adding the line "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP-0" to the screen section of my xorg.conf. So with that part fixed i thought it would plain sailing from there. Wrong!!!
I ran CompizConfig Settings Manager and set a few options on like Wobbly Windows. After a reboot, nothing. Anything i set in Compiz is ignored. After a bit of troubleshooting and googling i tried adding "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True" to xorg.conf but still nothing. If i run nVidia-settings and go to X Server Display Configuration i see the following message:-
[INDENT]Unable to load X Server Display Configuration page:

Failed to query NoScanout for screen 0.
[/INDENT]If i click on GPU-0 (GeForce4 420 Go) it shows:-




My xorg.conf file currently looks like this:-

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Sun Jul 17 23:48:28 PDT 2011


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Toshiba"
    ModelName      "Digital Flat Panel"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "DisableGLXRootClipping" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    #Option         "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP-0"
    Option         "ConnectedMonitor" "DFP-0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Any help getting this sorted will be greatly appreciated as i am starting to lose the will to live.

Many thanks

Mark

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-10-22
Composite requires openGL.

Could check that after reboot than openGl is still working

I don't think 11.04 & 11.10 unity is flexible enough to allow complete use of ccsm..Unity is half pie hack using part of compiz.

glxgears
glxinfo | grep OpenGL
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | GLX
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | WW


You have to use the legacy driver (& you are) but the Xorg version in 11.10 requires you to use a recently rebuilt legacy driver to match ABI changes.
May this is wrong ??

---

### Post by markherring on 2011-10-24
A few more details. It also appears that the Alt-Tab switcher is not working correctly. It is still using the old style display. Additionally the menu that should appear when the panel at the top of the screen is hovered over is also not working. I suspect Unity is not playing nicely.

glxinfo shows:-

OpenGL vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL renderer string: GeForce4 420 Go/AGP/SSE2
OpenGL version string: 1.5.8 NVIDIA 96.43.20
OpenGL extensions:

Output from cat commands:-


mark@mark-Satellite-2450:~$ cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep WW
	(WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
[    23.089] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic" does not exist.
[    23.089] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/" does not exist.
[    23.089] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/" does not exist.
[    23.089] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi" does not exist.
[    23.089] (WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi" does not exist.
[    23.089] (WW) Hotplugging is on, devices using drivers 'kbd', 'mouse' or 'vmmouse' will be disabled.
[    23.089] (WW) Disabling Keyboard0
[    23.089] (WW) Disabling Mouse0
[    23.138] (WW) NVIDIA(0): No TwinView "MetaModes" specified; will fall back to Display
[    23.138] (WW) NVIDIA(0):     SubSection modes.
[    23.491] (WW) NVIDIA(0): TwinView requested, but only 1 display devices found.
[    27.802] (WW) NVIDIA(0): Option "AddARGBVisuals" is not used
mark@mark-Satellite-2450:~$ cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep GLX
[    23.133] (II) NVIDIA GLX Module  96.43.20  Sun Jul 17 23:48:16 PDT 2011
[    23.133] (II) Loading extension GLX
[    23.138] (**) NVIDIA(0): Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
[    23.138] (**) NVIDIA(0): Option "DisableGLXRootClipping" "True"
[    23.138] (II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
[    27.788] (II) Loading extension NV-GLX
[    27.807] (II) Initializing extension GLX

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-10-24
Try this in terminal:
/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Demystifying...reRequirements](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Demystifying...reRequirements)

The MX420 was slow when new..so you may have to use unity_2d ..

If you play with ccsm expect problems & expect to reset often:
unity --reset

---

### Post by markherring on 2011-10-26
I think you are spot on. When i run the command it tells me that i cannot run Unity. When i log in it is dropping back to the Unity 2d environment. The Graphics card only has 32mb of RAM. Does this mean that i can't use compiz any more? It ran fine on 10.04 LTS so this is a major step backwards for me :(

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-10-27
Minimum requirement Unity 11.04

128MB Geforce 6200 & GL fragment programs (shader).

Video card has to be 2005 or newer..

---

### Post by markherring on 2011-11-06
Is the 128mb just relevant for nvidia cards. I have a machine at work with an onboard intel graphics that has only 8mb. It runs Unity on 11.10 perfectly.

---

### Post by markherring on 2011-11-06
My actual question was should i be able to still use compiz? This worked perfectly in 10.04. Now i have upgraded to 11.10 i am forced to use the unity 2d interface and compiz effects no longer work

---

### Post by hilz on 2012-02-02
I share your frustration. My Toshiba Satellite 2410 has two drive partitions (15G each). I have 10.04LTS running gnome with 3D on one partition. The other has 11.10 running with unity in 2D. Little bit annoying, but at least I can use it. Not bad on 7 year old machine.

---

