---
title: "Need a little guidance with laptop and external monitor"
date: 2008-06-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ynmnav on 2008-06-12
I'm a new Ubuntu user. About a week ago I screwed up my winows xp installation on my work laptop and just decided to install ubuntu instead and learn it.  

I have read through a lot of posts regarding getting dual monitor or "twinview" working.  I have it working now to a point.  When my laptop is docked, I can see the main windows with the menus and panels on my laptop.  The external monitor is left a extra space to move windows around.  This is how I want it when its docked.  However when I shutdown, undock, and then reboot the laptop,  I see only part of the login window.  Its as if the laptop screen is running on a larger window.   

I'm running;
Latitude D620 resolution(1400x900)
Dell monitor connected via DVI to dock station (1600x1200)

My config file is the following:

[COLOR="Navy"][FONT="Verdana"]
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LPL"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Quadro NVS 110M"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed   Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP-1: 1600x1200 +1440+0" 
# Removed   Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +1600+0, DFP-1: 1600x1200 +0+0" (with the +1600+0, right window is aligned to top)
# Removed   Option "TwinViewOrientation" "DFP-1 LeftOf DFP-0" (Doesn't seem to make a differnce)

    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "nologo"
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1440x900 +1600+150, DFP-1: 1600x1200 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection[/FONT][/COLOR]



When I entered the ("TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"), this was the only way I could get all the main menu and panels to show only on the laptop screen and not pan across over to the other window.  

I think I'm missing the whole setup of "monitor" and "device" sections but right now I'm now sure what it is.  

If anyone can provide any insight that would be very helpful.

---

