---
title: "Can't detect my TV in nVidia-settings -help with xorg-config"
date: 2010-02-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by buskerika on 2010-02-14
I have connected my computer to my LCD-TV (HDMI-cable) to enjoy my movies and such, on a big screen. I have nVidia GeForce 7050 so in nvidia-settings I've been using the TwinView configuration which allows me to see both the monitor and the TV. 

There was a bit of trouble-shooting but it worked just fine **until yesterday** when I changed my monitor to a new one and on the way probably messed up in nvidia-settings. :icon_frown:
I thought it would be easy to fix it but the configuration (in nvidia-settings) is stuck on "separete x-screen" and doesn't allow any changes at all. When I hit the "Detect display" nothing happens although I have the TV connected!

I'm terribly frustreted after 1 day of searching the net for information and I really would appreciate some help. Maybe my xorg.config could tell somebody what is wrong. I've been messing around with the file and made lots of changes acc to different advices but I really don't understand the options and settings so I'm afraid I'll soon do something inreperable. So now I lay down and cry for help!!![-o<

 # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
    # nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder75) Tue Dec 8 21:04:28 PST 2009
    # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
    # nvidia-settings: version 1.0 (buildd@hassium) Tue Dec 1 01:20:06 UTC 2009

    Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier "Layout0"
    Screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option "Xinerama" "0"
    EndSection

    Section "Module"
    Load "glx"
    EndSection

    Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier "Mouse0"
    Driver "mouse"
    Option "Protocol" "auto"
    Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    EndSection

    Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier "Keyboard0"
    Driver "kbd"
    EndSection

    Section "Monitor"
    Identifier "Monitor0"
    VendorName "Unknown"
    ModelName "BenQ G2420HDB"
    HorizSync 24.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh 50.0 - 76.0
    Option "DPMS"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    EndSection

    Section "Device"
    Identifier "Device0"
    Driver "nvidia"
    VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName "GeForce 7050 PV / nForce 630a"
    Option "NoLogo" "True"
    EndSection

    Section "Screen"

    # Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
    # Removed Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    # Removed Option "1280x960 +0+0"
    # Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
    # Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1280x960 +0+0, DFP: 1280x960 +0+0"
    # Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
    # Removed Option "metamodes" "1440x900 +0+0"
    Identifier "Screen0"
    Device "Device0"
    Monitor "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth 24
    Option "TwinView" "1"
    Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option "metamodes" "1440x900 +0+0; 1440x900 +0+0"
    SubSection "Display"
    Depth 24
    EndSubSection

---

### Post by buskerika on 2010-02-15
BUMP   Please, need an answer!!

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2010-02-15
```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
then restart nvidia-settings with:
```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```
then make all the changes you need, apply, then save configuration, and it will see you don't have a xorg.conf file. A new window will open. Hit the button labeled **show output**, and copy the file. Leave nvidia-settings open, and open a new terminal. Do:
```
sudo touch /etc/X11/xorg.conf && sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
then paste what you copied from nvidia-settings. Save and reboot.

---

### Post by buskerika on 2010-02-15
> **HappyFeet said:**
> ```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```then restart nvidia-settings with:
```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```then make all the changes you need, apply, then save configuration, and it will see you don't have a xorg.conf file. A new window will open. Hit the button labeled **show output**, and copy the file. Leave nvidia-settings open, and open a new terminal. Do:
```
sudo touch /etc/X11/xorg.conf && sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```then paste what you copied from nvidia-settings. Save and reboot.

Thanks for trying to help me but it didn't work out :(

In nVidia-settings I still can't detect my second display (TV) and when I hit the configure-button all alternatives are disabled, only Separete X screen is enabled and checked. And that's maybe the reason why it doesn't bother to detect another display? What happened to my previous settings when I changed monitor, what did I do wrong?

---

### Post by buskerika on 2010-02-15
---And now it works! And I don't know why or what did the trick....

I've got dual screens although my monitor is a bit pink but at this stage I'm happy as a clam so I regard this thread as solved. Thanks for help!

---

### Post by ghostcoil on 2010-02-15
Just got your post in the other thread - glad to see it's working now!

---

### Post by luke3g on 2012-06-13
hi,
ive got a nvidia card dont know which one as ive borrowed it off my uncle and hell go mad if he finds out im useing his pc,hehe, anyway unplugged it all and moved to new location set it up.......but now i can only see black screen and mouse which only allows me to left click and make a poxy folder etc. nothing els responds! please tell me this is an easy problem to fix as im about to smash this f*$&£*" thing up

[-o<[-o<[-o<how would i find out what nvidia card it is?

looked inside the only name i found was cullus? googled it but nothing im lost and dumb please help meeee[-o<

---

