---
title: "10.4 Lucid Lynx gnome-volume-control vs indicator-applet (removing mail check)"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Carr0t on 2010-05-13
I had the same problem multiple other people have already reported, i.e. that when I upgraded my 9.10 install to 10.4 my volume control icon disappeared from the task bar. I googled and searched the forums, and found that volume control and mail have been bundled together in one applet, so I had to add indicator-applet to the panel to get my volume control icon back.

Fair enough, except that I don't actually use Ubuntu for mail. I use various features of Outlook that aren't available in Evolution on my Exchange account, so I run Outlook in VMWare Workstation in Unity mode (apps appear as if native on my Linux desktop). As such, I had removed the mail checker icon from my panel as it annoyed me having it sat there for no reason.

However, now that the volume control and mail checker have been bundled together into the indicator applet I cannot do this. Functionality I used has been removed. How would I go about requesting that both indicators be split into separate applets again, or that the applet be configurable to show only 1 or other other or both (It's possible it already is configurable like this and i'm just being an idiot ;) ).

As an additional point, the 9.10 gnome volume control applet appeared to have some sort of memory leak that would nobble all my 8GB of RAM within a few weeks of running (This was on a fully up-to-date 9.10 system shortly before 10.4 came out. I found various bug reports about it, which claimed to have been fixed but people were still having issues). At first I assumed it had been removed from the panel in 10.4 until this leak could be located and fixed.

---

### Post by Big'un on 2010-05-20
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9165116&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9165116&postcount=2)

---

### Post by prog101 on 2010-07-09
gnome-volume-control-applet

---

