---
title: "5.1 Surround Sound - No voices in videos"
date: 2010-03-15
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ukblacknight on 2010-03-15
Hey folks!

I have a 5.1 surround sound system, in which I can select from the sound preferences window, using 

```
Analog Surround 5.1 Output + Analog Stereo Input
```

My speakers and microphone appear to work fine on music and skype etc, however when it comes to .avi's or .mkv's, I'm unable to hear the voices in videos.  The other sounds work in the videos, just not the voices.  This is annoying, as I have to use

```
Analog Stereo Output
```

in order to hear the voices properly.  Is there a setting VLC or Movie Player that I need to change?  It's annoying have to keep changing my speaker configuration for videos and to use Skype.

Ubuntu 9.10 x64
PulseAudio

Thanks in advance :)

---

### Post by ukblacknight on 2010-03-17
Bump?

---

### Post by Pougnet on 2010-03-17
I dont know what the problem is but it sounds like the same problem from this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=622011](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=622011) try whats suggested there.

---

### Post by ukblacknight on 2010-03-17
Different problem.  I get sounds, just no voices.  It seems to be happening in MKV files.  The problem also exists in Totem too.

The VLC Messages window gives this output when I start an MKV video:

```

a52 info: A/52 channels:6 samplerate:48000 bitrate:384000
pulse info: No. of Audio Channels: 6

```

So it appears that the codec uses 6 channels (5 satellites and the 1 bass), and pulse is also reporting that my setup is the same.  Other people have had the same problems but nobody ever knows what the problem is :(

Rant: God damn copy/paste bug!  Wish stuff would stay on the clipboard after closing the app!

---

### Post by Pougnet on 2010-03-17
Thats werid then, mabye your center channel is dead or something like that do a test tone on the speakers and see if the center is working because the main channel for voices is the center.

---

### Post by 11hjpphty76lkjj on 2010-04-11
I had this exact same problem. I went into System -> Preferences -> Sound -> Hardware and changed the Profile from Surround 5.1, etc to Surround 4.1 and now VLC and everything works fine. I have a standard computer 2 speaker/sub setup though. So I'm not so worried about the surround.

---

### Post by iMisspell on 2010-05-02
Im having the same problem with the Lucid Stable release.

When changing to 4.x voice's are now heard but sub-woofer is lost.

Onboard sound: ADI AD1988B
Motherboard: ASUS M2N-SLI Deluxe

Any solution/ideas would be great.

_

---

### Post by iMisspell on 2010-05-02
The following worked for me:

Edit:
```
gksu gedit /etc/pulse/daemon.conf
```
Change:
```
; default-sample-channels = 2
; default-channel-map = front-left,front-right

```
to
```
default-sample-channels = 6
default-channel-map = front-left,front-right,rear-left,rear-right,front-center,lf

```

Saved file.

Changed "Sound Preferences" to 'Analog Surround 5.1 Output'

Restarted system.

Then tested with the following "terminal command"
```
speaker-test -c 6
```

Found out the 'center' channel and 'sub-woofer' where flipped, changed the wires on the back of PC and everything is working well now.



_

---

### Post by tompit on 2010-09-18
Hi guys, 

Under Lucid, I have exactly the same issue with the following sound card.
```

$ lspci | grep -i multimedia
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 02)

```

I use an optical output, the amplifier and speakers are correctly connected but when pulse audio is configured with "Analog Surround 5.1 Output + Analog Stereo Input" there is absolutely no voice on playing video only sounds from background (DVD under VLC) are played. By selecting "Analog Surround 4.1 Output + Analog Stereo Input" on pulse audio voices are back.

I have already made the change on /etc/pulse/daemon.conf
```

default-sample-channels = 6
default-channel-map = front-left,front-right,rear-left,rear-right,front-center,lfe

```


I have installed pulseaudio volume control, alsamixer and all vlc plugins to get voices with the 5.1 output without any success (all channel are okay and unmuted). Anyway I can leave the 4.1 option output but it's a bit disturbing for a 5.1 system and LFE doesn't seem to work fine as well. 
Any help will be greatly appreciated.

---

