---
title: "Jack Control randomness..."
date: 2010-06-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by myrrdinoftheforest on 2010-06-12
So I've used Jack Control for sometime now to control my recording suite that I use (Ardour, Rakarak, and Hydrogen Drum Machine) recently however, when I start the Jack control, as soon as I connect input to output in the connections window, it's like it has internal feedback. The feedback crescendos, then cuts out. after that (let's say I have my Fender plugged into the sound card) if I strike a string there it comes out muddy distorted with an awful echo (some what like what echo would sound like on blown speakers). Anyone got any ideas? I have checked all the settings, everything is as it was before when it worked fine... dunno... is Lucid possessed?

:guitar:

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2010-06-13
A bit more info please:
When you say as before, what do you mean? Did you upgrade to lucid, or a fresh install?
Does hydrogen sound OK, or is it just your physical inputs?
Jack has distorted on me in the past and it was down to using too much audio processing in a certain program.

---

### Post by myrrdinoftheforest on 2010-06-13
it happens whether I have tons of effects on Rakarak and piping through or if I simply have my gutar plugged in and nothing but the jack server running. as soon as I hit connect on the connections window for the Jack server, it gets all 1970's psychidelic on me. 

It is a fresh install of Lucid btw, and 'as before' means the settings haven't changed, but the behavior has. When I first installed and set up, it worked perfect. Now, I get Iron Butterfly on crack no matter what lol. Could it be from an update that messed things up?

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2010-06-14
Sounds like an update issue. What kernel are you using? (put uname -r into a terminal)
Does jack show any messages when it happens?

---

### Post by myrrdinoftheforest on 2010-06-16
Here is a copy and past from the Message window:

 p, li { white-space: pre-wrap; }  ALSA: final selected sample format for playback: 16bit little-endian
 ALSA: use 3 periods for playback
 [COLOR=#999933]20:25:36.907 Server configuration saved to "/home/myrrdin/.jackdrc".[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]20:25:36.908 Statistics reset.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#999999]20:25:36.945 Client activated.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#9999CC]20:25:36.946 JACK connection change.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#CC9966]20:25:36.949 JACK connection graph change.[/COLOR]
 cannot use real-time scheduling (FIFO at priority -4) [for thread -1289753744, from thread -1289753744] (22: Invalid argument)
 [COLOR=#9999CC]20:25:42.109 JACK connection change.[/COLOR]
 [COLOR=#9999CC]20:26:04.318 JACK connection change.[/COLOR]

The Kernel version is: 2.6.32-22-generic-pae

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2010-06-17
You could switch to using a real time kernel, which would help stability and latency.
> cannot use real-time scheduling
You also need to edit a system file to use jack properly, this is from [this guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudioPreparation"):
> **Configuring the real-time access for "audio" group users and applications**

 Since Ubuntu 10.04 the permissions to enable real time access for "audio" group users are set in the file */etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf*. In versions prior to 10.04 these settings were done in */etc/security/limits.conf* 
If for some reason you need to tweak something, look for these lines: 
# generated by jackd's postinst. <<BR>>
# Do not edit this file by hand, use <<BR>>
# dpkg-reconfigure -p high jack <<BR>>
# instead <<BR>>
@audio - rtprio 99 <<BR>>
@audio - memlock unlimited <<BR>>
#@audio - nice -19 <<BR>>These value are suggested by [http://jackaudio.org/faq](http://jackaudio.org/faq). The memlock line determines how much of your memory can be locked by audio processes. Some recommend setting this as half of your total memory (RAM, in KB). The nice setting has been commented out with a purpose, according to one of the main authors of JACK [allowing users to renice processes is not necessary]("http://wiki.linuxmusicians.com/doku.php?id=system_configuration#limits.conf"). Thanks to Scott Lavender for precision about the new file configuration. 
Don't forget to add your username to the "audio" group (System - Administration - Users and Groups). 

---

### Post by myrrdinoftheforest on 2010-06-18
> **cchhrriiss121212 said:**
> You could switch to using a real time kernel, which would help stability and latency.

You also need to edit a system file to use jack properly, this is from [this guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudioPreparation"):

so, I'm not sure how to get the real time kernel, but I've already edited the system file and it is precisely how they show it should be. Perhaps my kernel was updated and that caused it? How do I get my system to a real time kernel?

Thanks for all the help btw, it's been fantastic :guitar:

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2010-06-18
Did you add yourself to the audio group? Go to System>Users & Groups to do so
You can download an rt kernel from synaptic, the package to select is called "linux-rt" which has all the headers and modules as well. Once you have the kernel installed you will need to select it using GRUB when you boot up. You can also download a program called startup manager which will allow you to select your default kernel.

---

### Post by myrrdinoftheforest on 2010-06-18
Yes I have been added to the audio group for some time (remember I had it working when I first set it up). 

I installed Startup Manager (which is fantastic!) and installed the linux-rt pacakage, however when I boot up with the rt kernel 2 things happen, nvidia drivers take a crap on me, and suddenly I'm no longer able to access the interwebz... so I used the above mentioned fantastic program to temporarily revert back to the most recent Lucid kernel to type this :lolflag: I should mention that after installing the rt kernel, Jack Control still had the same issue....

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2010-06-18
> I should mention that after installing the rt kernel, Jack Control still had the same issue....

Thats normal as it is the limits.conf causing the problem, not the kernel.

The rt kernel in the repos did not like my machine either, so I got one from someones's PPA which has been working great. Try it from [here]("https://launchpad.net/%7Eabogani/+archive/ppa/+packages") under the linux-realtime heading.

Which system file did you edit? For some reason it has changed between karmic and lucid so double check you changed the right one:
> Since Ubuntu 10.04 the permissions to enable real time access for "audio" group users are set in the file */etc/security/limits.d/audio.conf*. In versions prior to 10.04 these settings were done in */etc/security/limits.conf* 
You need to reboot for these to take effect, and if you still get the "cannot use real-time scheduling" message then post the limits.conf file so I can check it.

---

### Post by myrrdinoftheforest on 2010-06-19
Sadly it didn't matter where I got the kernel from, it gave me the same issues with my nvidia graphics and networking. also, after attempting to revert back from the kernel installed off the PPA you suggested above, suddenly I couldn't even get Ubuntu to boot. (I'm thinking I inadvertantly messed up grub, but not sure). 

Long story short, i ran off of the installation disk to back my files up, and installed Ubuntu Lucid Studio. This gave me the RT kernel, and so far the graphics driver is working (although at startup I have to tell it to revert to the backed up setup so that it will not run in 'low graphics mode'. And Jack seems to be running beautifully.  :)

Thanks for all the help anyway, time to rock! :guitar:

---

