---
title: "11.10 - HTPC - Nvidia - HDMI Audio - &quot;NR 4&quot;???"
date: 2011-10-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-10-27
I just set up 11.10 on a HTPC. It's an i3 box running a GT 440. Audio and video is controlled via HDMI on the GT 440. I was unable to get my audio working via HDMI. I ended up fiddling with the sound preferences settings. I saw in the devices menu (I believe?) several options.

I forget what they were exactly, but I remember seeing two or three options with "5.1" in them, as well as HDMI Analog, HDMI Audio NR 1, HDMI Audio NR 2, HDMI Audio NR 3, HDMI Audio NR 4.

Only one worked. HDMI Audio NR 4.

Okay, great! So I have HDMI audio and HDMI video. Things are solid, don't skip, no tearing, no lag, and audio/video stays in sync.

But what exactly is "nr 4"? I'm wondering how nr 1 varies from nr 2, to nr 3, to nr 4, etc.

Any insight?

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-11-03
Bumping up. Still trying to understand what NR 4 is exactly. Thanks!

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-11-03
The newer versions of pulse audio must now enumerate all the alsa sub devices..fanastic..

Your HDMI audio device (nVidia GT440) has (4) codecs.
Likely 
1. hw:1,3
2. hw:1,7
3. hw:1,8
4. hw:1,9

you can check with aplay -l
Your audio capabilities will be in
/proc/asound/card1/eld#3.0

Without using snd-hda-intel option probe_mask (max=0x0f) you get all 4 exposed by alsa. But alsa only allowed (2) streams per device.

Previous alsa/pulse versions only allowed 2 sub-devices per device.
To get pulse to work with the nr 2-4 required an entry in /pulse/default.pa (load module-alsa-sink hw:1,9).

If you read the nVidia hdmi audio document (definitive doc) it makes sense..I guess there will be some updates to this doc now.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-11-04
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> The newer versions of pulse audio must now enumerate all the alsa sub devices..fanastic..


Why is this a bad thing? I mean, the system works beautifully and the audio is great over HDMI. I was just curious on where the difference was between nr 1, 2, 3, 4, because "nr" isn't that descriptive and, well, I'm a very curious person. :P

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-11-04
It's hard to believe, but I was not being sarcastic.
This (pulse/alsa update) should reduce the HDMI audio problems/posts.

There have been a large number of posts (& incorrect web info especially XBMC) about the codec enumeration/probe_masks etc..

The alsa codec "numbers" change with the probe_mask & so there is/was no fixed mapping between alsa - eld#n.0 & real_phys_codec/physical_hdmi_port.

This change just makes it easy for pulse audio to work out-of-the-box.

```

http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=159346
http://http.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/gpu-hdmi-audio-document/gpu-hdmi-audio.html#

```
Also:
Pulse audio is meant to (finally) be able support digital pass-thru' over S/PDIF or HDMI..I hope this includes HDA formats..

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-11-05
Either you and I aren't necessarily on the same page, or I'm just completely misunderstanding you. You sounded sarcastic prior, yet from what you're saying... it sounds like these changes are good things. If that's the case I fail to see how that matters.

Also, are the new changes indicative of the NR 1, 2, 3, 4 settings? Like do those options exist BECAUSE of Pulse Audio implementing new (positive?) changes to be more versatile?

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-11-05
When did I ever sound sarcastic ?
> it sounds like these changes are good things. If that's the case I fail to see how that matters.

How can it not matter if these changes are good (which they are) ?
Are you that selfish ?

The 4 enumerated HDMI sub-devices in pulse indicate the positive changes..

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-11-06
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> When did I ever sound sarcastic ?


How can it not matter if these changes are good (which they are) ?
Are you that selfish ?

The 4 enumerated HDMI sub-devices in pulse indicate the positive changes..

Hey, I understand. At first I just wasn't on the same page, so I apologize for that. That being said, I appreciate you taking the time to better define what these settings were for me. They make more sense now.

I'm also curious if you happen to now how vastly different nr 3 is vs nr 4, etc. Like I wonder what scenario would use nr 3 (or nr 1, nr 2, etc) instead of nr 4. Just thinking out loud...

---

