---
title: "9.04 audiotrouble."
date: 2009-06-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by strife242 on 2009-06-07
Hello,

I'm running jaunty on my htpc. In this setup I use S/PDIF coaxial out to my receiver but now the sound stopped working and I can't figure out what may have gone wrong.

I do know that there is some kind of signalling on the audio output as my receiver blocks other ports if it finds a digital signal. In my case, if I start the CD I have to mute the sound in Ubuntu for the CD to be able to get through the receiver.

However, the sounds from from the PC is simply gone, no test sounds, nothing in flash players or any other mediaplayer. Even XBMC is silent.

No changes were made, I just turned the computer on after being shut down overnight and it wouldn't work.

I may, or may not have done apt-get update/upgrade when this occured but am not sure. That's the only change made, if even that.

I've already tried the fix for another bug I had running on 8.10

(backing up alsa-utils and removing it, rebooting, restore alsa-utils, start the mixer and turn on the digital channels but it's not working.)

The funny thing is I experience the exact same thing when loading the installation cd and the trial version.. No sound there either but then again, I'm not sure it set things up for S/PDIF properly.

So, where do I start troubleshooting?

---

### Post by strife242 on 2009-06-07
Well, ignore please.

I must be too tired. 
Found the problem.. Sometimes it's good if you use the correct output..
I've got no idea on how it got changed.. but it was. :)

---

