---
title: "10.10: Is there a HOWTO on REPLACING a graphics card?"
date: 2010-11-16
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-11-16
I am planning to change the graphics card in my Ubuntu 10.10 system to get slightly better performance. I searching this forum with the keywords 'change graphics card'. The search returned 250 hits - none of them relevant. There is plenty of guidance on installing a card, but I'm very nervous about changing the card (from Matrox to ATi Radeon) and ending up with dead system, which I won't be able to recover from (because of lack of knowledge).

Surely there must be a howto for this - or at lest  very brief guidance document outlining the things that absolutely MUST and MUST NOT be done to achieve a change and deliver a working system afterwards.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-11-16
When I installed a new nvidia card in place of an old one it just booted.

I think the issues may be just like a new install where video card is not correctly seen.

I do not know about ATI but this was what I had to do on a new install.

On first boot after install, press e on getting the GRUB bootloader.
Using arrow keys navigate to and delete quiet and splash and type the word nomodeset in their place
Press Ctrl and X to boot (low graphics mode)

After I installed Nvidia driver (default from pop up) then it has worked without issue.


Some other settings:
[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)
* Older Intel video card: i915.modeset=1 or i915.modeset=0
* nVidia: nomodeset
* Generic: xforcevesa or nouveau.modeset=0
* Radeon: radeon.modeset=0

---

### Post by shantiq on 2010-11-16
av a look [here]("http://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=HOWTO+replace+a+graphics+card&aq=f") maybe

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-11-16
If you have a proprietary video driver installed, remove it before you remove the old video card. Other than that, you should be OK by just switching cards.

---

