---
title: "8.10 Nvidia driver. Wait for fix? or try to fix?"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by vwr0527 on 2008-10-31
My computer: AMD Athlon64 3000+
Graphics: GeForce 8600 GTS 256mb
Using fresh install of 8.10


sorry to create yet another new thread, but this one is easy.
I don't want to do any more work trying to fix Nvidia's xorg plugins.

So, should I just wait for an update that fixes the restricted nvidia driver for me?

Here's what seemed important enough to memorise.
I have used 7.10 and 8.4 with no problems, the nvidia works out of the box.
Trying to activate the 177 drivers with restricted drivers manager results in it freezing at 'downloading 0%'. (i did xkill on it. I think I broke something)
Downloading via Synaptic the 177 drivers and all nvidia+177 related packages works.
After that, the restricted drivers manager can activate them. (either it realized that I already have it, or somthing).
Rebooting the computer invariably results in this sequence of events:
```

(**) NVIDIA(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
(==) NVIDIA(0): RGB weight 888
(==) NVIDIA(0): Default visual is TrueColor
(==) NVIDIA(0): Using gamma correction (1.0, 1.0, 1.0)
(**) NVIDIA(0): Option "NoLogo" "True"
(**) NVIDIA(0): Enabling RENDER acceleration
(II) NVIDIA(0): Support for GLX with the Damage and Composite X extensions is
(II) NVIDIA(0):     enabled.
(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the NVIDIA graphics device PCI:5:0:0. 
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     Please see the COMMON PROBLEMS section in the README for
(EE) NVIDIA(0):     additional information.
(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the NVIDIA graphics device!
(II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
(II) UnloadModule: "wfb"
(II) UnloadModule: "fb"
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

Fatal server error:
no screens found

```
nice that it tells you to look at the readme, then doesn't tell you where the readme is. You have to find out for yourself that you, in fact, don't have them. So friendly.

---

### Post by vwr0527 on 2008-10-31
bump

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-31
Moved to Multimedia & Video :)

---

### Post by AaronP_ on 2008-11-01
The README is installed in /usr/share/doc/nvidia-glx*/README.txt.gz.  The driver itself includes a fancy HTML version of the README, but it looks like Ubuntu doesn't ship it.  You can find it [here]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/177.80/README/index.html").

As for why it's failing to initialize the kernel module, you'll have to check your kernel log to find out why that's happening.

---

### Post by vwr0527 on 2008-11-01
[QUOTE=
As for why it's failing to initialize the kernel module, you'll have to check your kernel log to find out why that's happening.[/QUOTE]

Does this mean that I will have to fix it myself; as in, any future update wont ever fix it for me?
Or is there a good chance that there will be?

---

### Post by Hubris2 on 2008-11-01
You aren't the only one...I have this exact same symptom.  When I upgraded from Gutsy to Hardy, it prompted me to roll back from Nvidia's driver to the standard Ubuntu one before rolling forward.  With Hardy to Intrepid it didn't...so I assume it could handle it.

Is it possible that Ubuntu didn't detect that it required to load a kernel module for the 'internal version 1.77' driver...so when you select it the driver is activated - but no kernel module is present?  I also had it time out when originally trying to download the 1.77 driver.

When I look through the kernel log, back before the upgrade it shows loading the module for the downloaded kernel.  No such entries in the log since the upgrade.  No errors that I can see related to video.

Suggestions?

---

### Post by funkydan2 on 2008-11-01
I don't know if this is going to fix the problem for you, but I've just got my nvidia card working probably again by installing the linux-headers-generic package.  Without this (and DKMS) the nvidia kernel module can't be built.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-01
The way to fix your problem is to not be so impatient :), the progress bar seems to sit at 0% for about 5 minutes, but what it is actually doing is downloading the drivers and dependencies, when it starts to install the driver the progress bar jumps from 0 to about 60% in 0 seconds.

The way to solve your problem is to use synaptic to completely remove all the nvidia drivers, then use System-->Administration-->Hardware Drivers to properly install the drivers, and this time wait until it is done. Go do something else for about 5 minutes. Your drivers should be properly installed, all you have to do is log out and back in again.

Jim

---

### Post by vwr0527 on 2008-11-01
That was so close to working cariboo, restarted and xorg said OOPS I BROKE

ps. Im frightened by kernel logs

---

### Post by yoshcw on 2008-11-01
Hi 

I'm new to ubuntu and this forum as well. I have installed ubuntu 8.04 with the kernel 2.6.24-19-generic in my hp pavilion dv6000 series laptop which has a nVIDIA geforce 8400M GS graphic controller. System is working fine. But i can't activate visual effects. It says "Desktop effects could not be enabled". :(  Then i tried to install NVIDIA-Linux-x86-100.14.09-pkg1.run driver. But I'm getting the following error.

> ERROR: Unable to build the NVIDIA kernel module.
ERROR: Installation has failed.  Please see the file
       '/var/log/nvidia-installer.log' for details.  You may find suggestions
       on fixing installation problems in the README available on the Linux
       driver download page at [www.nvidia.com](www.nvidia.com).

In nvidia-installation-log file I found this part. Please suggest me a solution.

> .
.
Using: nvidia-installer ncurses user interface
-> License accepted.
-> No precompiled kernel interface was found to match your kernel; would you li
   ke the installer to attempt to download a kernel interface for your kernel f
   rom the NVIDIA ftp site ([ftp://download.nvidia.com)?](ftp://download.nvidia.com)?) (Answer: No)
-> No precompiled kernel interface was found to match your kernel; this means
   that the installer will need to compile a new kernel interface.
-> Performing CC sanity check with CC="cc".
-> Performing CC version check with CC="cc".
-> Kernel source path: '/lib/modules/2.6.27.1/source'
-> Kernel output path: '/lib/modules/2.6.27.1/build'
-> Performing rivafb check.
-> Performing nvidiafb check.
-> Performing Xen check.
-> Cleaning kernel module build directory.
   executing: 'cd ./usr/src/nv; make clean'...
-> Building kernel module:
   executing: 'cd ./usr/src/nv; make module SYSSRC=/lib/modules/2.6.27.1/source
   SYSOUT=/lib/modules/2.6.27.1/build'...
   NVIDIA: calling KBUILD...
   make CC=cc KBUILD_OUTPUT=/lib/modules/2.6.27.1/build KBUILD_VERBOSE=1 -C /li
   b/modules/2.6.27.1/source SUBDIRS=/tmp/selfgz10955/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-174.55-p
   kg1/usr/src/nv modules
   make -C /lib/modules/2.6.27.1/build \
   	KBUILD_SRC=/usr/src/linux-2.6.27.1 \
   	KBUILD_EXTMOD="/tmp/selfgz10955/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-174.55-pkg1/usr/src/nv" -f
   /usr/src/linux-2.6.27.1/Makefile \
   	modules
   test -e include/linux/autoconf.h -a -e include/config/auto.conf || (		\
   	echo;								\
   	echo "  ERROR: Kernel configuration is invalid.";		\
   	echo "         include/linux/autoconf.h or include/config/auto.conf are mis
   sing.";	\
   	echo "         Run 'make oldconfig && make prepare' on kernel src to fix it
   .";	\
   	echo;								\
   	/bin/false)
   mkdir -p /tmp/selfgz10955/NVIDIA-Linux-x86-174.55-pkg1/usr/src/nv/.tmp_versi
.
.
.


---

### Post by infoseeker on 2008-11-01
FYI, I could not get the downloaded Nvidia driver to work under 8.04, but I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 8.10 and rebooting into 'recovery mode' for the driver installation, the setup went smoothly (and best of all, successfully).  I have a 9600GT.  Driver version 177.80.

> $ glxgears
56687 frames in 5.0 seconds = 11337.364 FPS
56958 frames in 5.0 seconds = 11390.598 FPS
56931 frames in 5.0 seconds = 11386.186 FPS


[http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us)

---

### Post by Hubris2 on 2008-11-01
I used package manager to remove the nvidia packages.  Now when I go into hardware, it states that no proprietary drivers are in use in the system...and doesn't recommend any - it's just empty.

I'm sure I could download the driver from Nvidia and install it myself like I used to - but I was hoping to let the system take care of rebuilding the kernel module every time the kernel is updated.  How do I get back to the place where the 1.77 driver is an available option in the hardware drivers?

---

### Post by Kosmi4 on 2008-11-01
I have the same problem.. any help wanted.. :(

---

### Post by Dittie on 2008-11-01
Having the same problem. I just upgraded to 8.10 from 8.04, which worked fine. But now it says that it finds screens, but they're not configured correctly.

---

### Post by vwr0527 on 2008-11-01
bump for answer to [subject] field

---

### Post by vwr0527 on 2008-11-01
bump for answer to subject
last time guys, bear with me

---

### Post by jokerejoker on 2008-11-02
I have the same problem. When I install the driver 177 or 173 (tried both) and reboot, I get the in text mode when loaded and the kernel writes "No boot image" and give me an text based login.

To get back in graphic remove all nvidia-* packages.

To see the available nvidia packages i the driver manager, install the envyng-core package :)

I have not yet been able to solve this problem. The drivers work fine for me in hardy 8.04.

---

### Post by Arcturus691 on 2008-11-02
Ok I think something is very broken with 8.10 upgrade from 8.04 and nvidia.  I am getting the same errors as everyone else.  So I completely removed all nvidia driver packages w/ synaptic and the installed them again.
System/Administration/Hardware drivers is still empty.

So I tried using EnvyNG (install envy core and envy QT with synaptic)  Envy reports:
EnvyBG has detected that the headers for your kernel are missing and can not be installed.  (this is why I think something is screwey with 8.10)

In synaptic there are restricted modules for nvidia that are not installed.  When I try to install one I get the following:

linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24-19-generic:

Package linux-restricted-modules-2.6.24-19-generic has no available version, but exists in the database.
This typically means that the package was mentioned in a dependency and never uploaded, has been obsoleted or is not available with the contents of sources.list

This is just a guess, but I think we have a dependency issue that is preventing the nvidia kernel from building properly.  

I am not sure how to fix this if I am correct.   Anyone want to take a stab at this :confused:

---

### Post by Gort10 on 2008-11-02
I have been struggling with the same issue for two days without success.  Will let you if I make any progress.

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2008-11-02
I'm having the same issue with the 173 drivers. 177 drivers are not compatible with my card. I'm using the drivers in the official repo through the restricted drivers applet. I tried installing them with Nvidia's downloadable binary drivers. They won't compile due to incorrect kernel configuration.

I get:
```
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

```
when I boot the machine.

This looks like an incompatibility between the kernel and the Nvidia drivers. Hopefully it will be resolved soon, my machine runs like crap without a working 3D accelerator card.

Also, I want to get back to beta testing [Atmosphir]("http://atmosphir.com/"). :)

---

### Post by HonorSystem on 2008-11-02
Yet another sad nvidia user here.

I installed from the restricted hardware drivers manager.  Reboot, and x can't start.

```

(!!)  More than one possible primary device found
(II)  Primary Device is: 
(EE)  No devices detected
```

8800GTS 640MB.  Ubuntu has never disappointed me in the past. :confused:

---

### Post by Spinalcracker on 2008-11-03
I believe it is the same problem I was having but resolved with help from these forums.  Please see this post

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965180]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965180")

Hopefully the solution that worked for me will work for you as well.

Cheers

*Note

If you are already at a stage where you only get a command prompt at boot, then just run the code to determine your busid from that prompt after logging in, then run

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.com
```

Modify the xorg as per the post I linked and ctrl-O and save and type sudo reboot to restart and you should be good to go.

Good luck.

---

### Post by Arcturus691 on 2008-11-03
Ok I got my machine working with the nvidia 177 drivers. 
Disclaimer:  I just learned how to do much of this, so back everything up first  	;-)

Here's what I found out to be the problem on my system:

The kernel I was running was 2.26.19-generic  ("uname -a" in terminal to find your version).   This was odd because that kernel is for 8.04. When poking around synaptic I noticed there was a kernel for 2.27-7-generic already installed but not listed in my grub menu.  

It seems that the 8.10 upgrade from 8.04 neglected to create the grub entry for the new kernel.  This is why I could not compile the nvidia 177 drivers even from source.

I went into synaptic and installed  kgrubeditor
then ran kgrubeditor and selected add
This brings up the Entry Assistant  
-click Next
-Create a title  (I used: Ubuntu 8.10 2.27-7)
-click Next
-In the field "Root:" enter where your menu.1st file and grub reside (I used (hd0,2) If you don't know where it is go to the grub command prompt and type: find /boot/grub/stage1)
-In the field "Kernel file:" enter: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic
-In the field "Arguments:" click on suggestions and click on each on the menu entries until you get something like: 
(root=/dev/sda3 root=UUID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx ro quiet splash) Note: root UUID hidden for security reasons ;)
-click next 
-In the "initrd" field enter: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-generic 
-Now click next until you get to the end of the wizard  All of the other fields are for advanced options that you probably don't need.

At this point I rebooted using the new 2.27-7-generic kernel.
Now go back into synaptic and install the nvidia-glx-177 package.
Open up a terminal and type sudo nvidia-xconfig.
Now press the following key sequence to restart X-Server:
Ctrl + Alt + Backspace

At this point the drivers worked for me.  Hope this helps

---

### Post by deonbekende on 2008-11-04
First of all, please excuse me for my bad English. This is a post for all the Ubuntu NOOBS like myself :p. The solution described underneath may not be the best solution, but is an easy solution that worked for me. I think the solution above is better for your system, but may be a little bit more difficult for NOOBS.

Acturus691 is totally right. I’ve also read something about kernel problems with 8.10 after an upgrade from 8.04. It seems that the newest linux version is indeed using the old 8.04 kernel. This problem is responsible for the problems with the NVIDIA install procedure, because it expects the newest kernel. To solve this problem I searched for a tool that has the functionality to:

* Show what the current kernel is 
* Show what the newest available kernel is
* Install the newest kernel

I found this tool Kernelchecker. You can find it at the next location:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=618563]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=618563")

To solve your NVIDIA problems, follow the next steps:
1.	Be sure all your NVIDIA drivers are deactivated. ( I was able to activate them and run Ubuntu in low graphic mode).
2.	Install Kernelchecker as described in the link above.
3.	Check your kernel version and the newest available kernel version as described in the link above. If you kernel is the newest version, **stop here**, your problem will not be solved. If your kernel is not the newest version, go to the next step.
4.	Build the newest kernel as described in the link above.
5.	Some errors may occur, don’t worry and just let the Kernelchecker finish his job.
6.	Restart the computer, you will now notice that the newest kernel is available in your grub list.
7.	Choose the newest kernel.
8.	You will now be able to install the new NVIDIA drivers.

---

### Post by boddhisatva on 2008-11-04
Same problem. I've got the latest kernel, visible in Grub and via "uname -a", still the driver won't work. There are some other solutions suggested on this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965180](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965180)
but they haven't worked for me. I wish so much I had waited with upgrading. Hardy worked fine, and was long-term... Impatience is a road to hell :p

---

### Post by Hubris2 on 2008-11-04
Complete agreement, I too am running the latest kernel, and the system refuses to load the kernel driver whether I try activate through hardware manager or via running the shell script with the downloaded binary from Nvidia directly.

I too now wish I had waited.  Since my upgrade, my audio is back to analog, my firewall is ignoring the whitelists and has to be turned off, my IM client won't use SSL and connect to MSN, and my video is operating in low-graphics mode after failing to load.

> **boddhisatva said:**
> Same problem. I've got the latest kernel, visible in Grub and via "uname -a", still the driver won't work. There are some other solutions suggested on this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965180](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965180)
but they haven't worked for me. I wish so much I had waited with upgrading. Hardy worked fine, and was long-term... Impatience is a road to hell :p

---

### Post by conqeror on 2008-11-05
I have got same problem after upgrading kernel....](*,)](*,)](*,)

---

### Post by FlappySocks on 2008-11-05
Mine is working now.  I edited Grub, and added a reference to the latest Kernel.  Then I reselected the latest Nvida driver, and copied in my old xorg.conf.

---

### Post by boddhisatva on 2008-11-05
I saw the Update Manager shining red on the panel today morning and yes! there were kernel modules updates, so I was obviously expecting it to be the FIX. Sadly, nothing has changed.
I'll give all the suggestions another shot, if nothing helps I'm back to 8.04. Next time I'll make a backup of the system before upgrading.

---

### Post by Hubris2 on 2008-11-05
Drat - I was hoping they would be a fix as well...new kernel image, modules etc.  I've downloaded them, but I'm not going to risk a reboot via remote.  I guess I'll see tonight.

Is everyone seeing the same errors in their Xorg.log file?  I know I was originally getting an error about trying to load an old module no longer used (Type 1) - when I removed that, the error became about failing to load the kernel module.

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2008-11-05
Honestly, if it is not fixed by the weekend I'll have to go back to hardy. I need my 3D accel.

---

### Post by iPirates on 2008-11-06
> **DarkN00b said:**
> Honestly, if it is not fixed by the weekend I'll have to go back to hardy. I need my 3D accel.

The lack of support for nVidia drivers in 8.10 is nVidia's fault apparently...

The xorg.conf file is not being used and can't be tweaked like it could before the last update of xorg.  This means that when the nVidia driver installer tries to configure the xorg.conf file like its always done, it doesn't work.  Hence, no implementation of the nVidia driver.

nVidia drivers are proprietary, so until nVidia fixes the drivers, we wont see a fix.

I've got this problem as well, and happen to read this reason in another thread... It makes sense, but could be wrong.  Either way, a fix or work around would be appreciated...

---

### Post by conqeror on 2008-11-06
Add proposed updates in your system sources and update....then restart and it will go

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2008-11-06
> **iPirates said:**
> The lack of support for nVidia drivers in 8.10 is nVidia's fault apparently...

The xorg.conf file is not being used and can't be tweaked like it could before the last update of xorg.  This means that when the nVidia driver installer tries to configure the xorg.conf file like its always done, it doesn't work.  Hence, no implementation of the nVidia driver.

nVidia drivers are proprietary, so until nVidia fixes the drivers, we wont see a fix.

I've got this problem as well, and happen to read this reason in another thread... It makes sense, but could be wrong.  Either way, a fix or work around would be appreciated...

Oh, I know its Nvidia's fault. I don't want to make people think I blame Ubuntu. I just need my 3D accel because I'm beta testing a new 3D platform game creation program.

> **conqeror said:**
> Add proposed updates in your system sources and update....then restart and it will go

All sources are already enabled. I can't add anything else without adding *new* repos. If adding a new repo would help, then by all means please point me to it. :)

---

### Post by conqeror on 2008-11-06
sorry it works only for older drivers(71 and 96) [http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/]("http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/")

---

### Post by Martin Fierro on 2008-11-06
Hi everyone,
Today I stuck also with the nvidia issue.
I made a hardware update and installed a GeForce 7200GS.  Due an unknown reason, the driver didn't work as supposed. I was able to reach GDM screen and even login, but as soon as I started to used the computer it frozen. I tried to reboot and the problem was even worse: the screen became completly black.
I reboot again and did a safe start from the grub and fix the video to VESA. Of course the computer worked but with a very poor resolution and refresh rate.

I tried several approaches trying to fix the driver: I installed an older version (no results), I reinstaled with "envyng -t" (no better results). I have also changed the kernel parameters to see if it was a kernel issue (which seems to be, according to several forums).

Well, the point is that I found a work around which fixed my problem.

First of all I removed several Nvidia modules already installed ( *nvidia-settings, nvidia-177-kernel-source and nvidia-glx-177*).

After that, I did a reinstall of the restricted drivers (System>>Administration>>Hardware Drivers) and patiently wait for the download and instalation. Please be aware that when the download starts seems to be freezed. You will have to wait for about 5-10 minutes, then the driver is instaled.

Once the driver was installed run the command "**sudo nvidia -config --no-composite**" 	 	 	 	  through the terminal (Applications>>Accessories>>Terminal) and reboot the machine.

Now the driver works. I have not tested yet any visual effects or changes in resolution and/or refresh rate. In fact I didn't even reboot it again! I spent all day long with this issue and I still have a lot of work to be done today before going home.
I hope this post may help someone.

---

### Post by Martin Fierro on 2008-11-06
By the way, I forgot to mention my system configuration: Motherboard P4M900 FE, Intel Dual-core 1.8 GHz, 1Gb ram, GeForce 7200GS, Ubuntu 8.10 (intrepid), kernel linux 2.6.27-7-generic.
Saludos.

---

### Post by fishtales on 2008-11-06
> **Martin Fierro said:**
> 
...
Once the driver was installed run the command "**sudo nvidia -config --no-composite**" through the terminal (Applications>>Accessories>>Terminal) and reboot the machine.


I've been experiencing the same problems as you Martin and have just found your post. Was hoping for a quick fix but can't seem to get your command to work. This is what I get:

```
~$ sudo nvidia -config --no-composite
sudo: nvidia: command not found
```

What am I doing wrong here?

Any help is greatly appriciated.

---

### Post by hilather on 2008-11-06
> **fishtales said:**
> I've been experiencing the same problems as you Martin and have just found your post. Was hoping for a quick fix but can't seem to get your command to work. This is what I get:

```
~$ sudo nvidia -config --no-composite
sudo: nvidia: command not found
```

What am I doing wrong here?

Any help is greatly appriciated.

The command is sudo nvidia-xconfig no-composite

However it did nothing for me, I'm very irritated by the lack of nVidia support. I'm actually debating replacing my laptop to something more OS friendly.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by sharkster2007 on 2008-11-06
I am new and maybe barking up the wrong tree but i have got my Nvidia 6600GT working with 3D Desktop effects activated hope my thread helps you out.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=973038](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=973038)

---

### Post by jaredbuck on 2008-11-07
I'm getting fustrated with the 3D support in 8.10.  I have downloaded the drivers for my machine, but hardware drivers menu does not see the drivers.  deleted drivers, tried again without the drivers on the disk but the restricted drivers menu (system, adminstration, hardware drivers) doesn't see any restricted drivers for my card.  My card is a GeForce MX 420 and should be supported by the legacy drivers.  I don't understand why 3D support does not work out of the box like it did in 8.04 and previous versions!!  *close to tearing his hair out*

Jared

---

### Post by gtdaqua on 2008-11-07
While going through this problem yesterday, I found that NVIDIA has released a beta driver for its legacy cards, specifically supporting the newer kernels and specifically addressing this problem.

The link is here: [173.14.15 (legacy, BETA) for Linux x86/x86-64 released]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122423")


I am using NVIDIA GeForce 6150 LE with the latest 177.80 driver without any problems. I am getting 1280x1024. Now, how exactly do you check if 3D Acceleration is on?

Edit: the nvidia link above is fixed now. sorry.

---

### Post by jaredbuck on 2008-11-07
Solved problem!  another user recommended using the envyng program (found in synaptic) for installing the driver. simply installed the core program, used envyng's text mode with the -t added, then told it to install the nvidia driver, it listed all the drivers available and told me which drivers were supported/recommended.  the 96 driver was shown to be supported AND recommended so I selected that.  it downloaded the driver and all modules, installed, configured and rebooted without input from me.  Now I no longer have any flickering in KDE and going to the hardware drivers menu shows the drivers as enabled and working!!!

*jumps for joy*

Definately suggest using envyng if you having driver problems.  It worked for me, it will probably work for other people too.

---

### Post by jasontan6 on 2008-11-07
Finally works!! [SIZE="6"]Thanks Arcturus!![/SIZE] :razz:


> **Arcturus691 said:**
> Ok I got my machine working with the nvidia 177 drivers. 
Disclaimer:  I just learned how to do much of this, so back everything up first  	;-)

Here's what I found out to be the problem on my system:

The kernel I was running was 2.26.19-generic  ("uname -a" in terminal to find your version).   This was odd because that kernel is for 8.04. When poking around synaptic I noticed there was a kernel for 2.27-7-generic already installed but not listed in my grub menu.  

It seems that the 8.10 upgrade from 8.04 neglected to create the grub entry for the new kernel.  This is why I could not compile the nvidia 177 drivers even from source.

I went into synaptic and installed  kgrubeditor
then ran kgrubeditor and selected add
This brings up the Entry Assistant  
-click Next
-Create a title  (I used: Ubuntu 8.10 2.27-7)
-click Next
-In the field "Root:" enter where your menu.1st file and grub reside (I used (hd0,2) If you don't know where it is go to the grub command prompt and type: find /boot/grub/stage1)
-In the field "Kernel file:" enter: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic
-In the field "Arguments:" click on suggestions and click on each on the menu entries until you get something like: 
(root=/dev/sda3 root=UUID=xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx ro quiet splash) Note: root UUID hidden for security reasons ;)
-click next 
-In the "initrd" field enter: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-generic 
-Now click next until you get to the end of the wizard  All of the other fields are for advanced options that you probably don't need.

At this point I rebooted using the new 2.27-7-generic kernel.
Now go back into synaptic and install the nvidia-glx-177 package.
Open up a terminal and type sudo nvidia-xconfig.
Now press the following key sequence to restart X-Server:
Ctrl + Alt + Backspace

At this point the drivers worked for me.  Hope this helps

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2008-11-07
For some reason the board won't read my quote right so here is a link to the [legacy beta 173.14.15 drivers]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122423").

EDIT: Not that the above link will help much. Neither of the drivers at that location helped. Thanks to gtdaqua for pointing me there anyway. I _will_ be reinstalling Hardy this weekend.

---

### Post by boddhisatva on 2008-11-07
Having tried all the tricks on the forums for several days, I did a fresh 8.10 install and it's working. The installation process takes some 10-15 minutes! Then it's just a question of reinstalling your applications (I've got screenshots of my menus) and you're done. The settings are untouched, even the wallpaper and panels (I wasn't sure about that). Much easier and smoother than doing system acrobatics or waiting for mercy :-\" :mrgreen:
Of course, you need to download and burn the ISO first, if you don't have it.
I don't know if it's going to work for everybody, but that's what other people have shared too.

By the way, I've got nvidia 7300 GT. The 177 driver is working fine now.
I also did the most recent updates before installing the driver (there are some kernel modules updates right after you install the system).

---

### Post by Arcturus691 on 2008-11-07
I think I finally figured out why a fresh install works but the upgrade did not and why the kernel updates do not fix this issue.  

When upgrading to 8.10 or installing the kernel updates opens a popup window appears asking what to do with menu.1st (menu.1st is the file for your grub boot loader). 

Originally I went with the default entry which was to keep the original file.  This action causes the menu.1st file to not be updated, therefore the new kernel entry is not added.  

The correct option is to go with the first entry which is something like "package maintainers version"  this allows the new kernel to be added to your grub boot loader menu.  

I think the only mistake here was to not make the first option: "package maintainers version" the default entry.

---

### Post by boddhisatva on 2008-11-07
> **Arcturus691 said:**
> I think I finally figured out why a fresh install works but the upgrade did not and why the kernel updates do not fix this issue.  

When upgrading to 8.10 or installing the kernel updates opens a popup window appears asking what to do with menu.1st (menu.1st is the file for your grub boot loader). 

Originally I went with the default entry which was to keep the original file.  This action causes the menu.1st file to not be updated, therefore the new kernel entry is not added.  

The correct option is to go with the first entry which is something like "package maintainers version"  this allows the new kernel to be added to your grub boot loader menu.  

I think the only mistake here was to not make the first option: "package maintainers version" the default entry.

I don't think this explains the fact that on some systems (like mine) GRUB DID SHOW the newest kernel, yet the drivers didn't work...

---

### Post by Arcturus691 on 2008-11-07
Looks like there is more then one issue occurring then.  What specific errors are you getting?

---

### Post by Hubris2 on 2008-11-07
When I reboot after loading the driver I get errors about trying to load module Type1, and failing to load the kernel module - however I am running the correct (latest) kernel.

---

### Post by killer2239 on 2008-11-07
Hey guys im brand new to ubuntu. Very little past linux user though. I just got 8.10 isntalled 64-bit version. It asked me to use a driver for my 6600GT card. I selected the 1.77 version. I use a 19" monitor but do not have the native 1280x1024 option. Max lets me use is 1024x768. I use the VGA output on it. How do i get 1280x1024 resolution. Iv searched and read through about 5 threads but unable to find solution. Please help.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-07
Have you gone to System-->Administrtion-->NVIDIA X Server Settings-->X Server Display Configuration and tried setting the resolution there? See the attached screenshot.

I had my computer in the shop to do it's annual clean up and hooked it up to my 19" KDS Crt to test it after blowing out all the dust. I got 1680X1050 resolution automagically with out having to change any settings. When checking the above command it detected the monitor with all the info including model number.

Jim

---

### Post by killer2239 on 2008-11-07
That allowed me to select 1152x864 and 1360x768 but still no 1280x1024. It also lists monitor as a CRT-0 on GPU-0. It lists monitor name as CRT-0 as well. It doesnt reconize my monitor is a Hyundai L90D+

Anything else i can do?? Thanks for helping guys.

---

### Post by boddhisatva on 2008-11-08
> **Arcturus691 said:**
> Looks like there is more then one issue occurring then.  What specific errors are you getting?

(EE) NVIDIA(0) Failed to load the NVIDIA Kernel Module
(EE) NVIDIA(0)***Aborting***
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

But it doesn't matter now. I did a **completely fresh install in a matter of minutes** and everything's working perfectly now. **And I advise everybody who is still struggling with this issue to do the same.** 
All the settings stay, you only need to reinstall your programs, which is no big deal.

---

### Post by killer2239 on 2008-11-08
Anyone else have any ideas how to get my full resolution?

---

### Post by hilather on 2008-11-08
Thanks guys, I got mine going now by updating the kernel.  I'm jumping for joy, my laptops been useless for over a week.

---

### Post by HonorSystem on 2008-11-08
> **Spinalcracker said:**
> I believe it is the same problem I was having but resolved with help from these forums.  Please see this post

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965180]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965180")

Hopefully the solution that worked for me will work for you as well.

Cheers

Thanks a lot Spinalcracker!  This worked like a charm for me.  I had a feeling that with the xorg updates nvidia wouldn't be setting up the conf properly, but I had no idea about the Busid entry.

---

### Post by DarkN00b on 2008-11-09
> **boddhisatva said:**
> (EE) NVIDIA(0) Failed to load the NVIDIA Kernel Module
(EE) NVIDIA(0)***Aborting***
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

But it doesn't matter now. I did a **completely fresh install in a matter of minutes** and everything's working perfectly now. **And I advise everybody who is still struggling with this issue to do the same.** 
All the settings stay, you only need to reinstall your programs, which is no big deal.

I just did this myself. I had read that using the drivers from Nvidia's website and not the ones in the repos can damage some of the symlinks relating to Linux-restricted-modules, causing the Nvidia kernel module to not load. A quick reinstall and home directory restoral later and everything works just fine.

---

### Post by StarWarrior on 2008-11-09
> **funkydan2 said:**
> I don't know if this is going to fix the problem for you, but I've just got my nvidia card working probably again by installing the linux-headers-generic package.  Without this (and DKMS) the nvidia kernel module can't be built.

I just wanted to confirm this on an amd64 system. Activating the nvidia-driver in the device manager didn't work (download, etc. did work, but no confirmation afterwards and no request for reboot and no error message). I installed the linux-headers-generic package. After that activating the nvidia driver in the hardware device manager worked and everything worked fine.

---

### Post by vwr0527 on 2008-11-10
It keeps saying Failed to initialize the NVIDIA graphics device PCI:5:0:0.
lspci shows that that is exactly where my graphics card is.

fresh install (10 days old) & recent updates applied

envy didn't work, so I'm going to assume directly downloading it from NVIDIA won't work either.

adding busid to xorg.conf didn't work either...

---

### Post by kevind2071 on 2008-11-11
> **conqeror said:**
> Add proposed updates in your system sources and update....then restart and it will go

Thanks conqeror.  I added the proposed updates, updated, restarted, and activated the driver.  Now I have compiz effects working.

I accepted all 81 of the proposed updates, which I probably should not have done.

I have a NVidia GeForce4 MX 420

---

### Post by astromek on 2008-11-11
I fixed the problem by following the steps found here:
[http://www.tranquillity.se/2008/11/10/nvidia-problems-in-ubuntu-810/](http://www.tranquillity.se/2008/11/10/nvidia-problems-in-ubuntu-810/)

---

### Post by Hubris2 on 2008-11-11
Astromek,

I already seem to have module-assistant installed.  When I try auto-install nvidia, module assistant comes up and tells me that Installation of nvidia-kernel-source failed, ignoring, perhaps I need to add additional sources to my sources.list (contrib, non-free etc).  I have everything selected..

After exiting that, in the shell it states:

Nvidia-kernel-source is a virtual package contributed by:
nvidia-177...
nvidia-173...

You should explicitly select one to install.

Apt-get states that my individual nvidia-177... package is already installed and the latest version.

Could you post your sources.list - perhaps I'm missing something there?

Thanks!

---

