---
title: ".mkv not playing in VLC"
date: 2010-08-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-08-22
I know that this has probably been around these forms, but still. I recently stumbled upon one .mkv file and I wasn't able to play it in Ubuntu. I'm still not able. Looking at the forums around I see that many folks are able to play .mkv files with ease just running VLC player. So I'm quite confused that I'm not able to. So far I haven't had any problems with neither audio, nor video files in Ubuntu. Anyway, here's what I use:
VLC version 1.0.2
(I saw that some folks have been compiling VLC, incluiding specifically the .mkv support, but that was two years ago. Now VLC should support it out of the box...)
And I should have .mkv support in the version of VLC that I have:
$ vlc --list | grep Matroska
VLC media player 1.0.2 Goldeneye
  mkv                   Matroska-Stream-Demuxer
When I try to open the .mkv vile in VLC nothing happens. No errors, nothing. And off course neither video, nor audio. Any ideas?

---

### Post by lykeion on 2010-08-22
MKV is just a container:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2386312&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=2386312&postcount=4)

Could you post the output of this (to find out the video codec):

> file your_video.mkv

It may be using some strange codec, otherwise VLC should be able to play it.

---

### Post by sanderj on 2010-08-22
What do you see on the commandline when you play the .mkv from the commandline, so something like "vlc myfile.mkv"?

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-08-24
I'll check this output this evening...

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-08-24
Here're the outputs:

$ file The.Red.Violin.1998.720p.BluRay.x264.DTS-WiKi.mkv The.Red.Violin.1998.720p.BluRay.x264.DTS-WiKi.mkv: data

$ vlc The.Red.Violin.1998.720p.BluRay.x264.DTS-WiKi.mkv 
VLC media player 1.0.2 Goldeneye
[0xea1888] main libvlc: vlc wird mit dem Standard-Interface ausgeführt. Benutzen Sie 'cvlc', um vlc ohne Interface zu verwenden.

To translate from German: vlc is starting with the standard interface. Use 'cvlc' to use vlc without an interface.

Here's what happens when I use 'cvlc'
$ cvlc The.Red.Violin.1998.720p.BluRay.x264.DTS-WiKi.mkv 
VLC media player 1.0.2 Goldeneye
[0xed1688] dummy interface: using the dummy interface module...
^C[0xd98f98] signals interface error: Caught Interrupt signal, exiting...

Both times when I use vlc or cvlc the program starts but hangs...

Cheers, 
Boyan

---

### Post by sanderj on 2010-08-24
So, no error message. Pity.

You use VLC media player 1.0.2. If you know how to handle PPA, you could install the newest VLC version (1.1.3) via this PPA [https://launchpad.net/~n-muench/+archive/vlc](https://launchpad.net/~n-muench/+archive/vlc) to see if that solves the problem.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-08-25
I can give it a shot. Just a quick question on the installation. Do I need to specifically deinstall the old version before installing the new one?

---

### Post by sanderj on 2010-08-25
> **lz1dsb said:**
> I can give it a shot. Just a quick question on the installation. Do I need to specifically deinstall the old version before installing the new one?

That should not be necessary.

---

### Post by jocko on 2010-08-25
A couple of silly questions:
Are you able to play this file in any other media players?
Are you able to play any other .mkv files in vlc?

Your output of "file" just says "data", while all of my .mkv's are "Matroska data", so at least your file is not really a normal .mkv...
Are you really sure it is a real video file and not just some fake torrent you've downloaded? Are you sure you have the whole file?

Edit: If you want to get a real .mkv to test with, [go here]("http://vodo.net/pioneerone") (completely legal to download, released under a creative commons license...).

---

### Post by JBAlaska on 2010-08-25
Have you tried to play this through Gstreamer (Totem)?

If it doesn't play there, my guess would be a mediasentry fake.

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-08-25
> **jocko said:**
> A couple of silly questions:
Are you able to play this file in any other media players?
Are you able to play any other .mkv files in vlc?

Your output of "file" just says "data", while all of my .mkv's are "Matroska data", so at least your file is not really a normal .mkv...
Are you really sure it is a real video file and not just some fake torrent you've downloaded? Are you sure you have the whole file?

Edit: If you want to get a real .mkv to test with, [go here]("http://vodo.net/pioneerone") (completely legal to download, released under a creative commons license...).

Yes, I'm able to play other multimedia files. I use mainly VLC and Totem to play them. 
This is my first .mkv file I'm trying to play. I just stumbled upon it recently (because I really would like to see that movie ;) ), so I'm not sure if it's valid at all. If the output of file for all your .mkv files shows Matroska, than, it could be that mine is not in order. I guess what I could do in this case is try to play another .mkv file....


Cheers, 
Boyan

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-08-25
> **JBAlaska said:**
> Have you tried to play this through Gstreamer (Totem)?

If it doesn't play there, my guess would be a mediasentry fake.

Totem shows me a message that it's not able to recognize the file format. I'm really starting to think that the file I've downloaded is not in order... Do you know where I can download some sample .mkv files, smaller ones, just to test? The one I've downloaded is 6GB...

Cheers, 
Boyan

---

### Post by jocko on 2010-08-25
> **lz1dsb said:**
> Do you know where I can download some sample .mkv files, smaller ones, just to test? The one I've downloaded is 6GB...
Did you follow the link in my last post? That file is "just" 1.1GB (and completely legal to download as opposed to the one you have). Don't know any smaller ones that are legal, so I can't post any other links...
If your file is 6GB you don't have all of it. It should be 6.49GB (according to some torrents I have found)...

EDIT: The matroska project provides some test files for testing. [Here they are (8 different .mkv files in a 176 MB .zip)]("https://sourceforge.net/projects/matroska/files/test_files/matroska_test_w1.zip/download").

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2010-08-25
Hi jocko,

> **jocko said:**
>  Don't know any smaller ones that are legal, so I can't post any other links...

Here  is a sample mkv file I have put together for another thread:

```

wget http://andrews-corner.org/samples/ubf_h264_ac3.mkv

```

Legal and about 2 megs :).

Andrew

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2010-08-28
All right folks. I just downloaded the test .mkv files you proposed and I was able to play them both in VLC and in Totem Video Player. So I think the case is closed, as it's clear to me that the file I had downloaded is most probably fake.
Thanks everyone....


Cheers,
Boyan

---

