---
title: "7.10 No video after upgrade  (Solved) FYI"
date: 2008-05-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by enstardavid on 2008-05-06
Hi All,

I just spent all morning solving this problem - so just in case someone else comes across this thread. This is what happened - and how I solved it. Skipping the four hours I lost out of my working day.

I had an old Dell Dimension XP box that I upped to Ubuntu 7.04.
I would have preferred to use 7.10 but I couldn't find a distro source where I could burn a working CD from - so ....

Use an existing 7.04 - and Installed - and then upped to 7.10 overnight. 
This morning I finalized the install, but the resolution was set to 640x480 - no bon. So I went to System | Admin | Screens and changed it up to something reasonable 1024x768 
Restarted
And couldn't get a login screen. No login. No video. Monitor black.
AAARGH !

Three finger reboot - and catch GRUB with the <esc> key and boot to a recovery kernal. That gave me a command line where I could type.
I then followed the instructions here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto)
> sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
I accepted all the defaults, with the one exception of reducing the maximum screen resolution to only:
[x] 800x600
[x] 640x480
and at the end forced a reboot
> sudo reboot
When it came back - everything was fine - and at the desired resolution.

The solution took only five minutes to apply - and four hours to get there.

+++++++++++
I don't really know what was the problem - I guess that using the GUI tripped something up in the boot sequence. I understand that by default Ubuntu will try to load the login window at the highest resolution possible - if the video card can't cope then it shuts down the video to protect the monitor. During set up it was working fine on 640x480 but making the GUI change seems to have removed that setting. Running the reconfigure seems to set things straight - but it's all a little spongy.

I hope this helps someone !

Good luck

D

---

