---
title: "Rage 128 pro problems"
date: 2008-08-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Nixk490 on 2008-08-14
I've been having problems with this for a while. First, there aren't any exact drivers for the pro edition so i tried every version of rage drives, everyone i tested went to a screen with green lines and a little red at the top, and if i just clicked OK and rebooted, ubuntu would not boot so Ive reinstalled it about 5 times now. One of the drivers i use, i think the rage it pro booted ubuntu, but extermly slowly (over an hour) and even after that the mouse lagged and i could open up a program. 

And to install ubuntu i had to use safe graphics mode

PLZ HELP

---

### Post by Nixk490 on 2008-08-14
> **Nixk490 said:**
> I've been having problems with this for a while. First, there aren't any exact drivers for the pro edition so i tried every version of rage drives, everyone i tested went to a screen with green lines and a little red at the top, and if i just clicked OK and rebooted, ubuntu would not boot so Ive reinstalled it about 5 times now. One of the drivers i use, i think the rage it pro booted ubuntu, but extermly slowly (over an hour) and even after that the mouse lagged and i could open up a program. 


PLZ HELP

oh, and btw in posting from my other windows comp

---

### Post by Nixk490 on 2008-08-14
im going to try envy

---

### Post by Nixk490 on 2008-08-14
> **Nixk490 said:**
> im going to try envy
i tryed envy and this is what i get:

Exception error: envy does not recognize your hardware as being compatible with any ATI drivers

My card is a ATI Rage 128 pro

---

### Post by Nixk490 on 2008-08-14
Terminal:
nick@nick-desktop:~$ sudo lspci | grep VGA
[sudo] password for nick: 
Sorry, try again.
[sudo] password for nick: 
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Rage 128 Pro Ultra TF
nick@nick-desktop:~$  grep -i driver /etc/X11/xorg.conf
	Driver		"kbd"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Driver		"vesa"
nick@nick-desktop:~$

---

### Post by Baneblade on 2008-08-14
Hey nick,

The problem is, ATI have only just started releasing open drivers for linux. The Rage Pro is a fairly old model, and so i dont think it is supported. I have seen that some ppl have had limited success pointing their xorg to the unsupported ati drivers. :(

---

### Post by dodle on 2008-08-14
Here are some threads that I have participated in.  I'm using the same card and have plenty of issues when doing a fresh install.  But, once it's set up, it seems to work just fine.

I don't know if any of these will help you.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=848752&highlight=xorg]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=848752&highlight=xorg")
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=847198&highlight=xorg]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=847198&highlight=xorg")
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=847171&highlight=xorg]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=847171&highlight=xorg")
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=855834&highlight=xorg]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=855834&highlight=xorg")
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=858673&highlight=xorg]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=858673&highlight=xorg")

If you are dualbooting with Windows, you can download [Ext2fsd]("http://downloads.sourceforge.net/ext2fsd/Ext2Fsd-0.46a.exe?modtime=1212530235&big_mirror=0"), which allows you to access your Linux partition from Windows.  That way you can make changes to the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by Nixk490 on 2008-08-14
Well i just installed a different graphics card(EVGA GeForce FX 5200) and the max ress is 800X600

---

### Post by dodle on 2008-08-14
post your xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by Nixk490 on 2008-08-14
> **dodle said:**
> post your xorg.conf file.

here it is sorry it took so long


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "screen1" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"dri"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce FX (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:0:12:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device2"
	Boardname	"ATI Rage 128"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"ati"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"ATI"
	Option		"MergedFB"	"off"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen2"
	Device		"device2"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor2"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor2"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by dodle on 2008-08-24
Sorry, I haven't been on in a while.  The first thing we need to try is adding some values to the "screen" section:> Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
SubSection "Display"
Modes "800x600"
EndSubSection
EndSectionUnder "Modes" put some resolutions that you want and know that your card can display:> Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
SubSection "Display"
Modes [COLOR="Red"]"1280x1024@75" "1280x1024@70" "1024x768@75" "1024x768@70" [/COLOR]"800x600[COLOR="Red"]@75[/COLOR]" [COLOR="Red"]"800x600@70" "640x480@75" "640x480@70"[/COLOR]
EndSubSection
EndSectionIf this doesn't change anything, then we will need to change some other stuff too.

---

### Post by dodle on 2008-08-24
I forgot something.  I looked at your xorg.conf file again and noticed the "device" section:> Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "vesa"
EndSectionIt's using the vesa driver instead of your nvidia driver.  If you haven't already you should download the corresponding nvidia driver from synaptic.  you can also get the driver from nvidia.com, but it is much more difficult to install.  Installing this driver should set up the screen resolutions automatically so you won't have to add them to your xorg.conf.  I hope this helps

---

### Post by psic on 2008-08-25
I also have a Rage 128 Pro and it works great. Ok, I haven't tried any 3D games on it, but glx_gears give around 255 FPS, which I consider OK for this machine (2 GHz P4, 384 MB of ram). Screen resolution is fine (1280x1024).

Anyhow, I'm om Hardy and I was going to post my /etc/X11/xorg.conf, but it's half empty. I usually use Gentoo, does Ubuntu handle things differently? There's no resolutions or anything in the xorg.conf file...

---

