---
title: "10.04 lucid and skype 2.1 Beta 2 for Linux"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by hihihi100 on 2010-05-09
Hi there:

Im interested in reviews regarding that combination... how many of you have experienced problems with it? Plus, I have decided to download it via Apt source, following the instructions that can be found at:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Skype](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Skype)

Has any of you ever had problems with this choice, instead of downloading the beta from the official site?

cheers

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-05-09
Working flawlessly here, using Ubuntu 10.04, skype-ubuntu-intrepid_2.1.0.81-1_amd64.deb along with a Logitech E3500 .

---

### Post by anivegmin on 2010-05-09
Works perfectly here with a Freecom USB handset.

Only annoyance is that every time I use it I have to go to Sound Preferences and change the device output from the speakers to the handset, and vica versa when I have finished my call to get sound back on my main speakers.

I have seen a post that recommends installing padevchooser and somehow telling pulse audio to route sound for the Skype program to the handset. Couldn't get this to work. Every time I started padevchooser it would kill the main audio device, then I would have to restart pulse audio to get it back.

Would be grateful of any assistance with this.
It's the only thing that's annoying me with Ubuntu at the moment.
Everything else is working fine - even flash (in full screen)!!!

---

### Post by hihihi100 on 2010-05-09
so good for you, I cannot make voice calls, and I cannot see any menus, just blank squares: every time I pass the mouse over an icon, a white square appears, in lieu of a square with information regarding the passed icon, plus, when I right click to see my options, all I can see is a big black square...

I can chat and add contacts, cannot talk to them

---

### Post by anivegmin on 2010-05-09
Maybe try completely removing Skype package and then installing the .deb from their site ?

---

### Post by ironwood on 2010-05-13
I have no sound my mic does not work and my web cam shows in the options menu but does not work.
i have tried versions skype 1.3 1.4 2.0 and 2.1 non work so it must be a bug I have tried every ones suggestion but none work very frustrating :(:(

---

### Post by sag47 on 2010-05-17
Open the terminal and run alsamixer.  Adjust the audio levels until you can hear and record sounds.  It's a little bit dumb that the audio/mics were muted.

I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 LTS.  This also solved my woes of my [thread=1307619]adobe flash sound not working[/thread].

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-17
> **sag47 said:**
> Open the terminal and run alsamixer.  Adjust the audio levels until you can hear and record sounds.  It's a little bit dumb that the audio/mics were muted.


I'd rather have a muted mic than a damaged speaker. :rolleyes:

---

### Post by nasrat87 on 2010-06-05
Guys , who still have problem with the mic (you can hear the other person but he cant hear you) go to skype options ( "Ctrl + o ") the sound devices and uncheck "Allow Skype to automatically adjust my mixer levels" and adjust the mic level from ubuntu .
skype works good with me (Lucid 64 bit , HP pavillion dv6000 laptop) skype 2.1.0.81 beta but i do not have the option to let the other person watch my desktop (new feature from skype i think) and another problem is when i press right click on skype icon in the panel the menu color and the options color is almost the same so i can see the menu by getting the cursor over an item

The fix for the color thing is in here :
[http://web2linux.com/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx-dark-theme-and-skype/](http://web2linux.com/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx-dark-theme-and-skype/)

Skype 2.1.0.47 doesn&#8217;t have the style option.
and the new version is still buggy,

for those who are using the 2.1.0.47 they can add following to command line of skype launcher.

&#8211;disable-cleanlooks

---

### Post by source.decay on 2010-06-11
Skype 2.1 Beta installed fine for me today on 32bit 10.04.  Sound works great.  The person I chat with can see my video and I can see their video, but I only have a blank white rectangle where I should be seeing my video.  

It looks like it is a known issue. ([http://developer.skype.com/LinuxSkype](http://developer.skype.com/LinuxSkype), about 3/4 down the page.  Search for "white square".)  It is annoying.  I would like to be able to see myself while I am chatting.  Maybe I am narcissistic. 

Also, the 'test video' in Options on Skype made the screen blink, my webcam (Logitech C250) light blink once or twice and go out, but did not test any video.

---

### Post by Docaltmed on 2010-06-20
Skype only works on Skype-to-Skype calls. As soon as I upgraded to 10.04, the Skype-to-landline or Skype-to-cellphone calls began having problems. While I can hear just fine, and my audio sounds perfect on the Call Testing Service, when I call a landline or cellphone, my audio is cut off -- only a few syllables of any sentence can be heard.

I have been in touch with Skype multiple times about this problem. I cancelled the second line on the office phone on the basis that I would have Skype as a second line.

The response from Skype:

"Our technical team is working on it."

I guess Skype has been taking lessons from BP.

---

### Post by Linuxforall on 2010-06-20
Skype hasn't updated its Linux version in a while after initial beta release, if you go to their download site, its designated for Intrepid. Thankfully its now in Lucid partner repo so updates will be automatic and skype has been repacked so the v4l hack to make cam is not needed. However sound is just horrid with this version of Skype, it plays havoc with Pulse audio be it Fedora or Ubuntu with constant popping noise.

---

### Post by Exterminator13 on 2010-06-21
My system is Kubuntu 10.04, audio codec ALC889A.
I spent half a day to get microphone working in Skype.
First of all, you should make it working in the system.
For this, open KMix or AlsaMixer, 
Set:
"Front Mix" to unmuted,
"Input" to "Front Mic",
"Capture" to active
Afther that you should get microphone working (config is for case when mic is plugged in front panel of pc).
Right click on Skype icon, "Options", "Sound Devices", for "Microphone" select "HDA intel ... Analog Front Speakers".
After this manipulations you'll get mic working, but on my system sound was awful. I tried everything, but helped only downgrading to 2.1.0.47 version.
[http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-ubuntu-intrepid_2.1.0.47-1_amd64.deb](http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-ubuntu-intrepid_2.1.0.47-1_amd64.deb)
[http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-debian_2.1.0.47-1_i386.deb](http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-debian_2.1.0.47-1_i386.deb)
Now sound is very good.

---

### Post by richardh on 2010-06-22
Upgraded to Lucid at home (on Dell) and at work. No problem with Skype at work.

At office, cannot get USB webcam to work. A4Tech device.

Should use gpsca_vc032x driver.

Gives a blurred/expanded image.

Preloading either compat or convert do not work.

I wanted to recompile vc032x, but I havent found out how to switch off the compilation of all the other drivers.

By the way, the repository for gpsca has changed. Now you have to use 
git clone git://linuxtv.org/v3l-dvb.git

So I still havent achieved anything yet.

---

### Post by gammonjosh on 2010-06-22
> **hihihi100 said:**
> so good for you, I cannot make voice calls, and I cannot see any menus, just blank squares: every time I pass the mouse over an icon, a white square appears, in lieu of a square with information regarding the passed icon, plus, when I right click to see my options, all I can see is a big black square...

I can chat and add contacts, cannot talk to them
I had the same problem.  I think it's with the default Ubuntu Theme.  Just change it to "wave" or something and you should be able to see you menu's again.

---

### Post by Ndlovu on 2010-06-23
> **hihihi100 said:**
> so good for you, I cannot make voice calls, and I cannot see any menus, just blank squares: every time I pass the mouse over an icon, a white square appears, in lieu of a square with information regarding the passed icon, plus, when I right click to see my options, all I can see is a big black square...


See [this blog post]("http://http://web2linux.com/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx-dark-theme-and-skype/") if you're still experiencing this issue.

---

### Post by doundounba on 2010-06-25
> **Exterminator13 said:**
> 
[...] on my system sound was awful. I tried everything, but helped only downgrading to 2.1.0.47 version.
[http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-ubuntu-intrepid_2.1.0.47-1_amd64.deb](http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-ubuntu-intrepid_2.1.0.47-1_amd64.deb)
[http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-debian_2.1.0.47-1_i386.deb](http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-debian_2.1.0.47-1_i386.deb)
Now sound is very good.

Thank you for the downgrade suggestion! I had similar issues with the mic working but my voice horribly distorted - only in Skype with other apps recording just fine. Only downgrading Skype fixed it. (Using Intel HDA audio on Kubuntu 10.04 64bit.)

---

### Post by matt-fender on 2010-06-26
2.1 beta 2 works fine for me, (changed the theme as soon as i installed), th eonly problem i am having, is that every now and then my Jitter rate peaks to about 170 sometimes 200, ( send packet loss rockets up to about 70%) so the other person cannot understand a word im saying, has anyone had problems like this? Just thought i'd ask before i go resetting the firmware on my router?

---

### Post by Linuxforall on 2010-06-26
Works fine here except for popping sound, this is Skype pulse issue as it doesn't happen with older version of Skype or in KDE Kubuntu. Sadly the OSS version is no longer there otherwise it would work quite well with OSS.

---

### Post by jaspm2004 on 2010-07-01
> **Exterminator13 said:**
> My system is Kubuntu 10.04, audio codec ALC889A.
I spent half a day to get microphone working in Skype.
First of all, you should make it working in the system.
For this, open KMix or AlsaMixer, 
Set:
"Front Mix" to unmuted,
"Input" to "Front Mic",
"Capture" to active
Afther that you should get microphone working (config is for case when mic is plugged in front panel of pc).
Right click on Skype icon, "Options", "Sound Devices", for "Microphone" select "HDA intel ... Analog Front Speakers".
After this manipulations you'll get mic working, but on my system sound was awful. I tried everything, but helped only downgrading to 2.1.0.47 version.
[http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-ubuntu-intrepid_2.1.0.47-1_amd64.deb](http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-ubuntu-intrepid_2.1.0.47-1_amd64.deb)
[http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-debian_2.1.0.47-1_i386.deb](http://download.skype.com/linux/skype-debian_2.1.0.47-1_i386.deb)
Now sound is very good.
that work for me!!! thanks

---

### Post by mdovell on 2010-08-17
I'm pretty new here (don't worry I've been using the OS for awhile) 

I recently bought a usb voip phone that looks like it was made by
yealink ?..anyways I can select it as the audio and works fine for speaker and microphone

But...skype doesn't fully recongnize anything else. It does not yield anything with the buttons at all. The screen on the phone states "voip-phone"

It would be nice to configure the whole thing so I wouldn't have to use the keyboard. Thank you for your time

---

### Post by maplegate on 2010-08-17
I am using 10.04 and Skype 2.1.0.81 beta, with a Logitech Pro 9000 webcam.  

When I start Skype it generally is using the wrong input device, so I have to go to System...Preferences...Sound and select the "0809 Analog" for input.  Once that's done, Skype works fine for sound.  Is there a way to force Skype to remember this setting?

I have yet to get the camera working.  It works great in Cheese, but Skype just won't recognize it.  This is minor for me, since I generally don't make video calls, but it would be nice to solve it.

-------------
After posting the above I found this post: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SkypeWebCams.]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SkypeWebCams")

Scrolling way down below the device tables I found a reference to Cairo-GLX as a possible problem.  I removed Cairo from my startup programs and rebooted, and Skype found my webcam right away!

---

### Post by htrufan on 2010-09-03
Ive read a bunch of pages and tried a bunch of possible solutions, but still the problem remains.

When I use Sound Recorder to record myself and listen to it, it works fine.  But, when I make a skype test call or try to call to a phone it is choppy and impossible.

I get the impression that the instructions here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578)
and here:
[http://www.pulseaudio.org/wiki/PerfectSetup#Skype](http://www.pulseaudio.org/wiki/PerfectSetup#Skype)
worked fine for 9.10, not so much in 10.04.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by orduek on 2010-09-05
I want to use my Mythtv Server as a Skype server, so I would be able to receive phone calls. 
I need to buy a USB wireless phone which is compatible with ubuntu.
does anyone knows of such phone that works?

---

### Post by Hookheathen on 2010-09-06
[B] Re: Skype 2.1 Beta crashes IBM Thinkpad laptop on 10.04
[/B]
May I add my (quite dire crash problems) following upgrade to Lucid 10.04 (from Hardy) and multiple purging and reinstalling of Skype Beta 2.1.0.81(both from Medibuntu repository as well as from Skype site).

My IBM T42 laptop experiences total system failure(!) dire crashes after approx 3+ minutes into a Skype voice call. The screen goes black, no interfaces work and the last sound hangs coming through the speakers. The only way to restart is hard boot - power off/on. Can anyone please advise how to overcome this critical issue. If any consolation, this seems to be the only problem I have encountered so far with the Lucid upgrade!


Prior to upgrade all worked fine.

Pentium M 1.7 GHz
Memory: 1001.9MiB

Since posting this on another thread, I received only one helpful reply but it did not resolve the problem. So I hope to do better here!

I then replicated the upgrade on another Thinkpad, this time an X31. It failed in exactly the same way. Both Thinkpads crash midway through a Skype call. It is very disappointing that nobody has seen fit to look into this pretty serious software glitch, surely I cannot be thee only victim of using Lucid on Thinkpads and using Skype, one of the most widely adopted VOIP apps. 

In the meantime, I have downgraded back to Hardy, where Skype works flawlessly. Is this a lesson not to upgrade to a new OS version for at least a year once it becomes rock stable? Surely not!
Can the combined brainpower of the Ubuntu fraternity look into this please?

---

### Post by htrufan on 2010-09-15
Skype magically worked for me once, and then went right back to the same choppy calls.  No idea why.  I saw that gmail has a new Call Phones feature and so I used that instead.  They currently have free calls to US & Canada.  Id still like to get skype calls working, but the google thing got the job done.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2010-09-17
I'm using 2.10.81 on Kubuntu Maverick (10.10) with a Logitech Webcam Pro 9000.

Video worked out of the box, but I couldn't get Skype to use the microphone that's built into the (USB) camera.  Finally I resorted to removing PulseAudio from my system (I seem to end up doing that in every release).  Now I have a long list of audio input and output options.

So last night I tried making a test call and heard my message played back, but when I called a friend today, he couldn't hear me at all.  I've since bumped everything up to 100 in alsamixer; we'll see if that helps.

Does anyone know how to make the incoming video full screen?  I could do this in Windows, but I can't find any option to do so in Linux?

(In KDE systemsettings, I cannot seem to select the camera's microphone as the default input device either with or without pulse.  No matter what I do in the Phonon control panel to select the USB microphone, the "Apply" button remains grayed-out.  I've filed a bug report with Ubuntu.)

---

### Post by jontoenn on 2010-10-01
Trying to install Skype as described at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Skype](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Skype).
[INDENT]sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install skype
[/INDENT][INDENT][/INDENT]but I get this message:
> [INDENT]The package skype is not available, but another package refers to it.
This could mean that the package is missing, expired, or simply are
available from another source.
E: The package skype has no installation candidate[/INDENT]

I'm running 10.04

---

### Post by JAS40 on 2010-10-01
I downloaded the Deb package from Skype and it works perfectly.  I am using 10.04 AMD64.  My contacts have informed me that the sound quality is perfect if not exceptional through my USB mic.  I haven't installed a compatible webcam yet though.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2010-10-01
When I updated my Maverick system today, the updater installed the version of skype in the partners repository and removed the one I'd installed from Skype itself.  I don't know how, if at all, they differ, but the version from the repositories installed cleanly and works. 

@jontoenn
Check your software management tool (varies by Ubuntu flavor) and see what Software Sources you have enabled.  There should be a "partner" repository; make sure it's checked, then have the manager update its software lists.  (KPackageKit in Kubuntu now does that automatically, but other managers like Synaptic require you to run the update manually.)  You should now be able to install Skype with apt-get or from the software manager itself.

I figured out my problem with the webcam microphone.  The systemsettings applet in KDE to select the microphone is less than obvious.  I thought I was supposed to select the webcam mic, but you need to use the "prefer" option in the Phonon configuration to promote it to the top of the list, then hit apply.  Again this is KDE-specific.  This worked without having to remove Pulseaudio.  

I found that my camera wasn't detected when I first connected it to the computer.  I fixed that problem by first installing the application called "cheese" which installed a lot of other dependent libraries.  I suspect this has to do with my using Kubuntu and not having the GNOME libraries installed by default.  Once I installed cheese, I could run that app and see myself onscreen.  Afterwards Skype registered the camera and used it.

---

### Post by albusng on 2010-12-01
For anyone have problem with Microphone in Skype

After so many tips and tricks I do, finally in summerize I have this correct solution for any situations of this problem

install package pavucontrol

sudo apt-get pavucontrol

type this command in terminal: pavucontrol

in the control panel appear ( Volume Control ) , go to tab "Input devices" and uncheck button "Lock channels together"

after that, you use slide bar "Front Right" to turn off right channel ( 0% ) 

Select OK

and now restart your system and your microphone will run correctly

- xNohat - HVAonline.net

---

### Post by Smiley Coyote on 2011-05-28
> **albusng said:**
> 

sudo apt-get pavucontrol



Invalid operation pavucontrol

10.04 64

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-29
> **Smiley Coyote said:**
> Invalid operation pavucontrol

10.04 64

Actually:
```
sudo apt-get install pavucontrol
```

---

### Post by Smiley Coyote on 2011-05-29
> **lidex said:**
> Actually:
```
sudo apt-get install pavucontrol
```

It turns out I already had it, opened it as per the instructions above, and did everything except there was nowhere to select "ok" afterward.  I closed it anyway, rebooted, and it was not any better though the settings seem to have stuck.

---

### Post by piccobello on 2011-06-08
My system: Kubuntu Linux 11.04 (Natty)
My skype: 2.2.0.25
My webcam: Logitech c210
Issue: Mic did not work in skype, but did work in audacity
What I did:
-sudo apt-get remove pulseaudio*
-sudo killall pulseaudio
-skype settings -> sound devices -> Microphone -> USB device 0x46d:0x819, Usb audio (hw:1,0)

Now everything works. Video worked out of the box btw.

I was swearing very loud while doing all this, don't know if that helped.

---

