---
title: "needed help regarding identifying the right drivers n changing resolution manually..."
date: 2009-01-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by zebanon on 2009-01-23
hii frnds,
     I have switched to ubuntu two weeks ago. I have installed ubuntu 8.10 dual boot with XP. My NVIDIA chipset is **Geforce 6100** nforce 430.I have installed NVIDIA driver version 180.11 which was recommended. When i checked NVIDIA X SERVER setting it supported **GeForce 6150SE** nForce 430. My screen resolution changed to 1024x768 but required is 1280x1024. I have tried to change the screen resolution but there is no option of  1280x1024.
      I have searched a post which explains the technique to change screen resolution but was posted in Mar 2006 .Here is the link
   [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=145553](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=145553)
      I have also searched a blog post which has method of changing screen resolution.Here is the link
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/common-problems-and-solutions-for-nvidia-restricted-drivers-after-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-upgrade.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/common-problems-and-solutions-for-nvidia-restricted-drivers-after-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-upgrade.html)
       Now i m a bit confused about how to change the resolution manually since this is my 4th installation due to some errors.I need a step by step method so that i make no mistakes and dont crash my system. 
     Also my monitor is LCD but NVIDIA X SERVER setting displays CRT. Plz help me...
Thankx in advance....

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-01-23
Hi and welcome, you have tried nvidia-settings with ```
gksu nvidia-settings
``` and the resolution 1280x1024 is not available?

---

### Post by zebanon on 2009-01-23
> **overdrank said:**
> Hi and welcome, you have tried nvidia-settings with ```
gksu nvidia-settings
``` and the resolution 1280x1024 is not available?

yes i have tried that too.There is no option of 1280x1024 in X SERVER Display configuration. I want to change it manually now by editing the xorg.config but dont have step by step procedure to do so

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-01-23
> **zebanon said:**
> yes i have tried that too.There is no option of 1280x1024 in X SERVER Display configuration. I want to change it manually now by editing the xorg.config but dont have step by step procedure to do so

This [Link]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution") maybe of some help.

---

### Post by zebanon on 2009-01-24
> **overdrank said:**
> This [Link]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution") maybe of some help.

buddy thnkx for the link but how do i edit the xconfig.org manually. I have read abt goin to terminal mode with some commands
Is there a manual for how to muanually edit the file? I m new to these things.
The link u provided give good techniques but i wanted step by step procedure

---

### Post by zebanon on 2009-01-24
this is how my xorg.config file looks like
[PHP]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
[/PHP]
My current resolution is 1024x768 but required resolution is 1280x1024
This is found from manual of my LCD screen CD . My screen is from LG n its model no is L1752S
Hor freq: 30 - 83 KHz
Ver freq: 56 - 75 Hz
Resolution recommended: VESA 1280x1024 @ 60 Hz

---

### Post by zebanon on 2009-01-25
Is there noone to help me??:(

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-01-25
> **zebanon said:**
> Is there noone to help me??:(
I would suggest backing up your xorg first 
To copy Xorg
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup
```
To restore backup
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
To edit your xorg you can use this command ```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by zebanon on 2009-01-25
> **overdrank said:**
> I would suggest backing up your xorg first 
To copy Xorg
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup
```
To restore backup
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
To edit your xorg you can use this command ```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

ya buddy did the same and its working now :)
Thankx for ur reply and this site also gave same details 
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/common-problems-and-solutions-for-nvidia-restricted-drivers-after-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-upgrade.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/common-problems-and-solutions-for-nvidia-restricted-drivers-after-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-upgrade.html)

---

