---
title: "10.04 lucid nVidia 8200 twinview headaches"
date: 2010-06-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by JakeW on 2010-06-14
[Expletive] FOURTH TIME I've had to type this because Firefox crashed, I'm now using Epiphany I need to reconfigure Firefox.

OT:
I have read and tried everything, Twinview with my Vizio TV and laptop screen work on Win 7 fine, using HDMI cable, GeForce 8200M card, HP G60-120US notebook. TV is primary screen my OS is Ubuntu 10.04 x64 Edition and I have the nouveau drivers.

Sorry for the short post I typed a good 3 paragraphs the first time and it's dwindled since then with my rage at Firefox, all help appreciated thanks.

Screenshot: [http://i47.tinypic.com/9ut8iq.jpg](http://i47.tinypic.com/9ut8iq.jpg)

Shows output to other display (TV AS SECONDARY IN SCREENSHOT) (PRTSCRN) TV says -No Signal- though.

Thanks in advance, Jake Westbrook.

Off Topic - Why is there no Tux emoticon!?

---

### Post by amauk on 2010-06-14
You may well have tried this
but leave the TV on, and reboot the machine

I've found many TVs only pick up an HDMI signal when they are turned on before the machine
and won't display anything if connected to an already running machine

---

### Post by JakeW on 2010-06-14
> **amauk said:**
> You may well have tried this
but leave the TV on, and reboot the machine

I've found many TVs only pick up an HDMI signal when they are turned on before the machine
and won't display anything if connected to an already running machine

It has nothing to do with the TV it's the driver in Ubuntu, I need to know how to configure it, I can't get this to work with an ASUS 24" monitor I use for AutoCAD on my desktop either.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-06-14
To "reconfigure" Firefox you can simply create a new user profile. See [Fixing a problematic or corrupted profile](http://firefox-tutorials.blogspot.com/2010/05/fixing-problematic-or-corrupted-profile.html).

Also check [[COLOR="Sienna"]**General Troubleshooting Steps**[/COLOR]](http://firefox-tutorials.blogspot.com/2010/05/general-troubleshooting-steps.html) and other tutorials on my site to improve and fix Firefox issues.

---

### Post by JakeW on 2010-06-14
> **lovinglinux said:**
> To "reconfigure" Firefox you can simply create a new user profile. See [Fixing a problematic or corrupted profile]("http://firefox-tutorials.blogspot.com/2010/05/fixing-problematic-or-corrupted-profile.html").

Also check [[COLOR=Sienna]**General Troubleshooting Steps**[/COLOR]]("http://firefox-tutorials.blogspot.com/2010/05/general-troubleshooting-steps.html") and other tutorials on my site to improve and fix Firefox issues.

Thanks, I realize you're a Firefox Guru and all but I knew what was wrong and fixed it already, can I get some help with my displays!?!?

EDIT: It was literally a configuration problem, I wasn't trying to sound smart.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-06-14
> **JakeW said:**
> Thanks, I realize you're a Firefox Guru and all but I knew what was wrong and fixed it already, can I get some help with my displays!?!?

EDIT: It was literally a configuration problem, I wasn't trying to sound smart.

Unfortunately, I know nothing about multiple displays. :(

---

### Post by JakeW on 2010-06-14
> **lovinglinux said:**
> Unfortunately, I know nothing about multiple displays. :(

If only you knew as much about that at Firefox, excuse me while I hang myself and boot Windows yo use my displays.

---

### Post by JakeW on 2010-06-14
If this thread is going to die here, I'm disappointed in Ubuntu's supposedly Mythic community support. :(

EDIT: I'm probably going to be off to another distro soon I need to get this working or the 23.6" Monitor coming in the mail tomorrow will be a waste of $210 please someone lend me a hand here< I can't find anything on this...

---

### Post by JakeW on 2010-06-14
It appears as though Ubuntu is [expletive] and I've wasted $210 on a monitor at this point, what to do?

---

### Post by amauk on 2010-06-15
Open up nvidia-settings (as root)
setup your displays how you like
click the "save to X configuration file" button
write the config to /etc/X11/xorg.conf (don't merge)
reboot

---

### Post by JakeW on 2010-06-15
> **amauk said:**
> Open up nvidia-settings (as root)
setup your displays how you like
click the "save to X configuration file" button
write the config to /etc/X11/xorg.conf (don't merge)
reboot

No dice, thanks for the help though, I moved to Zorin OS 3 in the meantime, SAME ISSUE! AHH!

EDIT: Same driver so the solution will be the same.

---

### Post by JakeW on 2010-06-15
I still haven't got this working on Ubuntu even with my new monitor today, I hate this, anyone know what to do at all!?

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-06-15
Did you install the nvidia drivers?

---

### Post by JakeW on 2010-06-15
> **WinterRain said:**
> Did you install the nvidia drivers?

Did you read the original post? I have the latest drivers installed, i provided a screenshot with X Server Settings open. I am a C# developer and graphical design major, I know how to use a computer I just need to know what in particular to do in this case, read the original post and you can see what's unfortunately wrong, I'm new to Ubuntu, this all worked with Slackware/Absolute Linux/OpenSUSE

How do I fix it for Ubuntu?

---

### Post by royalwithcheese on 2010-06-15
Would you mind telling me what driver's you're using and how you went about installing them? I only ask because I'm also using the geforce 8200 chipset and I can't seem to get a resolution above 800x600. 

Sorry I can't help, but I'm having a hard enough time just getting one monitor to work.

---

### Post by couzin2000 on 2010-07-05
I have the exact same laptop. Try this (though you may have tried it already, it's not documented any-[expletive]-where).

Connect to your TV, hit [COLOR="Blue"]**[Fn]**[/COLOR]-**F4** (Fn is located bottom left of your keyboard, next to CTRL)

Tell me if the screen shows up.
There are three settings, switch between them by hitting the keys again:
[LIST]
[*]Alternate screen
[*]both screens simultaneously (audio would be through the HDMI)
[*]laptop screen
[/LIST]

Glad to have been of help (if it indeed works)

---

