---
title: "Spotify"
date: 2012-06-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Welly Wu on 2012-06-21
[http://www.spotify.com](http://www.spotify.com)

Spotify is based in the United Kingdom and it launched its streaming music service in the United States of America among other countries worldwide. It offers three tiers of subscription: 1. free with targeted advertisements, 2. unlimited with no advertisements, and 3. premium with no advertisements. It is a streaming music service provider that gives you the ability to search for your favorite musicians, artists, performers, singers, bands, and pieces of pre-recorded music.

Today, I used my PayPal account to pay for their premium subscription for $9.99 USD per month. This gives me the ability to get access to the latest music before others. It also gives me music streams at up to 320 kbps bit rate. I can listen to music off-line without being connected to the Internet. I can also listen to Spotify on mobile devices. Finally, I can upload my massive 329.70 gigabyte music library to Spotify so that I have a one stop shop for all of my music. Spotify supports multiple audio formats, but it does not support .FLAC or .M4p for Apple iTunes. They use the Gracenote system to identify and tag your personal music library should you choose to upload it to them. There are free Spotify Apps that will help you to get news, highlighted artists and bands and albums, reviews, bestseller lists, and specialized music genre information.

Currently, Spotify has over 13 million songs and they add 10,000 new songs daily. This is their current list of major and independent record labels that are available on Spotify: [https://www.spotify.com/us/about/music-catalogue-info/](https://www.spotify.com/us/about/music-catalogue-info/).

They have unsupported technical previews here: [https://www.spotify.com/us/download/previews/](https://www.spotify.com/us/download/previews/). I downloaded and I installed the Spotify app for my ASUS EEE Pad Transformer TF101 tablet running Google Android Ice Cream Sandwich 4.0.3. It works. I also added the Spotify Ubuntu repository and the GPG public key along with the software application for my ASUS N61JV-X2 notebook PC running Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit Long Term Support GNU/Linux. I am using it right now. It too works.

I am an audiophile. I have a personal and private music library that totals 329.70 gigabytes of .FLAC loss less audio files and only one album in .MP3 format at 256 kbps bit rate. Most of my music is sourced from the Compact Disc format at 16 bits resolution and 44.1 kHz sampling frequency. I did purchase quite a number of 24 bit 88.2, 96, 176.4, and 192 kHz .FLAC loss less audio files from David Chesky's HDTracks.com at [http://www.hdtracks.com](http://www.hdtracks.com). I have a Resolution Audio Opus 21 music system with the CD Player, Power Center, Extra Sources, and S30 power amplifier along with a Ray Samuels Audio Emmeline HR-2 headphone amplifier and Sennheiser HD-650 headphones along with Ultimate Ears Ue-10 PRO custom in-ear monitors. My custom cabling is mostly Cardas Clear and Golden Reference. I have a Balanced Power Technology BP.Jr II Ultra with Signature Upgrades power conditioner and custom 9 gauge Litz power cord. In all, I spent $11,600.00 or more US dollars for my high end audio system. The reason why I tell you this is due to the fact that I think that the Spotify premium service has pretty good sound quality across the board. It is definitely not loss less audio quality, but 320 kbps bit rate does sound listenable.

I use Spotify to get early access to the latest music from my favorite musicians. I listen to their latest albums and then I go to Amazon to purchase a used Compact Disc format. Spotify has most of the mainstream and popular musicians, artists, bands, and singers along with composers, conductors, and orchestras or symphonies. As such, they have almost all of my music in their music library.

Spotify's apps include Last.FM, Billboard Top Charts, and Ulysses' Classical which I downloaded and I use daily. I find that they use the All Music Guide for their artist and band profiles which is excellent. They use Gracenote to identify and tag your personal music library if you choose to pay for their premium subscription and upload your music to Spotify. They cover most of the important music resources and record labels pretty well.

The Ubuntu and Google Android apps consume low resources and they offer a rich graphical user interface. They are reliable and stable. There is no malware associated with Spotify whatsoever so it is safe to download and to install and to run. I use BitDefender for Unices and Norton Symantec for Google Android to scan for malware and my definitions are up to date. The Spotify for Ubuntu software application is pretty straight forward and it is easy to navigate, perform searches, play songs, and add apps. The Spotify App store is pretty limited right now, but it is expanding its list of featured apps over time. The Google Android app is similar, but it is designed for mobile devices and applications so it is not quite as full featured as the desktop client, but it is still useful.

At just $9.99 USD per month for their premium subscription, I can afford it. Spotify premium gives me early access to my favorite music. It is great for previewing music that I intend to purchase either on Compact Disc format or as a high resolution 24 bit 44.1 - 192 kHz .FLAC loss less audio download from a specialty record label at full price. I just signed up for Spotify premium this morning and I am using it quite heavily.

Life Hacker has a featured article that takes a closer look at the five best streaming music service providers: [http://lifehacker.com/5824193/five-best-streaming-music-services](http://lifehacker.com/5824193/five-best-streaming-music-services). Spotify made their top five list. Life Hacker also has another article for Spotify users featuring a whole bunch of tools: [http://lifehacker.com/5821396/the-essential-spotify-tools](http://lifehacker.com/5821396/the-essential-spotify-tools). There is an unofficial GitHub project and alpha quality package for Ubuntu 32 and 64 bit available for XBMC to integrate Spotify.

Spotify supports a number of hardware devices including Sonos and Logitech's Squeezebox and Apple's AppleTV. If you have a PC running Microsoft Windows XP, Vista, or 7 or an Apple Macintosh iMac, MacBook Air or MacBook Pro or a Mac Pro running OS X Snow Leopard or Lion, then Spotify has desktop and mobile clients available and they offer full support. Spotify is testing the waters for Ubuntu GNU/Linux and Google Android Ice Cream Sandwich users and they may decide to offer full support for these platforms in the near future. So far, I have had no problems downloading, installing, or running Spotify for Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit Long Term Support or Google Android Ice Cream Sandwich 4.0.3.

Finally, my good friend recommended that I check out Spotify. I was a bit hesitant to create a Spotify account using my Facebook credentials, but I realized that this is simpler, easier, and more secure since it supports the OAuth protocol and I can determine the permissions for the Spotify App. I also was a bit skittish about paying for my Spotify premium subscription since I do have 329.70 gigabytes of .FLAC loss less audio files on my TrueCrypt 7.1a volumes. I thought that I really did not need Spotify because I have a fairly massive music library. However, I slept on it last night and I decided to pay $9.99 USD per month for Spotify premium because it gives me access to my favorite music so that I know whether I will want to purchase the Compact Disc or high resolution audio download to add it to my music library or not. For example, I just spend $9.82 USD for the Bruno Mars Doo-Wops and Hooligans CD from Amazon yesterday and it is available on Spotify. I have not heard this specific album yet. In the future, I will most likely be able to preview new music purchases after I have heard it on Spotify. This is a great asset in my opinion as it will reduce buyer's remorse. I usually spend quite a bit of money every month to purchase Compact Discs and high resolution audio downloads. I plan to reduce my music purchases to select favorites using Spotify. As another example, I plan to purchase the new John Mayer Born & Raised CD along with the new Fiona Apple The Idler Wheel Is Wiser Than the Driver of the Screw and Whipping Cords Will Serve You More Than Ropes Will Ever Do CD from Amazon next month now that I have heard them on Spotify.

There are a few caveats. Spotify caters to the widest possible audience so they acquire mainstream popular pre-recorded music. If you primarily listen to niche, small or independent, or esoteric music, then Spotify is not going to satisfy you. If you listen to one or two music genres and you have a deep catalog, then Spotify is not going to do anything for you. If you listen to a lot of world music from Brazil, South Africa, Colombia, Mexico, Uganda, Belize, China, Iran, etc. then Spotify is not going to be of interest to you.

This is the list of countries in which Spotify is available: [http://www.spotify.com/us/about-us/contact/](http://www.spotify.com/us/about-us/contact/). It covers the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Sweden, France, Spain, Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, Finland, and Australia. Canada and Mexico are not on the list yet. You should expect to find mainstream, contemporary, and popular pre-recorded music catering to a worldwide audience and some limited local music indigenous to these countries. For example, the majority of the pre-recorded music is targeted to English language speakers for singers and songwriters. Opera is available in English, French, German, Spanish, and Russian, but it is limited to major opera performers under the auspices of well known conductors at landmark opera halls worldwide.

Spotify is one of the few streaming music service providers that permits you to download and upload music and it is also one of the few that offers desktop and mobile clients for Ubuntu GNU/Linux and Google Android Ice Cream Sandwich though both are not fully supported in their technical previews. If you listen to a lot of music especially on your desktop or notebook PC and you have a reliable high speed Internet connection, then Spotify could be your next move that you should consider. It is the most popular streaming music service provider in the United Kingdom and throughout Europe.

I would like to see some Ubuntu Forums members that are also Spotify customers to reply to my thread with your opinions, tips, and tricks. Which Spotify tools do you use and why? What kind of music do you like to listen to on Spotify?

As you can tell, I listen to mainstream popular music. I have not investigated the Spotify tools yet, but I am interested in taking a look at the source code for the unofficial XBMC app to integrate Spotify. I find that Spotify does not do a particularly good job at alerting you to your favorite musicians and their latest releases. The search capability is pretty basic and narrow in terms of its scope so you will have to know the exact key words to get precise search results for the music that you are interested in. The Spotify Apps store is also pretty limited and basic. It needs to be reworked from scratch to be more useful. Finally, Spotify needs to expand throughout North America into Canada and Mexico if it wants to gain market share and compete with the other popular and free streaming music service providers.

---

