---
title: "Ati x1400 Hardy Upgrade, Mesa driver being used"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by grogger13 on 2008-04-28
I have enabled the Compiz-Fuzion stuff by changing the xorg.conf where it says composite to "disabled" and every thing seems to be working like it should, but when i type fglrxinfo i get mesa drivers
```
mike@mikelaptop:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :1.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: www.mesa3d.org
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.3)

```

I have ran aticonfig as well as run the envy installer but the drivers don't seem to go.  I have never been able to repair the ati drivers for some reason, i have always just had to reinstall everything if the ati drivers are screwed up

---

### Post by amohanty on 2008-04-29
Can you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf??
AM

---

### Post by grogger13 on 2008-05-03
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by TommyIndep on 2008-05-04
I have the same problem, and I also noticed that the ATI driver is gone from the restricted drivers window. And when I move windows (with the wobbly windows effect enabled), and rotate the desktop cube, it lags really bad.

Fglerxinfo gives me:
thomas@thomas-laptop:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :1.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.2 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.3)

When I want it to say ATI.

---

### Post by Pépou on 2008-05-04
Same problem with the same GC (X1400), solved with :

**sudo apt-get remove xserver-xgl**

If it doesn't work try this :
**sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r)**

---

### Post by TommyIndep on 2008-05-04
Didn't solve my problem, but thanks.
That just made me uable to use "Desktop effects".
I fear I have to re-install Ubuntu... :(

---

### Post by piquadrat on 2008-05-04
Something in the 2.6.24-17 kernel update apparently borked up fglrx. Try to boot 2.6.24-16 (press Escape in the grub boot prompt, then choose 2.6.24-16-generic).

---

### Post by Stuk on 2008-05-04
I have a Radeon X1950 Pro and am having this problem as well. I've tried disabling/enabling the ATi restricted drivers and a couple of other things, but to no avail :(

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Stu

---

### Post by sal-e on 2008-05-04
Hi Everyone,

I have ATI X1550 and I also run into this problem yesterday after I did online upgrade from Ubuntu 7.10 to Ubuntu 8.04 LTS. First I had to learn how to recover from "White Screen of Death". After that I could not re-install binary file form ATI. After long hours last night I finally able to solve my problem. I did manual installation described here:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide#Method_2:_Manual_Method]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide#Method_2:_Manual_Method")
I hope this page will save sometime to someone.

Good Luck.

PS. If anyone from ATI or close to ATI reads this. Please release the source of the driver or at the least open the chipset specs so that we can have own driver. I have been loyal customer of ATI, but next time   I will buy other video card if there is no open source driver with full support for ATI hardware.

---

### Post by grogger13 on 2008-05-06
i will never buy ati hardware again, screw this company. if i had gotten an nvidia card my performance would magnitudes better

---

### Post by VitalBodies on 2008-05-06
I am trying Ubuntu for the first time and struggling with getting my Hardware setup. I think all is well except for the Graphics card. 
Most things display well. 
When using the programs called Amaya (for creating web sites) or Carrara 6.1 Pro (A Windows program for creating 3d art under wine - Uses an OpenGL interface) select portions of the screen gets messed up. In Carrara I can not rotate the camera with out the camera view port going white with lines through it. On Amaya editing code create lot&#347; of screen artifacts making the program unusable. 

But all and the rest is working if this help others: 


**COMPUTER:** Core 2 Quad Q6600 Dell Inspiron 530
[http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/inspd530/EN/OM/appendix.htm#wp1123070](http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/inspd530/EN/OM/appendix.htm#wp1123070)
Chipset: ICH9 and Intel G33

**SYSTEM MONITOR:** 
Gnome 2.22.1
Ubuntu Hardy 8.04 (I am running the 64-bit version)
Kernel Linux 2.6.24-16-rt

I also have Wine 0.9.60 installed...

**Diamond Viper:** ATI X1650 pro card 512mb (Rv535)
DRIVER: ATI Catalyst Control Center (CCC) - Linux Edition:
Driver Version: 8.47.3
CCC Version: 1.8
Driver: [http://ati.amd.com/support/drivers/linux64/linux64-radeon.html](http://ati.amd.com/support/drivers/linux64/linux64-radeon.html)
Install: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide)


*fglrxinfo*
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: Radeon X1650 Series
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7412 Release 

*glxinfo | grep version*
server glx version string: 1.2
client glx version string: 1.4
GLX version: 1.2
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7412 Release

*glxinfo | grep direct*
direct rendering: Yes


X.Org version: 1.4.0.90
dimensions: 1920x1200 pixels (524x321 millimeters)
depth of root window: 24 planes
direct rendering: Yes
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2


Do I need this for the 64-bit version - I would like to stay 64-bit if possible? *sudo dpkg -i --force-overwrite xorg-driver-fglrx_8.476*.deb fglrx-kernel-source_8.476-0*.deb fglrx-amdcccle_8.476-0*.deb*
If so could you help me correct this command for the current version?

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
**xorg.conf** XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "v4l"
	Load  "dbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
	Option	    "XkbVariant" "intl"
	Option	    "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "on"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection
**xorg.conf** XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

---

### Post by ThinkDave on 2008-05-06
This will not fix the problem above as you are already using fglrx for OpenGL (sorry I don't know what's wrong) but it is the main problem I found when upgrading from hardy and fglrx would constantly default to the mesa drivers for OpenGl.

Its a problem with the kernel not updating in grub bootloader.
At the terminal type
uname -r

If it doesn't start with 2.6.24.
Then your using the older kernel and thats your problem... for once its not actually ati's fault.

I changed /boot/grub/menu.lst i don't think thats the smartest way to do it so i wont write what i did.

---

