---
title: "streaming video is choppy"
date: 2008-05-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by hatchet_lips on 2008-05-06
first, im brand new to ubuntu and linux in general.  ive followed the guide about general media thats sticked at the top here.  everything went off without a hitch, so many thanks for a great guide.

im using hardy and i have an ati 2600 that appears to be working properly.

im having trouble will choppy video now though.  when i full screen streaming media from the net (hulu and youtube mainly) it lags and chops really badly.  

i found another post about full screen video chopping up, but it pertained to MPlayer and GNOME MPlayer.  i made the suggested changes anyway, though it has had no effect on my streaming net-based media.

any help would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by hatchet_lips on 2008-05-06
bump!

is the answer to this easily found somewhere?  if so, ive been unable to find it.

---

### Post by fbuchele on 2008-05-06
I would imagine this choppiness would come from a simple slow internet connection... does it work in windows?

---

### Post by hatchet_lips on 2008-05-06
i have a 10 mb download speed on my line.  everything works great in windows.  it gets chopped up like its refreshing too slowly.

---

### Post by hatchet_lips on 2008-05-06
bump again!

anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by Melcar on 2008-05-06
Are these "normal" videos or HD content?  If it's high definition videos then you're out of luck.  If it's not, then there are a few things that you could check.  
Are you using TexturedVideo or VideoOverlay?  You can check this in your xorg.conf file (/etc/X11/xorg.conf).  On that file there will be a "Device" section with a couple of entries.  If you have the VideoOverlay option set to on, switch it to off and add the following entry:

Option  "TexturedVideo"  "on"

Reboot and test video playback.  Make sure your video player is using Xv.

---

### Post by hatchet_lips on 2008-05-06
this is everything that i found inside xorg.conf.  i saw no videooverlay option.  i really appreciate your help with trying something though.  does this xorg.conf give anyone any clues as to what the problem might be?

another thought i had was running internet explorer in wine.  i had heard somewhere that one could use firefox in wine and that would fix the problem.  i dont know the command to run firefox through wine though.  so i tried "wine iexplore hulu.com".  it opened up hulu fine, but it was telling me i needed the flash plugin.  when i tried to install it though, nothing happened.  anyone have any clues?  is this a viable solution to my problem?





# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by Melcar on 2008-05-06
> **hatchet_lips said:**
> ...

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
        Option          "TexturedVideo"  "0n"
EndSection

...

Modify the Device section so it looks like the above.  When you reboot check your xorg.0.log (accessible through System>Administration>System Log) and check that it says something like "Textured video is enabled" (it's a single entry preceded with a ** near the end of the log).  This will give you better Xv performance in video playback.
As for your problem, since it's flash videos, I"m guessing that it's a problem with your flash player plugin.  You could try purging flashplugin-nonfree and installing it again, or try some other flash player like Gnash (it's in the repositories).

---

### Post by hatchet_lips on 2008-05-07
i got the msg that textured video is enabled, so thanks a lot for your help with that.  it did nothing to improve my flash playback though.  

i installed gnash and it didnt even load up media from youtube and hulu.  i reinstalled flashplugin-nonfree and i have the same issues as before.  any other ideas anyone?  ive seen people posting with problems similar to mine, but most of them are several years old.



update:  i turned off all my desktop effects and it helped out my flash video a whole.  though its still substantially lower than quality that im used to in windows.  also, im using firefox 3 beta 5.  would dropping to an older version of firefox help?  i have a 512 ATI card in this rig, playing a dinky flash vid with desktop effects on shouldnt be an issue.  is this just something ubuntu cant handle right now?

---

### Post by moose4204l on 2008-05-27
bump...having same problem

---

### Post by rudy.elgato on 2008-06-09
Just another bump to this choppy video when viewing flash video in fullscreen, which is reported in a couple dozen other threads.  I have not yet found a fix in all the posts here.

Is there ANYONE out there who is able to view a streaming flash video in full screen and have it run smoothly?  If so, can you provide some details on what you did to get it to work, or maybe just some details on your system's configuration?  I think there are many, many users here who would  like to hear from you.

Thanks...

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-06-09
Just set your desktop visual effects to none. 

Also, if you are running compiz you must check unredirectfullscreenwindows in the general options of the advanced desktop effects or in compiz sttings manager.

If you have an ATI card and are using the restricted driver this is your best chance.

---

### Post by macness on 2008-06-09
Yeah I have an ATI 256MB, if I want flash to behave full screen (and I'm a big YouTube fan) I have to turn off the compiz settings. :(

Dems da berries pretty much :frown:

---

### Post by rudy.elgato on 2008-06-10
My system runs with an nvidia geforce fx5200 128MB card, and I used envy to figure out the drivers.  Compiz and the desktop effects worked absolutely great.  I'm pretty positive I've tried setting visual effects to none and end up with the same choppy video with fullscreen problem.

But, I'm also positive I have not explicitly checked "unredirectfullscreenwindows" in the compiz general options.  As soon as I'm in front of my system at home, I'll look for that and give it a try.

Truly appreciate the tip.  Thanks...

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-06-10
If you have an ATI card then you can try some or all of this:

If you want or need the newest 8.5 driver from ATI you can download it from here:

[http://ati.amd.com/support/driver.html](http://ati.amd.com/support/driver.html)

The directions for installing it are here:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide)

(I had to do this even though I am not using 64bit even though the directions say it is only for 64bit users.)

sudo ln -s /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 /usr/lib/libGL.so.1


The directions for tweaking it are here:

[http://forum.compiz-fusion.org/showthread.php?t=6794](http://forum.compiz-fusion.org/showthread.php?t=6794)

You can try these tweaks with the current restricted ATI driver, they help a lot:

The OP recomends TexturedVideo "on" but it did not do much for me as you will see a little further on.

Copy and paste these into the appropriate section of your xorg.conf

/etc/X11/xorg.conf

Section "ServerLayout"
       Option "AIGLX" "on"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "on"
	Option	    "TexturedVideo" "off"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "Textured2D" "on"
	Option	    "UseFastTLS" "1"
	Option	    "BackingStore" "on"
EndSection


Section "DRI"
        Group       "Video"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "RENDER" "Enable"
	Option	    "DAMAGE" "Enable"
	Option	    "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

fglrx does not read any changes you make to xorg.conf unless you do this in a terminal:

sudo aticonfig --input=/etc/X11/xorg.conf --tls=1

This is the results for me with the 8.5 driver, much the same with the 8.4 driver:

Flash plays in windowed and full screen regardless of desktop visual effects or texturedvideo settings and:

Texturedvideo on
firefox mplayer  flickers  in window but OK in full screen
Miro(xine)  flickers in both windowed and full screen 

Texturedvideo off:
firefox mplayer  is OK in both window and full screen
miro (xine)  flickers in window but OK in full screen
miro(gstreamer)  plays  OK in both window and full screen
This is with both regular and HD video files

HD from Hulu will not play full screen without massive frame drops etc but regular Hulu programs are fine and windowed HD plays fine in window and pop up but starts to frame drop if the picture gets any larger.

I think that has to do with my little 3800+ single core processor more than anything else.

This is with a Radeon HD 3650 1GB, your mileage will vary.

DO NOT TRY THIS IF YOU ARE NOT ABSOLUTELY SURE ABOUT WHAT YOU ARE DOING!!!

---

### Post by JesterDev on 2008-06-11
I am also having the same issue. Full screen media on youtube, hulu, and any other flash based medium is very choppy. It was the same with OpenSuse. I do however believe that it is an issue with the latest "major" update to the non-free flash player. I never had this issue before that point, but nothing else seems to work. 

I have a 10Mb connection also, but even on my 2Mb connection for work it was never like this.

---

### Post by macness on 2008-06-11
> **JesterDev said:**
> I am also having the same issue. Full screen media on youtube, hulu, and any other flash based medium is very choppy. It was the same with OpenSuse. I do however believe that it is an issue with the latest "major" update to the non-free flash player. I never had this issue before that point, but nothing else seems to work. 

I have a 10Mb connection also, but even on my 2Mb connection for work it was never like this.

Do you have Desktop effect on too?  Not to say that this is much better but have tried Gnash to see if it is the non-free plugin?

---

### Post by ChiaGod on 2008-06-21
I'm experiencing the same issue (though using an nVidia 8500 card) and the only remedy I've found so far is to downgrade flash to 9.0.48.

One drawback about this fix is that you will be unable to access some of the additional features in Hulu (480p).

I have tested w/: 
desktop effects on/off.  
Firefox 2.0/3.0 
Generic/Server kernel

So far I've found 2 workarounds:
A. Use flash 9.0.124 , set desktop effects on, and using the  zoom feature to get full screen (least laggy option).   Zoom shortcut is windows key (super) and mouse scroll.

B. Use flash 9.0.48, set desktop effects off, and use pop-out and F11 to get full screen. 



In so far as downgrading flash, you have to:

1. Go to:

[http://kb.adobe.com/selfservice/viewContent.do?externalId=tn_14266&sliceId=1](http://kb.adobe.com/selfservice/viewContent.do?externalId=tn_14266&sliceId=1)

2. Get the Flash Player 9 tar.gz (It'll have every version of flash 9 released to date)
3. Extract the version you want to use ( 9.0.48 ).  (You can just drag it out of the archive)
4. Then open a terminal in that location (make sure you can see libflashplayer.so in that directory) and copy the libflash.so to the plugins directory:

sudo cp libflashplayer.so /usr/lib/flashplugin-nonfree/

(This will copy the libflashplayer.so where you're currently at to the correct directory, you can try different versions this way as well, extract a different version of flash, navigate to where it is extracted, and run the same command)

5. Restart your browser and give it a try.

---

### Post by ChiaGod on 2008-06-22
Just wanted to add, if you want to verify which version of Flash you're using, go to: 

[http://kb.adobe.com/selfservice/viewContent.do?externalId=tn_15507](http://kb.adobe.com/selfservice/viewContent.do?externalId=tn_15507)

Oh and if you want to try the beta of Flash player 10 (little less laggy)
it can be found at:

[http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10.html](http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10.html)

Some people are reporting success in getting smooth fullscreen with this version.

I'm currently using this version and things are a bit better.  No smooth fullscreen yet (using the flash fullscreen option), but it's less cpu intensive.  So instead, I'm using compiz' zoom feature along with bicubic filtering (you can enable it with ccsm (optional compiz control panel)) to get fullscreen flash.  You can also set a zoom level (within ccsm) to the size of the program you normally watch.

With this combination (Flash 10 beta - Compiz zoom at ~35%, bicubic filtering on) I can play Hulu 480p videos at "fullscreen" (smoothly) with 30-50% cpu usage, much better than the 100% cpu usage slideshow I was getting before.This is on a Sempron 2800+, 2G RAM, and a GeForce 8500 video card outputting at 1080p (via HDMI).

Hope this helps.

> **markbuntu said:**
> starts to frame drop if the picture gets any larger.

I think that has to do with my little 3800+ single core processor more than anything else.


Think the main issue is a new feature (bug?) in Flash player 9.0.115 and 9.0.124.  It's supposed to use hardware rendering when maximized, but this seems to fail in the Linux version.  There's also a toggle to enable/disable hardware rendering but it seems to do nothing on the Linux version (per a bug filed at adobe).  The bug filed for the laggy/choppy full screen rendering is at:

[http://bugs.adobe.com/jira/browse/FP-114](http://bugs.adobe.com/jira/browse/FP-114)

---

### Post by MarcG on 2009-06-28
I'm also working on the choppy video. I installed Flash 10 and that improved it somewhat, but it's still a long way off. I don't think I can use Compiz, though. I believe that requires the nVidia driver and that doesn't work for me. I'm trying to run off the S-video and the nVidia driver blanks the display as soon as the logon screen comes on if no monitor is plugged in. I have to use the generic vesa to get anywhere.

So am I stuck? The CPU usage shows 100% when playing a Hulu show. And it's up at 45% just sitting there. Is there any way to lighten the load to give the Flash some breathing room? Here's my system:

Athlon XP200+ at 1.8GHz
375M RAM
180G HD
STB Velocity 4400 video card (really old - from the 90's). It's got an nVidia NV4 [RIVA TNT]

---

### Post by brettybaby on 2010-01-01
I have the same problem on all computers with HULU.com

I can see a good steaming video without full screen

full screen is choppy on every pc I have every tried with hulu with a t1 cable ISP

---

### Post by pulpinator on 2010-01-01
The problem might be that the adobe flash player doesn't use gpu card hardware acceleration under Linux for h.264 content (which hulu uses).

Until that is fixed or gnash can support this content, you'll need a lot of CPU power for it to be less choppy.

---

### Post by kilgor3 on 2010-01-14
This problem has been around for close to 2 years now.  I have had this problem across 12 different computers, all with different configurations.  I'm honestly at my wits end with this and am debating leaving linux all together.  I have tried every fix, nothing works.  I'm pretty sure I have narrowed the problem down to the actual flash plug in.  I filed a bug report like a year ago.  I don't think Adobe ranks it's linux flash plug-in very high on the "to-do" list.

If anyone ever finds the fix please pm me!

---

### Post by zillaa on 2010-07-26
First of all....bump. This is because there are MANY people with this problem and I still haven't seen a fix. 

Second, I'm running a dual boot and I've noticed that in the last month or so, when Ubuntu auto-updates flash, a few more problems arise with flash applications I used. Then when I boot into XP, those problems aren't there (the fullscreen problem remains though)...until I upgrade flash in windows, and then the same problems come up. Am I wrong to come to any sort of conclusion here that the people at Adobe are just completely destroying flash with every update they put out?

I'll be trying out the 'update' to a previous version as stated in a previous post tomorrow, as I am tired right now, but I can conclude at this point that it has nothing to do with the OS. However, I will let anyone interested know how it goes.

---

### Post by Meneer Jansen on 2010-08-13
Do you use Compiz (i.e. desktop effects)? What video card do you have? Ati/AMD or Nvidia? And did you use the "trick " of pressing 'pause' to wait until a big portion of the video is downloaded? 

(A friend of mine has an Apple computer and on his compu youtube used to work fine (even full screen) ands after an OS upgrade is choppy too. So we're not the only ones. Adobe puts out crappy bloated sh**. That's all. :( )

---

### Post by krungthep on 2010-08-25
I disabled hardware acceleration in the flash video settings (right-click on the video) and the problem is gone. The performance is excellent even for 1024HD videos played fullscreen.

I guess the problem stems from a buggy video driver.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-08-25
krungthep odd you say it helped you

what i have seen is an update changed the/my settings

this comes from the program cheese it helps a few

5.1.&#8195;The video is sluggish/has a slow response. What can I do?


      You may have set "ximagesink" ("X Window System (No Xv)") as video-output.
      This means, that your cpu is doing all the work. Change it to "xvimagesink"
      ("X Window System (X11/XShm/Xv)") in order to let your graphics card do the work.
    


      To change the settings, run "gstreamer-properties", click the Video tab
      and change the appropriate settings.
    
5.2.&#8195;I have a Mac with iSight and a ATI graphics card, and the colors are weird.


      This is a problem with the ATI graphics card, though there is a work around.
      Change the video-output to custom and insert the following: "ffmpegcolorspace !
      video/x-raw-yuv,format=(fourcc)YV12 ! ffmpegcolorspace ! xvimagesink".
    


      To change the settings, run "gstreamer-properties", click the Video tab
      and select custom from the drop down menu.
    


i hope it helps a lot of you

---

### Post by repilce on 2010-08-25
I had same choppy full screen video on hulu .. I actually tried a old windows fix for firefox and it has seemed to help my full screen playback, my video card is a 4870 but it seems that choppy linux flash fullscreen is a common aliment due to flash/linux I still get high processor usage but my full screen playback is Nothing like it was before the fix, seems to work great for me.

[http://www.downloadsquad.com/2009/08/22/how-to-fix-flash-video-performance-in-firefox/](http://www.downloadsquad.com/2009/08/22/how-to-fix-flash-video-performance-in-firefox/)

---

