---
title: "5.1/7.1 Surround Sound: Center/Rear And Subwoofer Channel are not separated"
date: 2014-07-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by elie2 on 2014-07-17
I have a sound card Xonar DSX linked in SPDIF (optical) to my receiver. With a fresh install of Ubuntu 14.04 I only have stereo sound. I have use [this tutorial]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DigitalAC-3Pulseaudio") in order to have the center and rear speakers working. 

When I run the command
```
speaker-test -c 6
```

I have no sound on the subwoofer channel, but I noticed that the subwoofer is making a weak sound during the center, rear left and right tests.
I found [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1751107") which mention (on the second answer) that this problem is due to the stereo-upmixing and that it's not solvable.
This comment is 3 years old, so maybe there now a solution. This is the only problem that prevent me to switch from Windows to Linux !

Any ideas ?

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2014-07-18
I might not have direct fix to this question. But, what kind of set-up do you have? are in Audio production? Or is this set-up only for entertainment purpose?
How about just using HDMI for audio? It provides enough quality for anything short of audio production work.

---

### Post by elie2 on 2014-07-18
No I'm not in Audio production, that just for entertainment. As long as I have 5.1 with DTS-HD or Dolby TrueHD is perfect.
Unfortunately I don't have HDMI output, just DVI. My motherboard is an Asrock H61M-GS. I bought the Xonar sound card because the 5.1 audio output of the motherboard used jacks cables.
This would be a hassle if I had to change the motherboard only to have the 5.1 working :(

---

### Post by elie2 on 2014-07-23
I found the problem, it was my receiver. I recently moved in a new apartment and changed some settings on my amp because the acoustics of the room is different.
Alsamixer is still showing the output as "upmixing", but the result is Ok. All the channels are working included the LFE.

---

