---
title: "Xorg at 100%CPU, crashes playing video, Nvidia 8400GS"
date: 2011-06-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mrule on 2011-06-07
Whats happening : 

When I play video on my machine, the video might play for a while, but eventually the machine locks up completely. Xorg take 100% of the CPU, cannot be killed, and the machine becomes unresponsive, even to commands ('restart now') over SSH. I do not know if this is actually a video issue or if video just taxes the machine enough to expose a bug that will crop up sporadically under normal use. This is a severe bug as the only way to make the machine responsive again is to remove power. 

Update : This is not related to vido. Xorg happily hangs at 100% CPU with no warning during normal use, rendering the machine unresponsive and requiring a hard reboot. This is a serious problem that renders my machine inoperable and I cannot debug it myself. My machine is nearly useless to me in low graphics mode, since the software I need requires hardware graphics acceleration. 

System configuration  :
```

~$ lsb_release -a 
LSB Version:	core-2.0-amd64:core-2.0-noarch:core-3.0-amd64:core-3.0-noarch:core-3.1-amd64:core-3.1-noarch:core-3.2-amd64:core-3.2-noarch:core-4.0-amd64:core-4.0-noarch
Distributor ID:	Ubuntu
Description:	Ubuntu 10.04.2 LTS
Release:	10.04
Codename:	lucid

~$ lspci | grep nV                                                                                                                                  
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G98 [GeForce 8400 GS] (rev a1)

~$ lsmod | grep nv                                                                                                                                  
nvidia              10710400  30 

~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf                                                                                                              # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.41.19  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-07.nvidia.com)  Mon May 16 23:52:12 PDT 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

~$                      

```

---

### Post by mrule on 2011-06-07
Update : This is not related to vido. Xorg happily hangs at 100% CPU with no warning during normal use, rendering the machine unresponsive and requiring a hard reboot. This is a serious problem that renders my machine inoperable and I cannot debug it myself.

---

### Post by Sylos on 2011-06-08
Hello there.

I probably cant help with detailed debugging but I thought I might ask if you have made any hardware or software changes recently that sparked this off?

It might be worth checking your PSU to see if it is at fault. A lot of times wierd hangs like this can be a sign of a dying PSU that is struggling to maintian output on particular voltage.

Have you had the NVIDIA working previously without fault?

Cheers

---

### Post by mrule on 2011-06-08
Good idea !

Indeed, I recently replaced the monitor. Previously it was a Dell Inspiron-style monitor, and I replaced it with a "LG Flatron-Wide". The monitors have the same connector (DVI), and I cannot imagine that power would be an issue. But, there might be a bug specific to driving the new monitor?

I will switch the monitor back and see if the problem persists. 

As far as software changes: after the problem appeared, I applied all updates and re-installed the latest Nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by Sylos on 2011-06-08
You could try running with only a single monitor for a little while and see if still locks up. That might narrow the possible faults down a little. If it doesnt lock up using a single monitor then you could try some different configs for the second monitor.

You could also try and roll back the nvidia driver to a previous one - I have an old Geforce FX 5500 that works better with the earlier driver than the latest offered in the Restricted Drivers section.

And dont rule out the PSU just yet. It may be an outside chance at the moment but I would suggest testing it now if you have a multi meter. You could save yourself a lot of time trying to diagnose the problem for the sake of 10 minutes time now.

Good Luck.

---

### Post by mrule on 2011-06-08
When I swapped in the old monitor, the screen resolution was off, as if it was trying to display the larger monitor size in the smaller screen. 

When I attempted to fix the resolution using the "monitors" preferences, it said I needed to use the NVidia control panel. When I attempted to use the NVidia control panel, it said that the NVidia driver was not loaded. 

When I ran nvidia-config, the x-session stopped and did not restart on its own.

When I ran "sudo start gdm" to restart X, the screen flickered, and then the "ubuntu is running in low graphics mode" screen popped up. 

So, there is a driver problem. My machine is not accepting the latest NVidia drivers -- perhaps the kernel version is compatible, or my hardware is no longer supported ?

I would like to roll back to working drivers, how do I do this ?

---

### Post by mrule on 2011-06-08
Thanks for the help, 

I'm not sure what you mean by testing the PSU. I do have a multimeter. How is this accomplished ? I imagine its something like ... jumpering those two wires that turn on the PSU together, then manually testing all pairs of wires to make sure the required voltage is present ?

---

### Post by mrule on 2011-06-08
I rolled back the driver to an older version, and so far everything appears to be working fine.
I should have thought of this myself. 
I got confused because I had already tried two different driver versions, and neither worked. 
--- plug in new monitor, things break
--- update drivers, things break even more
--- roll back drivers, things are still broken
--- roll back drivers _even_more_, things work fine


I am now using the nvidia CUDA development drivers 3.2.24, for the record.

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2011-06-08
> 
I am now using the nvidia CUDA development drivers 3.2.24, for the record.


You have the 270.4119 driver version.
How did you install it? From the .run fle from the nvidia site? If so, have you encountered any errors/warnings during install?

> 
the software I need requires hardware graphics acceleration

What software is that?

Alsodid you remove the user profile file after you changed monitors? (~/.nvidia-settings.rc)

---

### Post by mrule on 2011-06-08
Hi gradinaruvasile, thanks for the help.

The system appears to be working after installing an older driver I had lying around ( version 260.24, it seems )

I installed 270.4119 using the Nvidia .run file, and encountered no errors during installation. However, the driver appeared to be buggy and crash upon returning to X. I do not know why.

Without the drivers (in low graphics mode), meshlab would not render 3D objects. I suspect that other 3D applications would be similarly affected, but I have not tested it.

I did not know about ~/.nvidia-settings.rc. That file does not appear to exist on my machine. 

Since the machine is working with the 260.24 drivers, I consider this solved for now. 

There may be a compatibility problem with newer NVidia drivers though, and I do not know whether this is on the Ubuntu side or the NVidia side. Should I try to reproduce the problem and submit a bug report (to both ubuntu and nvidia)? What sort of information would be needed for the bug report to be useful? Is there some way I can find out exactly what happens before the crash/stall with the newer drivers ?

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2011-06-08
Are absolutely sure you removed all nvidia-related packages before installing the .run file?

Because the activate/deactivate driver stuff on Ubntu can be misleading. You have to purge all nvidia-related packages to make sure that everything is settled before installing any .run drivers.

Did you check the xorg logs (/var/log/Xorg.0.log, /var/log/Xorg.1.log)?

I have a nvidia 8200 and a nvs 135M (and on another computer with nvidia 7600) and all drivers (since the 180s i think) worked (and work) perfectly without a hitch on Ubuntu (until 9.10) and now Debian. All drivers installed from the .run files.

---

### Post by mrule on 2011-06-08
I am not sure I removed all nvidia related packages. I remember doing that over a year ago, and things had been more or less smoothly updating since then. I would have to re-install the nvidia drivers every time there was a kernel update, but everything worked. I didn't check that recently. The fact that things are now working well with an older driver suggests to me that the ubuntu nvidia drivers are still deactivated, but I don't know how to explicitly check this.

I would not know what to look for in the logs, but I have pasted both the logs you mentioned here : [http://pastebin.com/Q290VGFS](http://pastebin.com/Q290VGFS)

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2011-06-20
Hm. It seems that the nvidia driver did not even load. Instead the generic vesa driver was loaded.
The xorg.conf file should specify the "nvidia" driver explicitly.

---

### Post by dark.dimension on 2012-02-08
G'day,

I am facing the same problem, however, my setup is slightly different. I am using an ATI Radeon HD 6870 graphics card under Ubuntu 11.10 with dual monitor setup. Something to notice here is that I do not have my monitors set up in the same plane. One of the small monitors is actually to the right of first monitor, but also few hundred pixels below from the top.
DFP4: 1920x1080 @ 60Hz @ 0x0
CRT1: 1280x1024 @ 60Hz @ 1920x732

If this information helps.

I am currently using ATI drivers from AMD's website as the ones in Ubuntu's repository fail to install properly.

Following is my current Graphics Card related information:
BIOS
    Date:        08/04/11 04:54
    Version:     013.012.000.025.000000
    Part Number: 113-xxx-xxx
Memory
    Type:        GDDR5
    Clock:       1050 MHz
    Size:        1024 MB
    Bandwidth:   134.4 GBytes/s
Bus
    Graphics Capability: PCIe 2.0
    Max Setting:         x16

Software:
    Catalyst Version:         11.11
    Driver Packaging Version: 8.911-111025a-128237C-ATI
    2D Driver Version:        9.91.4
    Catalyst CC Version:      2.13
    RandR Version:            1.3
OpenGL
    OpenGL Provider:    AMD Inc.
    OpenGL Renderer:    AMD Radeon HD 6800 Series
    OpenGL Version:     4.1.11251 Compatibility Profile Context

My Xorg version is X.Org X Server 1.10.4 running on Linux 3.0.0-15-generic
Processor: AMD FX-8120
RAM: 8GB

I'd appreciate any help here. If more information is required to help debug/troubleshoot, I am happy to provide that.

Thanks in advance.

Cheers,
Abhi

---

