---
title: "8.10 nVidia &quot;legacy&quot; video support - nVidia GeForce FX 5200 Problem"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ryanh on 2008-10-30
Just upgraded to 8.10 from 8.04 and everything went smoothly except for the my nVidia GeForce FX 5200 driver.

The release notes outline:
> Users with the nVidia TNT, TNT2, TNT Ultra, GeForce, GeForce2, GeForce3, and GeForce4 chipsets are affected and will be transitioned on upgrade to the free nv driver instead. This driver does not support 3D acceleration.

I didn't think my driver fell into this category, when I enable the 'restricted driver' X.org gives me issues at startup wanting to reconfigure, which I have no idea on fixing...

Anyone else having this issue with their 5200?

---

### Post by ryanh on 2008-10-30
Also should note that when I run the nVidia X Server Settings I get this message:

> You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.

Doing this, however does nothing for me...

---

### Post by chr0n1x on 2008-10-31
Yeah I'm having the same problems with the Nvidia X Driver configuration. Also, when I boot, it gives me an error saying something about the kernel having an error loading my driver. I have 177.xx installed. Tried that, didn't work so I reverted back to 173.xx but that gave me the same error message.

I believe that Beta drivers for 8.10 are out already that may fix this problem. As for whether or not this is true, I have yet to test it out. 

Anyone here got their 3D and 2D graphics acceleration working?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-10-31
Nvidia has just updated the legacy drivers to work with the new version of Xorg, they should be available in a day or two.

Jim

---

### Post by ryanh on 2008-10-31
That's great news!

Will this be available when I run a regular software update?

---

### Post by Kristopher on 2008-10-31
Oh that is GREAT news, where did you get this info from as I would like to know when its released so I can update to 8.10 :)

---

### Post by Otto42 on 2008-10-31
Where is the official repo for Ubuntu at? More to the point, where can I check on its contents? Because I've already been disappointed with and had to erase Ubuntu 8.10 off my hardware once, so I'm not going to consider trying it again until it gets these drivers in there and working.

Ubuntu without working graphics is basically dead in the water. It's a deal-breaker, and I'm highly disappointed that 8.10 decided to "release" before this major issue was resolved.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-10-31
> **Otto42 said:**
> Where is the official repo for Ubuntu at? More to the point, where can I check on its contents? Because I've already been disappointed with and had to erase Ubuntu 8.10 off my hardware once, so I'm not going to consider trying it again until it gets these drivers in there and working.

Ubuntu without working graphics is basically dead in the water. It's a deal-breaker, and I'm highly disappointed that 8.10 decided to "release" before this major issue was resolved.

I don't think this can be put up as Ubuntu's fault. It's more like Nvidia's fault for not updating their **proprietary** driver.

The driver isn't in the repos yet, we are still waiting for an SRU on it. You can follow this bug report
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-71/+bug/251107]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-71/+bug/251107")

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-10-31
I saw the news yesterday while checking rss feeds in liferea here is the link:

[http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?p=292](http://albertomilone.com/wordpress/?p=292)

Alberto goes by Tselliot and is a moderator on the forums, he is responsible for the Nvidia drivers.

Jim

---

### Post by alejuss on 2008-10-31
I have this problem too. I can't wait to see this drivers updated! :)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-10-31
Supposedly the 173. driver should work for the FX5200 cards, though I don't claim that it will :) - for the moment I am also awaiting the 96. driver to ease my woes :)
 
The supported products for the nvidia 173. driver are here - [http://www.nvidia.com/object/IO_18897.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/IO_18897.html)

It could be worse - we could be on the fedora forums - they've been waiting a lot longer...

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/IO_18897.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/IO_18897.html)

If anyone isn't aware then the drivers are usually announced here afaik, it's certainly where I saw the beta announced - [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?f=14](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?f=14)

I would though take notice of what tseliot has said in his blog - > I have noticed that NVIDIA released two beta drivers which work with Intrepid’s X.org and I will make new packages available in the -proposed archives ASAP. In the meantime you might want to see why I recommend you to wait for these packages. Keep an eye this bug report so as to know when these packages are available for testing.

I would also echo FuturePilot and suggest you subscribe to the bug as that is where tseliot will I assume announce it.

---

### Post by point5mt on 2008-10-31
After upgrading and reboot, x server failed.
my fix:
reboot, press esc before grub launches.
select recovery mode.
repair x server.
update dpkg.
continue booting.

I have no idea how all of this worked, dumb luck i guess.

---

### Post by bswilson on 2008-10-31
Alberto has a cool packge that is in the repositories called envyNG.  Just run this command to get all the legacy nVidia drivers you need:

```
sudo apt-get install -y envy-core
```

This worked like a charm for me, I have an nVidia GeForce 5500.

---

### Post by Freyfuron on 2008-10-31
```
david@davidubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install envy-core
Leyendo lista de paquetes... Hecho
Creando árbol de dependencias       
Leyendo la información de estado... Hecho
E: No se pudo encontrar el paquete envy-core
```

It can't find the envy-core packet.

-----

Edit: Well, the package was called envyng-core so just do "sudo apt-get install envyng-core"

Then type "envyng -t" and follow the instructions.

-----

Edit2: Just rebooted and it DIDN'T fix the problem, my graphics card is a Geforce 4 Ti 4200 AGP 8x.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-10-31
atm envy will not collect the correct driver as it's not there for it yet - you will have to install the nvidia driver if you want it to work.

I would though if possible wait for it to arrive.

---

### Post by Kristopher on 2008-10-31
really glad to see there doing a fix, as this should have been a show stopper for 8.10....bad call Nvidia...now get the fix released :)

---

### Post by Ironjer on 2008-11-01
> **Freyfuron said:**
> ```
david@davidubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install envy-core
Leyendo lista de paquetes... Hecho
Creando árbol de dependencias       
Leyendo la información de estado... Hecho
E: No se pudo encontrar el paquete envy-core
```

It can't find the envy-core packet.

-----

Edit: Well, the package was called envyng-core so just do "sudo apt-get install envyng-core"

Then type "envyng -t" and follow the instructions.

-----

Edit2: Just rebooted and it DIDN'T fix the problem, my graphics card is a Geforce 4 Ti 4200 AGP 8x.

The same problem and the same Video Card:( no fix yet?

---

### Post by pablew on 2008-11-03
I tried to log in after the update and didn't have any graphical login screen. after fiddling around with a few of the ideas on here I edited the xorg.conf file

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

I found the line that said:
#	Driver		"nvidia" 
 and changed the "nvidia" to "vesa"

This allowed me to boot to a graphical screen and I could then use the proprietary nvidia driver.

Btw - I have a Nvidia Geforce 5500

---

### Post by VengefulIce on 2008-11-04
Hi,

I have a NVIDIA FX 5200, and I seem to have fixed my problem on complete accident.


Before this, I had tried to enable desktop effects, but it always ended up in the X server having an error at startup and running in low graphics mode.

This time however, it installed the 173 driver a bit differently, taking a bit longer to install.  I am not really sure what caused my success, but my computer seems to be running fine with the 173 driver.

The only problem that I can visibly see is that there are no splash screens when I boot or shutdown.

If anyone else has had success using the 173 driver and getting the splash screens to work, I would greatly appreciate what you did!

---

### Post by jayhags on 2008-11-06
I have a nVidia GeForce4 MX 420 and the envyng package recommended above worked fine for me this morning.

Initially I tried it after installing 8.10 and it suggested the nvidia-glx-96 driver but upon reboot I needed to fall back to safe video.  So I ran the tool again to remove the settings and decided to wait.

This morning after running an update, I noticed that one of the nvidia 96 packages left on my system was updated.  So I gave the envyng tool another go and it worked this time.

Good Luck

---

### Post by jaygeebuntu on 2008-11-11
I've spent a couple of days trying to get my GeForce FX5200 working in Intrepid followin most of the tips in this thread but I'm still unable to get any setting save the "None" within System>Preferences>Appearance>VisualEffects so it looks as if more patience is required.

And to put icing on the cake Wobbly Windows have just disappeared from my Fedora 9 installation :(

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-11-11
It would still only be avialable in the proposed updates I believe - you can try it that way - enable the proposed updates repo - software sources - update tab

Reload and then see what updates you get in update manager - there are also some proposed kernel updtaes in there at the moment - _be careful_

I would disable all the updates in proposed except any nvidia and jockey updates and see if it becomes available then, I would cetainly not be updating to a proposed kernal unless sure I could get round any problems it could cause.

---

### Post by jaygeebuntu on 2008-11-11
Thanks for the heads up on kernel updates from the proposed updates repo.

I'll put VisualEffects on the back burner until the approved updates arrive: meanwhile I've disabled the proposed updates repo.

---

### Post by aaronLund on 2008-11-28
> **Freyfuron said:**
> ```
david@davidubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install envy-core
Leyendo lista de paquetes... Hecho
Creando árbol de dependencias       
Leyendo la información de estado... Hecho
E: No se pudo encontrar el paquete envy-core
```

It can't find the envy-core packet.

-----

Edit: Well, the package was called envyng-core so just do "sudo apt-get install envyng-core"

Then type "envyng -t" and follow the instructions.

-----

Edit2: Just rebooted and it DIDN'T fix the problem, my graphics card is a Geforce 4 Ti 4200 AGP 8x.


Wow.  This just worked for me.  

I've been putting up with non-3d desktop effects for some time (well, since the 8.10 upgrade anyway).  I did just as Freyfuron suggested in his edit and then rebooted.  I then went to System>>Administration>>Hardware Drivers and my 173 driver was installed and activated.  I then enabled stuff in Compiz and feel much better about my system.

For the record, I'm using a GE Force fx 5200.

Now...if someone could fix the "hangs on restart/shutdown" bug, I'd be one happy camper.

Thanks, Freyfuron!

---

### Post by aaronLund on 2008-11-29
Still working...........

Flash video is a bit "off" though.  Like the refresh rate isn't happening fast enough.  Not a deal-breaker by any means............just thought I'd mention it.

The Compiz stuff is so nice to have after going without for so long.

---

### Post by jaygeebuntu on 2008-11-30
> **aaronLund said:**
> Still working...........

Flash video is a bit "off" though.  Like the refresh rate isn't happening fast enough.  Not a deal-breaker by any means............just thought I'd mention it.

The Compiz stuff is so nice to have after going without for so long.

Didn't work for me unfortunately :(

As there's an identical problem on my other distro - Fedora 9 - I flattened
Ibex and installed Heron. No probs now :)

---

### Post by kcophysics on 2008-11-30
I have a nVidia GeForce FX 5500 and after upgrading to 8.10 I can only get a standard screen with 800X600 resolution.  I have tried most of the suggestions that members have made in the forums.  Each attempt results in the same blank screen when I try to use the nVidia driver 177, 173, or 96.  I have tried down loading the driver 173.14.12-pk2.run from the nVidia website but got an error that said this was for non Xen builds. I tried a patch that was suggested in the nVidia New site. Struck out there too. I ever tried getting the driver from the pre-release repo.  Still nothing.  Wow. Is there hope for this graphics card or is it just not compatible with Ubuntu?  I dual boot with XP, and it works fine in XP.

Thanks for any advice you can offer.:confused:

---

### Post by shelterpaw on 2009-03-03
Has this been resolved?  Does the Nvidia 5200FX now have drivers that work with 8.10?

---

### Post by VengefulIce on 2009-03-03
well, based on my experience, yes

my card works flawlessly
hopefully yours will too

---

### Post by shelterpaw on 2009-03-03
> **VengefulIce said:**
> well, based on my experience, yes

my card works flawlessly
hopefully yours will too

I have it working, but it's a workaround. I'm hoping it works as pnp now.

---

