---
title: "x.org config. Is that normal?"
date: 2008-12-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by pascat on 2008-12-01
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"dri"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "fglrx"
        Option          "VideoOverlay" "on"
EndSection


That's the whole xorg.conf file. Last I checked in Debian, there was a LOT more of stuff in there. I actually added the Module section myself and the option for Device. Anyway, isn't there supposed to be a setup for resolutions in Screen and more modules then that?

---

### Post by binbash on 2008-12-01
Yes it is ok, debian uses old xorg that is why.You dont need xorg.conf aynmore.

---

### Post by pascat on 2008-12-01
Ah, so it has nothing to do with the Flickering of my videos in Direct Render mode? :/ Then how do I get an older version of FGLRX to fix that? 

I mean, I never had problems with videos using the older flgrx driver, but the one I just installed with 8.10 is totally screwed?

---

### Post by binbash on 2008-12-01
To fix video flickering, you have to go to your video player's preferences and set the video output mode to X11.It will fix flickering.It is not new or old fglrx driver, you have probably compiz enabled.And this issue will not fixed until DRI2 comes.

---

### Post by pascat on 2008-12-01
Thanks a bunch binbash. A last one, no way to disable compiz temporarily is there? Like, turn it off, get in my anime-watching stream, then turn it back on when done? >.>

---

### Post by binbash on 2008-12-01
metacity --replace 

BUT i suggest you instead of this, set the video output to X11.Before playing opengl games, dont forget to turn off compiz.

Or install this application : 

sudo apt-get install fusion-icon
run it, you can switch to compiz/ metacity easily

---

