---
title: "9.04 problems with nVidia GeForce Go 7300 drivers"
date: 2009-04-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by MeLight on 2009-04-25
Hi,
I installed today a fresh installation of 9.04. Everything works great except for the graphics :(

After the installation I've ran System > Administration > Hardware Drivers
And picked to activate ver 180. The download and installation went on normally and I even enabled desktop effects. 

The problem I am having: the screen is all blurry now, I tried downgrading to ver 173 - looks exactly the same. And the driver I was using on 8.10 - ver 177 - is not on the list at all.

Thanx

---

### Post by kkm1978 on 2009-04-28
Same problem here: My Wide screen monitor(1440x900 native resolution) with Nvidia geforce 7300 GT card display is not working and stuck at 800x640 resolution 

I am tired of looking for a work around. Either I have to revert to previous version of Ubuntu or try a new distro :(

---

### Post by msbrandhorst on 2009-04-28
I had the same problems spent the last few days working on the the problem; it seems to be an issue with Nvidia 1.80 drivers that are installed.  Even after I attempted to install 1.77 drivers.  I still had no luck getting the GUI to load.  Finally I gave up and went back to ubuntu 8.04 after I copied my data from the home directory to an external hdd. :confused:

---

### Post by fh_scott on 2009-04-29
I have the same card in my Inspiron 6400.

I was able to successfully install the 180.44 drivers from NVidia's website and it's running great.

Prior to that I was having all sorts of trouble before I noticed that 9.04s install didn't update menu.lst and GRUB was loading an old kernel.

---

### Post by lessgov2007 on 2009-04-29
After you install the driver and restart X, does it give you any error messages? Mine would not load the driver, and gave me an error message suggesting I use the "ignoreABI" option. [See here for destructions]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1142924")!

---

### Post by AlecJ on 2009-04-29
I had this too see here
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1142976](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1142976)

---

### Post by MeLight on 2009-04-30
doesn't give me any warnings or errors, no trouble at all. And it's definitely loading the new kernel because I formatted the 8.10 partition. Gonna see what Alec's link has to offer

---

