---
title: "legacy ATi cards."
date: 2009-02-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Typhoeus on 2009-02-21
I've got an ATI Radeon 9200e graphics card which for day to day use is fine, but trying to get TV output is a real pain. I've read the other posts on this matter and learned that the new ATI drivers are incompatible with anything before a Radeon 9500, I've also found out that the legacy drivers needed for this graphics card are not supported by Xubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron or later. I've also found out that there are two versions of ENVY, again the one I need is not available for Hardy Heron.

  I have found though, that if i install the latest ATI drivers and reboot. Then I except the low graphics mode that pops up, I am able to get TV output. Albeit with a low colour depth (this is quite acceptable if the film I'm watching isn't full of dark scene's) but also the monitor output is set at an unacceptable resolution.

  What I'd like to know:

                            1. Is this the best quality TV output I'm going to get with this card using Xubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron.

                            2. Will I get better quality TV out if I use Feisty Faun (not to sure of the ver number).

                            3. Scripts?? Never wrote one, but could I?? At the mo if I want TV out I just run envy, select the new ATI driver (which I know wont work), and then reboot, selecting to continue with low graphics mode. When I want to use my monitor for output I just copy my backed up copy of xorg.conf  over xorg.conf reboot and I'm back to normal. How would I start to write a script? thats if its a viable option?

                            4. When i do have TV out it seems as if monitor and TV are set with the same settings. Can i edit xorg.conf so that my monitor has a different resolution to my TV.

                            5. Where do I find the default 'low graphics mode' xorg.conf file? is it xorg.conf.failsafe ? 


Below is my xorg.conf file with no TV out.


Thanks in advance for any help. 

Knowledge is king and I'm just a pauper.


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

