---
title: "5.1 sound through optical toslink cable"
date: 2009-09-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by adix87 on 2009-09-25
Hi, i installed ubuntu 9.04 last week to my PC that is connected to my hometheatre system with 5.1 sound and a projector.

Everything worked really nice, even HDmovies played really good except for the 5.1 sound, actually i didn't get any sound through the optical cable. In windows this worked out of the box and i really REALLY need the sound when watching movies.. I tried with a pair of headphones and i did get sound out of the aux in my soundcard, but there is no sound from optical.

My soundcard is [I]Auzentech xplosion 7.1 and all it has to do is let the sound through to my 5.1 amplifier.

I tried to find solutions on this forum and google, but i wansn't really successful, i found a way to get the 5.1 sound on audigy 2 but does it work on my card too? And i found something called open sound system and ALSA drivers but i had no idea how to install them, actually they are installed on my system already because when i go to sound options in ubuntu i can see my soundcard and (OSS) and (ALSA) after the name..


I've used ubuntu before, but im still really new to linux-enviroment.

I really hope someone has a solution for this, its stupid that i have to use windows only because the sound won't work in linux.
[/I]

---

### Post by KyleRaynor on 2009-09-25
Ok, first a few stupid questions.
1. How are you connecting the toslink to the sound card?(ie, is it straight to the back of the card, or is it to a console in a front cd drive slot, etc)
2. Do you have a set of headphones/speakers handy to try on the analog output to see if the sound card works at all?

---

### Post by adix87 on 2009-09-25
This is so wierd.. The moment i ask for help, is when i get it to work. This happens now and then when i go to the doctor, but the moment the doctor takes a look at mee i don't feel sick at all.. Well anyway.
I found a topic that said i had to enable IEC958 Output in volume control. So i did it and now the sound works :D 
I tried this before but the reason it didn't work back then was because i enabled all the switches, i should have only enabled IEC958 Output not all the IEC958 things.

If anyone else has this problem, use ALSA mixer and ALSA drivers from System -> Preferences -> Sound and then go to volume control and enable all the things in properties, then go to switches tab and enable IEC958 Output.

---

