---
title: "9.10 Sound Preferences: where'd my bass/treble settings go?"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by timzak on 2009-11-01
In 9.04 I could go into sound preferences and adjust volumes and settings for tons of things like Bass, Treble, Surround, Center, PCM, WAVE, etc.  

Sound card: Sound Blaster Live! original

Thanks,
Tim

---

### Post by timzak on 2009-11-03
This is a bit troubling to me.  Not only this, but Services is gone from System->Administration, and there's apparently no way to disable Empathy from the Indicator Applet.  It seems that 9.10 has taken a major step in taking away configuration options from the user.

I hope I'm wrong.  I hope these are just oversights or bugs that will soon be fixed.

---

### Post by timzak on 2009-11-08
I found out that bass, treble and other settings can still be accessed through alsamixer.  But why are these unavailable through Sound Preference gui now?

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-11-09
I have same prob so i'm installing alsamixer. :(   Eh don't see a tone thingy. K this is ******* retarded guys. i uninstalling alsa mixer now .

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-11-09
oh alsa mixer gui is installed but not in app menu i check

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-11-09
no tone controll there ither and no way to add stuff

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-11-09
hold on alsa mixer gui is reporting chip an card as dum dum dum! pulse audio! thats prolly where the problem lies

---

### Post by timzak on 2009-11-09
I'm using alsamixer from the command line.  Just type alsamixer in the terminal.  Wait, I just realized bass and treble settings aren't doing anything because Tone cannot be turned on.  You're right, mjhouska.

Are we the only two with this problem?  I know the SB Live! is old, but it was one of the most popular sound cards ever.

---

### Post by timzak on 2009-11-09
Here's the bug report I submitted.  Please post there if you have the same problem.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-media/+bug/479167](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-media/+bug/479167)

---

### Post by rodion raskolnikov on 2009-11-10
When I use alsamixer in terminal I have a column named tone. When you move to it with cursor keys a then press M key you can switch it on and then adjust bass/treble. I have SB Audigy (It should be the same as with SB Live). Good luck

---

### Post by cj100570 on 2009-11-10
Try installing Gnome Alsa Mixer. It adds a lovely gui in your sound menu. It solved all of my sound level issues.

---

### Post by silbar on 2009-11-11
Rodion said:

> When I use alsamixer in terminal I have a column named tone.

Well, I don't have such a column. (?)  My equipment is 

[INDENT]Ubuntu 9.04
card: HDA Intel
Chip: Realtek ALC1200
Speakers: Cyber Acoustics 2.1[/INDENT]

Does that mean I can't adjust the treble/bass?

Dick Silbar

---

### Post by rodion raskolnikov on 2009-11-11
I can see "tone" only on Sound Blaster. With integrated audio sadly its not there. You can change bass/treble in audio player etc.

---

