---
title: "Monitor Resolution"
date: 2011-01-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by goplayer on 2011-01-03
Hello,

I am not quite sure if this is the right place for this question. 

I have an ATI driver RV370. But for some reason I cannot get the right resolution / aspect ratio for the monitor. In monitor preferences the options I have are 640x480 (4:3) ,800x600 (4:3), 1024x768 (4:3), 1152x864 (4:3) and 1360x768 (16:9)
What I need is a resolution of 1280x1024 (5:4) 
I have installed all ATI drivers available in the ubuntu 10.04 (that's what I have running) and have no 3rd party drivers installed and no Xorg.conf file (which I understand is not needed). 

When I run:

lspci -nn | grep VGA

This is what I get:

```
05:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies Inc RV370 5B60 [Radeon X300 (PCIE)] [1002:5b60]
```I am completely baffled as to why I can't set the resolution I need especially it used to be OK until a recent recommended updates of ubuntu (I always had 10.04 running). Any insight is greatly appreciated.

Thanks and a happy new year to all.

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-01-09
Moved to Multimedia & Video and given a free bump.

---

### Post by TG12 on 2011-01-11
Try installing the latest drivers, I posted a guide here!
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664919](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664919)

---

### Post by goplayer on 2011-01-12
Thanks TG12.

I went and looked at your instructions and tried to follow them but when I ran the installer for the ATI driver I got the following error message:

```
==================================================
 ATI Technologies Linux Driver Installer/Packager 
==================================================

Error: ./default_policy.sh does not support version
default:v2:i686:lib::none:2.6.32-26-generic-pae; make sure that the version is being
correctly set by --iscurrentdistro

Removing temporary directory: fglrx-install.DNvNjZ

```

The ATI driver file I downloaded is ati-driver-installer-9-3-x86.x86_64.run

---

### Post by armyofgayunicorns on 2011-01-12
I've got an ATI card too and everything seems to work ok with the propriety drivers disabled, when I enabled the extra drivers and catalyst control centre I had all sorts of horrible problems. Did you have the card installed when you installed Ubuntu or have you added it since? I upgraded my graphics card and Ubuntu was still trying to use the drivers for my onboard Intel graphics adapter and updating them even though the Intel adapter was disabled in my BIOS. Go to add/remove programmes and make sure the drivers for your onboard graphics are removed.

---

### Post by goplayer on 2011-01-12
I had the card and monitor when ubuntu was installed. I do not have any proprietary software for the monitor installed. The monitor works fine but I can't seem to get the full range of resolution it is capable of.

---

### Post by ilabadie on 2011-01-13
Hello, having a similar problem, here is my xorgconf, i have two  monitors capable of 1280x1024 because it works on the windows partition side, they  are unique monitors because they are in portrait mode(that part is solved), all i want to do is get  the metamode line changed so both monitors are at 1280x1024, by the way  it works fine at present resolution but is too low for my liking(at 1024x768), any  help would be great! The line of code I need help with I think is [COLOR=Red]Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: 1024x768 +0+768"[/COLOR] [COLOR=Black]near the bottom...[/COLOR]

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 260.19.06  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Oct  4 16:01:38 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8500 GT"
    Option 	   "Rotate" "left"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: 1024x768 +0+768"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by ilabadie on 2011-01-13
Opps

---

### Post by goplayer on 2011-01-16
Here's the latest in this ongoing battle to get better resolution on my monitor.
I was able to manually add the resolution 1280x1024 using xrandr

```
aref@aref-desktop:~$ cvt 1280 1024
# 1280x1024 59.89 Hz (CVT 1.31M4) hsync: 63.67 kHz; pclk: 109.00 MHz
Modeline "1280x1024_60.00"  109.00  1280 1368 1496 1712  1024 1027 1034 1063 -hsync +vsync
aref@aref-desktop:~$ sudo xrandr --newmode "1280x1024_60.00"  109.00  1280 1368 1496 1712  1024 1027 1034 1063 -hsync +vsync
[sudo] password for aref: 
aref@aref-desktop:~$ sudo xrandr --addmode DVI-0 1280x1024_60.00
```

This adds the resolution to the monitor settings menu in preferences and I can select it and things are fine but it is not permanent. How can I add this to some configuration file (I don't have xorg.conf -- I thought this was automatically generated but I suppose ubuntu 10.04LTS does not need xorg.conf anymore?) so that I don't have to add this config every time I boot.

---

