---
title: "NVIDIA dual display..."
date: 2008-06-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by unpossible251 on 2008-06-23
G'Day - my problem is getting both monitors to work off the video card

Running Ubuntu 8.0.4
4 gig ram 
80 gig SATA HDD 
GeForce 8400 GS
AMD 4800+ 

OK, so got 2 monitors, both LCD, one analog and one dig - they're both hooked up to the back A-OK

Now, I was running the Asus - the original one - fine

I downloaded and installed NVIDIA X server no probs.

This program recognises both of the monitors - the HP and the Asus when I click on the 'X Server display configuration' tab.

When I go to enable the HP, it lets me run TwinView fine. Hey, its a start!

But what I would like is to do "separate X screen"

and when I go to save changes to x configuration file, it wont.

I go to x config where it belongs and I dont have access to it. It belongs to 'root' and wont let me alter it.

BUT - when I save xorg.conf to somewhere like my doc's, I see it. It says this:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34

then a whole bunch of commands

Now - here's an excerpt from the original xorg.conf failsafe: 

# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

but every forum article and FAQ warns me against playing around with sudo. BTW, I have no progaramming experience and tend to get chased off such scary things.

So- should I plow ahead and be the root sudo guy and mess around with that? or is there an easier, less risky way?

Any and all help will be gratefully received and appreciated....
Cheers

---

### Post by veedub on 2008-06-23
You need to be root user in order to make changes to xorg.conf.  Open up a terminal and issue the following command:

gksu nvidia-settings

or if that doesn't work simply:

sudo nvidia-settings

---

### Post by unpossible251 on 2008-06-23
Thanks Veedub. Both monitors are working fine and dandy. You're a real gentleman. Or a fine lady

Cheers, and thanks again

---

