---
title: "10.04: Creative Webcam VF0415 Not Working"
date: 2010-11-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by 1idahoguy on 2010-11-25
Hi all.  Total newb here.  Trying out Ubuntu on the home PC on the strong advice from a coworker.  Would love to get away from a dysfunctional MicroSoft product.  Really liking Ubuntu so far.

My question...I have a Creative Labs webcam, Model VF0415.  The webcam works fine in Windows XP SP3, but Ubuntu will not recognize it.  All info I can find says: just plug it in, Ubuntu should be configured 'out of the box' to handle it.  Seems not the case in my situation.

Been searching Google and this forum looking for a fix.  No success.  Any help/advice is appreciated.  Thanks.

---

### Post by CowzRule on 2010-11-25
You might have better luck searching for a solution if you search for the web-cam's harware or device id.
Open the Terminal and type:
```
lsusb
```
That will give you a list of your USB devices. Look for something similar to this:
```
Bus 003 Device 002: ID [COLOR="Red"]041e:4036[/COLOR] Creative Technology, Ltd Webcam Live!/Live! Pro
```
The ID in [COLOR="Red"]Red[/COLOR] is what you're looking for. Yours will be different, I listed my webcam as an example.
Now try searching these forums for your cams ID number and see what you get.
Put the following in Google's search box:
```
[COLOR="Red"]Device:ID[/COLOR] site:ubuntuforums.org
```
Hope this helps.

---

### Post by 1idahoguy on 2010-11-25
Thanks for you quick reply.

lsusb yields the following related to my webcam:

Bus 001 Device 005: ID 041e:4071 Creative Technology, Ltd

I searched Google with your suggested input.  Google provided 1 result.  And it didn't help much.

I'll keep searching...

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-11-25
ID 041e:4071 Creative Technology

try that

---

### Post by 1idahoguy on 2010-11-25
Hmmm...still nothing.  Gonna hafta go back to Windows, at least to video chat.

---

### Post by 1idahoguy on 2010-11-26
Problem solved.  I downloaded and installed Cheese, opened the app, and it activated the webcam.  All seems to be working fine now.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-11-26
[http://www.google.com/search?client=opera&rls=en&q=ID+041e:4071+Creative+Technology&sourceid=opera&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8](http://www.google.com/search?client=opera&rls=en&q=ID+041e:4071+Creative+Technology&sourceid=opera&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8)

---

