---
title: "12.04 - how to disable laptop internal audio?"
date: 2012-05-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by edgue on 2012-05-09
Hello there,

I am using a lenove W510 with internal speakers & microphone; but most of the time my laptop is sitting in my docking station; and I have a USB headset connected to the docking station.

With Ubuntu 11.xx the "sound settings" panel did allow me to select a hardware profile for my devices. That profile could be

off
analog output
analog output&input
...

I typically set the laptop internal audio to "off". 

So, for the few occasions when the laptop wasnt docked ... and I would need sound, i would go to the panel, enable internal audio ... listen ... and disable it afterwards.
But for 90% of time, my laptop is switched on in the docking station it just sees the enabled headset ...

Big advantage of that: when the laptop is docked, there isnt any doubt on which device to use - internal audio is off ... so it picks the headset. Without me doing anything.

That is 100% what I want. I do NOT want to turn to the audio settings every I switch on my laptop in the docking station.

But with ubuntu 12.04 ... all the devices show up all the time. The selection of a profile (that I could turn to OFF) is gone.

Huge step backwards in my eyes. 

Any idea on how to enable the behavior I am used to?

Besides: I find it HIHGLY confusing that the "primary" output is simply selected via clicking. Right now, I see three options
in the "Play sound through" ... and i make a choice by clicking on one them?! Then that entry is highlighted ... meaning: it is
used now. Why giving up on the radio buttons? That was MUCH easier to spot & understand!

EDIT:

I mailed to some mailing list and was told:
* maybe the "off" profile will be back with 12.10
* i could use the pavu control (which I really hate) to set devices "off"

---

