---
title: "9.04: HDMI + nvidia = No signal / SVideo + nvidia = Fine... Help?!?"
date: 2009-10-15
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by obscure411 on 2009-10-15
I already posted this in general help, but then realized Nvidia was mentioned in the forum description here and thought this might be a better place to seek support.  I hope posting this in two forums doesn't violate any tos.  Apologies if it does, no harm intended.

I'm having an issue with my HTPC.

I have an Nvidia 7300GS card with an HDMI output on it. When installed, I can see the POST and bootup splash screen. What happens next depends on the driver: if I'm using the stock non-restricted driver, I get video -- albeit lousy video. If I use the nvidia driver from restricted drivers, after POST and splash screen the Samsung HDTV goes blank, searches for signal, and eventually errors with "no signal".

Connect the same HDTV to an Nvidia 7100 with an Svideo out, and it works perfectly, although not at 1080p in full HDMI glory.

If I do some crazy things like install with the 7100 connected to the Svideo, install the restricted driver, reboot, shut down, swap in the 7300GS, and reboot, I can *sometimes* get it working in full 1080p once or twice... but after a reboot, it's back to "no signal".

I'm not a linux newbie, but I've never had to muck around with the nvidia driver or xorg.conf much in the past. Anyone out there that can give me some guidance on where to start?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by obscure411 on 2009-10-16
bump... anyone?

Additional info:

Mythbuntu 9.04 x64 with latest nvidia driver (185 I believe)
ASUS M2V Motherboard
MSI NX-7300GS 256MB HDMI

Should I try an older driver?  I'm thinking this has to be an xorg.conf type of fix where I just need to force the appropriate settings for screen detection etc.

Any help is GREATLY appreciated!

---

