---
title: "Unable to activate nVidia drivers"
date: 2009-07-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by OobNosferatu on 2009-07-05
I just upgraded from intrepid 64bit to jaunty 64bit... and I can't seem to enable the proprietary drivers. They worked in intrepid.

I have the restricted linux modules, re-downloaded the old and new drivers, played with xorg.conf (replaced it with a new one, backed up, etc) but all that booted me straight into the troubleshoot mode of X.

The key here is that the hardware driver tool window says I have no proprietary hardware, when I do. I have an nVidia 8800m GTS.

Interestingly enough I have a separate jaunty installation on the same computer... and the drivers are installed.. it works great... but it's not my "main" system; i installed it to test jaunty (on 10gigs). All my modifications (eye candy, multimedia software, etc) are on the installation I'm trying to fix.

Is there a way to just drag and drop a few key files from the working installation into this one? I used that method to fix a few other errors. 

By the way, I've messed with my system quite a bit one late night... and this is part of my recovery...

I've attached xorg.0 log and the previous xorg.conf log (I'm currently using the generic one).

Please help! This is giving me a real headache.

---

### Post by OobNosferatu on 2009-07-05
Oops. The attachment didn't go through last time. Here it is

---

### Post by CDN MILLWRIGHT32 on 2009-07-05
Did you install the drivers with "System/Administration/Hardware drivers"?

This is my xorg.conf after using the above method. note: the busid I added after because I have dual video cards,

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
	Busid "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Hope this will help.

---

### Post by OobNosferatu on 2009-07-05
Thanks for replying. I downloaded the drivers from synaptic and they show up in the hardware drivers tool, but that window just says "no proprietary hardware on this system"... even when I try to activate the driver, it tries to "download and install" the driver but then that screen goes away leaving me with the hardware drivers tool screen again and the button next to the drivers is still grey. I'm unable to activate them.

---

### Post by OobNosferatu on 2009-07-05
Let this be a lesson: do not rack your brains over a computer problem in the middle of the night... like say at 4am even if it's the weekend! :P

This afternoon (a few mins ago) I found a work around:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/298584](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/jockey/+bug/298584)

Basically you should install envyng-gtk and run it from terminal with

```
sudo envyng -t
```

follow the instructions, reboot and voila. It'll even show up as activated in the device hardware tool. Just remember to use this method to update your system with every kernel update...

---

### Post by CDN MILLWRIGHT32 on 2009-07-05
Glad to hear you figured it out. I have done the same thing myself and finally given up only to look at the problem with fresh eyes and it seems simple. when your tired the last change is the only one you can remember, not the fifteen before...LOL.
Good luck!

---

