---
title: "SVideo/TV-Out problems"
date: 2009-03-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Ben_neB on 2009-03-17
I run Ubuntu 8.10, and have a NVIDIA 8600 GT graphics card, with an SVIDEO out connection to a television. I want to route movies and the like to the TV. Now, I've installed the NVIDIA hardware drivers and all that, and the stupid thing is, it worked the very first time I tried it, not problem. 

I went into "NVIDIA X Server Settings->X Server Display Configuration" and set my TV to Twinview, and it worked great. My desktop extended to the tV, and simply by dragging the video player over to the TV, it appeared. Everything seemed perfect. But then I mucked around for a bit trying to get the sound routed to the TV as well. (Actually an extra set of speakers that are in the "rear speaker" jack of my sound card.) 

After accomplishing that, I went back the the X Server Settings to actually fire it up for a full video+sound test run, only to discover that I suddenly can't get any video output to the TV anymore.

Everything seems to look fine in the "X Server Display Configuration" screen, and it acts like it's working, but I see only a black screen. It gives me no errors, it seems to believe that it's running fine. 

I just don't understand why it worked the first time, when I was just poking around, and now that I know what I'm doing, it stopped working. It's really killing my enthusiasm for Linux.

BTW, here is the content of my xorg.conf file, since that seems to be what most people with this problem include in their posts:

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HSD AH191"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1440x900 +0+0, TV: nvidia-auto-select +1440+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by kumarldh on 2009-03-17
I am surprised that you were able to connect the laptop to your TV in first go. I spent last night and all I got was a flicker. I have a Compaq Presario V3000 laptop with Intel 945 chipset. My TV is a simple color tv (LG, PAL color encoding, I am in India). When I connect my S-Vid to TV cable and boot my machine all I see is a flicker and TV screen remains black. I tried using gtk-displayconfig to add another monitor and test it. Then even read about xrandr and tried using it but nothing helped. I was about to start a new thread but read your post and decided to add my problems here ;).
Any pointer???

---

### Post by Ben_neB on 2009-03-17
It's not a laptop actually. It's Gateway desktop. 

But I have no idea why it worked so easily the first time. All I did was go to the "X Server Display Configuration" screen, and my TV was there. I used the "config" button to set it to twinview, and it worked straight away. I was proud of my intellect, and grateful for Linux. And then it never worked again . . . 

I spend two hours last night trying everything I could think of, and everything I'd seen online, and I still get nothing, just a black screen. I'm at a total loss.

---

### Post by Ben_neB on 2009-03-17
Sorry for the double post, but I have solved the problem, it seems. I just uninstalled and reinstalled all NVIDIA-related things, namely the X Server and the Xorg 177 driver. 

So far, everything seems to be working perfectly.

---

### Post by kumarldh on 2009-03-18
It seems that my laptop's hardware configuration doesn't support this or some thing else is missing. Thanks heaven I backed up my xorg.conf or else I would have lost all my compiz fusion settings. I love dekstop cube and wobbly windows.

---

### Post by psablo on 2009-03-18
Could you be more specific Ben_neB?
I have the same problem on a PNY Nvidia 5500 (AGD version 173) under Ubuntu 8.10 Ibex64 
What exactly did you uninstall and re-install?
I have:
nvidea-settings
nvidia-173-kernel-source
nvidia-common
nvidia-173-modaliases (71,177,96 as well)
nvidea-glx-173
xserver-xorg-video-nv
smartdimmer
jockey-gtk
jockey-common
all installed under synaptic pack.man.

---

### Post by psablo on 2009-03-19
Well, as usual (with headache and blurry eyes), I eventually got it :

gksudo nvidia-settings
configure TV to "TwinView" and position "Absolute +128+128"
my monitor is 1280x1024 and my TV is 1024x768.

I wish I knew how to run 
System > Administration > NVIDIA X Server Settings as 'root'
so I don't always have to open a terminal and gksudo.

---

### Post by psablo on 2009-03-19
Appologies for triple posting, but I forgot to mention,
kumarldh, you'll need to follow the steps at the following link for an Intel Graphics Accelerator; I went through the same thing on my LapTop.


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=361124&highlight=intel+svideo](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=361124&highlight=intel+svideo)

---

### Post by euxneks on 2009-03-19
psablo: you shouldn't have to use gksudo when you invoke nvidia-settings..? What do you get when you try to run that without gksudo? (i.e. open a terminal and what output do you get when you just run nvidia-settings)

---

### Post by kumarldh on 2009-03-19
> **psablo said:**
> Appologies for triple posting, but I forgot to mention,
kumarldh, you'll need to follow the steps at the following link for an Intel Graphics Accelerator; I went through the same thing on my LapTop.


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=361124&highlight=intel+svideo](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=361124&highlight=intel+svideo)

Thanks for the link buddy. I tried it and it only resulted in loosing all the compiz settings and nothing else. :( 
My compiz settings allow me to convert die hard MS fans to Ubuntu. Today I will again spend my night with S-Video stuff. :D

---

### Post by psablo on 2009-03-19
euxneks, I think you're right, I should be able to change the nvidia-settings without 'root' permission.  The issue was, when using the Nvidia X server GUI I couldn't save to xorg.conf unless I ran gksudo from terminal, but now I realize I don't need to save, I'll just re-run nvidia-settings every time.

kumarldh, I'd love to find an easier way to run svideo on my Intel 945 LapTop, but in many hours of searching, the link I sent was the only method that worked for me.  If you find an easier way please post it.

don't forget to backup your xorg.conf!

EDIT:
over and over again, and I keep coming back to gksudo.
to change 'X' you must write to xorg.conf and the only way is from terminal as 'root'

---

