---
title: "180.37 screen tear, lag in Mplayer and VLC"
date: 2009-03-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-03-17
Using the 180.37 nvidia driver, and Mplayer from [http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos](http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos) I am getting slight screen tear, lag, and audio/video synchronization issues.

I have tried the Multimedia howto from [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=94](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=94), but the wget locations where unavailable. I'm not even sure if I had to do this because I am running intrepid.

I had substantial screen tear until installing the 180.xx series nvidia driver... but the problem has not gone away. Is there any way to fix this? the problem is consistent with Mplayer and VLC.

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-03-17
So far everything about Ubuntu is better than XP, except video quality. Is there any way to change this?

---

### Post by Atilliar on 2009-03-17
I am having the same problem.  Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-03-18
nobody can figure this out?

---

### Post by tim15856 on 2009-03-18
If compiz is enabled, try disabling it.

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-03-18
I'm relatively new at Ubuntu, how do you disable compiz, return it to default settings?

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-03-18
bump

---

### Post by cor2y on 2009-03-19
Nvidia 9800GT 512mb video card
Nvidia 180.37 driver with vdpau enabled for mplayer
Ubuntu 8.10 32bit
Compiz-fusion 0.7.8
xorg 1.5.2

With the exception of the video driver everything listed is installed by default in 8.10
Now the minor differences

Compiz Config Settings Manager Video Playback enabled and Sync to Vblank located in General Options->Display Settings
Nvidia Control Panel Sync to Vblank enabled under XServer Xvideo Settings NOT OpenGl Settings

And thats the settings i have enabled no video tearing here or if its happening i don't observe it in totem-xine or smplayer which is what i mostly use to view video

---

### Post by tim15856 on 2009-03-19
If you go to preferences/appearance/ and select the visual effects tab. I think compiz is disabled if you select something other than "extras".

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-03-19
> **ffixcollector said:**
> So far everything about Ubuntu is better than XP, except video quality. Is there any way to change this?

nvidia has Pure Video for gpu assisted video in xp.  nvidia has recently introduced vdpau for gpu assisted video in linux.  when vdpau becomes more mainstream (maybe in jaunty) video quality will improve.

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-03-19
ok I have enabled/disabled the settings. Enabling the Nvidia Xserver sync to Vblank helped a bit, but it did not fix it.

vdpau should be enabled on mplayer:

```
The Ultimate Movie Player For Linux
It plays most mpeg, avi and asf files, supported by many native and win32
DLL codecs. You can watch VCD, DVD and even DivX movies too. The other
big feature of mplayer is the wide range of supported output drivers. It
works with X11, Xv, DGA, OpenGL, SVGAlib, fbdev, but you can use SDL (and
this way all drivers of SDL) and some lowlevel card-specific drivers (for
Matrox/3dfx/SiS) too! Most of them supports software or hardware scaling,
so you can enjoy movies in fullscreen.

This version includes the Gtk GUI
This version requires nVidia driver >= 180.16 for VDPAU
```

I'm not sure what video driver I'm using. After upgrading the kernel, all I get in my drivers selection is "nvidia"

---

### Post by cor2y on 2009-03-19
i used the 180.37 nvidia driver from the nvidia ftp site and also compiled the latest svn of mplayer along with compiling smplayer myself so i can't say.
The svn version of mplayer comes with vdpau support also vdpau has to be selected as your video output see this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1037625&highlight=vdpau](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1037625&highlight=vdpau)

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-03-19
Using the command:
Code:

 mplayer -vo vdpau -vc ffh264vdpau filename.mkv

Mplayer works fine from terminal with no freezing jitters or audio/video lag, there is minor screen rip.

Playing the file from the UI, Mplayer or SMPlayer, I have a problem with the video not matching with the audio. When I allow frame dropping, there is jitter and frame freezing.
I have the cache at 10000 kb
I have the video driver VDPAU
I have the audio driver Pulse
Postprocessing enabled @ quality 6
No deinterlacer
Direct rendering
and-vc ffmpeg12vdpau:deint=2,ffh264vdpau:deint=2,ffwmv3vd pau:deint=2,ffvc1vdpau:deint=2, in the MPlayer options.

I do not get screen tear with the UI mplayer and smplayer, thats why I want to keep using them. Is there any way that I can troublesoot this problem and fix it?

I'm running a nvidia 180.37 driver on a 8800gs gpu running at 550 mhz gpu clock and a 800mhz memory clock. These problems only occur on fast action scenes on 1280 x 720 video.

 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 8800 GS (rev a2)
	Subsystem: eVga.com. Corp. Device c851
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 18
	Memory at fd000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
	Memory at c0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
	Memory at fa000000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=32M]
	I/O ports at ac00 [size=128]
	[virtual] Expansion ROM at fe9e0000 [disabled] [size=128K]
	Capabilities: [60] Power Management version 3
	Capabilities: [68] Message Signalled Interrupts: Mask- 64bit+ Queue=0/0 Enable-
	Capabilities: [78] Express Endpoint, MSI 00
	Capabilities: [100] Virtual Channel <?>
	Capabilities: [128] Power Budgeting <?>
	Capabilities: [600] Vendor Specific Information <?>
	Kernel driver in use: nvidia
	Kernel modules: nvidia, nvidiafb

---

### Post by cor2y on 2009-03-20
Read the settings in the thread i linked to,
It explains how to set up smplayer for vdpau enabled playback.
For vanilla mplayer edit or create the config file like this, its located in the hidden .mplayer folder in your home directory 
```

# Write your default config options here!
vo=vdpau,
ao=pulse,
vc=ffmpeg12vdpau,ffh264vdpau,ffwmv3vdpau,ffvc1vdpau,

```
Save in your .mplayer folder as config, now mplayer from the cmdline will use vdpau automatically
For gmplayer the gui one you can add the settings via the gui interface or edit the gui.conf file in the .mplayer folder just make sure to have this settings enabled in gui.conf
```

vo_driver = "vadpau"
```

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-03-20
Works great. Thanks for the info.

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-03-20
To give you a better idea of where I'm at. I believe gmplyer and smplayer are taking to many resources.

I have included attachments of processor output using smplyer and no GUI.

My question is why is smplyer/mplayer taking 40% when using no GUI uses about 5%? Does the GUI take that many resources?

---

### Post by rvm4000 on 2009-03-20
> **ffixcollector said:**
> My question is why is smplyer/mplayer taking 40% when using no GUI uses about 5%? Does the GUI take that many resources?

You can try to disable the logs of mplayer and smplayer in preferences -> advanced -> logs and see if that makes any difference.

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-03-20
they already are.

---

### Post by rvm4000 on 2009-03-20
Then be sure you're using in smplayer the same video and audio drivers than when running mplayer alone.

Or try to disable the "correct pts" option in preferences -> advanced. Sometimes that option makes mplayer to use a lot of cpu, specially with mp4 files.

---

