---
title: "10.04 vumeter reads ok but still no audio"
date: 2010-08-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by cdebergh on 2010-08-22
I used to have audio working. Now it's silence while the vumeter reads as if all streams are outputting okay.

I have a Radeon HD 4670 with audio out the HDMI as well as audio out the motherboard simultaneously. This all works in windows 7 and used to work in ubuntu until some point, not exactly sure when, it all went silent.

Also, fyi, I started with a clean 9.10 and upgraded to 10.04.

# uname -a
Linux turk-desktop 2.6.32-24-generic #39-Ubuntu SMP Wed Jul 28 05:14:15 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

# aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 0: ALC888 Analog [ALC888 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: Intel [HDA Intel], device 1: ALC888 Digital [ALC888 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 1: HDMI [HDA ATI HDMI], device 3: ATI HDMI [ATI HDMI]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

---

### Post by cdebergh on 2010-08-28
To anyone who finds this with a similar problem:

I fixed this by creating a new user account. I then copied over all the files in the .pulse directory in the new users home directory to the .pulse directory in the original user's home directory. I did not copy the one ending in "runtime".

Then I logged out and back in. Played something. Opened up the System > Preferences > Sound and changed the output to the motherboard. It worked! Then I tried putting it to HDMI. It worked! Then I tried the simultaneous output again. IT WORKED!

Not sure why it didn't work after logging out and in, but at least it works now.

Simultaneous audio from both HDMI and the mother board is great! I can't do this in windows 7 with my video games.

---

