---
title: "nVidia display resolution"
date: 2008-05-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by marcelofontenele on 2008-05-10
Hello everyone,

After install restricted drives, i've got 1024x768-50Hz resolution and i want (and i know ubuntu it's perfectly capable of give to me) 1280x1024-75Hz. I have a Pci-express nVidia 7300 card and my monitor it's a Samsung Syncmaster 796mb plus. This is what i've got from xorg.conf after install restricted drivers:
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"abnt2"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"br"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

I don't want to install the drivers with envy, because i't gave me a lot of headaches. Everytime the system goes on, i had to set the keyboard configuration to pt-br (portuguese-brazil) abnt2. Even if i edit xorg.conf and set to pt-br abnt2, it returns to another layout.

Thanks in advance for any help.

Marcelo
:)

---

### Post by marcelofontenele on 2008-05-10
Hello again. 

I solved the problem this way.

I installed nvidia-settings ( ***sudo aptitude -y install nvidia-settings*** ), then i ran the following command: ***sudo nvidia-settings***. I choose ***X Server Display Configuration***, then i choose ***1280x1024*** resolution with ***75Hz*** refresh rate. Ok, the i hit ***Apply***, and the screen change as i wanted. There it is the trick:

Click on ***Save to X Configuration File***, but don't save, instead click ***Show Preview***, copy and paste the resunlt on a separate text file, and open xorg.conf (/etc/X11/xorg.conf - do a backup first), the compare the two texts. Mine gone this way and is working real fine here (changes in bold):

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

[B]Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"[/B]
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

[B]Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection[/B]

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "abnt2"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "br"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection
[B]
Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 85.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 SE/7200 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_75 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection[/B]

That's it.

See ya

Marcelo
:):):):):):):):)

---

