---
title: "New 8.04 install configuration of xorg.conf"
date: 2009-01-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by msharelick on 2009-01-11
Hello:

I have a new install of Ubuntu 8.04.  I am trying to install the 
nvidia drivers.  I have successfully installed them. 

The problem I am running into is there are various directions for doing things like "Change a setting in the Module Section" or "Change a setting in the display section"

In addition there does not appear to be a way to  change my xorg.conf file 
from the menu.

For example the menu item System->Administration->Screens and Graphics is not present and there does not appear to be a way to add it. 

One more piece of information. 

I tried using sudo displayconfig-gtk to modify the xorg.conf file. I chose the 
monitor I was using, tested, clicked keep configuration.  Then clicked OK when I was done.  

This had no effect on the xorg.conf file.  I relaunched displayconfig-gtk and it reverted back to Plug N Play monitor. 

Please help 

Thanks

Matthew Harelick

In addition, my xorg.conf file does not look right.  It only has default information, it does not include anything specific about my video card or my monitors. 

I am including it here: 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
EndSection

How can I fix this situation so that I can customize my monitor / video card?

Thanks

Matthew Harelick

---

