---
title: "make sudo chmod 777 /dev/nvidiactl works permanently"
date: 2009-12-15
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Ajat on 2009-12-15
Hi, something happened to my video card configuration, so that i can't play Warcraft III for a while.

when using wine from the terminal, i've got /dev/nvidiactl (Permission Denied.)

so I'm using the dirty way to fix it like ```
sudo chmod 777 /dev/nvidiactl

```

but then it say sudo /dev/nvidia0 (Permision Denied.)

keep forcing with ```
sudo chmod 777 /dev/nvidia0
```

now the Warcraft works fine with  wine. But after I close the program (Warcraft III.exe), the problem emerges again. 

so every time when i want to play Warcraft III, i need to do

```
sudo chmod 777 /dev/nvidiactl
sudo chmod 777 /dev/nvidia0

```

first. Can I change it permanently?

[Two years ago, there is a thread about this problem, but no reply until now].

---

### Post by lloyd_b on 2009-12-15
The problem is that those "/dev/..." entries are not actual files, but rather device nodes that are regenerated by the system every time it boots.  So, no, your changes will not persist after a reboot.

I have no clue why you'd need the chmod those devices in the first place, but if you're looking for a "quick and dirty" solution, just add those "chmod ..." commands into the file "/etc/rc.local" - this is run at the end of the startup process, so they'll execute every time you start the machine.  Note that this will execute them as root, so no 'sudo' will be required.

Lloyd B.

---

### Post by TheMusicGuy on 2010-01-27
I had this problem as well. The problem is that it seems to reset at apparently random times, even before restarting the system or even logging out. I think it is caused by applications that try to access the device.

chmod 666 /dev/nvidia* is enough for affected apps to be able to use the files on my system, but after the program has run (and sometimes during), I ls -l the files and see that the permissions have returned to readonly for average users.

Check the output of ls -l /dev/nvidia* and see if there is a group associated with the files. On my system its 'video'. Adding myself to that group seems to fix it, but I'm not sure if this is a "true" fix. Apps that complain about /dev/nvidia* seem to have stopped complaining afterwards, and seem to generally run smoother and faster.

---

### Post by flaviusxvii on 2010-09-18
I'm having a similar issue. The permissions and group of both /dev/nvidia* files keep changing. The group should be video but when I change it it just keeps going back to root. Anyone know how to fix this?

I JUST got an API mismatch message when I tried to run glxgears, so maybe I need to get that fixed first thing.

---

### Post by ahso4271 on 2011-10-28
same here. I always do:
cd /dev
sudo chmod 777 nv*

why?

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-10-28
I appreciate that All Hallows Eve is approaching but rather than raising old threads from the grave, please make a new thread of your own.

Closed.

---

