---
title: "12.04 &amp; 14.04 flash video plugins for browsers not working"
date: 2014-07-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Flaggmann on 2014-07-24
Is there a quick fix for flash video plugin replacement for adobe flashplayer no longer working?

I go to a tv news network site with an embedded flash video and the browser says install flash player plugin; I click on the link and go through the motions and although it appeasr to indicate it is installed, it isn't; as when I return to the news media page it keeps asking for me to install the plugin. Could this be because the plugin is 32 bit and my systems are 64 bit? Any solutions? browsers are firefox, iceweasel and nightly; all mozilla packages. Don'y use chromium as it does not allow me privacy configs re tabs and cookies etc.

Only have it installed if there is absolutely no other way to access a web page.

UPDATE SYMPTOM =Error given by Adobe when attempt to install from mint machine and firefox is: 

"Unknown channel 'qiana-partner'
The channel 'qiana-partner' is not known"

---

### Post by dave131 on 2014-07-24
Adobe dropped Linux development, so the version of flash available is old.  As far as I know you cannot install any newer version.  You may want to try Chrome - I seem to remember somewhere that it comes with flash - perhaps it is newer - I don't know.

---

### Post by Flaggmann on 2014-07-24
Adobe has the last 11.2 available but the apt install package won't work so I tried the tar ball and copied per instructions but it did not work either   sad to say I guess will have to fumble through with two browsers if chrome has a built in flash player until mozilla FF catches up. Thanx

---

### Post by Flaggmann on 2014-07-25
Yes Chromium here has flash that works built in so I guess I will just have to wait for FF to catch up. Thnx agn

---

### Post by dave131 on 2014-07-28
You should be able to do this:

sudo apt-get install flashplugin-installer

and it should install the last supported version of flash for linux.  This will be what Firefox would use.  It's not a Firefox issue - there's nothing to "catch-up".

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-07-29
Or you may try installing Chrome's flash in Firefox
[http://www.webupd8.org/2014/05/install-fresh-player-plugin-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2014/05/install-fresh-player-plugin-in-ubuntu.html)

---

### Post by RogerDavis on 2014-07-30
I've recently run into a problem with Flash not being upgraded in Linux.  I need to run newer files, so am looking for a way to accomplish this in SeaMonkey browser, which uses the FireFox kernel.

I see two possibilities :
===============================
- To use Pepper Flash Player in Chromium browser under Ubuntu 14.04, firstly install the package:

```
sudo apt-get install pepperflashplugin-nonfree
```

- Then, run the following command to install it:

```
sudo update-pepperflashplugin-nonfree --install

```
The installer can be used to install Pepper Flash Player from either Google Chrome Stable, Beta or Unstable. 
------------------
**But I don't think this will work in FireFox / Seamonkey ???**
================================
and 
==================================
- Install Fresh Player Plugin in Ubuntu (via PPA), by using the following commands:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:nilarimogard/webupd8
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install freshplayerplugin
```
=================================

What's the best way to go?  Will either or both of these work for FireFox / SeaMonkey?  Other possibilities (besides using Chrome)?

---

### Post by Fred T on 2014-08-06
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Or you may try installing Chrome's flash in Firefox
[http://www.webupd8.org/2014/05/install-fresh-player-plugin-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2014/05/install-fresh-player-plugin-in-ubuntu.html)

Worked for me. Thanks

---

### Post by mrmikee on 2015-01-16
THANKS!!! 
This answer worked for me on Mint 17 Mate.

---

### Post by mrmikee on 2015-01-16
dave131 THANKS!!! 
Your answer worked for me on Mint 17 Mate.

>>> You should be able to do this:
>>> sudo apt-get install flashplugin-installer

---

### Post by netcom61 on 2015-10-09
Ditto  +1

---

