---
title: "(10.04) RhythmBox sees iPod Nano but doesn't give me a 'sync' button"
date: 2010-11-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by lmenard on 2010-11-23
Folks,

I've been using Ubuntu to various degrees over the last 4 years or so, and I'm now in process of weaning off Microsoft.  One big blocker I'm finding is finding an equivalent for iTunes.  There are hundreds (if not thousands) of opinions out there as to which Ubuntu app is best, and based on what I read I chose RhythmBox.

My iPod is a Nano (the one with the integrated video camera), and has been working fine when synced from iTunes on Windows.

When I plug it into the Ubuntu 10.04 Desktop 32-bit LTS system, RhythmBox recognizes it... I can see the contents of it and can play it.  However, I am not offered a way to sync it from my RhythmBox library.  There's no Sync button.

I have another system (a laptop) running 10.10, and it works there.  Unfortunately that's not a solution because:

1) The laptop is too small to hold my entire library, and

2) I cannot upgrade my desktop to 10.10 because 10.10 will not boot on it... dunno why.

I've spent 2 days now poring over thousands of posts as well as the formal doc and various other blog articles, but have not seen one that reflects my exact symptoms, nor have I found any of the proposed solutions helpful.

Any help would be appreciated.  Thanks.

---

### Post by big_bum on 2010-11-23
You could use [http://www.gtkpod.org/wiki/Home](http://www.gtkpod.org/wiki/Home) instead of Rhythmbox. :)
For me, it works.
PS: I have this model : [http://www.hypebeast.com/image/2009/09/apple-ipod-nano-5th-generation-1.jpg](http://www.hypebeast.com/image/2009/09/apple-ipod-nano-5th-generation-1.jpg)

---

### Post by lmenard on 2010-11-23
> **big_bum said:**
> You could use [http://www.gtkpod.org/wiki/Home](http://www.gtkpod.org/wiki/Home) instead of Rhythmbox. :)
For me, it works.
PS: I have this model : [http://www.hypebeast.com/image/2009/09/apple-ipod-nano-5th-generation-1.jpg](http://www.hypebeast.com/image/2009/09/apple-ipod-nano-5th-generation-1.jpg)

Thanks, but it doesn't work for me.

I installed the version of gtkpod in the Synaptic Package Manager (which is 0.99.14-2ubuntu4).  It installed OK, and it can see the iPod OK, but when I try to import my current media files from my desktop's hard disk into gtkpod's Music Library most of them fail with error:
[INDENT]*Import of '/home/lmenard/Music/<file>.m4a' failed: not supported without the mp4v2 library.  You must install the mp4v2 library.*
[/INDENT]So then I did install the mp4v2 package, rebooted, and I still get the same error... Looks like I can only Import mp3 files into the Library.

---

### Post by dondiego2 on 2010-11-23
The only thing I don't like about gtkpod is it puts a file on your iPod and it must me some kind of checksum file.  If that file doesn't match the next time you hook up your iPod it goes through a long reloading of all your music to sync up.  So I stopped using it and deleted the file on my iPod.

RhythmBox does not have a "sync" button.  You can drag and drop files into your iPod through RhythmBox like you would on any drive.  It's like manual syncing on iTunes.

---

### Post by lmenard on 2010-11-23
> **dondiego2 said:**
> RhythmBox does not have a "sync" button.  You can drag and drop files into your iPod through RhythmBox like you would on any drive.  It's like manual syncing on iTunes.

Dondiego2, yes it most certainly does.  At least it does on my 10.10 laptop when the iPod is connected.  And when I click it, I can select which playlist(s) I wish to sync, as well as how much space will be used/free on the device after the sync.

Thanks for the tip about drag-&-drop, that does seem to be working.  That's a start.  :)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-11-23
So why doesn't 10.10 boot? ;)

---

### Post by dondiego2 on 2010-11-23
OK thanks.  I never right clicked on my iPod in RhythmBox after it was connected.  I never used the sync option on iTunes except for podcasts.  My music library is too big for my iPod and I got tired of dealing with the checked and unchecked boxes so I just manually dragged what I wanted over to the iPod just like RhythmBox.  

I use gPodder to sync my podcasts and it works great.

What I do like about RhythmBox is that it does not change your music library on your hd and I can organize it how I want - unlike iTunes.

BTW - I am using 10.10 and I have a 5th gen 60gb hard drive based iPod - one of the old models but it works great.

---

### Post by dondiego2 on 2010-11-23
> **Temüjin said:**
> So why doesn't 10.10 boot? ;)


I couldn't get 10.10 to boot on my desktop until I did the nomodset option.  I took forever to figure that out.  It was the first time Ubuntu required that.  I didn't have that problem with previous versions.

---

### Post by lmenard on 2010-11-23
> **Temüjin said:**
> So why doesn't 10.10 boot? ;)

I have no idea.

The first graphical screen I see when booting 10.10 is a blue/gray (I think) background with some symbols at the bottom... one looks like it might be a keyboard or a USB stick, then maybe an "equals" sign, and then a human stick-figure.  What the heck that is trying to tell me, I haven't a clue (USB stick == people?), but it goes away after a few seconds and the booting continues.

Then it gets to the point where you see the Ubuntu logo with the 5 square lights underneath it.  The lights strobe for a while (I presume that's a progress indicator?) but eventually they stop and the hard disk just stops reading... things just come to a standstill.  Nothing I do seems to resume it... all I can do is reboot, and the same thing happens again and again.

The same thing happened when booting up from the 10.10 install CD, but that same CD worked fine on my Acer laptop, so the CD isn't the issue.  After installing 10.04 on the Desktop system and testing it for a while, I did an online upgrade to 10.10, and bango, the problem came back... couldn't boot.  So I had to wipe it out and install 10.04 again.

The system unit is 5 or 6 years old but everything is good brand-name stuff (2.6 GHz Intel P4, Asus system board, 1 Gb RAM, Seagate 250 Gb HDD), but I guess it could still be some hardware issue.

This system will hopefully only be temporary anyway, I need to invest in some better hardware soon.

---

### Post by dondiego2 on 2010-11-23
Sounds like the issues I had when I upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10.  My machine is about 5 years old.  I remember when I got that little stick-man I had to hit an F key or enter or something to bring up the menu.  Then when I got to the menu I had to choose the option 'nomodset' for installation and that did the trick.

I did have to modify grub afterwards to include that option in every boot.  I don't remember exactly how I did all this but the forum helped me out a lot.  Haven't had any problems since.

---

### Post by lmenard on 2010-11-24
Yeah, I also saw those articles and I tried the F keys and every other hotkey combo I could think of.  Nothing helped, I always got stuck at the 5 dots.  No big deal, I'm happy at 10.04 for the time being.

It sounds like the suggestions about the Sync button have run out, so I'll consider this thread dried up.

Many thanks to everybody who responded.

---

