---
title: "ID3V2.3.0 PRIV Tags"
date: 2009-03-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Epitaph44 on 2009-03-25
When editing ID3 tags, there is occasionally files where there are multiple PRIV sections in the ID3V2.3.0 tags.
They are all usually blank.
I'm using Kid3 to edit the tags.
This is not a problem, I'm just curious as to what the PRIV sections are.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-03-25
i was looking up some tag info the other night, from some specs

> 4.28.   Private frame

   This frame is used to contain information from a software producer
   that its program uses and does not fit into the other frames. The
   frame consists of an 'Owner identifier' string and the binary data.
   The 'Owner identifier' is a null-terminated string with a URL [URL]
   containing an email address, or a link to a location where an email
   address can be found, that belongs to the organisation responsible
   for the frame. Questions regarding the frame should be sent to the
   indicated email address. The tag may contain more than one "PRIV"
   frame but only with different contents. It is recommended to keep the
   number of "PRIV" frames as low as possible.



---

### Post by ufleisch on 2009-03-26
These PRIV tags are used by Microsoft to put their Windows Media attributes into the ID3 tags. The contents are binary, you can export them with Kid3 using the Edit button, then Export. You can then look at the exported files using a hex-editor or xxd. Examples of such PRIV frames are WM/Mood (the owner field of the frame) containing an UTF-16 string in the data field or WM/MediaClassPrimaryID containing a 128-bit GUID. The next version of Kid3 will decode, display and edit such fields.

---

### Post by Epitaph44 on 2009-03-26
Thanks to both of you.

---

