---
title: "9.10 w/ati hd radeon 4350"
date: 2010-03-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by rastasean on 2010-03-10
I come to the great Ubuntu forums for your help, guidance, assistance, and prays that one day things on my machine will begin to work properly. I will forever be in debt with who is able to help me out.

**PROBLEM:**
I recently re-installed ubuntu 9.10 on my machine and now my 23" hanns*g monitor (seen here:[http://tinyurl.com/yb228zp](http://tinyurl.com/yb228zp)) connected hdmi to my dvi port on my ati radeon 4350 card and *after* the ati/amd proprietarty fglrx graphics card drivers are re-installed, the monitor resolution is at the max of 1920*1080 but there's about 2" missing from the entire screen. I don't know enough about the xorg.conf file but I have 7 different files named various things like: /etc/X11/xorg.conf; xorg.conf.20100310074956; xorg.conf-backup-100310142617; etc. does the normal ubuntu OS have so many of these? 

[B]MORE INFORMATION:
[/B]also connected via vga to the ati hd radeon 4350 is a 18" compaq crt monitor with its max resolution at 1600*1200 displaying perfectly before and after the ati/amd proprietarty fglrx graphics card drivers are (re)installed.  **however, **when the drivers are NOT installed, the crt becomes the default monitor with the menu bar and I cannot change this in the display settings (system > prefs > display).

**what i would like**
I would like the lcd monitor to be the default and the video drivers to work properly.
I know there has to be something to get it to work because Monday night, everything was fine...the ati drivers were working...lcd was default monitor at 1920*1080...rebooting kept the settings...etc.

I have searched the internet, the forums, irc channels but I haven't found something to help me with this, but maybe i'm overlooking something and please show me where i may find an answer.

Thanks so much!

Peace,
rastasean



do i need to post the xorg info??

---

### Post by rastasean on 2010-03-11
the newest update is that i deleted all the xorg.configs except the main one and this doesn't resolve anything. I'm at the max resolution but the window does not fill the whole screen. 

Here is the main xorg.config


```
Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Configured Screen Device"
    Device    "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Virtual    3520 1271
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "fglrx"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by lildigiman on 2010-03-11
I'm going to go ahead and ask a "stupid" question, could it possibly be the Hanns-G monitor needs to be properly setup? As in, the on-board settings on the monitor?

My friend's LCD was missing about 5 rows of pixels in Ubuntu until he Auto-Adjusted the monitor.

---

### Post by rastasean on 2010-03-11
> **lildigiman said:**
> I'm going to go ahead and ask a "stupid" question, could it possibly be the Hanns-G monitor needs to be properly setup? As in, the on-board settings on the monitor?

My friend's LCD was missing about 5 rows of pixels in Ubuntu until he Auto-Adjusted the monitor.


not a dumb question and I appreciate you asking!!

Its NOT the monitor because when I don't have these ATI drivers installed, the entire screen is occupied but only after i install the drivers does this problem occur. it takes the 23" monitor and makes it into a 20" monitor. 

prior to the re-install of the oS, everything was working completely fine with the ati drivers installed but now I cannot get it working at all. 

someone has to know something about the ati/xorg.config non-sense.

thanks for posting.

---

### Post by lildigiman on 2010-03-12
Have you tried the "fail-safe" xorg file?

---

### Post by rastasean on 2010-03-12
> **lildigiman said:**
> Have you tried the "fail-safe" xorg file?
 
 
Can you tell me how to do this? I have done a lot so if I see the steps I should remember doing it or not.
 
I joined the #radeon irc last night and someone recommended trying fedora 13 so if I can't get this working, I'll try Fedora 13 in hopes the drivers will feel better on that oS.

---

### Post by lildigiman on 2010-03-13
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BulletProofX](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BulletProofX)

Maybe that will help. I have only used failsafe like once before, and that was a long time ago, I myself am a little unfamiliar.

And remember google can be your friend here.

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2010-03-13
Darn, I was hoping to see a xorg for this card too.

The ATI Radeon HD 4350 driver works on my system, but my mouse pointer is really sluggish making it hard to use.

---

### Post by rastasean on 2010-03-15
> **shadetree1 said:**
> Darn, I was hoping to see a xorg for this card too.

The ATI Radeon HD 4350 driver works on my system, but my mouse pointer is really sluggish making it hard to use.


It *WAS *working on my system without any issues, supporting both monitors until I had to re-image/re-load the OS. I don't know what could have happened but it won't forgive me.

I tried fedora 13 and while the 23" screen was all use, it was a little mushed and didn't really display good. F13 isn't even completely out so it pretty tender and takes a lot of modifications to get a lot of things working. 

maybe later this week I'll try the fail safe option but I'm not hopeful on ever restoring ubuntu 9.1 to the way it was. MAYBE the latest ubuntu will make a difference on the drivers.

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2010-03-15
> **rastasean said:**
> It *WAS *working on my system without any issues, supporting both monitors until I had to re-image/re-load the OS. I don't know what could have happened but it won't forgive me.
 
I tried fedora 13 and while the 23" screen was all use, it was a little mushed and didn't really display good. F13 isn't even completely out so it pretty tender and takes a lot of modifications to get a lot of things working. 
 
maybe later this week I'll try the fail safe option but I'm not hopeful on ever restoring ubuntu 9.1 to the way it was. MAYBE the latest ubuntu will make a difference on the drivers.
 
Hi, Yes I was thinking about 10.04 too (more support).  I have been working on all of my older PC's with unresolved video issues with 9.10 since it's release.  
 
This particular card is great and fast with the ATI drivers, but I just need to fix the slow mushy mouse response.

---

### Post by tweener on 2010-03-15
i had a strange problem like this with my ati hd4650...... i would lose about an inch on all sides.  all i did was install the drivers from ati.com and the problem was fixed.... did you check the catalyst settings?

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2010-03-15
Yes I did check, but I didn't find anything to help with the lazy mouse pointer.  
 
The monitor is identified and communicating correctly.
 
I'm switching to M$7 on the other HDD, so I will wait and change to Lucid after the MBR is overwritten.
 
I have read the open sorce driver for these card series have been a major focus for the new 10.4 kernel and with better xorg.

---

