---
title: "Ibex not getting 1280x1024 on Dell monitor"
date: 2009-02-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by msknight on 2009-02-07
Hi Folks,

I'm trying to put together a blog and videos to win over Windows users to Ubuntu, ([http://linuxcrusade.blogspot.com/](http://linuxcrusade.blogspot.com/))  so any help with this would be greatly appreciated.

Situation... I'm running Ibex 64 bit on a 6600ish Nvidea card using Nvideas drivers. Attached is a Dell 1707FP monitor which lists its own optimum as being 1280x1024@60Hz.

If I use the standard drivers I only get 800x600 max. With the Nvidea drivers I get the following high res options...
1360x768
1152x864
1024x768
800x600 .. etc.

I've tried re-running the detection routine and I've also tried using the command that calculates the monitor capabilities and gives the command to paste in to the xorg.conf file and neither work. I've also tried re-installing Ubuntu.  Nothing works.

Here is the xorg.conf...
> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:04 UTC 2008
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "CRT-0"
	HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
	VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Default Screen"
	Device         "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth    24
	Option         "TwinView" "0"
	Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
	Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_60 +0+0"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
	Driver         "nvidia"
	Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Device0"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	BoardName      "GeForce 6600 LE"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection



---

### Post by msknight on 2009-02-08
No one got any advice on this?

---

### Post by msknight on 2009-02-09
Bump

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2009-02-09
I am not sure, but you could try this (renember to backup xorg.conf):
> Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True" [COLOR="Red"](not sure about this)[/COLOR]
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     1280 1024
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024@60" "1024x768@60" "800x600@60" 640x480@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by msknight on 2009-02-11
Hi Ringi,

Nice try, but it is refusing to parse the new section.  I tried removing the line you weren't sure about and also tried to insert tabs and spaces in the appropriate places, but no luck.

Also, when it reports the parsing error, the options to create new configuration files, etc. don't seem to work.

I'll have more of a look after work tonight but I can't see what it is complaining about.

---

