---
title: "TwinView resolution problems"
date: 2008-06-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by supercabbageuk on 2008-06-01
I've just installed Ubuntu Hardy Heron and have so far managed to set up the nVidia display drivers.  However when running twinview I have a few problems.  My main monitor displays correctly at 1440x900 but the other one can only display at 320x240 or 640x480.

Is there any way I can "Force" the other monitor to be at 1280x1024?  I know I need to set it in xorg.conf somewhere but I had a look and there's only one section for Monitor and it doesn't mention either of my monitors.

Here is my xorg.conf

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Option 		"TwinView"
	Option 		"TwinViewOrientation" "LeftOf"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by gerardjp on 2008-06-02
Hi supercabbageuk,

I found something called metamodes that might work.

Option      "MetaModes" "1280×1024 1280×1024"

It needs to go in the Screen section along with the other TwinView related options. 

Would you be so kind as to tell me what kernel and drivers(/packages) you installed on Hardy to get the twinview working?

I am chewing on the twinview options myself. They're in my xorg.conf, Xorg starts, doesn't use them, but also doesn't complain about them in the log files.

At a loss ... :-/

Thanx and Greetz

Gerard.

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-06-02
yes you'll need to use metamodes, although you may be able to achieve it through the nvidia control panel (nvidia-settings).

the problem arises because your graphics card is trying to force 1440x900 onto a monitor that supports 1280x1024. if you cant do it with nvidia settings then manually messing with metamodes in xorg is the way to go. bear in mind that your desktop may be quite strange what with those resolutions. your actual desktop will be 1440x1024 so niether desktop will be able to show everything, if you know what i mean.

---

### Post by supercabbageuk on 2008-06-02
I'll have a go tonight but I tried using the metamodes option last night and didn't have any luck.  I'll try again though.  I'd do it now but I'm doing some web design work on Windoze right now, I don't think I can realisticaly bridge the gap between Photoshop and GIMP by the time this work is due heh.

@gerardjp: I'm a complete Linux n00b to be completely honest, I just installed Envy through the console by using the following.

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
sudo envyng -g
```

Edit:  I changed my xorg.conf by adding the following

```
"MetaModes" "1440×900, 1280×1024"
```

However this made my second monitor not display anything at all.  I'm stumped and could use some help again.  Many thanks to anybody who lends a hand.

---

### Post by supercabbageuk on 2008-06-04
*bump*

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2008-06-04
You could try this:
[http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/bugsinubuntu](http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/bugsinubuntu)
(number 2)

---

### Post by supercabbageuk on 2008-06-05
> **Pjotr123 said:**
> You could try this:
[http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/bugsinubuntu](http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/bugsinubuntu)
(number 2)

Tried that but still no luck. Anymore advice?

---

### Post by gerardjp on 2008-06-06
I still have the problem that my nvidia only shows cloned view instead of the 'stretched desktop'. I'm downloading the newest ubuntu upgrades as I type this. I suggest you do the same and see if there were any bug fixed related to this.

IMHO it's your best bet to keep you installation as 'out of the box' as possible, because ubuntu 8.04 had some major improvements in controlling screen setups. It got more intelligent, so the best bet (to keep ik working after future reboots is to do just that.

I'm in for a reboot into the '-18' kernel and drivers.

More after that.

Regards,

Gerard.

---

### Post by supercabbageuk on 2008-06-06
I'm updated to the latest version already.  Anyone got anything else that will help?  This is the only thing keeping me from using Ubuntu as my main OS :(.

---

### Post by supercabbageuk on 2008-06-09
*bump*

---

