---
title: "8.10 changing aspect ratio on second monitor"
date: 2009-01-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by skiwithpete on 2009-01-04
Hi,

I've got a Panasonic HD Plasma-TV as my second monitor.

I hook it up, and it works great.

BUT the monitor is 1024x768 despite being a widescreen (wikipedia describes these monitors as 'Plasma display with non-square pixels.')

Anyways, What I want to do is add virtual pixels (or even remove some) so that the screen appears to be the right shape on the screen instead of stretched.

I've heard there is no xorg.conf in 8.10 what should I do?

I have an HP Pavillion with intel integrated video

---

### Post by zisper on 2009-02-03
I have the same issue, Panasonic widescreen (16:9) TV with a 1024x768 aspect ratio.
In xorg.conf it used to be possible to specify the screens aspect ratio seperately from the resolution, which would deal with situations like this - but from what I can tell ubuntu 8.10 doesn't seem to use xorg.conf?
Has anybody got any suggestions on this?  Short summary question would be: How can I set the aspect ratio independantly of the resolution in ubuntu 8.10?

(I've got an nvidia card in my box, but I don't think the solution will be ati/nvidia specific)

---

### Post by iberko on 2009-05-28
Has anyone got this right yet?

---

### Post by skiwithpete on 2009-06-03
Not so far as I know, I've been looking for an answer since 7.04...

do PM me if you find out.

Best,

P

---

### Post by Grey Melon on 2009-06-08
I temporarily had this problem solved but don't know how. Here's what happened:

1. Fresh install of Jaunty and noticed that my external Sony HD tv was running at 1024x768. Could not find a way to get into widescreen.

2. Installed Ubuntu Studio as dual boot just to check it out(yes, I now know that I can just add the packages through Synaptic and I did)

3. After messing with Studio and not being able to get wireless going I booted back into Jaunty.

4. Boom! My external monitor was in widescreen and stayed that way until I went and poked around too much in Compiz(adding Blur turned my desktop black).

5. Discovered the fix through these great forums

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1156497&highlight=compiz+config%3B+open+windows+black+screen](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1156497&highlight=compiz+config%3B+open+windows+black+screen)

6. After fixing my display the external monitor is back to 1024x768 and here I stay with present company.

Maybe someone with better linux experience can use this info to come up with the fix

---

### Post by Grey Melon on 2009-06-08
I resolved my resolution issue:

1. I happened to go into "Display Preferences" to rearrange the position of one monitor to the other and dragged the laptop to the right of the external monitor. It was previously below the external monitor and was causing certain menus to get cut off.

2. When I logged out and back in I went back into "Display Preferences" to make sure everything had taken. Well, there were my widescreen modes and I'm now happily using 1360x768.

Seems that this issue has something to do with the position of one monitor to another.

---

### Post by skiwithpete on 2009-06-10
GreyMelon,

I think you have a different problem to us Panasonic users, as our displays are limited to 1024x768 but are widescreen.  I can't up it to 13XXwhatever because that's beyond my monitor capabilities.

What I'm saying is it needs to virtually display a widescreen (16:9) monitor on a 4:3 resolution.

it sounds like you just got your monitor working correctly...

---

### Post by Gerry Gleason on 2013-01-07
This is a more general issue.  Mine is that when I switch the second display (an external Sony Bravia TV using the PC input via the VGA interface).

In my case, I have the two monitors configured and they are happily on the same 4:3 resolution, but the TV image is stretched.  I think it should be showing square pixels on both displays, but it stretches the TV.

I'm on ubuntu 12.04 LTS

---

### Post by howefield on 2013-01-07
Old thread closed.

Please feel free to start a fresh one detailing the issue.

---

