---
title: "11.10 (Oneiric Ocelot) no sound if not using gnome"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by zhangweiwu on 2011-10-17
Hello. I've been using fluxbox for 6 years but it was not until 11.10 I realised unless I login using gnome, otherwise all applications doesn't sound. That including commandline playback of mplayer.

The following has been tried not helping:
[LIST]
[*] Test using both mplayer and totem.
[*] Launch gnome-control-center and adjust volume to maximum (the UI looks as if this was done successfully) and make sure not muted.
[*] Install alsamixergui and adjust volume. It is like gnome-control-center that it looks all settings are correct, no error nor warning, but no sound.
[*] Install pavucontrol (PulseAudio Volume Control) and adjust volume with that. pavucontrol shows a crossed-out speaker icon, hinting something is wrong.
[/LIST]
In case of pavucontrol output is this:
```
$ LANG=en_US.UTF-8 LANGUAGE=en_US:en pavucontrol
** (pavucontrol:3264): DEBUG: Failed to initialize device manager extension: No such extension

```

Any comment or suggestion to fix it?

By the way I really miss the days before ubuntu introduce (and force the use of) pulseaudio. I was pretty happy with alsa and nothing pulseaudio offered is what I needed. Unfortunately hours of struggle to remove it doesn't justify. In the last years, pulseaudio removal method was different from version to version, thus I have to relearn how to remove pulseaudio, and often have to try a few method because it manages to come back by itself, so in the end I bow to Ubuntu's choice and keep pulseaudio as long as it works. There were cases when it doesn't, this one look like one. If, I mean unlikely but if, there is a simple way to completely remove pulseaudio, I will try it. By complete, I mean the kind of removal of pulseaudio that after removal, any sound problem I should not doubt it was caused by pulseaudio.

---

### Post by zhangweiwu on 2011-10-17
I solved my own problem. First I removed pulseaudio, and the problem remains.

In lightdm I logged in as a different user "guest", for I customised my ~/.xsession that lightdm ignores default. I realized Guest might have more rights than my own uid, so I added myself to "audio" group just to try my luck. It worked.

---

