---
title: "12.04 Syntek Webcam [174f:1403] displays black image"
date: 2012-05-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by WanderingDazed on 2012-05-07
Hi all, wondering if anyone could help with a problem which has me driven to distraction. :(

Recently installed 12.04 onto a Dell Mini 10v (1011) all went fine until I went to test the webcam. Whether I use cheese, skype, gucview, lucview I get no image just darkness. If pointed directly to a bright light source it displays a vague image.

Things done:
- Lsusb detect webcam:
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 174f:1403 Syntek Integrated Webcam
- Uvcvideo mod detects webcam and loads
Lsmod output:
uvcvideo               67203  0 
videodev               86588  1 uvcvideo
video                  19068  1 i915
- Tried changing all settings through guvcview + luvcview
- Tried unloading and reloading uvcvideo with quirks 0x100, 16 and probably more I forget.
- Tried compiling various stk11xx drivers. Either fail during make install or don't detect webcam. i.e. no video0 dev. Tried Makefile-syntekdriver fails with expression error looks like makefile is incorrect. 
- Checked suppported usb id's for uvcvideo + stk11xx, 174f:1403 is not listed which is leading me to think modules won't work.
- Gstreamer-properties tried changing settings too but preview does not work...

Dmesg Output: (can see me playing with quirks)

[ 4583.836501] uvcvideo: Found UVC 1.00 device Integrated Webcam (174f:1403)
[ 4583.836521] uvcvideo: Forcing device quirks to 0x100 by module parameter for testing purpose.
[ 4583.836536] uvcvideo: Please report required quirks to the linux-uvc-devel mailing list.
[ 4583.845262] usbcore: registered new interface driver uvcvideo
[ 4758.538661] usbcore: deregistering interface driver uvcvideo
[ 4767.485532] uvcvideo: `FIX_BANDWIDTH' invalid for parameter `quirks'
[ 4780.100781] uvcvideo: Unknown parameter `FIX_BANDWIDTH'
[ 4787.415467] uvcvideo: Unknown parameter `quirk'
[ 4874.245210] uvcvideo: Found UVC 1.00 device Integrated Webcam (174f:1403)
[ 4874.245230] uvcvideo: Forcing device quirks to 0x80 by module parameter for testing purpose.
[ 4874.245244] uvcvideo: Please report required quirks to the linux-uvc-devel mailing list.
[ 4874.260414] usbcore: registered new interface driver uvcvideo
[ 5099.827524] usbcore: deregistering interface driver uvcvideo
[ 5112.860492] uvcvideo: Found UVC 1.00 device Integrated Webcam (174f:1403)
[ 5112.860507] uvcvideo: Forcing device quirks to 0x100 by module parameter for testing purpose.
[ 5112.860519] uvcvideo: Please report required quirks to the linux-uvc-devel mailing list.
[ 5112.866340] usbcore: registered new interface driver uvcvideo

Anyone have any ideas or have this webcam working in 12.04? Run out of google searches at this stage and hate admitting defeat. ;)

---

### Post by WanderingDazed on 2012-05-09
No ideas anyone?

---

### Post by pebHamburg on 2012-05-10
:( I have the same problem with a Lenovo Thinkpad SL300. And I also find no solution.

---

### Post by michaelibre on 2012-05-17
i have an compaq mini 110c and have my camera blur, in other forums they told me to install syntek driver but i have an error when i come to the order

 "make -f Makefile-syntekdriver"

response: Makefile-syntekdriver:1: *** falta un separador.  Alto.


please help before i will have to switch back to windows

---

### Post by madroneropaulo on 2012-05-17
Same problem here. I have an hp mini 110-3700er and before all worked fine in ubuntu 11.10 but after upgrading to 12.04 the image is too dark that i cant even see anything heelp!

---

### Post by bmullan on 2012-05-23
I don't have your Webcam or an integrated one but I have a
Logitech Creative Optia AF standalone and have the same problem.

cheese, etc ... all show the webcam available but no video comes from it.

lsusb shows the webcam is installed in ubuntu:
bmullan@DadsPC:~$ lsusb
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 0424:2504 Standard Microsystems Corp. USB 2.0 Hub
Bus 001 Device 004: ID 0409:005a NEC Corp. HighSpeed Hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 0609:031d SMK Manufacturing, Inc. eHome Infrared Receiver
Bus 005 Device 002: ID 058f:9360 Alcor Micro Corp. 8-in-1 Media Card Reader
Bus 001 Device 005: ID 0a12:0001 Cambridge Silicon Radio, Ltd Bluetooth Dongle (HCI mode)
Bus 001 Device 006: ID 05e3:1205 Genesys Logic, Inc. Afilias Optical Mouse H3003 / Trust Optical USB MultiColour Mouse MI-2330
Bus 001 Device 007: ID 046d:c318 Logitech, Inc. Illuminated Keyboard
**Bus 002 Device 004: ID 041e:4058 Creative Technology, Ltd Live! Cam Optia AF**

And the Optia is a UVA compatible Webcam so it should operate correctly but it doesn't.   I think there are a couple problems involved.

One is Unity which I like very much but I found if I log out then at the log in screen select Unity 2d or Gnome ... I get a very different webcam response.   In my case my webcam still didn't work (except for with some other test tools I tried - where it did display video) but at least the screen wasn't black any longer.

You might try that first just to verify whether not using Unity makes your webcam work or at least partially work?

---

### Post by WanderingDazed on 2012-05-24
[QUOTE=bmullan;11961872

One is Unity which I like very much but I found if I log out then at the log in screen select Unity 2d or Gnome ... I get a very different webcam response.   In my case my webcam still didn't work (except for with some other test tools I tried - where it did display video) but at least the screen wasn't black any longer.

You might try that first just to verify whether not using Unity makes your webcam work or at least partially work?[/QUOTE]

Interesting thanks for the tip will try a different desktop manager. Also could be that the webcam is dead itself will try another usb webcam but as different chipset doesn't rule out a problem. Might try to boot from a live cd and see if webcam works in diff distro. Will post back findings cheers again.

---

### Post by WanderingDazed on 2012-05-24
Well quick test with spc620nc works, image still dark but easily visible. I'm sure playing around with exposure settings etc would fix it. Will try couple of other things with the integrated cam.... Still interested if anyone else has the syntek working and what their setup is?

---

