---
title: ".mp3 to .cda audio converter help."
date: 2011-07-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by BADGER.BRAD on 2011-07-29
Hello All,

I am looking for some conversion software to convert mp3 files to a format that will play on a standard CD player .cda so that I can listen to audio files whilst in my car.

Does anyone know of such a converter.

Many thanks 

Brad

---

### Post by gir861 on 2011-07-29
Look for "audio convert" in your Synaptic package manager. You can use, also, "audio cd" in your search.

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-07-29
Try Brasero which is installed by default with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2011-07-29
> **howefield said:**
> Try Brasero which is installed by default with Ubuntu.
This.

Just select Audio Project and then drag-and-drop any audio files you want burned.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-07-29
In my part of the world many car cd players will play mp3s on cds, yours does not?

---

### Post by BADGER.BRAD on 2011-07-30
Hello everyone,

Thanks for all the help it's very much appreciated. With regard to the car stereo Andrew my car which very rarely gets used being a bicycle/motorcycle fan is 15 years old and I would guess it would need to be 5 years or younger here in the UK to play the mp3s.

Brad

---

### Post by hockeytux on 2011-11-15
Encountered the same problem as my car's cd player won't read mp3s...

.cda is however not the format as such that you're looking for as it's only a link rather than the format itself.

To keep it simple, convert everything into .wav and burn as audio cd. As mentioned above, Brasero will do the job though there's plenty of other options around.

This is how it's done:

1. Ubuntu Software Centre - search for and install 'Sound Converter' if not installed already.
2. Start 'Sound Converter'.
3. Click 'Add File' and add the files you'd like to have on your audio cd.
4. Sound Converter - menu bar - Edit - Preferences - Type of result? Format: should be set to 'MS Wave (.wav)'
5. Close the Sound Converter preferences window.
6. Click 'Convert'.
7. Close Sound Converter and insert a blank CD into your disc drive.
7. Start Brasero Disc Burner.
8. Create a new project: Audio project / Create a tradional audio cd.
9. Click on the green 'plus' icon in the top left.
10. Add the newly converted .wav files of your songs.
11. Click 'Burn'.
12. Enjoy!

---

### Post by linuxford on 2012-03-10
I came across this link that I thought was pretty good about .cda files that you may enjoy

[http://www.techsupportalert.com/how_to_work_with_audio_cd_cda_files.htm]("http://www.techsupportalert.com/how_to_work_with_audio_cd_cda_files.htm")

---

