---
title: "5.1 audio problem"
date: 2011-09-15
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by bt.ionut on 2011-09-15
Hi, i have a  problem, I attended dozens of tutorials to do to be heard 5.1 and I  succeeded here have details about my board audio( [http://i56.tinypic.com/209g1eb.png](http://i56.tinypic.com/209g1eb.png) ), do you have any ideas how I could make them hear 5.1? Thank you.

---

### Post by GalloGlas on 2011-09-15
> **bt.ionut said:**
> Hi, i have a  problem, I attended dozens of tutorials to do to be heard 5.1 and I  succeeded here have details about my board audio( [http://i56.tinypic.com/209g1eb.png](http://i56.tinypic.com/209g1eb.png) ), do you have any ideas how I could make them hear 5.1? Thank you.

I'm assuming you're getting at least two channel stereo?? 

First open your sound preferences.   Go to hardware tab.  Select your sound card.   In the drop down box below, select the appropriate 5.1 profile.  Then click test speakers.  Test each speaker. If your center and surround channels still aren't playing sound then..... 

Open terminal and type alsamixer.   

you should get the GUI to show and some commands listed in the top right corner.   Punch F6 to make sure you select your sound card.      

Once you've selected it you should see the individual channel levels appear.  

Some of the channels may be muted.  If it is, it'll show up as "mm" at the bottom of each bar instead of 00.  Press the right arrow key until the correct channel is highlighted and press M on the keyboard to unmute.   From there you can use the up and down arrows to adjust the sound levels.

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2011-09-15
every install I have, I need to remove pulseaudio and install alsa - reboot and am 5.1
pulse goes crazy like lowering sub lowers all & balance goes crazy and increases sub -- just really buggy

---

### Post by GalloGlas on 2011-09-15
> **SlugSlug said:**
> every install I have, I need to remove pulseaudio and install alsa - reboot and am 5.1
pulse goes crazy like lowering sub lowers all & balance goes crazy and increases sub -- just really buggy


dont even get me started on pulseaudio....  :-x

---

