---
title: "8.10 to Ubuntu Studio to 9.04 a Disaster"
date: 2009-03-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by uticamarco on 2009-03-03
I had Ubuntu 8.10.  I then upgraded to Ubuntu Studio.  Then, I tried to upgrade to 9.04.  Something very bad happened.  A package didn't finish or something half way through the install.  I believe the error mentioned Ubuntu Studio specifically.  I got some sort of message saying that my system would revert, but then things continued for a while, then suddenly "completed."  But the X environment would load on rebooting.  I tried some automatic safe mode fixes, but they didn't work (too many errors on fixing broken or missing packages).  

I'm downloading the 9.04 Ubuntu Studio test version now.  I'm planning on reformatting my HDD so I can have ext4 (if I don't get some help by 6PM EST on March 4th).  All my important files are saved on my camera.  

I wanted to upgrade so I could get the latest kdenlive.  I couldn't get the latest version in 8.10 because of issues with dependencies.  Also, I had a bunch of video-related packages that I couldn't figure out how to upgrade due to unresolvable dependencies.

Also, my sound died after some updates on 8.10.  Error messages said something about another process using my soundcard, but no other process was (I mean, I rebooted).

I saw updates that were greyed out on the update manager, too.  I thought upgrading would fix everything.  Guess not.   

Thanks in advance for any help.

---

