---
title: "h.264 support ubuntu 10.04LTS"
date: 2011-10-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by yusuo85 on 2011-10-28
Im having trouble playing files off quicktime.com/trailers everytime I try it says it needs additional plugins, it searches but cant find anything, says it needs a h.264 decoder, i've tried looking around google and found that I might need ffmpeg, which i installed nd compiled myself but still nothing.

Im using Firefox but even when I save the file it still won't work, is there a solution for this????

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-10-28
```
sudo apt-get ubuntu-restricted-extras gecko-mediaplayer
```

I'll test apple trailers to see if I can do it.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-10-28
Site works fine for me.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-10-28
> **yusuo85 said:**
> I might need ffmpeg, which i installed nd compiled myself but still nothing.



No need to compile most things in ubuntu. Simply doing:
```
sudo apt-get install ffmpeg
```
will suffice.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-10-28
This may not be suitable for everyday use but just for interest you could make sure you have both MPlayer and libavcodec-extra-52 installed:

```

sudo apt-get install mplayer libavcodec-extra-52

```

and then run the following:

```

wget -U quicktime -q -O - \
     http://trailers.apple.com/movies/sony_pictures/girlwiththedragontattoo/girltattoo-tsr1_h480p.mov \
     | mplayer -cache 8192 -cache-min 80 -

```

Should run fine and it is a bit of fun to run this at least once from the terminal :).

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-10-28
Also, a good way to get all the codecs is to add the medibuntu and partner repos then do
```
sudo apt-get install non-free-codecs libdvdcss2 gecko-mediaplayer ffmpeg vlc
```
you will then have just about every possible codec there is. I do this after every fresh install, and have never had a problem playing anything. And this is coming from someone that is a multi-media junkie.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-10-28
If the OPs using std media packages then the problem is likely mpeg4 qt demuxer for gstreamer.

gstreamer has changed the name of the demuxer but some other components got missed.
[http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/gstreamer-commits/2011-April/049150.html](http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/gstreamer-commits/2011-April/049150.html)
[https://bugs.archlinux.org/task/24381](https://bugs.archlinux.org/task/24381)

---

### Post by yusuo85 on 2011-10-29
@Wolfen69, thank you so much everythings up and working now,

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-10-29
Good, then please mark the thread 'solved'.

---

