---
title: "9.04 Screen tear Nvidia 180.60"
date: 2009-06-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-06-04
I am getting horrible screen tear in 9.04, just like I did in 8.10.

Compiz sync to vBlank is enabled.
disabling or enabling compiz does not matter.
Nvidia Xvideo Sync to VBlank is enabled
Nvidia OpenGL Sync to VBlank is disabled
VDPAU enabled and working.
Screen tear seams to be the worse with .mkv and on full screen operation.

What am I missing?

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2009-06-04
what do you mean by screen tear?

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-06-04
vertical lines of video not synchronizing and distorting.

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2009-06-04
Do you have another operating system so you can check this isn't a hardware or monitor problem?

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-06-04
yes I was running 8.10 this morning with no problem.

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-06-04
nobody knows a fix........I had this problem with 8.10 to. Should I switch back to 8.10, or forbidden MS OS?

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-06-04
nobody else has this problem?!

---

### Post by dBuster on 2009-06-04
I do not have this problem...  I am running a nVidia graphics and 64 bit Jaunty 9.04...

I do have an AMD cpu in the machine if that makes any difference or not, could be a difference.

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-06-04
bump

---

### Post by g1pete on 2009-06-04
You might check this thread on Nvida's forum

[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=131833](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=131833)

Pete

---

### Post by sherl0k on 2009-06-04
Check the refresh rate of your monitor?

---

### Post by WjS on 2009-06-05
I had the same issue, it seemed to be solved by disabling the Xvideo Sync to VBlank. 

Although it only seemed to fix the tearing when scrolling vertically, horizontal scrolling still causes an issue. 

My gfx card is a onboard GF 8200.

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-06-09
After a week of frustration, I believe I finally solved the problem. It is in the 180 drivers, and my graphics card, a 8800GS. 

I upgraded mplayer, which decided to uninstall my 180.xx driver. While reinstalling my driver I found ```
nvidia-185-modaliases
``` Which I decided to install over the 180.xx driver. After installing 185.18.14 VDPAU worked properly with no screen tear.

what is the difference between the 180.xx and the 185.xx drivers?

---

### Post by jbman on 2009-06-09
I have found the opposite, 180 no tearing and 185 which i upgraded a day ago has tearing.

Such a pain, might wait or roll back.

---

### Post by ffixcollector on 2009-06-09
I run mplayer from the avenard repositories. I wonder if the updated mplayer woks better with 185.xx where as the older mplayer works better with 180.xx?

---

### Post by chris_l on 2009-06-14
oh I had lot of tearing, until I installed the 185 drivers
HOWEVER, they produced me a very low frame-rate until I added myself to the video group, something necessary since /dev/nvidiactl is only accessible to root and users in that group
after that everything is smooth :p

---

### Post by krul on 2009-06-14
The latest 185 drivers rocks! No more tearing, even with dual screen setup (separate X, no xinerama).

---

### Post by Topis on 2009-09-30
I had bad window tearing without compiz and some tearing with compiz. After setting the gconf option /apps/compiz/general/screen0/options/sync_to_vblank to checked, no tearing at all.

I wonder why it's turned off by default in the first place, and why is it hidden so well?

---

### Post by nerdy_kid on 2009-11-12
the 'sync to vblank' option in nvidia's control center doesnt get applied until after the app itself starts.  which basicly means you can the the unredirect option in compiz and run 'nvidia-settings -l' with you session; but leaves compiz tearing (because the option only applies to OpenGl apps that are started *before* the setting is changed, and compiz started before we set the syncing.  This requires a script setup (unless someone has a better idea) to apply the nvidia-settings config before the window manager starts.  (then for total seamless set compiz to sync :) )  I can upload the scripts if anyone is interested and sick of seeing every app they have page tear...


P.S. ive had this issue since 8.04

---

