---
title: "12.04 Is flash still crashing browsers."
date: 2012-07-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ferulebezel on 2012-07-17
When I first upgraded to 12.04 flash videos was crashing Xorg. I had to reinstall 11.10.  Apparently this was a common problem.

Has it been fixed?

---

### Post by Laiquendi on 2012-07-17
They work fine on my machine with 12.04.

---

### Post by user_linux08 on 2012-07-17
Unfortunately I also have been experiencing the same issue with flash.

"That's one small step for a man, one giant leap for mankind." 
(Neil Armstrong)

It also can be applied here (sort of)
That's one small step for Ubuntu (upgrade), one giant leap backward for Ubuntu users."

---

### Post by markbl on 2012-07-17
> **ferulebezel said:**
> When I first upgraded to 12.04 flash videos was crashing Xorg. I had to reinstall 11.10.  Apparently this was a common problem.
Let me guess, you have an nvidia graphics card?

Paste the output here of these 2 commands:
```

lspci | grep -i vga
glxinfo | grep -i opengl

```

---

### Post by ferulebezel on 2012-08-07
> **markbl said:**
> Let me guess, you have an nvidia graphics card?

Paste the output here of these 2 commands:
```

lspci | grep -i vga
glxinfo | grep -i opengl

```

Sadly, I can't.  I did a clean reinstall of 11.11.  This seems to be a common problem and I'm waiting for it to be fixed before I upgrade again.

---

### Post by markbl on 2012-08-07
> **ferulebezel said:**
> This seems to be a common problem and I'm waiting for it to be fixed before I upgrade again.
Well I have an older 8600 GT card with which nvidia drivers v295.*, v302.*, and v304.* and later crash on. I.e. all released and beta nvidia versions since Ubuntu 12.04 release. Same hardware was fine on all earlier ubuntus. Happens for many others also with similar cards, see [this bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/973096). Fix is to downgrade nvidia to a v290.* version, or use the nouveau driver as I do. Ubuntu 12.04 with xorg-edgers ppa nouveau is working astoundly well nowadays, on Unity and Gnome-shell 3D, using 3D games, etc.

---

