---
title: "[SOLVED] Where Linux falls down"
date: 2008-12-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by PoopyTheJ on 2008-12-04
You know as far as general work, stability security and word processing Linux is awesome and Ubuntu rules the pack for me for ease of use. However why is it that 5 years after first trying linux the driverer situation is as horrific as its always been. Not talking about features per se, but the installation of new video drivers is and always has been a MAJOR nightmare. It never works the first time and not even the second time, the installation scripts are a complete crapshoot, it's kinda like russian roulette with 5 bullets. If you're lucky you're desktop lives and if not well kaplooey!

Ok now that I've gotten that off my chest I'm trying to install the newest Radeon fglrx driver on Ubuntu 8.04 the 8.11's. I went through the installation instructions [here]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide") and then upon reinstall I get 800x600. I can't even try to let the ATI installer handle the install cause at 800x600 I can't see the ok or cancel buttons to give it a try. What the hell is keeping video drivers from linux from being as easy as windows? If anyone can or would mind helping here's my xorg.conf file

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection


Here's the output of  LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose glxinfo

name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, 
    GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, GLX_OML_swap_method, 
    GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_hyperpipe, 
    GLX_SGIX_swap_barrier, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer
client glx vendor string: SGI
client glx version string: 1.4
client glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_allocate_memory, 
    GLX_MESA_swap_control, GLX_MESA_swap_frame_usage, GLX_OML_swap_method, 
    GLX_OML_sync_control, GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGI_swap_control, 
    GLX_SGI_video_sync, GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, 
    GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, 
    GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap
GLX version: 1.2
GLX extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_OML_swap_method, 
    GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, 
    GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.4 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.3-rc2)
OpenGL extensions:
    GL_ARB_depth_texture, GL_ARB_draw_buffers, GL_ARB_fragment_program, 
    GL_ARB_imaging, GL_ARB_multisample, GL_ARB_multitexture, 
    GL_ARB_occlusion_query, GL_ARB_point_parameters, GL_ARB_point_sprite, 
    GL_ARB_shadow, GL_ARB_shadow_ambient, GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp, 
    GL_ARB_texture_compression, GL_ARB_texture_cube_map, 
    GL_ARB_texture_env_add, GL_ARB_texture_env_combine, 
    GL_ARB_texture_env_crossbar, GL_ARB_texture_env_dot3, 
    GL_ARB_texture_mirrored_repeat, GL_ARB_texture_non_power_of_two, 
    GL_ARB_texture_rectangle, GL_ARB_transpose_matrix, GL_ARB_vertex_program, 
    GL_ARB_window_pos, GL_EXT_abgr, GL_EXT_bgra, GL_EXT_blend_color, 
    GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate, GL_EXT_blend_func_separate, 
    GL_EXT_blend_logic_op, GL_EXT_blend_minmax, GL_EXT_blend_subtract, 
    GL_EXT_clip_volume_hint, GL_EXT_copy_texture, GL_EXT_draw_range_elements, 
    GL_EXT_fog_coord, GL_EXT_framebuffer_object, GL_EXT_multi_draw_arrays, 
    GL_EXT_packed_pixels, GL_EXT_paletted_texture, GL_EXT_point_parameters, 
    GL_EXT_polygon_offset, GL_EXT_rescale_normal, GL_EXT_secondary_color, 
    GL_EXT_separate_specular_color, GL_EXT_shadow_funcs, 
    GL_EXT_shared_texture_palette, GL_EXT_stencil_wrap, GL_EXT_subtexture, 
    GL_EXT_texture, GL_EXT_texture3D, GL_EXT_texture_edge_clamp, 
    GL_EXT_texture_env_add, GL_EXT_texture_env_combine, 
    GL_EXT_texture_env_dot3, GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias, 
    GL_EXT_texture_mirror_clamp, GL_EXT_texture_object, 
    GL_EXT_texture_rectangle, GL_EXT_vertex_array, GL_APPLE_packed_pixels, 
    GL_ATI_draw_buffers, GL_ATI_texture_env_combine3, 
    GL_ATI_texture_mirror_once, GL_ATIX_texture_env_combine3, 
    GL_IBM_texture_mirrored_repeat, GL_INGR_blend_func_separate, 
    GL_MESA_pack_invert, GL_MESA_ycbcr_texture, GL_NV_blend_square, 
    GL_NV_fragment_program, GL_NV_light_max_exponent, GL_NV_point_sprite, 
    GL_NV_texgen_reflection, GL_NV_texture_rectangle, GL_NV_vertex_program, 
    GL_NV_vertex_program1_1, GL_SGI_color_matrix, GL_SGI_color_table, 
    GL_SGIS_generate_mipmap, GL_SGIS_texture_border_clamp, 
    GL_SGIS_texture_edge_clamp, GL_SGIS_texture_lod, GL_SGIX_depth_texture, 
    GL_SGIX_shadow, GL_SGIX_shadow_ambient, GL_SUN_multi_draw_arrays

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0x22 16 tc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x23 16 tc  0 16  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  0  0 16  8 16 16 16  0  0 0 None
0x24 16 tc  0 24  0 r  y  .  5  6  5  8  0 16  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 None
0x25 16 tc  0 24  0 r  .  .  5  6  5  8  0 16  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 None
0x3e 32 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 Ncon

lspci shows

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon HD 3850
01:00.1 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon HD 3870 Audio device

Anything else I can show that will help fix this let me know, I've got to get this fixed so I can do my schoolwork and I'm really going to be angry if I reinstall to fix this so I'm hoping it's just fixable and I can move on and NEVER EVER update my video drivers EVER again.

---

### Post by PoopyTheJ on 2008-12-04
uninstalled xorg-driver-fglrx and deleted my xorg.conf file, backed up of course, and now I have a functional 1600x1280 desktop using MESA. Now if I'm going to install the ATI drivers what would be the best way?

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-12-04
Well, first of all this is a work in progress and always getting the latest greatest whatever will always cause problems for some people. That's why they call it the bleeding edge. 
If you had bothered to do a search in these forums before installing that driver, you would have discovered that a lot of people are having problems with it and there are solutions to your difficulty.

The instructions you followed were for Gutsy, not HARDY which you are using. If you look in the Xorg.0.log, you will see some lines that start with (EE). These are error messages because the driver was misinstalled. Most likely the driver kernel modules were not installed. 

Your best bet would be to boot up in safe mode, reconfigure X to use the VESA driver and remove/disable the fglrx driver. Then download the 8.10 driver from ati to your desktop and do this:

Open a terminal

cd Desktop

sudo ./ati-driver-installer-8-10-x86.x86_64.run

Then use the Catalyst Control Center to set up your display.

Please be aware that these drivers are not officially supported by Ubuntu for Hardy and so may cause problems when you get an update.

---

### Post by PoopyTheJ on 2008-12-04
Thanks Markbuntu, and thanks for the rtfm, I do forget sometimes. Just to clarify are there specific steps to use to use the VESA driver, I mean when I reconfigure X to use Vesa how exatly would I do that and second does running sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx remove/disable the fglrx driver or should I do something else?
Thanks again.
Also running sudo ./ati-driver-installer-8-10-x86.x86_64.run should I just let the ATI installer install manually or do the build packages thing?

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-12-05
Ahhhh, it was a while ago the last time I did this but in recovery mode there comes up and option to recover x or something like that which will probably fail but get you some option screen where you can choose the driver and screen resolution. Just choose the VESA driver frm the list and your monitors screen resolution and then reboot.

If you can get to your login screen you can change session to gnome-safe mode and that will run on the vesa driver.

you want to run sudo apt-get purge xorg-driver-fglrx so all the config files and kernel modules are also removed.

I had no problem just letting the automatic installer run with my HD3650 card.
Good luck.

---

### Post by Arup on 2008-12-05
The driver issue sadly exists due to the cartel that MS has created with manufacturers, now with big guys like IBM and Google getting into Linux its finally going to break and you will see Linux having equivalent if not superior drivers as compared to MS. I still have problems with my built in Intel G31 graphics but am bearing with it as I know, it would be resolved soon.

---

### Post by PoopyTheJ on 2008-12-05
Ok, well I ran sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx and then ran the ATI installer and let it install the drivers. Then ran aticonfig --initial -f and let it configure X. Rebooted and I appear to be running correctly. glxinfo shows direct rendering and using the ATI driver. Thanks for the help.

Arup, do you have anywhere I can read up more on this? I'd like to hope that the driver support will get better, is anyone or any rags talking about it?

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-12-05
I can tell you this, since AMD bought ATI there is now a concerted effort at ATI to have linux drivers equivalent with their windows drivers by the second quarter of 2009. They have ditched all the third party software writers who created drm issues with older cards and have passed all the information they can to the open source driver writes and provided financial support.

Unfortunately if you own an older ATI card, due to these drm issues ATI is not at liberty to release all the source code to the open source driver writers. This makes it more difficult for everyone so please try to be a little understanding.

Anyway, if you own a newer ATI card, expect nothing but good things from the future.

---

### Post by PoopyTheJ on 2008-12-06
3850HD is newer then right? I hope so I read a little on the RadeonHD driver thing but nothing since october, hope they get all that worked out soon, it'd be awesome to have a really good open source driver.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-12-07
Well yes, it would be a good thing and you will be included.

---

