---
title: ".vob DVD's wont play on all DVD players"
date: 2010-04-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by sunwatt on 2010-04-28
I used Openshot to produce a slideshow, and K3b to burn a DVD with the output from Openshot which is a .vob file.

The DVD plays on my new model, cheap Samsung DVD player. It comes up on the TV screen listed as an MPG. I hit play, it plays fine.

But on other peoples older DVD players it says NO DISK. It will not play.

Problem.

Is there a way to take the .vob file I produced with Openshot and convert it or something so when K3b burns it to a DVD it will play on older DVD players?

Maybe vob can be converted into something, then burned with k3b so the resulting DVD is compatible with more, older DVD players??

Thanks!

Jim
Ubuntu 10.04
Dell Mini 9 with external DVD burner/player

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-04-28
Your older players are probably only able to play DVD_VIDEO format, which it doesn't sound like you have (VIDEO_TS folder w/ at a min a couple of .ifo's and the vob as VTS_01_1.VOB ect.

You'll need to get yourself a dvd authoring app which can range from simple to more complex
(a menu is not required or can be quite simple

There are quite a number - devede may be the easiest for openshot .vob output - search around

---

### Post by sunwatt on 2010-04-28
Some of that is over my head, but I got devede from synaptic, and Im playing with that right now.

Most of the time, with me, learning software is "follow your nose", so I have high hopes.

So, thanks, Im experimenting with devede, and will see if I can get a DVD that will play in an old DVD player. We might even have one in storage.

So, as I type devede is working on my show.vob so, I'll see what comes out.

Thanks

Jim

---

### Post by sunwatt on 2010-04-28
Well! Devede took the Openshot vob, and I got an iso file. When I open the iso file, I see audio_ts and video_ts files.

Thats good right   :)

I put it in my Samsung, and it came up, did NOT say MPG this time.

I think thats good.

There was a menu, the name I picked, and I hit play and it played.

If I can dig up a older model DVD player, from a closet, I can test this tomorrow.

Thank you, this may be going to work.

Jim

---

### Post by sunwatt on 2010-04-29
Found a TV set with built in DVD player. Not only does the DeVeDe iso I made a DVD with K3b work, but even the .vbo DVD I made directly from Openshots output, and burned to DVD with k3b also played.

Thanks for your help, I hope other folks try making DVD slideshows with Openshot, all you need is jpg's and some music, or narration audio clip. Good to go.

Express yourself.

Jim

---

