---
title: "10.04 Not Seeing my MP3 player and Blackberry Phone"
date: 2011-06-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by kouhinn on 2011-06-08
Hi,all
I have two MP3 Player device and 1 old Blackberry phone(they could be connect to PC with USB cable). All of them works fine with Windows 7.
Now I want to connect them to my Ubuntu 10.04.

When connected,There is absolutely no information about my devices either by dmesg, lsusb,mount or fdisk -l, gvfs-mount -l,cat /var/log/messages.

I have tried following but not work:
1.logout and re-plug my device then login again; plugin my device and reboot;
2.modprobe uhci_hcd ehci_hcd usb-storage and re-plug my device
3.add uhci_hcd ehci_hcd usb-storage lines to /etc/modules .
4.install mtpfs mtp-tools packages and use it in rhythmbox.
5.remove any other USB devices and re-plug my device.

The strange thing is, my kindle reader is worked fine with 10.04, but either my MP3 players or my old Blackberry phone is not identified by 10.04. Maybe All of the un-identified devices is USB1.X, but I'm not sure, or if there is some problem with old USB support.

Could anyone give my some help ?

Hint:
My MP3 player identified as two device with Windows 7, one is USB CDROM, another is USB Mass storage.

I have a USB hub with one usb mouse and one USB key board, both works well with 10.04.

Please see the attachments for details of command line output.

---

### Post by kouhinn on 2011-06-09
Could anyone help me about this ?

---

### Post by CryptSphinx on 2011-06-10
what (if you know that would be great) models are the mp3 players.

are you using the same usb cable for each.
are you using the same usb port for each.

could you post the results

lsusb 

before and after for each device is connected also 

dmesg | tail

AND ALSO the above for a device that currently works (any usb device at all!)

I'm sorry if any of the above questions sound condescending but it is an odd sounding problem which I'm trying to poke at every angle.

---

### Post by kouhinn on 2011-06-10
Well, thank you for you kind remind. 

I suddenly notice that I used the wrong USB cable, which can only be used for charging.

Sorry for the wrong post.

---

### Post by CryptSphinx on 2011-06-11
Its fine , glad to hear its working , sometimes its the smallest things that mess us up.

[like troubleshooting an eth connection that I had removed to vaccum the floor behind the computer :P]

mark thread solved , yes?

---

### Post by kouhinn on 2011-06-14
> **CryptSphinx said:**
> Its fine , glad to hear its working , sometimes its the smallest things that mess us up.

[like troubleshooting an eth connection that I had removed to vaccum the floor behind the computer :P]

mark thread solved , yes?
yes.Thank you anyway.

---

