---
title: "9.10 S-Video out problem, black screens."
date: 2009-11-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Neuster on 2009-11-08
Lenovo 3000 n 100 0768-36U Intel Graphics

This is what happens, in 9.04 I would just plugin my s-video card, log out and log back in, and then the screens would work fine.  I'd drag the video to the right and it'd drag onto the tv.


This is what happens in 9.10.  I'll plug in the s-video.  If I goto System >Preferences > Display it will go black.  There's maybe 50 pixels in the upper left corner that are visible, but it's so tiny it's completely impossible to tell what it is.  the only way to get out of this is to hold down my power button.  

What I've done: I reconfigured xorg, that did nothing.  Other then that I dont know what to do.  

Thanks.

---

### Post by Neuster on 2009-11-14
Bump.  This is seriously annoying.  No matter what I do it goes black.  If I plug the S-video in, then goto System, Accessories, Display, they go black.  

If I set it up mirrored, then plug in the s video and hit apply, they go black.

It worked perfectly fine in 9.04.

---

### Post by -genin- on 2009-11-14
run mplayer...

then right click on video window...
preferences >> video... 
choose xv...

---

### Post by Neuster on 2009-11-17
there's no xv in display in Mplayer's Preferences.  

Also, I plugged in the s-video, opened mplayer and both screens did it again.

I really have no idea what to do.

---

### Post by rlboyce0 on 2009-12-07
I have an Aspire 3680 with exactly the same problem. It really sucks to not be able to watch divx movies on the big screen. Has anyone solved the problem yet?

I also tried -genin-'s suggestion. I was able to switch to xv, but I didn't know how to get the output to the TV. I then went to the Display window, and that's when the computer and tv screens went black (again).

---

### Post by bababeechums on 2010-01-09
I have a compaq presario POS laptop that does the same exact thing.  Bump.

---

### Post by rlboyce0 on 2010-06-17
The fix that worked for me: Updated to 10.04

---

