---
title: "(8.04) No movies at all"
date: 2009-05-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Te Kiwi on 2009-05-23
You read that right.  I don't know what I've done [you can tell I'm ex microsoft because I instantly took the blame for this]  

But seriously.  None of my movie programs will play anything.  I've got VLC, totem, media player and Gxine but anytime I try and use them for anything from playing an mp3 file to watching a DVD the screen goes black and I have no alturnative but to reboot.

Everything that I can think of seems to installed or activated properly and I'm not getting any error messages, just the black screen.

Any help or suggestions would be appreciated 
TIA

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-05-23
try launching your viewer/player through a terminal, that way you'll get error messages if there are any.

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2009-05-23
What video card do you have and what drivers are you using?

If the screen goes black you probably can't see the output from the terminal, so try sending the output from the application to a text file. You can open a terminal and run something like:
```
totem > totemlog.txt 2>&1
```

---

### Post by Te Kiwi on 2009-05-26
All right it has been a rough few days but I have now officially fixed my first problem <yay!>

The problem was the drivers but there were complications.  I fixed problem one which caused problem two, fixed problem two which caused problem three and so on.  Problem six was interesting in that the solution was to stand in a bucket of cold water with a duck on my head.  As I had no duck handy I painted my flatmates cat and taught him to quack. [Ah the fun times we had together]

The whole mess was finally fixed when I wiped everything clean and set it all up from the start again.  Luckily it´s a new machine so I didn´t lose anything of conciquence.
Thanks for the help.

PS: If anyone wants to buy a cat that can quack email me, we´ll work something out

---

