---
title: "10.04/64 and geforce8400; How to get proprietary drivers back? And possiby more"
date: 2011-04-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-04-09
For a long time I had a problem with my geforce 6200 with instable signal and where the monitor all of a sudden would say 'no signal'. Moving the connector on the video card would get it back for a while. Bad contact was the conclusion but I found that I could still switch to a console and had a stable signal (so much for that conclusion).

Decided to replace it with another nvidia based card (Leadtek Winfast PX8400GS) as that seemed the easiest.

Installed it and started the system. After selecting Ubuntu in grub the system starts more or less (I get the walking dots) and (I guess) when the desktop should appear the I get a 'cable not connected' from the monitor; could also not switch to a console :(

Put old card back, and got similar issues (not being able to switch to console) :confused:

Booted into recovery mode and disabled the driver; rebooted again and I ended with 1280x1024 resolution (lower resolution was expected); still instable video.

Replaced the old card with the new one and it works (stable video, now on 800x600 :( )
Checked restricted drivers and they were in use ( :confused: ); wanted to 'disable' them but removed them and I don't see a way to get them back.

Sorry for this long intro, but tried to be as complete as possible.

[B]So first question: how do I get the restricted drivers back; references on the internet refer the (Synaptic) package manager but I don't see it there; probably blind ;)
[/B]

Other questions might follow as I don't expect it to solve the issue. Any tips in advance are welcome as well (tried to do some research but did not quite find it yet)


PS ASUS Motherboard, AMD Athlon 3000, 1GB RAM; running Ubuntu 10.04/64
PPS I'm running LTS versions on purpose so suggestions to upgrade are not the most appreciated ones :)

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-04-09
OK, obviously a bit blind; went into synaptic (again) and found nvidia-current; downloading now.

Keep you posted

PS The card has a geforce 8400 gs processor

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-04-09
You are on the right track..

The console video mode/control is completely separate to the X server GUI.
The nvidia driver (nvidia X server) does not provide any video control/driver outside of the X server/window. It is X server only, no boot splash screen video mode control.

The boot splash & console fb driver is some other kernel driver.

Guessing..
If the console driver does not support DPMS then the monitor could be off in X server screen & on in a console screen.
Or maybe the actual video modes cause this affect.

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-04-10
Got the restricted driver back as well as the old behavior ('cable not connected' and not able to switch to console).

So recovery mode again, reset video and reboot; 800x600 and able to switch to console.
Below the only 2 errors that show in Xorg logs (after an evening of trying)
```

Xorg.0.log:(EE) [drm] failed to open device
Xorg.0.log:(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)

```
It also seems to fall back to the fb driver.

Any pointers are appreciated ;)

Below the xorg.conf that it seems to use (but not 100% sure); generated by nvidia-xconfig.

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Thu Apr 22 20:35:23 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Can't find the spec for the horizontal sync (not in manual, not on the internet) :( It's an Acer X243W that can do 1920x1200.

Thanks

PS I did set a 100kHz limit in the above config and the screen no longer goes blank. But the computer freezes and there are some artefacts.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2011-04-10
Do you have nouveau (open-source nvidia) installed? It could be interfering.

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-04-10
I don't know if nouveau is installed, but from the below I think it is.

I followed the solution found in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=854936](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=854936) (post #5) and installed the latest NVIDIA driver (260.19.44). Scary, as the new card now throws an error before even getting to X.
```

[drm]nouveau 0000:01:00.0: Pointer to BIT loadval table invalid

```
And recovery mode throws the same error; in both cases the system hangs after that :(

Put the old card back in, recovery mode works and reset the config. Rebooted and the system is now using the nouveau driver by the looks of it (xorg log file extract)
```

(II) Loading extension DRI2
[B](==) Matched nouveau as autoconfigured driver 0
[/B](==) Matched nv as autoconfigured driver 1
(==) Matched vesa as autoconfigured driver 2
(==) Matched fbdev as autoconfigured driver 3
(==) Assigned the driver to the xf86ConfigLayout
(II) LoadModule: "nouveau"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/nouveau_drv.so
(II) Module nouveau: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
        compiled for 1.7.6, module version = 0.0.15
        Module class: X.Org Video Driver
        ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 6.0
(II) LoadModule: "nv"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/nv_drv.so
(II) Module nv: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
        compiled for 1.7.3.901, module version = 2.1.15
        Module class: X.Org Video Driver
        ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 6.0
(II) LoadModule: "vesa"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/vesa_drv.so
(II) Module vesa: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
        compiled for 1.7.6, module version = 2.3.0
        Module class: X.Org Video Driver
        ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 6.0
(II) LoadModule: "fbdev"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/fbdev_drv.so
(II) Module fbdev: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
        compiled for 1.7.6, module version = 0.4.1
        ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 6.0

```
And plenty of references to nouveau

But OK, that is xorg. The nouveau error above can't be found in the older xorg logs, so I assume the nouveau driver is used before that in some way. **But the question is where and how I can influence this behavior.** From the previous exercises, I know that the fb driver is working (800x600) so if I can get that going till X starts, the problems might be solved.

Thanks everybody for the help till now; appreciated although it did not solve the issue yet ;)

PS This is a dual boot system and in Windows XP the new card works without issues; just had to install the new driver. So the card is OK.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2011-04-10
nouveau is not playing nicely with your new card. Remove it.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-04-10
AFAIK
The nouveau driver has a kernel module component.
This component can not be removed without rebuilding the kernel.
The nouveau kernel module is loaded for nvidia hardware **unless** it is blacklisted.
This is meant to be done by the installer script.
If the nouveau module is loaded then the nvidia X server fails to load.

The other hack is to use "nomodeset" in the grub boot parameters.
This works by interfering with nouveau loading.
Or rmmod the nouveau driver..

blacklist: (from forums & nvidia docs)
/etc/modprobe.d/nvidia-graphics-drivers.conf:

blacklist nouveau
options nouveau modeset=0
blacklist lbm-nouveau
blacklist nvidia-173
blacklist nvidia-96
alias nvidia nvidia-current

will need to rebuild initramfs & reboot etc..
good reading: ( bottom of page)
[http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/260.19.44/README/commonproblems.html](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/260.19.44/README/commonproblems.html)

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-04-12
Inserted the new card (again), booted and added 'nomodeset' to the boot options. Next booted

OK, everything started now and it was using the vesa driver (800x600). What did not work work the consoles was going to consoles!

Next copied xorg.conf back (the one that was generated by nvidia-xconfig in post #4). Modified the horizsync to 75kHz (in windows the monitor tels me it's 74kHz) and restarted the xserver (<ctrl><alt><printscreen>k). And it hang again (mouse frozen, some artefacts; I did see this before). As reset was the only option, I did the reset.

Edited the grub line again and booted and now it works. 1920x1200@60Hz (what a pleasure) and switching to consoles also works. And running the latest nvidia-driver (which might give issues with updates, but we will cross that bridge when we get there).

Thanks everybody (and specifically BicyclerBoy) for the help.

I will mark this thread as solved as soon as I have been able to make the necessary change to the grub menu. grub2 is new for me and I'm not a grub man in the best of times (prefer lilo)

And thanks again.


//Edit
I found the last piece (regarding grub) in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10090210](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10090210) (post #1)

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-04-13
Yes the horizontal freq for 1920x1200p60 is 74.6KHz GTF..
Sorry should have warned you..
& 74KHz for CVT-R timing.
& 62KHz for 50Hz PAL perfect playback.

These entries are only needed for mode validation (by driver) with monitors that do not report EDID correctly or at all.

If you use DVI or HDMI then CVT-R is automagically used (60Hz only).
Your monitor may not have any 50Hz modes but the Acer specs are worthless.

---

