---
title: "14.04 x64 Skype upside down camera"
date: 2014-06-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by chris-tolley on 2014-06-13
The camera worked fine in 12.10 and 13.10, though I had to run the preload script.  When I installed 14.04, I decided on x64 instead of 32bit.  The preload didn't work out of the box, because it was mapped to the 386 folders that don't exist.  I changed the mapping, it still didn't work.  

I ran:

```
LD_PRELOAD="$LD_PRELOAD:/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libv4l/v4l1compat.so"
```

Rebooted, then ran:

```
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype
```

I still recieved:

```
ERROR: ld.so: object '/usr/lib32/libv4l/v4l1compat.so' from LD_PRELOAD cannot be preloaded (cannot open shared object file): ignored.
```

Okay, so it's still looking at 32bit stuff.  I'm code stupid, so it looked like an easy fix.  I opened Nautilus and created the folders it was looking for and copied the v4l1compat.so into the new folder.

I ran the preload again and got a new error.

```
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype
ERROR: ld.so: object '/usr/lib32/libv4l/v4l1compat.so' from LD_PRELOAD cannot be preloaded (wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64): ignored.
```


The camera works fine with Cheese, and the Video4Linux app changes the camera around as desired in Cheese.  It does nothing for Skype.  I've searched and searched, but haven't been able to find a fix.  Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2014-06-19
Try Skype 4.3
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/06/download-skype-4-3-linux-new-ui-download]("http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2014/06/download-skype-4-3-linux-new-ui-download")

totally remove Skype and install Skype 4.3 with Gdebi

---

### Post by chris-tolley on 2014-06-19
No glory.  I had to purge skype for it to uninstall, but "dpkg -S skype" only listed "ubuntu-docs" after the purge.  

Negative correction using preloads as well.  

Thank you for the idea and the link.  Definitely worth a shot.

---

### Post by teklife on 2014-07-04
bump, i have the same problem and the codes to fix i've found do not work.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-07-04
You need to load the 32 bit library (since skype is a 32 bit application) and for Ubuntu 64 bit the correct path is
```
/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/libv4l/v4l1compat.so
```

---

### Post by chris-tolley on 2014-07-06
Already have that, still doesn't work.

```
ERROR: ld.so: object '/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/libv4l/v4l1compat.so' from LD_PRELOAD cannot be preloaded (wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS32): ignored.ERROR: ld.so: object '/usr/lib32/libv4l/v4l1compat.so' from LD_PRELOAD cannot be preloaded (cannot open shared object file): ignored.



```

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-07-06
Try to adjust the exposure.

---

### Post by chris-tolley on 2014-07-06
Edited my post above.  

I can change everything on the camera, just not it's orientation.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-07-06
What camera are we talking about? And does it work as expected in other programs?

---

### Post by chris-tolley on 2014-07-07
Factory camera.  Asus K61IC.  Camera work fine in Cheese, without using the vertical flip option in Video4Linux.

---

### Post by cristi7 on 2014-09-14
Hi, I found the answer on this website: [http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/skype](http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/skype)  (4.4)

You should do this:
1. Install the libv4l 32bit version (even if you are using 64bit)
sudo apt-get install libv4l-0:i386

2. locate the the path for the installed library (if there are two, chose the 32bit one - i386,  ex: /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/libv4l/v4l1compat.so)
locate v4l1compat.so 

3. Use the indicated path in running your comand (without quotes) (ex: LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/libv4l/v4l1compat.so skype )
LD_PRELOAD='path' skype

---

### Post by larmoe01 on 2014-12-16
I had the same issue with a webcam from Chicony Electronics. None of the solutions above seemed to work. Finally I managed to fix the upside down image with v4l2loopdevice and gstreamer.
First modprobe v4l2loopback creating /dev/video1 (assuming your video device is /dev/video0)
```
sudo modprobe v4l2loopback
```
Now use gstreamer to flip the image```
gst-launch v4l2src device=/dev/video0 ! videoflip method=vertical-flip ! v4l2sink device=/dev/video1

```
Start Skype and choose /dev/video1 as your video device. Everything can be inserted in a script to be launched when Skype receives a call.  

Regards Lars

---

