---
title: "10.04 Lucid / Logitech USB Wireless low microphone volume - alsamixer checked!"
date: 2010-08-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by fireflytech on 2010-08-03
[SIZE="4"]Situation:[/SIZE]

Full alsa-info.sh output is attached.

I have just installed Ubuntu 10.04, wiping my Windows Vista away forever. Yey!

My USB Wireless microphone *is* working, but microphone volume is too low.

**Obvious checks:** I've spent all day inside alsamixer, amixer, pavucontrol, gnome-alsamixer and sound controls.

Obviously pumping everything up to max, also basically trying every combination possible.



[SIZE="4"]Environment Summary:[/SIZE]

Dell XPS M1530 Laptop (specs at [http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/xpsm1530/en/om/specs.htm](http://support.dell.com/support/edocs/systems/xpsm1530/en/om/specs.htm))
Ubuntu 10.04 lucid 32-bit
Logitech Clearchat USB Wireless headset



[SIZE="4"]Further Information:[/SIZE]

I have checked all forums, including alsa, pulseaudio and ubuntu bug trackers looking for similar issues.

I can't find anything I can see is the same. Most people with low volume issues have just forgotten to turn up the volume in alsamixer.

I've had a days worth of fiddling with alsamixer, amixer, pavucontrol, gnome-alsamixer and sound controls.

I have a friend with the same headset. He runs Ubuntu 9.10 on an IBM laptop. He gets very good mic volume from the mic input level set only half way.

Because he's running 9.10, I thought it might be a lucid issue. I have tried booting into a 9.10 desktop livecd and get the same low microphone input level results.

My headset hardware is fine - it worked perfectly just 48 hours ago on my Windows Vista install on this same laptop.

Further, I have checked the hardware again today, by plugging them into a Windows Vista PC. This also worked perfectly - great input mic volume.

So as far as I can see I've eliminated:


[LIST]
[*] My laptop hardware (headset works fine with it in windows vista)
[*] My headset (same headset works fine on a windows vista pc)
[*] Ubuntu 9.10 (my friend has the same headset working perfect on Ubuntu 9.10)
[*] Volume issues - an entire day spent in alsamixer, amixer, pavucontrol, sound control.
[*] A particular program - experience same low volume issue with Skype and Sound Recorder
[/LIST]

So unless I've missed something, that leaves the only option left of the combination of [ubuntu + xps m1530 laptop + logitech clearchat wireless] = microphone volume input problems.

Is that even possible?



[SIZE="4"]Possible Clue?:[/SIZE]

I think I've eliminated this one, but I did get my friend who has it working on IBM Laptop with Ubuntu 9.10 to run alsa-info.sh too.

His alsactl output was as following:

```

	control.4 {
		comment.access 'read write'
		comment.type INTEGER
		comment.count 1
		comment.range '0 - 28'
		comment.dbmin -2800
		comment.dbmax 0
		iface MIXER
		name 'Mic Capture Volume'
		value 14
	}

```

Mine was:

```

	control.4 {
		comment.access 'read write'
		comment.type INTEGER
		comment.count 1
		comment.range '0 - 28'
		comment.dbmin 0
		comment.dbmax 0
		iface MIXER
		name 'Mic Capture Volume'
		value 28
	}

```


See the "comment.dbmin 0" on mine? His has -2800 which I assume is -28dB.

His "amixer -c1 contents":

```

 numid=1,iface=MIXER,name='PCM Playback Switch'
  ; type=BOOLEAN,access=rw------,values=1
  : values=on
numid=2,iface=MIXER,name='PCM Playback Volume'
  ; type=INTEGER,access=rw---R--,values=1,min=0,max=54,step=0
  : values=37
  | dBscale-min=-60.00dB,step=1.00dB,mute=0
numid=3,iface=MIXER,name='Mic Capture Switch'
  ; type=BOOLEAN,access=rw------,values=1
  : values=on
numid=4,iface=MIXER,name='Mic Capture Volume'
  ; type=INTEGER,access=rw---R--,values=1,min=0,max=28,step=0
  : values=14
  | dBscale-min=-28.00dB,step=1.00dB,mute=0

```

**My** "amixer -c1 contents":

```

numid=1,iface=MIXER,name='PCM Playback Switch'
  ; type=BOOLEAN,access=rw------,values=1
  : values=on
numid=2,iface=MIXER,name='PCM Playback Volume'
  ; type=INTEGER,access=rw---R--,values=1,min=0,max=54,step=0
  : values=34
  | unk-4-0xffffe890,0xfffffda8,
numid=3,iface=MIXER,name='Mic Capture Switch'
  ; type=BOOLEAN,access=rw------,values=1
  : values=on
numid=4,iface=MIXER,name='Mic Capture Volume'
  ; type=INTEGER,access=rw---R--,values=1,min=0,max=28,step=0
  : values=26
  | unk-4-0x00000000,0x00000000,

```

See how his "dBscale-min=-28.00dB,step=1.00dB" has sensible values where mine is just binary garbage?

I'm not sure what that is or how important it is, I was just trying a process of elimination to figure out what's different between his and mine.

But I'm quite certain this is eliminated as a cause or indicator of a cause, as when I boot into 9.10 livecd, I got those same nice dBscale-min and step values that he did, but my microphone input levels were still too low and horrible.

---

