---
title: "11.11 nvidia-current; desktop OK, no windows."
date: 2011-10-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by praganzi on 2011-10-25
Just done a fresh install of 11.11, with propriety drivers selected, and I got a beautiful working system, using nvidia-173.

Problem was that xbmc and mythtv had slightly jerky playback (movie player is fine, though), on normal 350mb .avi files, about 42 mins long.

When I chose the nvidia-current driver (280 oneric6) I get the desktop and the launcher, but nothing is written on the grey top border, where it used to say "desktop", and gave icons for sound, shutdown etc.  When I hover the mouse over anything in the launcher, I get no floating description of the button.

If I launch xbmc, the desktop does not change; I can still see it, but where the windowed xbmc is expected to be, the mouse disappears "behind" the non existent window.  It's the same with all other programs.  xbmc, from what I gather, requires nvidia-190 or better to work at its beast.  Some sort of VDPAU thing.

If I move the mouse to the location of a button within a window (for example by marking the screen with a Sharpie when I could see the windows running nvidia-173) then the button behaves as expected; launching music, shutting down, whatever.

I got hold of a deb for v275 (nvidia-current_275.something.or.other.deb), installed it, confirmed it was being used, but the effects were similar to 280.  The difference was that I could now see the word "desktop", the speaker icon and shutdown, and when a window was focused it also gave me the "file, edit, view" etc along the top menu bar.

Before this I was running an Alpha(3) of mythbuntu, where everything was great.  At least as far as the graphics were going.  Other flaky bits in there neccissitated the re-install, as opposed to upgrade.

I've reverted back to 173, and I can use the computer, but once again the video is a little jerky.  Not unwatchable, like trying to play a 720p .mkv on a classic xbox, but noticeable.

What the hell do I search for?

Cheers,

Nick.

Running 11.10-x64 on my dual core.

---

