---
title: "[12.04] Screen Tearing With Dual Monitors (NVIDIA Card; TwinView)"
date: 2012-08-20
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Spice002 on 2012-08-20
As the title suggests, I'm having a problem with screen tearing on my computer. I'm using an EVGA 550 Ti with one 1920x1080 monitor and one 1280x1024 monitor. I've tried everything suggested online (such as Compiz settings manager), but I still get tearing when playing games, watching videos, and even scrolling through a webpage. Here's my Xorg.conf: [http://pastebin.com/F19aaRSk](http://pastebin.com/F19aaRSk)

---

### Post by Spice002 on 2012-08-21
Shameless self bump.

---

### Post by mocha on 2012-08-25
There's really an immense amount of documentation on the Internet about this problem, but generally speaking I can tell you that you'll need to consider disabling the composite extension in your xorg.conf, make sure you are using VDPAU, and learn how to use the vdpau and opengl vsync environment variables to control which screen is sync'd.  I can assure you it is doable, I've been running Twinview configurations for years without tearing problems.

---

### Post by ScottDeagan on 2012-09-29
TwinView is broken. It will only work perfectly (without any tearing) if you have two monitors that are completely identical in terms of refresh rates (i.e. if one if 59.85 and the other is 59.90, then you're out of luck). The reason for this is because TwinView is incapable of syncing both monitors. I have suffered with this problem for years. Seriously going to consider an ATI Radeon for my next GPU purchase and see if things work with the Catalyst driver.

---

### Post by ScottDeagan on 2013-01-09
While this is not good news for anyone with an nVidia card, I have managed to get dual monitors working absolutely perfectly with an Intel HD 4000 in my new laptop. And when I say "I managed", I really mean "Ubuntu/Intel managed". I didn't have to do a thing - just installed Ubuntu, hooked up my external monitor to my laptop, everything just worked! I didn't even have to worry about installing proprietary drivers from Intel (apparently they're included wit the kernel).

It's like a breath of fresh air. This problem that has bugged me for years is not finally resolved (although the fix is to buy Intel HD graphics). There's no more slow tearing when dragging windows around on either monitor, no more slow tearing on the secondary monitor when playing videos. Everything is just working as it should!!

I'm going to buy a low-end (cheap) ATI Radeon card just to test if the Catalyst drivers have improved any over the years (I already know the answer in regards to nVidia - normal desktop usage is still plagues with the tearing problem, and that's running Ubuntu 12.10 with an nVidia GTX460 and 310.19 or 313.09 proprietary drivers).

I'll definitely be buying Intel in the future. While the integrated Intel HD 4000 graphics may not be the fastest kid on the block, it's certainly the most smoothest and hassle free (and I don't play many games anyway, especially games that require super high framerates etc).

---

