---
title: "8.10 Sound in some apps, not in others"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ve4cib on 2008-11-01
I've just upgraded to 8.10, and updated everything that had updates available for it.  But I'm encountering... anomalous issues with sound: I have sound working just fine in some applications, and no sound in others.

I have gone to System>Preferences>Multimedia Systems Selector and tried all the options there.  The only one with any sound is OSS.  (Prior to the upgrade I used ALSA for everything, and everything worked just fine.)  I then went to System>Preferences>Sound and set that to OSS as well, hit test on everything, and heard the expected test tone.

But when I go to actually do anything with sound I get issues.  VLC has no sound at all, but Totem works fine.  Amarok worked fine before updating everything (i.e. immediately after I upgraded from 8.04), but now it's silent.  I have no sound in any games, and YouTube videos are silent.

When I log in I get the usual system sounds, and they seem to be working just fine.

So far I have tried the instructions posted here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=964165](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=964165)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5587712&postcount=472](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5587712&postcount=472)
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-general-1/no-sound-after-pkg.-update-ubuntu-8.10-kernel-2.6.27-4-generic-671852/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-general-1/no-sound-after-pkg.-update-ubuntu-8.10-kernel-2.6.27-4-generic-671852/)

Executing
```
$ sudo cat /dev/urandom > /dev/dsp
```
does emit static, as it should.


Some extra information about my system:

OS: Ubuntu 8.10 x86_64, upgraded from 8.04 via alt. CD
All upgrades installed
uname -r: 2.6.27-7-generic

PC: HP Pavillion vd6308ca
Processor: AMD64 Turion x2
RAM: 1GB

lspci:
```
...
00:10.1 Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP51 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
	Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company Device 30b7
	Flags: bus master, 66MHz, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 11
	Memory at b0000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
	Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel
...
```

cat /proc/asound/cards 
```
 0 [NVidia         ]: HDA-Intel - HDA NVidia
                      HDA NVidia at 0xb0000000 irq 11
 1 [pcsp           ]: PC-Speaker - pcsp
                      Internal PC-Speaker at port 0x61
```

I'm using Gnome, but with a few KDE apps installed (i.e. Amarok instead of Rhythmbox).

I know the boards are being bombarded with sound-related issues right now, but any help from anyone more experienced in the ways of multimedia would be great.

If you need any additional information, or if you're experiencing the same problems as me please post!  Thanks a lot for the help in advance!

---

### Post by ve4cib on 2008-11-01
On a hunch I just tried uninstalling the totem-gstreamer package and replacing it with totem-xine.  After doing this I tried playing some music and a movie with Totem.  Using the xine backend there was no sound.

Upon removing totem-xine and putting totem-gstreamer back Totem went back to working normally.

So this means that the issue I'm facing is something affecting xine, but not gstreamer.  I don't know what that means, but maybe it's useful to someone who knows more about this stuff than I do?

---

### Post by kivanov1992 on 2008-11-01
I have almost the same thing, but in addition the usual login sound is also not played back. Changing everything to OSS does nothing -- I hear test sound, but no sound in Amarok or Flash. Besides, everything goes OK in Totem & Rythmbox.
Please say us what to post for more info?

---

### Post by amaethon1 on 2008-11-01
I'm having exactly the same problems.  I had no sound problems in 8.4.

lspci:
```
 0 [SB             ]: HDA-Intel - HDA ATI SB
                      HDA ATI SB at 0xfe024000 irq 16
 1 [Headset        ]: USB-Audio - Logitech USB Headset
                      Logitech Logitech USB Headset at usb-0000:00:12.0-2, full speed

```

---

### Post by ve4cib on 2008-11-01
I'm not entirely sure why, but my sound has semi-spontaneously fixed itself.

After I got up this morning I did some more poking around and came across this very old bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/51734](https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/51734)

It's not exactly relevant anymore, but I did get some ideas from it.  So I executed:

```
sudo apt-get install module-init-tools
sudo apt-get autoremove
sudo apt-get install --reinstall linux-sound-base
sudo apt-get install --reinstall alsa-base
sudo dpkg-reconfigure alsa-base
```

The first command was in response to that bug report just in case the same (or similar) dependency issue was rearing its ugly head.  The second was just to clean up some extra packages I had kicking around.

After reinstalling and reconfiguring I opened up System>Preferences>Multimedia Systems Selector and System>Preferences>Sound and set everything to "Autodetect" (a setting that did not work last night).  For some reason it works now.  I have sound in Amarok, YouTube/Flash, VLC, and Totem.

I'm not willing to call this "resolved" yet, since I don't know what I did or if the fixes will stick, but something has apparently improved since last night.

---

### Post by ve4cib on 2008-11-01
Apparently it's not resolved.  I still have no sound in some games (notably Urban Terror and Nexuiz), but I do have sound in Supertux2.


EDIT:
Upon yet more tinkering I discovered that Urban Terror and Nexuiz were having problems with SDL.  I replaced libsdl1.2debian-pulseaudio with libsdl1.2debian-all and reinstalled libsdl-mixer1.2 and libsdl-image1.2, and sound now works in both those games.

```
sudo apt-get install libsdl1.2debian-all
sudo apt-get install --reinstall libsdl-mixer1.2
sudo apt-get install --reinstall libsdl-image1.2
```

This, combined with my earlier reinstallations/reconfigurations *seems* to have made sound work in my most frequently-used applications.

I will continue testing and will continue to post in this thread with the results.

---

### Post by ve4cib on 2008-11-01
Nope.  After a reboot the sound is back to its frustratingly inconsistent, original self.  No sound in Amarok/Flash/VLC/Games, but Totem works just fine >:|

Does *anyone* have any idea what's going on?

---

### Post by kivanov1992 on 2008-11-01
May be it's a bug in ALSA? I'm not a guru, but what about trying to roll it back to previous version? If I find how to do it, I probably do it tomorrow.

---

### Post by One Quick Question on 2008-11-01
Hello.  I was having a similar problem, although I couldn't get the sound to work at all anywhere. (But cat /dev/urandom > /dev/dsp worked anyway)
Found this thread, then later found a solution, so I'll share it with you.

Turns out that I wasn't a member of the audio group.  Execute the command "groups" to see if you are.  If you're in the same boat I'm in, simply edit /etc/group (as root) and add your username to the audio group.

This doesn't take effect immediately, so you'll have to log out and log back in.  If it works, then hurray!

---

### Post by ve4cib on 2008-11-02
I already tried that.  I am part of the audio group:

```
username@hostname:~$ groups
username adm dialout cdrom floppy audio dip video plugdev fuse lpadmin admin sambashare
```

---

### Post by kivanov1992 on 2008-11-02
The same thing with me :( Anybody tried downgrading 'alsa-base'? There is only one version in repositories (1.0.17), and it's likely to be unstable (((

---

### Post by kivanov1992 on 2008-11-02
Well, simple recompiling of alsa-base v.1.0.17 did nothing(
May be I should specify some flags, but I haven't found suitable ones.

---

### Post by kivanov1992 on 2008-11-02
Yeah, I did it! I just installed gnome-alsamixer package.
It worked for me, what about marking thread as solved? :-)

---

### Post by lotharjade on 2008-11-02
So is installing gnome-alsamixer the answer to this problem?  It is the same problem I am having as well.

---

### Post by lotharjade on 2008-11-03
Of note, I find this problem is also present in the Opera browser when using Flash as well.

---

### Post by amaethon1 on 2008-11-03
I solved my problem by using 'PulseAudio Device chooser'.  While playing back the test audio (preferences>sound) I simply selected where my audio streams are going (right click on the slide bar in the playback tab).  I'm using USB headphones so that is probably why I was having issues, although I hadn't had trouble directing sound through them in prior versions.

---

### Post by cafeschintze on 2008-11-03
Same issue as in the original posting. Audio in 8.04 worked fine. After upgrading to 8.10 these problems appear.

OSS output of sound works, but Alsa, Pulseaudio and Autodetect are silent.

cat /dev/urandom > /dev/dsp  ----> works
mplayer test.mp3 works       ----> works

Amarok setup to use alsa pretends to play (equalizers jumping) but no sound.
Googling for the problem indicated there is a pulseaudio problem on the  Ubuntu 8.10 AMD64 version

As a temporary fix I become root and do

```
killall pulseadio
alsa force-reload
/etc/init.d/pulseaudio restart
```

Then in audio-prefs alsa plays the test sound fine.

```
uname -a
Linux wendolene 2.6.27-7-server #1 SMP Thu Oct 30 04:57:35 UTC 2008 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

```
lspci | grep udio
00:06.1 Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP55 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
```


From what I could see there is not yet a bug report for this on launchpad. Or is there? If someone could find out more on why this is happening, we could file a bug report.

Cheers, Stefan

---

### Post by ve4cib on 2008-11-07
I think this issue is definitely bug-report-worthy.  Unfortunately I gave up fighting with 8.10 and downgraded back to 8.04 after a day or two.  It seemed easier at the time.

Anyway, I strongly advise that one of you other users experiencing this problem with 8.10 go log a bug report.  This is obviously a bug since we all had sound working prior to the new release.  Any volunteers?

---

### Post by cafeschintze on 2008-11-07
> **ve4cib said:**
> I think this issue is definitely bug-report-worthy.  Unfortunately I gave up fighting with 8.10 and downgraded back to 8.04 after a day or two.  It seemed easier at the time.

Anyway, I strongly advise that one of you other users experiencing this problem with 8.10 go log a bug report.  This is obviously a bug since we all had sound working prior to the new release.  Any volunteers?

I would. However, I've never done this before. Can anyone give me pointers?

---

### Post by ve4cib on 2008-11-07
Go to this website: [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug/+login](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug/+login)

When you're filling out the bug report just say what the nature of the problem is, what steps you've taken to try to solve it, give some basic system information (kernel version, alsa version, 32/64 bit OS, that kind of thing).  It wouldn't hurt to put in a link to this thread too.

Whoever gets assigned the bug may ask for some more information.  If you don't understand what they're asking just say so.  They're used to dealing with people who aren't Linux pros.

---

### Post by kivanov1992 on 2008-11-08
Yes, and once you did it, please post back a link to that bug, so we'll be able to subscride for it :-)

---

### Post by rahunar on 2009-02-22
Hi,

I am using Microsoft Lifechat usb headphones for audio in 8.10. At first it is utter chaos with so many mixers and there is no sound from either laptop speakers or headphones. Then took advice in several help threads and removed everything that is pulse audio. In preferences-sound I put everything to Microsoft Lifechat Lx-3000 USB audio (ALSA) for everything and everything is working fine. When I use my headphones I gt sound in my head phones and when I dont I get sound in my laptop speaker. However flashaudio (youtube) and VLC still play sound in PC speaker ever when I use USB headphones. I want everything sound from the laptop to be played in my USB headphones when I use them. Any help in this regard will be appreciated. Thank you.

P.S.: I now have three sound mixers installed:

          HDA Intel (Alsa mixer)
          Microsoft LifeChat LX-3000 (Alsa mixer)
          Realtek ALC268 (OSS Mixer)

---

