---
title: "12.04 nVidia Dual Head will not recognize DVI"
date: 2012-04-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by kettlehell on 2012-04-26
Got a new box today, and new 12.04 LTS ISO. While trying to make the magic happen with a clean install and a fresh pair of 24 inch monitors and a lenovo docking station, I hit a nVidia debacle that is stumping me. My system configuration is at the bottom.--

I place the laptop in the docking station and I am able to get one monitor up. Here is what I tried (after locking myself out of X, and having to do another fresh install):

1. download linux driver for appropriate nVidia card
2. run nvidia-xconfig. [FAIL],
3. curse
4. revert to my backed up xorg.conf

Any thoughts why the second monitor is not recognized ? Will 12.04 recognize docked and undocked states and react accordingly (it used two with a dell latitude docked with 2 monitors in 10.04) 
		
--
Lenovo Thinkpad 420s
Processor: Intel Core i7-2640M Processor (2.80GHz, 4M Cache with Turbo Boost up to 3.50GHz)
Display type		14.0" HD+ (1600 x 900) LED Backlit AntiGlare Display, Mobile Broadband Ready
System graphics		NVIDIA Quadro NVS4200M Optimus technology (1GB)
Total memory		8 GB PC3-10600 DDR3 SDRAM 1333MHz SODIMM Memory (2 DIMM)
Hard drive		500GB Hard Disk Drive, 5400rpm

---

### Post by kettlehell on 2012-04-27
Updated attempts:

5. Removed nouveau drivers for X.
6. Enabled OPTIMUS for nVidia at the BIOS level (scary stuff)
7. sudo nvidia-xconfig
8. gksudo nvidia-settings

Please Help.

---

### Post by kettlehell on 2012-05-14
A few duh huhs:
- the docking station I'm using is the Lenovo mini-dock 3 series. It acts as a port replicator not a dock. Thus, only the ports that are on the laptop can be used.
- the display ports on the laptop are VGA and DisplayPort.

So..

9.Bought DisplayPort to DVI converter (and DisplayPort to HDMI for good measure) and hooked up a monitor to DisplayPort and VGA. 

10. Nothing detected initially by xrandr.

11. Reinstalled nvidia-current and nvidia-current-updates

12. Ran nvidia-settings...You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.


Any thoughts.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-05-14
You have optimus graphics ...
Unless there has been some recent changes...
With optimus enabled you have to use Ironhide or Bumblebee to switch GPU.
Optimus is not supported by nVidia X driver.

Do not directly install nVidia driver, let Ironhide do this..

Other options are to disable optimus & lock the GPU to be nVidia or intel HD3000.

The intel HD3000 driver is in std. ubuntu distro but xorg-edgers has better performance.

DisplayPort could cause problems if those monitors are 1920x1200 (CAD not TV).
A **passive** displayport to DVI adapter is not good enough cos it is single link.

---

### Post by kettlehell on 2012-05-14
Thanks BicyclerBoy,

here are some more updates:

13) Switched to Optimus mode in BIOS

14) Downloaded bumblebee using instructions:
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:bumblebee/stable
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install bumblebee bumblebee-nvidia
sudo usermod -a -G bumblebee $USER

15) When I log back in, I can use a command like "optirun gedit DISPLAY=:8.0" which pops open the ugliest version of gedit on my display port monitor. So I know there is some sort of connection going on.

16) I tried optirun nvidia-settings -c :8. This shows the stats of the new screen, but does not let me enable twin view.


Any thoughts on how to enable TwinView / Extended Desktop functionality ??

Regards,

---

### Post by kettlehell on 2012-05-14
17. Tried to run nvidia-setting with no arguments. No dice.

Do I need to set graphics to discrete then use bumblebee (sounds counter intuitive to me). ???

Side, note...here is intel vs nvidia with glxspheres:

Polygons in scene: 62464
Visual ID of window: 0x9d
Context is Direct
OpenGL Renderer: Mesa DRI Intel(R) Sandybridge Mobile x86/MMX/SSE2
1.926673 frames/sec - 2.150167 Mpixels/sec
1.224300 frames/sec - 1.366319 Mpixels/sec
1.199182 frames/sec - 1.338287 Mpixels/sec
1.178290 frames/sec - 1.314972 Mpixels/sec

calvin@fast-orange:~$ optirun glxspheres
Polygons in scene: 62464
Visual ID of window: 0x21
Context is Direct
OpenGL Renderer: NVS 4200M/PCIe/SSE2
137.145390 frames/sec - 153.054255 Mpixels/sec
145.906101 frames/sec - 162.831209 Mpixels/sec
141.493124 frames/sec - 157.906326 Mpixels/sec
142.499039 frames/sec - 159.028928 Mpixels/sec

---

### Post by Teunis on 2012-06-10
I have both Optimus through Bumblebee and Discrete mode on the nVidia driver working on my W520.
One difference is that mine has the Quadro 1000M card but I doubt that would make a difference.

You have to remember you can only install the nVidia Extra Drivers when you started up in the Discrete (UEFI BIOS)mode.

Using Bumblebee will only work when starting up in the (UEFI BIOS) Optimus mode.
There are differences between BIOS versions, mine will only allow the laptop screen when in Optimus or Integrated Graphics mode. Only in the Discrete Graphics mode I can choose which screen to use.

For installation of Bumblebee I used this as a guidance:
[https://github.com/Bumblebee-Project/Bumblebee/wiki/Upgrading-on-Ubuntu](https://github.com/Bumblebee-Project/Bumblebee/wiki/Upgrading-on-Ubuntu)

---

