---
title: "9.04 dell xps m1330 nvidia help"
date: 2009-09-19
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by xkaliburx on 2009-09-19
Did have 9.04 working fine (nice nvidia logo, etc.) but when the harddrive failed, dell re-issued a new one.  So I re-downloaded the newest iso, installed, and for some odd reason, can't see how to get it running again.  The nvidia-settings app is gone, not sure if it was a repo I added, etc. but even googling around I can't find it.  I do think it was part of the restricted drives, but it's not there now.

installed packages that came out of the box are;
i   nvidia-173-modaliases
i   nvidia-180-modaliases
i   nvidia-71-modaliases
i   nvidia-96-modaliases
i   nvidia-common   

There is an app nvidia-detector issues a simple;
none

Anyway, just starting the exciting rebuild again, so if someone can post a quick reply to help, it's greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-09-19
We have 2 1330 about a year old here, both with nvidia. (have the known to probably be defective  GeForce 8400M GS display adapters

My son's 8400m failed already and when they came to replace it I made sure they were giving him a mobo with nvidia vs intel.

Maybe check if you have an nvidia display adapter

```
sudo lshw -C display
```

---

### Post by xkaliburx on 2009-09-19
Thanks, and yea, they just replaced the hard drive, mobo stayed right where it was.  lshw shows;

  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: GeForce 8400M GS
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-09-19
I use hardy on this 1330 and have had no issues with the restricted drivers.

For the short time I had jaunty installed it wasn't any problem enabling them. I also regularly boot to a jaunty and karmic live cd's and can enable them without issue.

Maybe go to System -> Software  Sources and make sure the 3rd box down is enabled  -  Proprietary ...(restricted). If it's not, then enable, close and click reload. 
Then ck. in System -> Admin...Hardware Drivers for an nvidia driver to enable

edit:you are using the  ubuntu 9.04 release? (vs. a dell ubuntu .iso

---

### Post by xkaliburx on 2009-09-19
Intersting.  While I was waiting (this really is a clean install), I did an update/upgrade.  After that and a reboot, saw your reply, hit the hardware devices and this time, it paused while it scanned, then returned with the nvidia!

There are 2 options the 173 and 180, so I did select the newest, rebooted.  Instantly the 3d fx's started working, yet I didn't get the nvidia logo before the initial login.  I did some reading that said to fall back, but gonna play for a while.

Thanks for the replies...

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-09-19
Well you should be good to go.

As a side note, 
From testing both 9.04 and 9.10 - alpha I've decided 9.10 will be far better and perform better on this laptop.

So maybe consider Karmic when it releases in about a month ( the Rc release is a good time to install, I won't do an upgrade, fresh is better in this case

---

