---
title: "ub 10.04 video output (strange) problem"
date: 2010-11-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by gawryl77 on 2010-11-02
hi all,

i am using ubuntu 10.04 with 2.6.34 kernel on asus 1201n netbook. Video playback and (build in) camera used to work perfectly... Things have changed after playing with second monitor connected via HDMI cable - it was some problem with sound, which i've  solved. But after then i found, that i cant play movies! i am running (my favorite) mplayer and i cant see movie, only black window appears with no pictures. Sound works nice. I cant see any error logs. Solution that i've found is to add an extra parameter to mplayer - namely -vo x11 (or -vo vdpau) - then pictres came back and everything is fine. I supose, that the default -vo was xv, and for some reasons xv doesnt work (or is sending output to this second (unplugged) monitor????). 

Movies is only one  problem, but many more softwares works with XV video output. So i cant work with my camera on Skype (i cant put other vo options to skype) and i cant see myself in outgoing video (since people can see me without any troubles!). Also, I cant see people in Skype when other guys are sending me video chat (only black screen -once again).


I try to test is my camera, and it works ok - 
mplayer -vf screenshot -fps 15 tv:// -tv  driver=v4l2:device=/dev/video0
shows only black screen, but
mplayer -vo x11 -vf screenshot -fps 15 tv:// -tv  driver=v4l2:device=/dev/video0
works excelent!

VLC with -V x11 runs and shows pictures from my camera or movies, since without -V x11 (=so with defaults parameteres, which i assume is -V XV) shows only blcack screen during playback :P

Also, I have try gstremer-propoerties (run from ordinary user) but i cant see any differences when i am changing plugin box (Video sheet) from automatic detection to X11 system without Xv (or) to X11 system with X11/Shm/Xv - so i am confused...

So i am thinking, that video (with VX output) goes through HDMI cable? which is no longer connected... how to check it? or others suggestions?


anybody can give me any hint?
thanks,
   Krzysiek

---

### Post by gawryl77 on 2010-11-13
i really need help...

i ve got another clue: after connecting second monitor via VGA port and reconfiguring monitor (nvidia-seting) XV videooutput works well ! i can play movies without adding an extra -vo x11 options (defaults works, and -vo xv also works). 

BUT after unplugging second monitor and pluging it once again, but via HDMI port (and reconfiguring monitor settings - nvidia-settings) XV video output is dead :P only black screen :P

so?

---

### Post by aditya.sharma on 2010-11-19
I have the same problem, I guess some software update broke "xv". I started seeing this about 2-3 months ago. Did you find a fix for this yet?

---

### Post by aditya.sharma on 2010-11-19
BTW do you use Compiz? I was able to get mplayer + xv to work by following advice on this thread. Just disabled the "Workarounds" section in Compiz Settings. 


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=518117](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=518117)

---

### Post by gawryl77 on 2010-11-21
hi,

yes-i am using Compiz. so i fallow your suggestion and have disabled Workarounds in Compiz Settings... and it works! 

i am not changing title of my thread to [solved] because i have to do some more test, but i am a good cheer with this ;)

thanks dude!

---

### Post by gawryl77 on 2010-11-22
> **gawryl77 said:**
> hi,

yes-i am using Compiz. so i fallow your suggestion and have disabled Workarounds in Compiz Settings... and it works! 


my happiness was too soon :( 
it worked, because last time i ve connected second monitor via VGA port. So i plugged HDMI cable and... XV video output is dead :P i think it's not Compiz related problem, because i decided to disabled Compiz - but without bettering XV problem...

---

### Post by gawryl77 on 2011-09-26
i am still waiting for the solution...

i have switched off compiz (chosen no effects) and mplayer does't play movies (black window). mplayer -vo vdpau works weel. BUT i need Skype and (damn!) i have also black screen on video conversations! 

what to do?
or - how to pass -vo vdpau option to the Skype?

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-09-26
The vdpau option is video decode (& presentation) in h/w for nVidia GPU.

It is no help for Skype.
Skype is built using gstreamer (AFAIK), you may be able to change the gstreamer setup thru' gconf-editor to use v4l & not v4l2 (see below).

What video driver are you running ?
Have you tried the vl4 compatibility library for Skype/webcam ? 
(there is a cmd line option to force use of the v4l1 lib instead of v4l2)
[http://community.linuxmint.com/tutorial/view/219](http://community.linuxmint.com/tutorial/view/219)
[http://en.gentoo-wiki.com/wiki/Webcam#Skype](http://en.gentoo-wiki.com/wiki/Webcam#Skype)

---

### Post by gawryl77 on 2011-09-27
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> The vdpau option is video decode (& presentation) in h/w for nVidia GPU.

It is no help for Skype.
Skype is built using gstreamer (AFAIK), you may be able to change the gstreamer setup thru' gconf-editor to use v4l & not v4l2 (see below).

ok, let me clarify - i've got GENERAL video output problem (movies are not playing, only black screen apears), not only with Skype. BUT in case with movies i can solve it - i have to pass an extra argument to the command line (mplayer works -shows me the movies- when i add -vo vdpau OR -vo x11 options. Default video output (xv) doesnt work). 

So, maybe i have to reinstall xv drivers (they are defaults for Skype) but i dont know witch ones (there are many packages with xv in names). And i will run gstreamer setup (i havent use that app - thanks for that), will see.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-09-27
I know you have general video problems.
The std ubuntu packages use gstreamer backend, no VDPAU.
Adding monitors uses more RAM.
AFAIK Your video graphics uses shared system RAM.

-vo vdpau will not work unless you are running nVidia driver..
x11 is deprecated..
No netbook will achieve video performance without the video driver setup correctly..
The ION chipset has issues with RAM configuration (type/arrangement/amount)
VDPAU needs 512MB & ION VDPAU seems to need more buffers.
Can you increase the video memory in BIOS ?

What video driver are you using ?
glxinfo | grep OpenGL
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log

---

### Post by gawryl77 on 2011-09-28
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> I know you have general video problems.
The std ubuntu packages use gstreamer backend, no VDPAU.

ok, do you know how to reinstall gstreamer backed? 

> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> 
-vo vdpau will not work unless you are running nVidia driver..

vdpau works well in my system, i am running nVidia 280.13 drivers

> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> 
x11 is deprecated..

but is still working in my system (i mean - i can force mplayer to use this driver by mplayer -vo x11). BTW i tried -vo gl2 and it also works. only -vo xv shows me black screen (a movie is  playing, i can hear the sounds, rewind the movie, but still black screen)

> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> 
No netbook will achieve video performance without the video driver setup correctly..
The ION chipset has issues with RAM configuration (type/arrangement/amount)
VDPAU needs 512MB & ION VDPAU seems to need more buffers.
Can you increase the video memory in BIOS ?

i am not sure that its a ram size issue - because from time to time my system works with defaults (xv video output). It happens when I switch second monitor via HDMI cable OR via VGA cable - but I can't guess how it works.
[/quote]

> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> 
glxinfo | grep OpenGL

OpenGL vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL renderer string: ION/PCI/SSE2
OpenGL version string: 3.3.0 NVIDIA 280.13
OpenGL shading language version string: 3.30 NVIDIA via Cg compiler
OpenGL extensions:

> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> 
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log

[www.gawryl.pl/Xorg.0.log]("http://www.gawryl.pl/Xorg.0.log")

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-09-28
Maybe there is a problem with twinview & Xv.
Try separate X screens..
DISPLAY=":0.1" mplayer ....-vo xv
but it is crazy not using VDPAU..

There is a whole section on video output methods in the mplayer docs.

If you are just playing low res skype images/video it does not matter what you use.
Note that skype has/had a problem with v4l2. Recent kernels have dropped all interfaces to v4l(1).

gstreamer has a collection of packages..just search in synaptic..make sure you have the good, bad & ugly packages.. Maybe the required codec is missing.

The Xorg.0.log files looks okay.

An atom (330) netbook can not play normal bitrate 720p 1080i H264 video, you have to use VDPAU. It is pointless trying to make the CPU intensive decode video overlay methods work. The ION 9400m can full decode & also run de-interlacing filters in shader h/w. This leaves the CPU to do other stuff.

---

