---
title: "3 Monitors, 2 Nvidia SLI GTS 250"
date: 2011-07-20
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by JamesPKing on 2011-07-20
I have two Nvidia cards hooked together with SLI. I am testing a 3 monitor set-up, as opposed to the two I have been running; however, the testing is not going so well. 

I would like to have my three monitors working like my original two did. I used Twinview for them. The third monitor, which is connected to the second video card (device1) can only be run as a separate X screen. As a result of this I can only move windows within the original Twinview monitors, instead of all 3.

---

### Post by Cybie257 on 2011-07-20
I'm not sure, but I think running in SLI will cause issues running 3 monitors. Try running them in NON-SLI mode and see if that helps correct your problem...

I might be stating this wrong, but basically running SLI mode is like turning two cards into one, so therefore, running 3 monitors is exceeding the capabilities for a single card. I don't really like saying it that way, but if my assumption is correct, that is why you would run into problems with 3 monitors and SLI.

-Cybie

---

### Post by JamesPKing on 2011-07-20
> **Cybie257 said:**
> I'm not sure, but I think running in SLI will cause issues running 3 monitors. Try running them in NON-SLI mode and see if that helps correct your problem...

I might be stating this wrong, but basically running SLI mode is like turning two cards into one, so therefore, running 3 monitors is exceeding the capabilities for a single card. I don't really like saying it that way, but if my assumption is correct, that is why you would run into problems with 3 monitors and SLI.

-Cybie

Unfortunately that yields no apparent changes (I have removed the SLI bridge.)

When I use Xinerama my displays mirror each other and are not stable (crash...) 

I need some way to get all 3 working like 2 did with Twinview... 

If it helps, here is my xorg.conf:

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 270.29  (buildd@allspice)  Fri Feb 25 14:42:07 UTC 2011


Section "ServerLayout"

# Removed Option "Xinerama" "0"
# Removed Option "Xinerama" "0"
# Removed Option "Xinerama" "1"
# Removed Option "Xinerama" "0"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen2"
    Screen      2  "Screen2" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DSG"
    HorizSync       31.5 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic VX1945wm-3"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor2"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       31.5 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTS 250"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTS 250"
    BusID          "PCI:5:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device2"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTS 250"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1920x1080 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1920x1080 +0+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1920x1080 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0"
# Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1920x1080 +1920+0, CRT-1: 1920x1080 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1920x1080 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1440x900 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen2"
    Device         "Device2"
    Monitor        "Monitor2"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-1: 1920x1080 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

That set-up has each screen as a separate X server.

---

### Post by Cybie257 on 2011-07-20
Just a quick question to gather more information..

You say you are using Xinerama. Have you tried setting up the 3 monitors using the proprietary nVidia drivers/setup? As in the nVidia Control Panel?

When it comes to nVidia, they do a great job with Linux drivers and so I tend to use genuine nVidia tools with my displays rather than OEM or Open Source Linux Drivers. Not that Linux drivers aren't worthy, just nVidia does a great job supporting us Linux users compared to most other Vendors....

-Cybie




EDIT: Actually, I forgot that you mentioned SLI, so likely you did use the nVidia Driver Control panel settings, but still would like to confirm that in case you were just referring to the cable just being plugged in...

---

### Post by JamesPKing on 2011-07-21
> **Cybie257 said:**
> Just a quick question to gather more information..

You say you are using Xinerama. Have you tried setting up the 3 monitors using the proprietary nVidia drivers/setup? As in the nVidia Control Panel?

When it comes to nVidia, they do a great job with Linux drivers and so I tend to use genuine nVidia tools with my displays rather than OEM or Open Source Linux Drivers. Not that Linux drivers aren't worthy, just nVidia does a great job supporting us Linux users compared to most other Vendors....

-Cybie




EDIT: Actually, I forgot that you mentioned SLI, so likely you did use the nVidia Driver Control panel settings, but still would like to confirm that in case you were just referring to the cable just being plugged in...

At the moment I don't have the other screen for further testing but thanks for your input. I will verify that I am using the NVIDIA drivers in the near future when I have the screen. 

Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by tjones00 on 2011-07-21
In linux as I remember you must actually deliberately toggle sli on/off via the nvidia-xconfig xorg.conf generator. So if it was on it should state something in the xorg.conf. I don't see anything.


Output of nvidia-xconfig -A (advanced help)

```
brawndo@brawndo:~$ nvidia-xconfig -A

nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.41.06  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-07.nvidia.com)  Mon Apr 18 15:15:12 PDT 2011
  The NVIDIA X Configuration Tool.

  This program is used to manipulate X configuration files, specifically to enable NVIDIA X driver functionality.

  Copyright (C) 2005 - 2010 NVIDIA Corporation.


  In its normal operation, nvidia-xconfig finds the system X configuration file (or generates a new X configuration if it cannot find the system file), makes sure the configuration is
  usable by the NVIDIA X driver, applies any updates requested on the commandline, and writes the new configuration to file.

  Please see the NVIDIA README for a description of NVIDIA X configuration file options.


nvidia-xconfig [options]

  -c XCONFIG, --xconfig=XCONFIG
      Use XCONFIG as the input X config file; if this option is not specified, then the same search path used by the X server will be used to find the X configuration file.

  -o OUTPUT-XCONFIG, --output-xconfig=OUTPUT-XCONFIG
      Use OUTPUT-XCONFIG as the output X configuration file; if this option is not specified, then the input X configuration filename will also be used as the output X configuration
      filename.

  -s, --silent
      Run silently; no messages will be printed to stdout, except for warning and error messages to stderr.

  -t, --tree
      Read the X configuration file, print to stdout the X configuration data in a tree format, and exit.

  -v, --version
      Print the nvidia-xconfig version and exit.

  -h, --help
      Print usage information for the common commandline options and exit.

  -A, --advanced-help
      Print usage information for the common commandline options as well as the advanced options, and then exit.

  --acpid-socket-path=ACPID-SOCKET-PATH, --no-acpid-socket-path
      Set this option to specify an alternate path to the Linux ACPI daemon (acpid)'s socket, which the NVIDIA X driver will use to connect to acpid.

  --add-argb-glx-visuals, --no-add-argb-glx-visuals
      Enables or disables support for OpenGL rendering into 32-bit ARGB windows and pixmaps.

  --allow-glx-with-composite, --no-allow-glx-with-composite
      Enable or disable the "AllowGLXWithComposite" X configuration option.

  --bandwidth-test, --no-bandwidth-test
      Disable or enable the "NoBandWidthTest" X configuration option.

  --busid=BUSID, --no-busid
      This option writes the specified BusID to the device section of the X configuration file.  If there are multiple device sections, then it adds the BusID field to each of them.  To add
      the BusID to only a specific device or screen section, use the '--device' or '--screen' options.

  --preserve-busid, --no-preserve-busid
      By default, nvidia-xconfig preserves the existing BusID in the X configuration file only if there are multiple X screens configured for the X server.  Use '--preserve-busid' or
      '--no-preserve-busid' to force the BusID to be preserved or not preserved, overriding the default behavior.

  --cool-bits=COOL-BITS, --no-cool-bits
      Enable or disable the "Coolbits" X configuration option.  Setting this option will enable support in the NV-CONTROL X extension for manipulating GPU clock and GPU fan control
      settings. Default value is 0.  For fan
      control set it to 4.  WARNING: this may cause system damage and void warranties.

  --composite, --no-composite
      Enable or disable the "Composite" X extension.

  --connected-monitor=CONNECTED-MONITOR, --no-connected-monitor
      Enable or disable the  "ConnectedMonitor" X configuration option; setting this option forces the X driver to behave as if the specified display devices are connected to the GPU.

  --connect-to-acpid, --no-connect-to-acpid
      Enable or disable the "ConnectToAcpid" X configuration option.  If this option is set, the NVIDIA X driver will attempt to connect to the Linux ACPI daemon (acpid).  Set this option
      to off to prevent the X driver from attempting to connect to acpid.

  --constant-dpi, --no-constant-dpi
      Enable or disable the "ConstantDPI" X configuration option, which controls whether the NVIDIA X driver maintains a constant dots per inch (DPI) value by recomputing the reported size
      in millimeters of the X screen when XRandR changes the size in pixels of the X screen.

  --custom-edid=CUSTOM-EDID, --no-custom-edid
      Enable or disable the  "CustomEDID" X configuration option; setting this option forces the X driver to use the EDID specified.This option is a semicolon-separated list of pairs of
      display device names and filename pairs; e.g "CRT-0:\tmp\edid.bin". Note that a display device name must always be specified even if only one EDID is specified. 

  --dac-8bit, --no-dac-8bit
      Most Quadro parts by default use a 10 bit color look up table (LUT) by default; setting this option to TRUE forces these graphics chips to use an 8 bit (LUT).

  -d DEPTH, --depth=DEPTH
      Set the default depth to DEPTH; valid values for DEPTH are 8, 15, 16, 24, and 30.

  --device=DEVICE
      The nvidia-xconfig utility operates on one or more devices in the X configuration file.  If this option is specified, the device named DEVICE in the X configuration file will be used.
      If this option is not specified, all the devices within the X configuration file will be used.

  --disable-glx-root-clipping, --no-disable-glx-root-clipping
      Disable or enable clipping OpenGL rendering to the root window via the "DisableGLXRootClipping" X configuration option.

  --damage-events, --no-damage-events
      Use OS-level events to notify the X server when a direct-rendering client has performed rendering that needs to be composited to the screen.  Improves performance when using GLX with
      the composite extension.

  --dynamic-twinview, --no-dynamic-twinview
      Enable or disable support for dynamically configuring TwinView.

  --preserve-driver-name
      By default nvidia-xconfig changes the  display  driver  to "nvidia" for all configured X screens; this option preserves the existing driver name of each X screen.

  --enable-acpi-hotkeys, --no-enable-acpi-hotkeys
      The "EnableACPIHotkeys" option can be specified to override the NVIDIA X driver's default decision to enable or disable ACPI display change hotkey events.

  -a, --enable-all-gpus
      Configure an X screen on every GPU in the system.

  --exact-mode-timings-dvi, --no-exact-mode-timings-dvi
      Forces the initialization of the X server with the exact timings specified in the ModeLine.

  -E FILE, --extract-edids-from-file=FILE
      Extract any raw EDID byte blocks contained in the specified X log file LOG; raw EDID bytes are printed by the NVIDIA X driver to the X log as hexidecimal when verbose logging is
      enabled with the "-logverbose 6" X server commandline option.  Any extracted EDIDs are then written as binary data to individual files.  These files can later be used by the NVIDIA X
      driver through the "CustomEDID" X configuration option.

  --extract-edids-output-file=FILENAME
      When the '--extract-edids-from-file' option is used, nvidia-xconfig writes any extracted EDID to a file, typically "edid.bin" in the current directory.  Use this option to specify an
      alternate filename.  Note that nvidia-xconfig, if necessary, will append a unique number to the EDID filename, to avoid overwriting existing files (e.g., "edid.bin.1" if "edid.bin"
      already exists).

  --flatpanel-properties=FLATPANEL-PROPERTIES, --no-flatpanel-properties
      Set the flat panel properties. The supported properties are: 'scaling', 'dithering' & 'ditheringmode'.  Please see the NVIDIA README 'Appendix B. X Config Options' for more details on
      the possible values and syntax.

  --flip, --no-flip
      Enable or disable OpenGL flipping

  --force-generate
      Force generation of a new X config file, ignoring any existing system X config file.  This is not typically recommended, as things like the mouse protocol, keyboard layout, font
      paths, etc, are setup by your Unix distribution.  While nvidia-xconfig can attempt to infer these values, it is best to use your Unix distribution's X config file for the basis of
      anything that nvidia-xconfig creates.

  --force-stereo-flipping, --no-force-stereo-flipping
      Normally, stereo flipping is only performed when a stereo drawable is visible. This option forces stereo flipping even when no stereo drawables are visible.

  --handle-special-keys=WHEN, --no-handle-special-keys
      Specify when the X server should use the builtin keyboard handler to process special key combinations (such as Ctrl+Alt+Backspace); see the X configuration man page for details.  The
      value of WHEN can be 'Always', 'Never', or 'WhenNeeded'.

  --include-implicit-metamodes, --no-include-implicit-metamodes
      Enable or disable the "IncludeImplicitMetaModes" X configuration option.

  --keyboard=KEYBOARD
      When generating a new X configuration file (which happens when no system X configuration file can be found, or the '--force-generate' option is specified), use KEYBOARD as the
      keyboard type, rather than attempting to probe the system for the keyboard type.  For a list of possible keyboard types, see the '--keyboard-list' option.

  --keyboard-driver=DRIVER
      In most cases nvidia-xconfig can automatically determine the correct keyboard driver to use (either 'kbd' or 'keyboard'). Use this option to override what nvidia-xconfig detects.
      Typically, if you are using an X.Org X server, use 'kdb'; if you are using an XFree86 X server, use 'keyboard'.

  --keyboard-list
      Print to stdout the available keyboard types recognized by the '--keyboard' option, and then exit.

  --layout=LAYOUT
      The nvidia-xconfig utility operates on a Server Layout within the X configuration file.  If this option is specified, the layout named LAYOUT in the X configuration file will be used.
      If this option is not specified, the first Server Layout in the X configuration file is used.

  --logo, --no-logo
      Disable or enable the "NoLogo" X configuration option.

  --logo-path=PATH, --no-logo-path
      Set the path to the PNG file to be used as the logo splash screen at X server startup.

  --mode=MODE
      Add the specified mode to the mode list.

  --mode-debug, --no-mode-debug
      Enable or disable the "ModeDebug" X configuration option; when enabled, this option causes the X driver to print verbose details about mode validation to the X log file.

  --mode-list=MODELIST
      Remove all existing modes from the X configuration's modelist and add the one(s) specified in the MODELIST string.

  --remove-mode=MODE
      Remove the specified mode from the mode list.

  --metamodes=METAMODES
      Add the MetaMode X configuration option with the value METAMODES which will replace any existing MetaMode option already in the X configuration file.

  --mouse=MOUSE
      When generating a new X configuration file (which happens when no system X configuration file can be found, or the '--force-generate' option is specified), use MOUSE as the mouse
      type, rather than attempting to probe the system for the mouse type.  For a list of possible mouse types, see the '--mouse-list' option.

  --mouse-list
      Print to stdout the available mouse types recognized by the '--mouse' option, and then exit.

  --multigpu=MULTIGPU, --no-multigpu
      Enable or disable MultiGPU.  Valid values for MULTIGPU are 'Off', 'On', 'Auto', 'AFR', 'SFR', 'AA'.

  --multisample-compatibility, --no-multisample-compatibility
      Enable or disable the use of separate front and back multisample buffers.

  --nvagp=NVAGP, --no-nvagp
      Set the NvAGP X config option value.  Possible values are 0 (no AGP), 1 (NVIDIA's AGP), 2 (AGPGART), 3 (try AGPGART, then try NVIDIA's AGP); these values can also be specified as
      'none', 'nvagp', 'agpgart', or 'any'.

  --nvidia-cfg-path=PATH
      The nvidia-cfg library is used to communicate with the NVIDIA kernel module to query basic properties of every GPU in the system.  This library is typically only used by
      nvidia-xconfig when configuring multiple X screens.  This option tells nvidia-xconfig where to look for this library (in case it cannot find it on its own).  This option should
      normally not be needed.

  --only-one-x-screen
      Disable all but one X screen.

  --overlay, --no-overlay
      Enable or disable the "Overlay" X configuration option.

  --cioverlay, --no-cioverlay
      Enable or disable the color index overlay.

  --overlay-default-visual, --no-overlay-default-visual
      Enable or disable the "OverlayDefaultVisual" X configuration option.

  --transparent-index=INDEX, --no-transparent-index
      Pixel to use as transparent when using color index overlays.  Valid values for TRANSPARENT-INDEX are 0-255.

  -T, --post-tree
      Like the '--tree' option, but goes through the full process of applying any user requested updates to the X configuration, before printing the final configuration to stdout in a tree
      format.  Effectively, this option just causes the configuration to be printed to stdout as a tree instead of writing the results to file.

  --power-connector-check, --no-power-connector-check
      Disable or enable the "NoPowerConnectorCheck" X configuration option.

  --probe-all-gpus, --no-probe-all-gpus
      Disable or enable the "ProbeAllGpus" X configuration option.

  --query-gpu-info
      Print information about all recognized NVIDIA GPUs in the system.

  --randr-rotation, --no-randr-rotation
      Enable or disable the "RandRRotation" X configuration option.

  --registry-dwords=REGISTRY-DWORDS, --no-registry-dwords
      Enable or disable the "RegistryDwords" X configuration option.

  --render-accel, --no-render-accel
      Enable or disable the "RenderAccel" X configuration option.

  --render-extension, --no-render-extension
      Disable or enable the "NoRenderExtension" X configuration option.

  --rotate=ROTATE, --no-rotate
      Enable or disable the "Rotate" X configuration option.  Valid values for ROTATE are 'normal', 'left', 'CCW', 'inverted', 'right', and 'CW'.  Rotation can be disabled 

  --screen=SCREEN
      The nvidia-xconfig utility operates on one or more screens within a Server Layout in the X configuration file.  If this option is specified, the screen named SCREEN in the X
      configuration file will be used.  If this option is not specified, all screens within the selected Server Layout in the X configuration file will be used used.

  --separate-x-screens, --no-separate-x-screens
      A GPU that supports multiple simultaneous display devices can either drive these display devices in TwinView, or as separate X screens.  When the '--separate-x-screens' option is
      specified, each GPU on which an X screen is currently configured will be updated to have two X screens configured.  The '--no-separate-x-screens' option will remove the second
      configured X screen on each GPU.  Please see the NVIDIA README description of "Separate X Screens on One GPU" for further details.

  --sli=SLI, --no-sli
      Enable or disable SLI.  Valid values for SLI are 'Off', 'On', 'Auto', 'AFR', 'SFR', 'AA', 'AFRofAA', 'Mosaic'.

  --stereo=STEREO, --no-stereo
      Enable or disable the stereo mode.  Valid values for STEREO are: 0 (Disabled), 1 (DDC glasses), 2 (Blueline glasses), 3 (Onboard stereo), 4 (TwinView clone mode stereo), 5 (SeeReal
      digital flat panel), 6 (Sharp3D digital flat panel), 7 (Arisawa/Hyundai/Zalman/Pavione/Miracube), 8 (3D DLP), 9 (3D DLP INV), 10 (NVIDIA 3D VISION), 11 (NVIDIA 3D VISION PRO).

  --thermal-configuration-check, --no-thermal-configuration-check
      Disable or enable the "ThermalConfigurationCheck" X configuration option.

  --tv-standard=TV-STANDARD, --no-tv-standard
      Enable or disable the "TVStandard" X configuration option. Valid values for "TVStandard" are: "PAL-B", "PAL-D", "PAL-G", "PAL-H", "PAL-I", "PAL-K1", "PAL-M", "PAL-N", "PAL-NC",
      "NTSC-J", "NTSC-M", "HD480i", "HD480p", "HD720p", "HD1080i", "HD1080p", "HD576i", "HD576p".

  --tv-out-format=TV-OUT-FORMAT, --no-tv-out-format
      Enable or disable the "TVOutFormat" X configuration option. Valid values for "TVOutFormat" are: "SVIDEO" and "COMPOSITE".

  --tv-over-scan=TV-OVER-SCAN, --no-tv-over-scan
      Enable or disable the "TVOverScan" X configuration option. Valid values are decimal values in the range 1.0 and 0.0.

  --twinview, --no-twinview
      Enable or disable TwinView.

  --twinview-orientation=ORIENTATION, --no-twinview-orientation
      Specify the TwinViewOrientation.  Valid values for ORIENTATION are: "RightOf" (the default), "LeftOf", "Above", "Below", or "Clone".

  --twinview-xinerama-info, --no-twinview-xinerama-info
      Prohibits providing Xinerama information when in TwinView.

  --twinview-xinerama-info-order=TWINVIEW-XINERAMA-INFO-ORDER, --no-twinview-xinerama-info-order
      Enable or disable the "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" X configuration option.  TWINVIEW-XINERAMA-INFO-ORDER is a comma-separated list of display device names that describe the order in
      which TwinViewXineramaInfo should be reported.  E.g., "CRT, DFP, TV".

  --ubb, --no-ubb
      Enable or disable the "UBB" X configuration option.

  --use-edid, --no-use-edid
      Enable or disable use of the EDID (Extended Display Identification Data) from your display device(s).  The EDID will be used for driver operations such as building lists of available
      modes, determining valid frequency ranges, and computing the DPI (Dots Per Inch).  This option defaults to TRUE (the NVIDIA X driver will use the EDID, when available).  It is NOT
      recommended that you use this option to globally disable use of the EDID; instead, use '--no-use-edid-freqs' or '--no-use-edid-dpi' to disable specific uses of the EDID.

  --use-edid-dpi, --no-use-edid-dpi
      Enable or disable use of the physical size information in the display device's EDID, if any, to compute the DPI (Dots Per Inch) of the X screen.  This option defaults to TRUE (the
      NVIDIA X driver uses the EDID's physical size, when available, to compute the DPI).

  --use-edid-freqs, --no-use-edid-freqs
      Enable or disable use of the HorizSync and VertRefresh ranges given in a display device's EDID, if any.  EDID provided range information will override the HorizSync and VertRefresh
      ranges specified in the Monitor section.  This option defaults to TRUE (the NVIDIA X driver will use frequency information from the EDID, when available).

  --use-int10-module, --no-use-int10-module
      Enable use of the X Int10 module to soft-boot all secondary cards, rather than POSTing the cards through the NVIDIA kernel module.

  --use-display-device=DISPLAY-DEVICE, --no-use-display-device
      Force the X driver to use the display device specified.

  --use-events, --no-use-events
      Enable or disable "UseEvents" X configuration option. Setting this option will enable the X driver to use the system events in some cases when it is waiting for the hardware. With
      this option X driver sets an event handler and waits for the hardware through the poll() system call. This option defaults to FALSE.

  --virtual=WIDTHxHEIGHT, --no-virtual
      Specify the virtual screen resolution.

  --x-prefix=X-PREFIX
      The X installation prefix; the default is /usr/X11R6/.  Only under rare circumstances should this option be needed.

  --xinerama, --no-xinerama
      Enable or disable Xinerama.

  --xvmc-uses-textures, --no-xvmc-uses-textures
      Forces XvMC to use the 3D engine for XvMCPutSurface requests rather than the video overlay.

  --color-space=COLORSPACE, --no-color-space
      Enable or disable the "ColorSpace" X configuration option. Valid values for "COLORSPACE" are: "RGB" and "YCbCr444".

  --color-range=COLORRANGE, --no-color-range
      Sets the "ColorRange" X configuration option. Valid values for "COLORRANGE" are: "Full" and "Limited".

  --3dvision-usb-path=3DVISION-USB-PATH
      Set this option to specify the sysfs path of the connected USB dongle.

  --3dvisionpro-config-file=3DVISIONPRO-CONFIG-FILE
      Set this option to specify the NVIDIA 3DVisionPro configuration file. Ensure X server has a read and write access permissions to this file. NVIDIA X driver stores the hub and the
      pairing configuration in this file to re-use across X restarts. If this option is not provided, 3D VisionPro configuration will not be stored.

  --3dvision-display-type=3DVISION-DISPLAY-TYPE, --no-3dvision-display-type
      When NVIDIA 3D Vision is enabled with a non 3D Vision ready display, use this option to specify the display type. Valid values are: 0 (Assume it is a CRT), 1 (Assume it is a DLP) and
      2 (Assume it is a DLP TV and enable the checkerboard output).

```Anyway try the following.

Press ctrl+alt+f2

login

```
sudo service gdm stop
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf-original
sudo nvidia-xconfig --enable-all-gpus --no-twinview --separate-x-screens
sudo service gdm start
```In my experience twinview with 2+ monitors doesn't work too well. This should set you up with both gpus enabled and a separate-x-screen for each monitor (not session) one monitor of course will be the primary with all the tool bars and doo dads. You'll be able to drag windows all over the place. You can use nvidia-settings to designate the primary monitor and the positions of the others.

Of course if you want twinview try the command

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --enable-all-gpus --twinview --separate-x-screens
```instead

If that doesn't work omit the --separate-x-screens and see what happens. I believe by default it's separate x session

In your original post it sounded like the 3rd monitor was a separate x session. 

As to my earlier comment about sli if you notice in the output from advanced help.

--sli=SLI, --no-sli
      Enable or disable SLI.  Valid values for SLI are 'Off', 'On', 'Auto', 'AFR', 'SFR', 'AA', 'AFRofAA', 'Mosaic'.

---

