---
title: "8.04 Kaffeine DVB no longer working"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by potnoodles on 2008-04-26
When I start up 'Digital TV' in Kaffeine the stream begins to play without any audio then stops dead. Previously working perfectly in Gutsy.I am Using the Megasky 580 USB tuner.

FW was installed using method described here
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=587130&highlight=megasky](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=587130&highlight=megasky)

Edit: now got it working in fresh install of 64 bit version of 8.04 but still no joy with my original 32 bit 8.04 which was a managed update from Gutsy.


Any Ideas?
potnoodles

---

### Post by brainstuff on 2008-04-26
I'll see if my 32 bit Xubuntu machine can do anything with it (not holding my breath - it's an old Pentium 3 with only 4mb video ram or something - DVD's don't play back on it properly).

By the way, have you got multiple audio cards (ie onboard + soundblaster?), and have you tried making sure your default sound Ubuntu playback device matches that of kaffeine? (and maybe try ALSA instead of Pulse? as that's one of the major changes).
Just a thought from a seminoob :)

---

### Post by brainstuff on 2008-04-27
hey notpoodles :)

I've just got the megasky working on 32bit Xubuntu 8.04, but do note it was a clean install. I got all the right noises from DMESG and kaffeine, channels scanned okay, and I could just about make out the occasional face - the picture was mostly garbage but I put that down to poor TV reception and asking too much of this old girl (P3 with 256Mb RAM)! 

...so it looks like it should work in 32bit on 8.04 but I suppose you might want to try a fresh install?

good luck
Tom

---

### Post by potnoodles on 2008-05-15
> **brainstuff said:**
> I'll see if my 32 bit Xubuntu machine can do anything with it (not holding my breath - it's an old Pentium 3 with only 4mb video ram or something - DVD's don't play back on it properly).

By the way, have you got multiple audio cards (ie onboard + soundblaster?), and have you tried making sure your default sound Ubuntu playback device matches that of kaffeine? (and maybe try ALSA instead of Pulse? as that's one of the major changes).
Just a thought from a seminoob :)

Thanks Brainstuff,
I will have a go at that, however I think I will just migrate permanently to 64 bit as I was successful installing the Nvidia Geforce 64 bit driver as well as the NDAS 64 bit drivers from ximeta. I have no reason to do a fresh install of the 32 bit Ububtu and I can free up that partition for all my future TV recordings!!!

cheers,
potnoodles

---

### Post by potnoodles on 2008-06-27
> **brainstuff said:**
> hey notpoodles :)
By the way, have you got multiple audio cards (ie onboard + soundblaster?), and have you tried making sure your default sound Ubuntu playback device matches that of kaffeine? (and maybe try ALSA instead of Pulse? as that's one of the major changes).
Just a thought from a seminoob 

good luck
Tom

Apologies Tom, Forgot to get back to you on this
Changing all audio settings Ubuntu and Kaffeine sorted this problem DVB-TV now working once more on 32 bit 8.04

Thanks for the advice,
potnoodles

---

### Post by brainstuff on 2008-06-28
Hey, that's quite literally my pleasure :-)

---

