---
title: "5.1 surround sound bass redirection"
date: 2010-03-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by nex_gen on 2010-03-05
Hello everyone,

after a lot of search I couldn't find a solution to my problem. 
When I decode an audio clip which contain 5.1 streams (the encoding doesn't matter - or does it?) I cannot find an option which allows redirection of the lower frequencies (from front, back and center channels) to the sub woofer (LFE channel). I understand that this perfectly normal and this is how 5.1 supposed to work. My problem is that my speakers are not full range, so they cannot reproduce the bass in the streams. What I want to know is if there is a way to do something like this:
[http://ac3filter.sourceforge.net/ac3filter_eng.html#mixer]("http://ac3filter.sourceforge.net/ac3filter_eng.html#mixer")
Which is described as:
*Bass redir - Bass redirection. Route basses from all channels to subwoofer. Works only if it is subwoofer at output speakers. Highly recommended for systems with separate subwoofer. Basses are routed before mixing so basses are shown at LFE input level (although 'real' LFE may be absent).*

I'm aware of the *enable-lfe-remixing = yes* option. It works fine for stereo, but not for 5.1

I use ubuntu 9.10 and my pulseaudio version is 0.9.19. The player I use most is SMPlayer (version 0.6.8 (SVN r3213)) and AC3-liba52 for AC3 decoding.
My system is up to date.

Thank you.

---

### Post by nex_gen on 2010-03-31
anyone?

---

### Post by ramf on 2010-04-11
i have the same problem.
bass redirection enables only if i set my sound card as a "analog stereo putput" and then change to "analog surround 5.1"
but after swiching to another sound in player bass redirection disables

---

### Post by EliteLamer on 2011-02-25
I too have the same problem with my 5.1 system sharing the center and sub channel.

---

