---
title: ".mov Streaming problem in Ubuntu Lucid"
date: 2010-06-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Lrpbpb on 2010-06-09
Ok, so as the title states, I have a problem with streaming from .mov from Appl.com. As most of you must know, the iPhone 4 was announced in WWDC 10 on Monday. I am interested in it and I wanted to watch the keynote (available at different resolution: [http://events.apple.com.edgesuite.net/1006ad9g4hjk/event/index.html](http://events.apple.com.edgesuite.net/1006ad9g4hjk/event/index.html)). When I click on low-large resolutions, Totem opens up and I get this error message: ```
GstDecodeBin2: This appears to be a text file
```When I click the HD , totem opens, and video starts streaming, but it is of a terrible quality (so much for Apple's "perfect presentation" rep).
I'm not so sure this is so much a problem of Ubuntu as of my network connection. I have heard that "live" streams are not of that great quality because the video player is prioritizing to deliver live continuous stream, I can understand that. But I want quality video. So, can any of you Linux guru's (I am a newbie) tell me if this is a problem with Ubuntu (not proper mov codecs?), my connection? Apple?
Also, as I understand it, if I were to download the stream, it would have full quality because the player isn't focusing on delivering it live. Is there any app/Firefox extension/hack/terminal code, etc. that can help me save such streams? (this would also help me in future cases)
Thanks for all of your help!;)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-06-09
vlc works ok here with some of the streams, 
ex.

```
 vlc rtsp://a2047.v1414b.c1414.g.vq.akamaistream.net/5/2047/1414/1_h264_1000/1a1a1ae757c733980368e14fbe3297c529980f7de958b91d4bac1778e546afdd40af1c4b7cb0e115/1006127iojapsoiujdv_1_hd.mov
```

```
vlc rtsp://a2047.v1411b.c1411.g.vq.akamaistream.net/5/2047/1411/2_h264_650/1a1a1ae454c430950065de4cbb2f94c226950c7ae655b61a48a91475e243acda3dac194879adde0f/1006127iojapsoiujdv_1_650.mov
```

ect.

Or add some caching (vlc uses milliseconds), ex. 6 sec's

vlc --rtsp-caching 6000 <url>

---

### Post by Lrpbpb on 2010-06-09
When I try 
```
 vlc rtsp://a2047.v1414b.c1414.g.vq.akamaistream.net/5/2047/1414/1_h264_1000/1a1a1ae757c733980368e14fbe3297c529980f7de958b91d4bac1778e546afdd40af1c4b7cb0e115/1006127iojapsoiujdv_1_hd.mov
``` The video still looks horrible.
```
http://stream.qtv.apple.com/events/jun/1006ad9g4hjk/1006127iojapsoiujdv_hd_ref.mov
```vlc opens but doesn't load anything.
Ok, so I tried the lower resolution one and it worked! 
...but.....My question now would be, can't my computer handle HD Video? Its a Core2Duo @ 2.66 GHZ, 1 GB Ram and Intel GMA 330. I know its not the greatest thing around, (can't even play things such as Sims 3 in windows), but still I think it would handle HD (720p my guess), I've watched 720p before on this computer in windows, wo why wouldn't it work in Ubuntu?
Thanks for the quick help, and for the fact that I am able to view the video!

---

