---
title: "14.04.3 minimal install pulseaudio issues with i3wm."
date: 2016-01-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by globetrotterdk on 2016-01-04
I am unable to get the sound working on my 14.04.3 minimal install with i3 as the window manager. Pulseaudio is installed, but I am not sure if all of the necessary bits got installed as I did this manually. Then there is the issue of how to control volume and input in i3. This is important for me as I plan to also install jack and musescore on this laptop.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-01-04
Install pavucontrol using Synaptics (or another package manager but probably Synaptics on a mini), or a terminal:

```
sudo apt-get install pavucontrol
```

That will let you tweak input/output devices and volumes. Get an audio stream going (play music), open Pulseaudio Volume Control and you should see the stream coming from the app you are using in the Output and Playback tabs.

---

### Post by globetrotterdk on 2016-01-04
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Install pavucontrol using Synaptics (or another package manager but probably Synaptics on a mini), or a terminal:

```
sudo apt-get install pavucontrol
```

That will let you tweak input/output devices and volumes. Get an audio stream going (play music), open Pulseaudio Volume Control and you should see the stream coming from the app you are using in the Output and Playback tabs.

Thanks for the quick reply. I have pavucontrol installed and can visually ascertain that there is (for example) coming sound from my chromium browser, when I play a YouTube video, however there is no sound coming out when I adjust the volume.

Would this be a sound card driver issue? I have the system installed on an Acer Aspire One 725 laptop.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-01-04
You may have the wrong device selected. 

Get a stream going and check in 'Output' which Port it is using (choose a new device). Also check in 'Playback'.

---

### Post by globetrotterdk on 2016-01-05
Output is listed as "dummy output", playback is "Alsa plug-in Chromiumm browser". Weird as I have pulseaudio installed.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-01-05
You are outputting through that port, dummy output, according to the 'Output' tab in PulseaudioVControl? Have you clicked the down arrow next to 'Port' in PAVControl and changed the output device?

Is your stream hidden a little further down the 'Output' page? Can you scroll down a bit and the Chromium stream is there? If so, tweak the output port/device.

---

### Post by globetrotterdk on 2016-01-05
There is nothing showing. This a hand rolled 14.04 Ubuntu with i3wm, so maybe there is something I need to install?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-01-05
*Thread moved to **Multimedia Software***.

You might have better luck here (you are using a Ubuntu minimal install and doubt this is i3 specific). Forgot to do it earlier. When you installed pulseaudio manually, how did you install it? With:

```
sudo apt-get install pulseaudio
```

? It should have dragged in what it needed. You can't change the Port in the 'Playback' tab when there is a stream going either? Have you tried the 'Configuration' tab? You may need to change the HDMI or Built-in Audio 'Profile' there (this was the case when troubleshooting using HDMI for a friend).

As for missing some bits because it's a minimal with no DE, did you manually install ALSA also and if so how?

---

### Post by globetrotterdk on 2016-01-05
Yes, that is the way I installed it. There is no way to change the port in the playback tab. There is also nothing in the configuration tab. It says "no cards available for configuration". I just installed a alsa, but still no sound. I have also added myself to the audio group- no change. I ran sudo aplay -l in a terminal and found an alc271x generic sound card at "card 1". I have checked to see if the driver for my sound card was installed, and I have tried to load the module manually- still nothing. I used the following to go through the trouble shooting process:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2016-01-07
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/AlsaInfo](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/AlsaInfo)

---

### Post by globetrotterdk on 2016-01-07
I gave up and installed a different system.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2016-01-07
> **globetrotterdk said:**
> I gave up and installed a different system.

Oh... Interesting.

---

### Post by globetrotterdk on 2016-01-10
I think that I will try this again from the beginning to make sure I do this correctly. How do ensure that I install the necessary bits for audio, video, wireless networking, loading usb drives, etc. with a minimal Ubuntu install? For example in reference to the problems that I have had with audio, should I install pulseaudio or alsa?

---

