---
title: "nVidia Geforce 8600GT"
date: 2008-07-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Nino1110 on 2008-07-14
Hi all ,

I just installed a nVidia Geforce 8600GT.
But, i can use the cool effects etc.
Ubuntu says that I have to install my drivers.
So I installed from System -> Management -> Hardware drivers.
But, my resolution is 640 x 320 or something!
I can´t set it to 1024 x 769 or higher!
I also try the progam from nVidia: nVidia Settings, but that also don´t work! 

Anyone know how I can get working my nVidia Geforce good that I can use effect and more?

Regards!

Nino

---

### Post by yoghurt on 2008-07-14
There's a bunch of threads very similar to yours I'm afraid. Nvidia provides a script that comes with their new driver that does (or is supposed to do) everything for you. It creates the backup of your xorg.conf file as well.

But a good start would be posting your own xorg.conf so perhaps more knowledgeable ones than me can provide some expert advice.

I was struggling with my new GeForce9600GT similarly as you do and after countless tries I just got angry one afternoon and re-installed the whole system and everything worked like a charm :)

---

### Post by Nino1110 on 2008-07-14
How can I find mine Xorg.cnf?
I´m a beginner so :P

---

### Post by chavanak on 2008-07-14
Fire up a terminal and type in "sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf" (without quotes)

Copy the content and paste it here. 
Btw have you tried envy? Please mention which version of ubuntu you are using. If you are using hardy, open synaptic package manager (System--> Admin-->SPM) and search for envy and install it. Once installed, open envy in system tools. Select Nvidia tab and click on install. Pretty straight forward and works too. If you are using versions before hardy, try to google out for envy.
Cheers and hope it helps

---

### Post by Nino1110 on 2008-07-14
My xorg.cnf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"intl"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

, I´m giving a try to Envy thanks!
Btw I use Ubuntu 8.04

---

