---
title: "hp zv6000 laptop with ATI 200M graphics and dell 2001FP LCD --help:  screen issue."
date: 2009-01-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by bosworthy on 2009-01-24
Hi,  :)

I think the best way to explain this is by letting you see the attached screen shot.  It shows what my 2001FP LCD looks like.  Is there a way to maximize the screen? The resolution is correct, but I don't understand why I'm so boxed in.  I'm using an HP zv6000 laptop w/ the ATI 200M graphics and an attached external Dell 2001FP LCD. Respective resolutions are 1280x800 and 1600x1200.

What's the best driver for this card?  I've read many people have problem with the ATI 200M driver.  I'm running Ubuntu 8.04.

I have tried the proprietary driver and it made things worst by offering lower resolution so I've uninstalled it.

Attach is also my xorg.conf:

[PHP]
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
[/PHP]




Thanks in advance for any help.

---

