---
title: "12.04 will not play mp4 non static files"
date: 2012-07-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Philip Gray on 2012-07-18
Good evening

I have an issue with playing mp4 files in the Totem Movie Player. A friend of mine,  who is having this issue, asked me to check in my 12.04 installation. We both have 12.04 installed and are using the GNOME Classic Desktop. Our issue is: the Totem Movie Player does not play non static(ones that only have pictures of the artist, record covers etc.) mp4 files (music songs, Ancient Aliens tv series etc). Some music mp4 files it plays the music but picture, others no music and no picture.

They play fine in VLC player, GNOME MPlayer, SMPlayer. We have installed the Ubuntu-extras package as well as done the css.sh thing to get DVD movies to play, which do. Is there a codec that needs to be installed in 12.04? It works fine in 10.04.

I am hoping someone has some advise for me. I did a search on Google which did not yield any solutions.

Regards
Philip

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-07-18
May be related to this bug which prevent decoding of some h.264 encodings thru gstreamer
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gst-plugins-bad0.10/+bug/973014](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gst-plugins-bad0.10/+bug/973014)

No one wants to fix even though it is quite simple to do so

The best fix is to rebuild the 12.04 gstreamer bad plugin with patch I attached though there is a less than ideal temp workaround that can be also be used to test if you have affected files.

To test read comment 22, separate commands for 32 & 64 bit.
You can revert by reversing the command

If affected I'd rebuild the plugin rather than moving the .so to a .bak or wait till Maybe someday officially fixed

---

### Post by Philip Gray on 2012-07-19
Hi mc4man

I had a look at your bug report. It appears to be the same as the issue I am having. Thank you for yr response. A question: would it work if I uninstalled the gstreamer that 12.04 is using and installed the one that 10.04 is using?

Regards
Philip

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-07-19
> **Philip Gray said:**
> Hi mc4man

I had a look at your bug report. It appears to be the same as the issue I am having. Thank you for yr response. A question: would it work if I uninstalled the gstreamer that 12.04 is using and installed the one that 10.04 is using?

Regards
Philip

Likely not, 10.04 uses a different gstreamer version

( not that hard to re-build the bad plugin, can give you a copy & paste

---

### Post by Philip Gray on 2012-07-20
Hi mc4man

Please do I will really appreciate. I am not that clued up on manually compiling packages. I tried it with Gimp 2.8 and a few others and I was not successful.

Regards
Philip

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-07-20
There are several ways to patch/build, we'll do one pretty straightforward way.

Will be done in the same terminal but will be a couple of times when you'll need to browse to the build/source folder to do something, so when that happens _leave the terminal open_, that way you'll be at proper prompt for next command

The build will take a while, just let it go. It runs some tests, 1 will fail, doesn't matter, quite expected.

This is 1 optional thing - you can either build to the exact same package version as is now in 12.04 or slightly up the version. If leaving the changelog as is then you'll need to be careful not to upgrade back, a repo package is always seen as upgradeable over the same local built one.
By adding a +nmu1 to package version it won't upgrade until the repo package goes to next version, (if it ever does..

So follow carefully, should be easy, will post some screens to refer to if need be

Open a terminal - 
```
mkdir -p gstbad_build && cd gstbad_build
```
```
sudo apt-get build-dep gst-plugins-bad0.10
```
When that successfully completes then continue, if any issue resolve first

```
apt-get source gst-plugins-bad0.10 && \
cd gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3
```

Now download the attached patch, (r, click > 'save link as'), extract, open the folder & place both files in [COLOR="Blue"]~/gstbad_build/gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3/debian/patches[/COLOR]. You'll be replacing the 'series' file & adding the h264parse.patch file , **see screen 1**

*Optional*
While in the source folder for above open /debian/changelog. Just append a +nmu1 to (0.10.22.3-2ubuntu2) as seen in **screen 2**, save & close text editor
(this isn't a 100% proper edit, doesn't matter as you're only building for yourself, not publishing

Back at the terminal
```
dpkg-source --commit
```
Should show this - 
> :~/gstbad_build/gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3$ dpkg-source --commit
dpkg-source: info: patches are not applied, applying them now
dpkg-source: info: applying h264parse.patch
dpkg-source: info: there are no local changes to record


If so then 
```
dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -D -us -uc
```
When build completes (hopefully, see **screen 3)**, then 
```
mkdir ../in && cd ../in
```

Leaving terminal open at the in prompt,  move just 2 packages into the in folder - **screen 4**
gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad.....
libgstreamer-plugins-bad....

Finish up at the terminal with 
```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```

Any issue let me know, just remember to leave the same terminal open from start to finish

---

### Post by Philip Gray on 2012-07-24
Hi mc4man

Thank you very much for all yr help I will give it a go and let you know what happens.

Regards
Philip

[]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=320715")

---

### Post by Philip Gray on 2012-08-17
Hi mc4man

Sorry for only getting back to you now. I have been sick with flu and then bronchitis. I have successfully created the two .deb files. I installed them and mp4 files now play correctly.

Thank you for yr assistance I really appreciate it.

Regards
Philip

---

### Post by Vpc on 2012-09-28
> **mc4man said:**
> 

Back at the terminal
```
dpkg-source --commit
```
Should show this - 

If so then 
```
dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -D -us -uc
```
When build completes (hopefully, see **screen 3)**, then 
```
mkdir ../in && cd ../in
```

Leaving terminal open at the in prompt,  move just 2 packages into the in folder - **screen 4**
gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad.....
libgstreamer-plugins-bad....

Finish up at the terminal with 
```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```

Any issue let me know, just remember to leave the same terminal open from start to finish

When I get to the step where I run 'dpkg-source --commit' I get:
```

tail: cannot open `debian/debian/changelog' for reading: No such file or directory
dpkg-source: error: tail of debian/debian/changelog gave error exit status 1

```

How can I fix this? While following the steps above, I had to use Synaptic to upgrade the ttf-mscorefonts-installer and install dpkg-dev. I also had to restart my computer after the power got turned off.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-09-28
> **Vpc said:**
> When I get to the step where I run 'dpkg-source --commit' I get:
```

tail: cannot open `debian/debian/changelog' for reading: No such file or directory
dpkg-source: error: tail of debian/debian/changelog gave error exit status 1

```

How can I fix this? While following the steps above, I had to use Synaptic to upgrade the ttf-mscorefonts-installer and install dpkg-dev. I also had to restart my computer after the power got turned off.

You need to be at this prompt, was designed to to be done start to finish from the same terminal
> ~/gstbad_build/gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3$

If you were following exactly then this should get back to, open a terminal & 
```
cd gstbad_build/gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3
```

Otherwise get to prompt quoted above  as you can

---

### Post by Vpc on 2012-09-29
> **mc4man said:**
> You need to be at this prompt, was designed to to be done start to finish from the same terminal


If you were following exactly then this should get back to, open a terminal & 
```
cd gstbad_build/gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3
```

Otherwise get to prompt quoted above  as you can

Ok so I run 'dpkg-source --commit' in directory ~/gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3 (~/gstbad_build is empty)

My output:
> dpkg-source: info: patches are not applied, applying them now
dpkg-source: info: applying h264parse.patch
dpkg-source: info: local changes detected, the modified files are:
 gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3/ext/vp8/GstVP8Enc.prs
 gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3/ext/vp8/Makefile.am
Enter the desired patch name: patchGSTSept29

Select an editor.  To change later, run 'select-editor'.
  1. /bin/ed
  2. /bin/nano        <---- easiest
  3. /usr/bin/vim.tiny

Choose 1-3 [2]: 2
dpkg-source: info: local changes have been recorded in a new patch: gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3/debian/patches/patchGSTSept29

Then I run 'dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -D -us -uc'

My output:
> dpkg-buildpackage: source package gst-plugins-bad0.10
dpkg-buildpackage: source version 0.10.22.3-2ubuntu2.1
dpkg-buildpackage: source changed by James M Leddy <james.leddy@ubuntu.com>
dpkg-buildpackage: host architecture i386
 dpkg-source --before-build gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3
dpkg-checkbuilddeps: Unmet build dependencies: autoconf (>= 2.60) automake (>= 1.10) autopoint (>= 0.17) autotools-dev cdbs (>= 0.4.93) debhelper (>= 8.1.3) dh-autoreconf flite-dev libasound2-dev (>= 0.9.1) libcdaudio-dev libdc1394-22-dev (>= 2.0.0) libgstreamer0.10-dev (>= 0.10.35.2) gstreamer0.10-doc gstreamer0.10-plugins-base-doc gstreamer-tools (>= 0.10.30) gtk-doc-tools ladspa-sdk libass-dev (>= 0.9.4) libbz2-dev libcairo2-dev libcelt-dev (>= 0.5.0) libcurl4-gnutls-dev (>= 7.21.0) libdca-dev libdirac-dev (>= 0.10) libdirectfb-dev (>= 0.9.25) libdvdnav-dev (>= 4.1.2) libexempi-dev libexif-dev (>= 0.6.16) libfaad-dev libglib2.0-dev (>= 2.24) libgme-dev libgsm1-dev libgstreamer-plugins-base0.10-dev (>= 0.10.35.2) libgtk2.0-dev (>= 2.14.0) libiptcdata0-dev (>= 1.0.2) libjasper-dev libkate-dev (>= 0.1.7) libmimic-dev (>= 1.0) libmms-dev (>= 0.4) libmodplug-dev libmpcdec-dev libofa0-dev (>= 0.9.3) libopenal-dev libopenspc-dev liborc-0.4-dev (>= 1:0.4.11) libpng12-dev librsvg2-dev (>= 2.14.0) librtmp-dev libschroedinger-dev (>= 1.0.7) libsdl1.2-dev libslv2-dev (>= 0.6.6) libsndfile1-dev (>= 1.0.16) libsoundtouch-dev (>= 1.5.0) libspandsp-dev libssl-dev libtool (>= 2.0) libvo-aacenc-dev libvo-amrwbenc-dev libvpx-dev libwildmidi-dev (>= 0.2.3) libx11-dev libxvidcore-dev libzbar-dev (>= 0.9) libzvbi-dev lv2core
dpkg-buildpackage: warning: Build dependencies/conflicts unsatisfied; aborting.
dpkg-buildpackage: warning: (Use -d flag to override.)

What should I do next? Thanks.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2012-09-29
> **Vpc said:**
> Ok so I run 'dpkg-source --commit' in directory ~/gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3 ([COLOR="Red"]~/gstbad_build is empty[/COLOR])

What should I do next? Thanks.

Delete that whole mess & start over

2 things - you didn't follow exactly because I see you failed to install the build-deps
2nd - since posting this a couple of months ago 12.04 (proposed) has updated the bad plugin to add the vp8 patch. So the replaced/edited series file should reflect that
I can't edit posts after a week & was hoping they'd fix this a long time ago, that isn't happening.

So quickly - 
use the attached patch & series file, do this exactly
[B]
Delete the gstbad_build folder[/B], then  as below, even if redundant.
Open a new terminal - one complete command copy & paste as one
```
mkdir gstbad_build && cd gstbad_build && \
sudo apt-get build-dep gst-plugins-bad0.10 && \
apt-get source gst-plugins-bad0.10 && \
cd gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3
```

Note - gst_build should  now look like screen 1 attached here

**Leaving the terminal open** download the attached patch, (r, click > 'save link as'), extract, open the folder & place both files in ~/gstbad_build/gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3/debian/patches. You'll be replacing the 'series' file & adding the h264parse.patch file , refer screen 2 here

Back in terminal
```
dpkg-source --commit
```

Again it should show this (**exactly**
> ~/gstbad_build/gst-plugins-bad0.10-0.10.22.3$ dpkg-source --commit
dpkg-source: info: patches are not applied, applying them now
dpkg-source: info: applying h264parse.patch
dpkg-source: info: there are no local changes to record 

If so then pick up prior post @
```
dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -D -us -uc
```
ect. ect.
good luck

---

### Post by neonfarben on 2013-01-27
I followed your instructions but video playback still doesnt work... the file im trying to play is a rather high res. 1440p and 48fps from a gopro camera.

any ideas?

---

