---
title: "12.04 Performance with XBMC and ION 2"
date: 2012-05-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by stueng on 2012-05-17
Hi,

I have been running XBMC on a Win7 installation for well over a year now, whilst it runs fine its never been perfectly smooth (hardware is a Zotac Zbox ION2). 

Recently, I created an installation of Ubuntu on a USB stick (not a live ISO, an actual installation) because I wanted to test out XBMC under Ubuntu on the media machine without having to wipe. I cant remember if I used Ubuntu 11.10 or 12.04 but I deffinately remember having to install Propietry Drivers from the "Drivers" application before XBMC would run

When I ran from this USB stick I was very impressed by the performance of XBMC (Eden), I was able to run the Aeon skin with all the bells and whistles turned on - something I could never do in Windows.

Being so impressed by the performance I decided to wipe my windows 7 installation and replace with Ubuntu about two weeks later when I found some time

Last night I completed the task of wiping and installing Ubuntu. I installed XBMC and confirmed that propietry drivers are active but the overall performance of XBMC is dire, and not with the Aeon skin, just the default skin. Its really bad, unsable infact

Now, I no longer have the USB installation because that was a temporary test so I cannot refer back to it but something is deffinately wrong here.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by enigma32 on 2012-05-17
Have you tried with the different options in System > Video > Playback > Render Method  ?

It can make a huge difference if that's not using the best setting.

---

