---
title: "ATI driver stops working after kernel update"
date: 2008-11-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by LasherHN on 2008-11-28
Hi,

I have the problem that every time there's an update to the kernel, my ATI driver stops working (I'm using a Mobility Radeon X300) and it gets back to the Mesa driver.
Is there a way to stop prevent this from happening? I'm getting tired of reinstalling the driver every couple of weeks.

Thanks.

---

### Post by haggeboy on 2008-11-28
Hi,
I've got the same problem. It is really frustrating. I tried using this guide [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Intrepid_Installation_Guide#Restricted_Drivers_Manager](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Intrepid_Installation_Guide#Restricted_Drivers_Manager) so I downloaded the newest catalyst and everything, but after reboot ubuntu couldn't even find fglrx, so I'm running in low graphics mode. fglrxinfo gives me 
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual!

I'm also using x300. Please help!
thanks

my xorg:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver      "kbd"
#	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
#	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
#	Option	    "XkbLayout" "se"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
#	Driver      "mouse"
#	Option	    "CorePointer"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
#	Driver      "synaptics"
#	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
#	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
#	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
#	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection

---

### Post by albandy on 2008-11-28
I think that this is because during ati driver installation some kernel modules are compiled, so when you update your kernel the ati kernel modules should be recompiled.

If you get your driver from a deb package you can do something like
sudo dpkg-reconfigure package-name

---

### Post by sadiqdude on 2008-11-28
when ever u make a kernel update all drivers has to be reinstalled :):):):)

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-11-28
The problem is that you have multiple fglrx DKMS kernel modules installed from previous drivers so the new kernel build cannot decide which one to use. If you watch the terminal when the new kernel is installing itself you will see a message with something like this:

... unable to resolve multiple dkms modules for fglrx, use manual method....

You can uninstall all your previous drivers and that will fix the problem for the future.

But for now, to get the driver working again, depending on how you installed fglrx you can do one of two things, you can just reinstall the driver using the automatic installer again, or you can just dpkg the DKMS kernel modules again if you installed by a manual method and have them saved somewhere. Restart x and you are back in business.

I have used both methods and they both work.

---

### Post by saifman on 2008-11-29
Hi
since we are on the Topic, How would we go about uninstalling the fglrx.
and what if you installed it from the ATI installer.

---

### Post by ultrageeky on 2008-11-30
> **saifman said:**
> Hi
since we are on the Topic, How would we go about uninstalling the fglrx.
and what if you installed it from the ATI installer.

Please read all this post before you start doing things to your system!

Use either Adept or Synaptec to locate the driver and uninstall it.

Synaptec: Search for fglrx, untick it (mark for complete removal);

Adept: in the search field, type fglrx then untick the fglrx drivers.

You might find that several items are listed.  On my system, all were uninstalled.

A better method (quicker and easier (lazier :D ) is to install EnvyNG.

With EnvyNG you can request it remove the ATI (or Nvidia) drivers automatically.  It will then re-install either MESA or VESA drivers).  You can, after a restart, re-install your ATI or Nvidia graphics driver using EnvyNG.

EnvyNG may be run from either the programs menu else the console (konsole).  Useful console commands to use EnvyNG are:

[LIST]
sudo envyng -t
sudo envyng -g
sudo envyng -k
sudo envyng --uninstall-all
[/LIST]

The -t starts the text based version of the program (useful when things go wrong and you need to start your OS in failsafe/recovery/console mode); -g starts it with a GTK frontend; -k for a QT4 frontend; --uninstall-all explains itself.  (Frontend means the graphical interface (GUI) that allows you to use it with your mouse/touchscreen).

Make a note of these general (non-EnvyNG) terminal/console commands also:

[LIST]
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

sudo startX

sudo shutdown -r now
[/LIST]

The first will re-configure your graphics settings, the second will open a graphical desktop session and the last will restart your computer.  Useful when you have difficulties getting to your graphical desktop (GUI).

Beware that Linux commands are case sensitive so startX has to be written with a capital X at its end.

Another trick I've recently learned is that when you have more than one window manager installed (all windows open in a box that has a title on its left and minimize, maximize or close button at its top right, this box's look is determined by the window manager in use (some are faster than others) eg Enlightenment (e16 created problems for me), Openbox, Blackbox, Fluxbox, X...), you can sometimes open a graphical desktop with an alternate window manager session even where your default (Kde/Gnome) fails to work.

Hope I've helped and not over clouded things.

---

### Post by haggeboy on 2008-11-30
Hi again!
What I've tried is uninstalling all different versions of fglrx so dkms status only gives me one fglrx installation. I also reinstalled the fglrx, but it hasn't helped at all. At startup I get:

Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode
...
(EE) Failed to load module "glx" (module does not exist, 0)
(EE) Module ABI major version (0) doesn't match the server's version (1)
(EE) Failed to load module "dri" (module requirement mismatch, 0)
(EE) Failed to load /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//fglrx_drv.so
(EE) Failed to load module "fglrx" (loader failed, 7)
(EE) No drivers available

I posted my xorg.conf earlier. I don't really have a clue what to do :(.
Thanks

---

### Post by ultrageeky on 2008-11-30
Haggeboy, did you try EnvyNG?  Install it through Synaptec/Adept run it and uninstall the ATI driver with it then after restarting your computer, use EnvyNG to install your ATI driver afresh.

Can also be used for Nvidia cards.

---

### Post by haggeboy on 2008-12-01
I have used EnvyNG before, but then I had problems getting the OpenGL to use the ati driver instead of Mesa. So I'd rather have that there is some other solution.
Thanks

---

### Post by gustapo on 2008-12-03
I'm having the same issue. I tried EnvyNG but got this error:

EnvyNG has detected that the headers for your kernel are missing and cannot be installed

---

### Post by gustapo on 2008-12-03
Turn out that grub was playing tricks on me... was running the wrong kernel...

---

### Post by bmking on 2008-12-14
Hi, thank you for the hint with Grub. Had the same problem but did never think about it!
Grub was loading Ubuntu with old/wrong kernels(!)

What I made was the following:

```
sudo mv /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.lst.bak
sudo update-grub
```

and then the menu.lst was resettet and now Ubuntu is loaded with the correct Kernels!

After I saw that Ubuntu was booting correctly I have removed the old backup of the menu.lst :)

Thank you!

---

