---
title: "8.10 sound stopped"
date: 2009-03-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by DaybreakBoy on 2009-03-10
**[Edit] Solved!**
Hi, I'm extremely new to linux, so please keep any help simple-ish :)

Sound was working, but it's not anymore, and I have no idea why it stopped. I have made sure it's not muted, and that the volumes are turned up in preferences.

I have tried installing the alsa 1.0.19 modules, and I also followed the walkthrough here [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting) until it got to the "manual installation"step, when I couldn't figure out what to type.

I also followed this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=997506](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=997506) which tried using pulse audio, but it didn't work.

 Now I'm asking for help.

This is the print out from "aplay -l"

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: CMI8738 [C-Media CMI8738], device 0: CMI8738-MC6 [C-Media PCI DAC/ADC]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CMI8738 [C-Media CMI8738], device 1: CMI8738-MC6 [C-Media PCI 2nd DAC]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: CMI8738 [C-Media CMI8738], device 2: CMI8738-MC6 [C-Media PCI IEC958]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 1: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 0: ALC883 Analog [ALC883 Analog]
  Subdevices: 0/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 1: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 1: ALC883 Digital [ALC883 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0



and these are the relevent sections from "lspci -v | less"

00:05.0 Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP61 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
        Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device a002
        Flags: bus master, 66MHz, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 23
        Memory at fc000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
        Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

01:07.0 Multimedia audio controller: C-Media Electronics Inc CM8738 (rev 10)
        Subsystem: C-Media Electronics Inc CM8738
        Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 32, IRQ 17
        I/O ports at a000 [size=256]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: C-Media PCI
        Kernel modules: snd-cmipci

My sound card is a plug in cmedia 8738.

As I only installed linux a few days ago it's not a big hassle to re-install it, which is basically what I'm thinking, but that does seem a very windows solution to the problem and I'd prefer to just fix it. Any suggestions?


**[edit] I changed system/preferences/default sound card to CMI, and then in system/preferences/sound changed everything to cmi, and it works now. I think the key was getting asoundconf-gtk**

---

