---
title: ".swf's won't play in firefox"
date: 2008-08-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jfmxl on 2008-08-23
Greetings,

I run ubuntu 7.10, gutsy gibbon I believe, and I have two serious problems.

1. I cannot watch youtubes in firefox, the viewer doesn't show up, and now I cannot listen to .mp3's via an swf player in firefox either.

2. I cannot record sound

First problem number 1.

If I go to youtube, say 
 [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1TLygQpSiyU](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1TLygQpSiyU)
the viewer is not displayed. If I edit the url to
 [http://www.youtube.com/v/1TLygQpSiyU](http://www.youtube.com/v/1TLygQpSiyU)
the video fills the browser window and I can watch it.

It's broken, but it works.

Now I have made a sound-track for a photo and want to make more.
Please look at
 [http://www.mueangchiangrai.org/edu/crpao-school/english/club/](http://www.mueangchiangrai.org/edu/crpao-school/english/club/)

On my antique dell latitude running W2k... no problem.
On my "new" desktop running ubuntu... all I see of the player is the line below saying 
 "Click the play button to listen to embedded audio"

I can continue editing and making the soundtracks on my latitude, (audacity records fine there but will not record not on my ubuntu machine), and at school where all the machines are Wxp.

But it would be really nice to be able to see and hear this stuff on ubuntu, on what I regard as my "real" machine, rather than on my antique laptop with its 450mhz processor, 128mb ram, broken cdrom, broken floppy, and broken keyboard. I have another disk for that machine with ubuntu on it... and it won't record either. So I'm stuck with W2k

firefox is 
Mozilla/5.0 (X11; U; Linux i686; en-US; rv:1.8.1.16) Gecko/20080715 Ubuntu/7.10 (gutsy) Firefox/2.0.0.16

about plugins shows
    File name: libflashplayer.so
    Shockwave Flash 9.0 r124

Sound recording has never worked under ubuntu, but I used to be able to watch youtubes. When the youtubes broke I spent a lot of time trying to fix the sound and the youtubes, uninstalling and reinstalling firefox and plugins and sound drivers etc. All to no avail.

Perhaps someone has fixed these bugs by now? I hope so.

Thanks for any help you might give.

---

### Post by jfmxl on 2008-08-24
You know I really like ubuntu... but I'm getting old, and not being able to do really basic things on my machine is getting old. 

A lot of the opensource software is being ported to Windows.

Windows is "free" as in free beer here in Thailand. 

I wonder how much longer I'll bang my head against the wall?

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2008-08-24
Have you tried using Opera browser to see if that works any better with flash movies ?  As for recording audio, pop into System -> Preferences -> Multimedia System Selector and see if changing the default input to ALSA or OSS works better...

---

### Post by kumarspsoft on 2008-08-24
try opera, or mac will get your work done hoping ....:popcorn:

---

### Post by jfmxl on 2008-08-25
> **TenPlus1 said:**
> Have you tried using Opera browser to see if that works any better with flash movies ?  As for recording audio, pop into System -> Preferences -> Multimedia System Selector and see if changing the default input to ALSA or OSS works better...

Do not have : System -> Preferences -> Multimedia
Do have : System -> Preferences -> Sound

Sound playback under 
 Sound events
 Music and movies
 Audio conferencing
OK

Sound capture under
 Audio conferenceing
  offers a choice of
  NVidia CK804 - MIC ADC
  NVidia CK804
  ALSA
  OSS
all of them report 
 Failed to construct test pipeline for
 'gconfaudiosrc ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink profile=chat'

when tested, and NVidia CK804 - MIC ADC crashes the program

Thanks for the advice, although I think I've been through all these permutations a year ago when I last tried to get this working. I'll try Opera...

---

### Post by jfmxl on 2008-08-25
> **kumarspsoft said:**
> try opera, or mac will get your work done hoping ....:popcorn:

I'll try Opera. Thanks. I don't understand the mac business... are you suggesting I buy a mac?

---

### Post by jfmxl on 2008-08-25
Youtube and the .swf's both work in Opera. But so do all the ads :) Is there an adblock for Opera?

It looks like firefox + ubuntu is the problem. Firefox works ok under W2k.

But I've grown used to not having to put up with all those flashing, honking ads in firefox so I'll continue to use it under what are for me ordinary circumstances.

Still no hope for recording sound under ubuntu. Glancing at the other postings on the way in it looks like trying to record sound and .flv's and firefox are the dominant problems, even into 8.04.

It's too bad, really. Those are becoming the dominant uses for computers : telephony and .swf/.flv communications.

And firefox is supposed to be at the forefront of that. I know there's a 3.0 version of firefox, but I'm afraid it's got Google's fingerprints all over it, and that like all Google applications it will start gathering every bit of data about me and my habits for the new IT monopoly on America's west coast.

Maybe someone will make an adbllocker for Opera? And ubuntu will fix their sound? Dreaming is still free. Thanks for suggesting Opera anyway.

---

