---
title: "'You don't appear to be using NVIDIA X Driver'"
date: 2012-01-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by carlosbgois on 2012-01-01
I know it's been posted a lot, and I made my search but couldn't find anything that I understand or that helped me. I installed the newest driver from 'Additional Drivers' menu, but when I try to open 'NVIDIA X Server Settings' I get this error message.

I've already tried deleting xorg.conf and running 'nvidia-xconfig', but it didn't work. Shouldn't I be able to use NVIDIA's control panel by installing via additional drivers? Thanks
(using ubuntu 11.10)

---

### Post by defaria on 2012-01-01
I think I'm in the same boat here as I just upgraded my laptop to 11.10. The problem as I see it is that the nvidia drivers don't build on 11.10, which have Linux 3.0 under the hood. Nvidia's "build environment" doesn't support Linux 3.0 kernels. And the current open source driver doesn't seem to work very well. It doesn't seem to do 3d accelerations with. But worse for me is it doesn't recognize my large screen TV which is where I play my videos.

---

### Post by inobe on 2012-01-01
select distribution in the "filter" and add the repository/ ppa.

after ppa is added and sources are reloaded, open terminal and type

```
sudo apt-get update
```

and 

```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

you will then see what will be installed, type **y** to begin.

once done, restart system.

the ppa will provide the newest stable video driver.

---

### Post by carlosbgois on 2012-01-02
Thanks, but I've been looking for a while and couldn't find out which ppa to add, nor how to add it before upgrading...

---

### Post by inobe on 2012-01-02
> **carlosbgois said:**
> Thanks, but I've been looking for a while and couldn't find out which ppa to add, nor how to add it before upgrading...

my fault [https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates)

the ppa will provide the correct driver, just use the filter for your version of k/ubuntu.

---

### Post by carlosbgois on 2012-01-02
**dfaria**, Try creating xorg.conf and adding

> 
Option   "externDisp"
Option   "internDisp"


Don't know if this should work, I'm just guessing.

**inobe**, Thank you again, I'm gonna try it asap

---

### Post by carlosbgois on 2012-01-02
I did the upgrade, there were some packages from the added ppa, but I got the same message when trying to open the NVIDIA X Server Settings. It says to run (I`m not sure this is the command)

```
sudo nvidia-config
```which, when I run, creates a xorg.conf file (there was no xorg.conf before).
The problem is that when I restart x using

```
sudo restart lightdm
```The system freezes, and when I tried rebooting the Ubuntu boot screen didn`t load, instead, there were some messages on the screen, and two were marked as **FAIL:**

> *Stopping automatic crash report generation        [FAIL]
*Starting deferred execution scheduler              [FAIL]And what`s in the created xorg.conf file is:

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 280.13  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-03.nvidia.com)  Wed Jul 27 17:15:58 PDT 2011


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


What could be the problem?

(I`m not sure this matters but when I delete xorg.conf the system boots normally, and also, when I run from live CD and press ALT+TAB there`s a animated screen, different from the installed system, which only shows a bar with the open applications)

---

### Post by inobe on 2012-01-02
paste back the output.

```
lspci
```

the latest driver from the ppa is 290, so it looks like some mass of confusion.

edit: after installing the packages from the ppa, you should just reboot, a complete restart without opening nvidia settings until you've restarted first.

---

### Post by carlosbgois on 2012-01-02
I did a reboot just after the installation, but I didn't remove the the 'Additional Drivers' for the video card before doing the upgrade... Is it a problem?

Here's lspci:

> 00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor DRAM Controller (rev 18)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor PCI Express x16 Root Port (rev 18)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 18)
00:16.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset HECI Controller (rev 06)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset USB2 Enhanced Host Controller (rev 06)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset High Definition Audio (rev 06)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev 06)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 2 (rev 06)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 3 (rev 06)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port 4 (rev 06)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset USB2 Enhanced Host Controller (rev 06)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev a6)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 5 Series Chipset LPC Interface Controller (rev 06)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset 6 port SATA AHCI Controller (rev 06)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset SMBus Controller (rev 06)
00:1f.6 Signal processing controller: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset Thermal Subsystem (rev 06)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GT216 [GeForce GT 330M] (rev a2)
01:00.1 Audio device: nVidia Corporation High Definition Audio Controller (rev a1)
12:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller (rev 01)
13:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 03)
14:00.0 SD Host controller: Ricoh Co Ltd MMC/SD Host Controller (rev 01)
14:00.1 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd Memory Stick Host Controller (rev 01)
14:00.2 System peripheral: Ricoh Co Ltd Device e852 (rev 01)
14:00.3 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Ricoh Co Ltd FireWire Host Controller (rev 01)
ff:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QuickPath Architecture Generic Non-core Registers (rev 05)
ff:00.1 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QuickPath Architecture System Address Decoder (rev 05)
ff:02.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QPI Link 0 (rev 05)
ff:02.1 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor QPI Physical 0 (rev 05)
ff:02.2 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Reserved (rev 05)
ff:02.3 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Core Processor Reserved (rev 05)


Adittionaly, when I try 'apt-get update/apt-get upgrade' again, there are 0 itens upgraded, and when the installation via the ppa actually occured, it was the version 290 being installed.

---

### Post by inobe on 2012-01-02
is your monitor plugged into the intel onboard video, or nvidia card?

just assuming this is a desktop?

leaving the additional drivers alone is fine, the system will set that up for you.

---

### Post by carlosbgois on 2012-01-02
Sorry, I should've mentioned before, it is a Dell Vostro 3700 laptop, which has the nVidia card, but also an integrated card to save battery life. I assume it is the nVidia one being used, due to higher temperature and low battery life. Also, I've searched and it seems that it is indeed the one used by default (as there is no driver supporting the change between the two cards, like the one for windows)

---

### Post by inobe on 2012-01-02
all i can do now is search, see what i can find, if this isn't human error, i'm certain those with this laptop are having the same issues.

---

### Post by carlosbgois on 2012-01-02
I'm very new to ubuntu and also do linux, so it may indeed be human error, but I actually did nothing besides installing it, upgrading, activating the nVidia driver under 'Additional Drivers', and then installing the one via the ppa.

It may be a problem with my system. Thanks again for your help

---

### Post by inobe on 2012-01-02
ouch, the dreaded optimus issue, yes this is a well known problem.

[http://en.community.dell.com/support-forums/laptop/f/3519/t/19355799.aspx](http://en.community.dell.com/support-forums/laptop/f/3519/t/19355799.aspx)

you did great carlos, it's that the optimus isn't supported in linux, i am terribly sorry to break the news.

edit: optimus is switching between cards, switcheroo mechanism.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2012-01-02
I had this problem with a Lenovo laptop. I tried using bumblebee for a while but found it inconvenient. In the end I disabled optimus in the bios so that the OS sees only the NVIDIA card. There is a downside of higher power consumption but I prefer to have the full performance of the NVIDIA GPU anyway. Apperently some brands don't provide the ability to disable optimus so YMMV.

---

