---
title: "13.04, ripping (?) DVD's"
date: 2013-06-19
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-19
I am a complete novice at all things video.  Thanks to Cheesemill in the beginners forum I was able to use Handbrake to pull just the movie portion off DVD's instead of having large ISO images.  I'm making a media center for my sister and brother in-law using a Raspberry Pi running XBMC, however the version of XBMC on the Pi doesn't seem to like ISO's at all - I think because of the menuing.

I have several videos that have multiple movies per DVD and was wondering if there is anyway to pull out each individual movie to a m4v file instead of having to make an ISO of the entire disk?  I have several cheap DVD's that came with multiple movies, plus I also have things like my Man From U.N.C.L.E. complete series that has 9 DVD's per season, each with multiple episodes.  I do own everyone of what I am using, so I'm not trying to make an illegal copy of a DVD.  I simply want to load them all to hard disk for use in a media center.

ANY help would be greatly appreciated to this complete novice at all things video. ;)

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-20
So I found out that at least for 1 set of DVDs, there end up being multiple entries under "Title".  I have to skip the small ones and then add the rest to the queue - changing the default name for each one.  When they are all in the queue then I do "Start".  I hope this holds true for my other disks as well! ;)

---

### Post by agillator on 2013-06-20
Yes, you will find multiple titles on most DVDs. In some cases they are different versions of the same thing. In other cases they are different things. Your first tipoff will be the length. If the lengths of titles are the same (and more than a couple of minutes or seconds) they are PROBABLY the same thing. With a program like VLC you can play each individual title, or parts thereof, and see if they are the same movie or not.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-20
I'm on my 3rd disk of a set of Sherlock Holmes mysteries.  Each disk has 14-17 1 hour episodes, and I've gone through each title (I skip the 1st since it is very small and so I'm sure it's that disk's menu.  Takes 1/2 hour for each episode, so I feel like a Ronco commercial - "set it and forget it".

I'm hoping to when I get to more of the TV series's seasons on DVD that they will all split up that way as well.  Wouldn't need to do this at all, but the version of XBMC that runs on the Pi (apparently the same with my Google Nexus tablet as well) just won't "do" ISO images.  So instead of an hour to create an ISO, I'm now spending about 7 hours per disk!  But hey - at least it's working so far! ;)

---

### Post by mamamia88 on 2013-06-21
I found a pretty sweet program called makemkv which is super quick.  But it doesn't do any compression.  It allows you to set a minimum time for title detection so if a title is under a certain length it won't show up as an option to rip.  For example i set it to 2400s because that is about the minimum length of an hour long tv show after commercials are removed

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-21
Thanks - I think I'll give that a try! ;)

---

