---
title: "11.04 / After installing recomended nVidia Driver I got a blank screen"
date: 2011-10-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Wampyra on 2011-10-10
Hello again my dear community.... 

Machine: VGN-FS415M (**NVIDIA GeForce Go 6400 TurboCach**,  Intel Pentium M 740 / 1.73 GHz, 1GB RAM)

Like stated in the title. I did all regular updates, had coffee, restarted couple of times, and decided to install **RECOMENDED** driver cuz "Driver" screen was showing that Driver is installed [or active] but not in use.... something like that.
After I did restart** windows** were **blank** after I logged in successfully. Tried opening Firefox, it was blank as well. Just the header was saying what's open.
Anyways, did another restart crossing fingers but nope... Even worse. I can't even log in as once the Ubuntu loading screen is gone, screen becomes white [blank]. Almost burned my eyes...

So yea... that's kinda what's up... Can I fix it from LiveCD now or should I reinstall the system [again]?
I only have LiveCD as a support at the moment, so please help out if u know how...!

HUGE THANKS

---

### Post by mikejonesey on 2011-10-10
to get your system up and running again attemp to login via tty1 (Ctrl+Alt+F1 at login screen); then use;
```
gconftool-2 --type string --set /desktop/gnome/session/required_components/windowmanager gnome-wm
```
then (Ctrl+Alt+F7 back to login screen)... then select ubuntu classic, then login... then remove driver... then reboot into ubuntu "normal / unity watevs"...

---

### Post by mikejonesey on 2011-10-10
or just add the driver to the blacklist...

```
Ctrl+Alt+F1
login...
sudo su
lsmod | grep -i "summin in driver name"
echo "baddrivername" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
reboot | shutdown -r now

```

---

### Post by Wampyra on 2011-10-10
Wow... I'm using a real paper&pencil! :-$


I'll let you know how it went...
[-o<

Thanks!

---

### Post by mikejonesey on 2011-10-10
on the last line i ment to write an or (||) not a pipe... (some prefer the reboot command some prefer shutdown)...

---

### Post by Wampyra on 2011-10-10
> **mikejonesey said:**
> on the last line i ment to write an or (||) not a pipe... (some prefer the reboot command some prefer shutdown)...
Thanks, but i haven't even got that far. ](*,)

So, I did what u said in the first post, entered that black and white world of tty1 [i'm such a n00b for this] typed in what you told me to [with a syntax mistake for a first one of course] logged into the classic one, but the problem was still there. So I imagined where "Additional Drivers" would be [Configure third-party drivers etc... hovered me a hint] then kept pressing TAB and UP and then ENTER until the authentication screen showed up and i figured that would be going back to the previous driver, so i restarted and \\:D/ HERE I AM...
Isn't it an amazing workaround for someone not knowing how to use terminal for uninstall? Even tho Terminal would have been white as well...

So... I'm guessing that "Recommended" drivers are not Recommended?

I have another one [here]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html")
Which one should i use for my GPU? :eek:

Sorry for too many questions...

---

### Post by mikejonesey on 2011-10-11
hmm drivers are on a per case bassis there is not really a rule of thumb to say what works or doesn't generally If it does not work then i download complie and build drivers direct from the manufacturer....

you can use modprobe to add and remove kernel modules on the fly so you can test out your drivers...

well done sorting it out...

---

### Post by Wampyra on 2011-10-11
modprobe... hmm... Will try it out i guess... Since my card isn't listed anywhere... 
It's kinda same with Windows [yup, that's where I'm coming from - Adobe fan]
You don't know if it's working well until it really works well :)

Thanks again... I'll experiment a bit

---

