---
title: "Continuous problems with GeForce 9500 GT"
date: 2009-01-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by shayguitarra on 2009-01-08
Hi,

I know variants of this problem have been posted before with the same and different video cards but nothing I have tried has solved the problem.
My problem is that I have been unable to get my video card working properly with the recommended nvidia drivers. I have tried installing through envyng, System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers and through terminal with apt-get. Whenever I install them my screen starts flashing on and off for about a second each time. The only solution has been to uninstall the drivers but then I am left with basic graphics and unable to enable desktop effects, play 3D games etc.

I have tried this mostly with the recommended 177 driver but it has also happened with the 173 driver.

Any help would be appreciated. I can pretty much do everything I need to do but I am a little annoyed that I am not getting the full functionality from Ubuntu.

Here is my system spec as generated by SysInfo:

SYSTEM INFORMATION
	Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 8.10 (intrepid) release.
	GNOME: 2.24.1 (Ubuntu 2008-10-24)
	Kernel version: 2.6.27-9-generic (#1 SMP Thu Nov 20 21:57:00 UTC 2008)
	GCC: 4.3.2 (i486-linux-gnu)
	Xorg: unknown (24 October 2008  08:00:16AM) (24 October 2008  08:00:16AM)
	Hostname: sheamus-desktop
	Uptime: 0 days 0 h 4 min

CPU INFORMATION
	AuthenticAMD, AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 5600+
	Number of CPUs: 2
	CPU clock currently at 2814.389 MHz with 1024 KB cache
	Numbering: family(15) model(67) stepping(3)
	Bogomips: 5628.77
	Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ht syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt rdtscp lm 3dnowext 3dnow pni cx16 lahf_lm cmp_legacy svm extapic cr8_legacy

MEMORY INFORMATION
	Total memory: 2024 MB
	Total swap: 5938 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
	SCSI device -  scsi0
		Vendor:  PHILIPS  
		Model:  PBDV16LSP1       
	SCSI device -  scsi0
		Vendor:  _NEC     
		Model:  NR-7800A         
	SCSI device -  scsi3
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  SAMSUNG HD501LJ  
	SCSI device -  scsi4
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  SAMSUNG HD753LJ  

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
	Host bridge
		Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
	PCI bridge(s)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 01)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 01)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2)
	USB controller(s)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 USB Controller (rev a1) (prog-if 10)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 20)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 USB Controller (rev a1) (prog-if 10)
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 20)
	ISA bridge
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 LPC Bridge (rev a2)
		Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. Device 7250
	IDE interface
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 SATA Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 85 [Master SecO PriO])
		Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. Device 7250

GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		nVidia Corporation GeForce 9500 GT (rev a1)

SOUND CARD
	Multimedia controller
		nVidia Corporation MCP55 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
		Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. Device 7250

Any help would be appreciated. If I've missed something obvious on the forum just point me in the right direction. Also, bear in mind that I am something of a newbie but I'm fairly good at following instructions! Thanks.

---

### Post by shayguitarra on 2009-01-10
Thank you so much. I'll give that a try when I get home this evening and let you know how I get on. :)

---

### Post by shayguitarra on 2009-01-10
It installed fine but the same problem remains. As soon as I try to actually do anything the screen starts flashing on and off. So I've uninstalled it. Thanks for the help anyway.

It would be good to know if anyone is running this card successfully.

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-01-10
I just finished this post about an hour ago

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1035873]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1035873")

If you have a fresh install like I did it'll probably work.  If not, also uninstall envy while trying my solution, just in case.

Hope it works for ya!

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-01-10
Compiz was not an issue with my system at all ... works fine now.  So that shouldn't be the problem.

I do know that installing the driver is very sensitive to other nvidia packages being installed, and with your kernel version being up to date.  That and getting xorg exactly right seems to be the trick to proper functioning.  But then, who really knows for sure yet lol

---

### Post by shayguitarra on 2009-01-10
It is rather bizarre (and annoying) considering that I deliberately bought a newer video card thinking the drivers would be up to date and working properly.

It's not compiz in my case either. I'll watch that thread too. Thanks for all the input.

---

### Post by shayguitarra on 2009-01-27
Thanks. To be honest I've downgraded to an old 256MB ATI for the moment that's working fine.

I'll wait 'til I have a few hours to spare and have a crack at the GeForce again!

---

### Post by shayguitarra on 2009-05-20
Sorry to return to this old chestnut, but I was wondering if there has been any progress.

I am now running Ubuntu 9.04, a more or less fresh install. I switched back to my nvidia video card because of the problems with the FGLRX driver for ATI.

I was running with the open source driver and things were ok, except I noticed that my video in vlc was extremely choppy/freezing. So I tried installing the proprietary drivers again, 180.44 through Envy NG. The video now looks great but I'm back to the screen flashing on and off when doing normal tasks. If it was simply a matter of enabling/disabling the driver then this would not be a problem but it requires a reboot each time to take effect. I've removed compiz as well, as per a previous suggestion but it makes no difference. Desktop effects are also off.

So what I'm wondering is have any solutions to this problem surfaced in the past four months?

---

### Post by shayguitarra on 2009-05-22
I seem to have solved this in the most simple way possible.

I replaced my dvi cable with a vga cable and I haven't had a problem for the past 24 hours.

I haven't reinstalled compiz and I'm running the basic desktop as I don't really care about the bells and whistles. But my video looks fantastic now which is really all I care about.

Maybe worth trying for some of you having similar problems.

---

### Post by geraldgrogan on 2010-03-27
Sorry to post to this old thread, but after searching all day for an answer the very same issue with this same video card, I was guessing that others might be interested in what worked for me.
 
After a kernal update my video stopped working. I had my PC connected to my flat screen monitor via a vga cable, which apperently was causing the problem, The log file mentioned that it could not determine the monitor model number. Appearently, this card needs to be connected via a dvi cable in order to operate properly (or at all).
 
Once I connected this video card to the monitor using a dvi cable, and then rebooted, the high resolution started working perfectly. Just in case I am not the last person on Earth to upgrade to DVI, I urge everyone to upgrade to DVI cables ASAP.
 
I hope this helps.

---

