---
title: ".WAV tag support in Ubuntu"
date: 2009-03-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by cfree220 on 2009-03-24
Hi all,

So I have a rather large music collection (70GB; 23 days runtime), which contains many files in the .wav format (just converted from Windows). When I imported these files into Rhythmbox (or really any media player I've tried on Ubuntu), it does not seem to have tag support. At first I thought this was just a problem with the player... missing plugin or something. Then I discovered that I couldn't manually change the tags in file browser, and figured that Ubuntu just doesn't support it. I wouldn't be surprised if this is the case, since .wav is proprietary, and Ubuntu follows OS philosophy.

What I'd like to know is: is there anything that I can do to gain tag support for .wav files? Or if not, is there any way that I can convert them to other high quality formats, such as .flac? A friend suggested that I try VLC for conversion, but warned that it would probably be very slow. I have a good 16.5 Gigs of .wav, so the fast the program the better (assuming no loss in quality in exchange for speed).

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-03-24
I think this could be a limitation of the WAV file format - I don't think it has the same level of support for tags as other file formats.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-03-24
yeah, flac or wavpack have metadata/id3 tag support.  wav doesn't

Flac would probably be the easiest way (although wavpack has slightly better compression ratio, IIRC).  There's also .ape, which has even better ratio, but I think it will be a lot slower cause it uses a lot of cpu overhead.

sudo apt-get install flac

cd /dir/with/wavs

**[COLOR="Blue"]flac -0 [COLOR="Red"]-V[/COLOR] *.wav[/COLOR]**

[EDIT: the -V is for verify--always a good idea]

('-0' = fastest.  '-8' = best)\

---

### Post by cfree220 on 2009-03-24
Do you know if that command will delete the source file?

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-03-24
it will not delete the source.

If you want to delete it, you would add option  **--delete-input-file**

---

### Post by oponto on 2009-10-19
GOOD JOB. Works !

I applied this on my classic CD 700MB wav files, metadata can be added now.

---

### Post by vinutux on 2009-10-19
Try Easytag metadat editor```
sudo apt-get install easytag
```

---

