---
title: "4.1 surround with pulseaudio?"
date: 2008-05-15
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by sammydee on 2008-05-15
Hi everyone.

I have a 7.1 surround sound card (m-audio revolution 7.1) and 4.1 speakers (Front l/r, rear l/r and a subwoofer).

Surround sound works great if I specify channels=6 in /etc/pulse/daemon.conf, however, it outputs sound on the centre speaker (which I don't have) so movies sound all wrong. I want to tell pulseaudio I have a subwoofer but no centre speaker, so it mixes centre into the two fronts. This should be easy to do, but pulseaudio allocates channels like:

FL, FR, RL, RR, CEN, SUB

The elegant way to solve the problem would be to somehow switch the order of the last two channels, then tell daemon.conf to allocate five channels, the last being the sub.

I thought about module-remap-sink, but that can't mix two channels into one (or one into two for that matter), it can only remap on a one to one basis. Maybe this will change in a future release?

Another option may be manually loading the sound card via module-alsa-sink, with the sub and centre channels swapped. This will reverse the centre/sub hardware outputs and is a pretty dirty hack but might work.

A third thought: use module-remap-sink to swap the sub and centre channels. A similar method to the one outlined above, but less intrusive.

I'm going to try and test these three methods now, and post back with my findings.

Sam

---

### Post by sammydee on 2008-05-20
Well I found the solution, to anybody else with these problems, please refer to [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=795525")

---

