---
title: "9.04 Firefox embedded video issues"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by guy_ho on 2009-04-27
I upgraded to 9.04 this morning, and I'm getting a grey box on [pages]("http://sports.espn.go.com/nba/recap?gameId=290426008") where I used to get video with sound. YouTube works fine, so I don't think it's a Flash issue. I'd really appreciate some pointers on how I could get embedded videos back again.

I don't know if it's linked, but Totem has no sound at all - the volume controls are greyed out and don't work.

Thanks,


Guy

---

### Post by guy_ho on 2009-04-28
I've noticed that all the videos with which I'm having the issue are WMV, although this has never been a problem with past installations. Help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by guy_ho on 2009-04-28
Ok, so I sorted out sound in Totem by changing sound playback to 'autodetect', but I'm still getting nothing from embedded wmv's in Firefox 3.0.9. 

In 'about:plugins' VLC Multimedia Plug-in appears to be enabled -


video/x-ms-wmv 	Windows Media 	wmv 	Yes


And MozPlugger is also enabled -

video/x-ms-wmv 	Windows Media video 	wmv 	Yes

---

### Post by guy_ho on 2009-04-28
I still can't get this working, so any help would be appreciated. I've now found out that the Myspace music player won't work.

If you'd like any further detail about the machine I'm using and the set-up to help answer my query, or if you've seen my question answered elsewhere please let me know.

---

### Post by klauslanza on 2009-04-28
Cleaning the cache worked for me, even if it is a basic tip...

---

### Post by guy_ho on 2009-04-28
Thanks for the suggestion - I tried that and nothing changed.

---

### Post by hcuriel on 2009-04-29
Check the April 27 post in [http://businerdss.blogspot.com/](http://businerdss.blogspot.com/) The solution is linked in there.

Regards,

---

### Post by guy_ho on 2009-04-29
That's really simple! Thanks! I've actually gone back to 8.10 and am happy with that, but I'll bear this post in mind if I go back again.

---

