---
title: "Revo 3700. 10.04.1 or 10.10? 32 or 64 bit?"
date: 2011-02-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by buster2209 on 2011-02-11
I just recently purchased a Revo 3700 and installed Meerkat 64-bit. The wireless would not work no matter how much I fiddled around....

I went to 32 bit but get choppy 720p and unplayable 1080p (in full screen) with VLC, however, youtube (in HD) at full screen is perfect after using this fix;

> sudo mkdir /etc/adobe
echo "OverrideGPUValidation=true" >~/mms.cfg
sudo mv ~/mms.cfg /etc/adobe/

Restart

I've been reading around the various forums and people seem to have success with various different software choices.

Any input and/or instructions about which is the best software package to choose would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Cracklepop on 2011-02-11
I would always recommend a 64 bit OS for 64 bit hardware, and it's no surprise it gives better performance for video, but it sounds like if you want wireless you don't really have much of a choice, do you? You'll have to make do with 32 bit.

---

### Post by _karel_ on 2011-03-02
I also recently purchased a Revo 3700 and installed Ubuntu 10.10 server 64 bit.
I installed ubuntu-desktop and wireless works without problems.

I did have to add "blacklist rt2800pci" to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
I also changed "managed=false" to "managed=true" in /etc/NetworkManager/nm-system-settings.conf

---

### Post by dresbo on 2011-12-02
I had a similar problem on my 3700. 10.04 installed 64bit.

syslog shows it thinks I'm missing a file.  I fixed it by adding a blank file and directory structure as per the log (/etc/Wireless/RT2860STA/RT2860STA.dat.  

Bug here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/541620/comments/3]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/541620/comments/3")

Didn't need to blacklist, but did do the second part of the above.

---

