---
title: "8.10 Sound Problems"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Miri0815 on 2008-11-02
Hi everyone!

I'm very happy to run Ubuntu 8.10 on my Desktop, but there is one problem I can't fix out:
My Firefox is not playing any sound, and I love music, so it's a hard time for me now.:guitar:
I tried to re-install several packages, I also searched at google for any solution, but I didn't find anything helping me.
I also tried to use other sound drivers, but it didn't work either.
Playing sounds from Audacity, Nautilus and Totem works fine.
I'd be very happy if anyone could help me in this case.

Another question is: Some other things I made up in 8.4 LTS are gone, like my Bootup-Screen (works with the older Kernel) any my Cairo-Dock theme...
(would be nice to get some help in this case too...but is not that important as the sound issue) I just didn't want to make up another thread here.

Please help me!!

yours Miri

---

### Post by RDB17 on 2008-11-03
Having this problem as well.

---

### Post by Halow on 2008-11-04
Have you guys checked [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683")? Did wonders for me.

If it doesn't work, let us know where it is you're trying to play music from.

---

### Post by Miri0815 on 2008-11-04
Thank you very much!
That worked for me too!
I heard about Ubuntu 8.10 has a new group-system, and that would be the reason for such errors, anotherone told me to uninstall flash and delete .macromedia and .adobe from my home folder...but these two advises didn't help.
But now it's working just fine!

---

