---
title: "xbmc on multiple monitors"
date: 2012-02-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by netopalis45 on 2012-02-17
I now have  dual-monitor setup and would like to run XBMC on only one of them at a time and be able to select which one each time. I have seen some directions on how to do this by editing a line in some file, but I'm not sure what file and don't really want to do that. Is there any other way of accomplishing this?

---

### Post by netopalis45 on 2012-03-08
Is there another forum this should be moved to so I'll get an answer if there is one out there?

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-08
If you are using separate X screens...
from terminal:

DISPLAY=":0.1" XBMC

From a start script from launcher/icon/shortcut:

export DISPLAY=":0.1" XBMC

Assumes XBMC executable is in path & named XBMC & that you what to use second screen.

---

### Post by netopalis45 on 2012-03-08
Unfortunately I use TwinView. Any other ideas?

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-08
Nope..I don't use twinview cos it does not suit full screen video etc.

I think you have to run the app windowed & not full screen. Maybe there is some fancy new tricks in unity/compiz to fix this mess..
This is what sucks about linux twinview..
The windowed app size/position is remembered by desktop manager.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-08
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> I don't use twinview cos it does not suit full screen video etc.
+1
Besides it is really difficult to get rid of tearing if the monitors are different. I'm running XBMC on X Separate screens (Dell Monitor and Sony Bravia).

Just some thoughts.
Regards.

---

### Post by netopalis45 on 2012-03-10
Didn't even know that xbmc had a windowed mode and it took me a while to find it in the settings. Thanks for the help

---

### Post by inckiekage on 2012-10-23
Set XBMC windowed mode and use this script get move it and make it fullscreen on secondary monitor (i'm using nvidia twinview): [http://pastebin.com/mcweUUZm](http://pastebin.com/mcweUUZm)

---

### Post by Azion. on 2013-01-13
Is this possible with the Intel HD 4000 graphics on an Intel Core i5?
I'm using the built-in kernel module.
I'm new to configuring Xorg & I'm not sure if I have two separate X screens

---

### Post by SushiAddiction on 2013-01-15
See [this link]("http://forum.xbmc.org/showthread.php?tid=130094&pid=1088558#pid1088558") for a script.
I looked for this everywhere. It's the only solution that worked for me.
I'm using fglrx with "Multi-display desktop with display(s)1"
The person who posted this was using nvidia.
It will probably work with intel too.

You may have to change DFP-0 to whatever your monitor is called. I can't remember how to do this. Might work just the way it is.

you will have to adjust this line for where you want xbmc to be.
wmctrl -r "$NAME" -e '0,1280,-1,-1,-1'

eg
My primary monitor is 1280x1024. My second monitor is a plasma TV, which is where I want xbmc.
or
If your primary display is 2048x1152 and wanted xbmc on secondary monitor, you would change the 1280 to 2048.

All this is assuming your displays are setup side by side and the top of the displays are both alinged at the top.

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2013-01-19
> **papibe said:**
> +1
Besides it is really difficult to get rid of tearing if the monitors are different. I'm running XBMC on X Separate screens (Dell Monitor and Sony Bravia).

Just some thoughts.
Regards.

Can I see your xorg.conf? I am trying to achieve the same results.

```

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 310.14  (buildd@komainu)  Tue Oct 16 22:20:47 UTC 2012

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LG Electronics E2441"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 550 Ti"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "Stereo" "0"
    Option         "nvidiaXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

I found a solution.  
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2107152](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2107152)

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2013-11-24
> **BicyclerBoy said:**
> If you are using separate X screens...
from terminal:

DISPLAY=":0.1" XBMC

From a start script from launcher/icon/shortcut:

export DISPLAY=":0.1" XBMC

Assumes XBMC executable is in path & named XBMC & that you what to use second screen.this worked perfectly for my setup but the xbmc command is case sensitive so lowercase worked.

A bit about my setup. I run a dual screen setup where my 2nd screen is a TV hooked up via S-Video. This is actually my media/file/mythtv server (called dell) box which has an old Nvidia MX-440 card in it which uses the legacy 96.43.23 driver. It's more interesting because i use synergy to share the same keyboard and mouse between 3 computers but for some reason i couldn't move my mouse from the 1st screen on dell to the 2nd screen on dell so the only reason I had to use the above command was because I wanted XBMC to launch on the connected S-Video TV.

( i still need to look into why i couldn't move the mouse from screen 1 to screen 2 on dell. not sure if synergy is even capable of doing that)

---

