---
title: "64bit 8.10, 8.04, Radeon, Fglrx, Tri-Head, Sobbing"
date: 2009-03-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by X33N on 2009-03-05
Since I tend to be overly verbose, the short version of this is basically that I can't get Intrepid to use my 2nd ATI video card for a third monitor.  I've had a working setup for a long time, but Intrepid has beat me.

--
I've had the same system from Feisty to Intrepid, and from Feisty to Hardy I've been able to get a 3 monitor setup in X.org working.  It hasn't always been stable, in fact usually it was 'quirky' to say the least, but I could get it running enough that I could work off of it.  I don't play games, the extent of my 3D usage is to run glxgears to see if DRI happens to still be working without hard locking me.

Two weeks ago I decided to build a clean install for Intrepid rather than upgrade to clean things out and give me a fresh base to start.  I also decided I would stop being a luddite and make the jump to 64 bit, since it appears to generally be viable at this point.  

In the hopes of not being out a workstation while I reinstalled all the programs, I got a second computer that's identical to my main one except for having less ram and no second video card, and proceeded to build the Intrepid install over a week or so. I get to know KDE 4, and other than wondering why the hell there's no official quicklaunch plasmoid I'm generally happy.  Everything's up and running, so I do the hard drive swap into my main machine.

When X didn't boot, I went to recovery console and built the fglrx driver from the latest ATI binary.  I've never been able to really make sense, as easy as it seems, of the restricted-drivers installation of fglrx, but I know how to install fglrx in my sleep at this point, so doing it direct doesn't daunt me. I reconfigure xorg.conf for dual-head and start up into X without any issues. Then I start working on getting the 2nd video card (for monitor #3) running.  Bad idea.

Now let me disgress momentarily to say that, for as long as this is, I'm cutting out quite a bit of fiddling and tweaking.  Anyway.

I try fglrx tri-head exactly like my Hardy configuration.  All 3 monitors fire up, but no KDE on #2 or #3.  Since I've used 3 monitors since Xinerama was bleeding edge, I've always just used separate desktops for each screen.  I also like that this gives me a unique taskbar/tray for each screen as well.  After doing the Googles, I come to find out that KDE 4 doesn't support that, and I'm an idiot for not just using any of the Desktop spanning options. [http://tinyurl.com/atupnd](http://tinyurl.com/atupnd)

Ok, if I drop Monitor #3 I can get Xinerama to work on #1 and #2, or disable Xinerama and use xrandr instead, and that kind of works.  But Xinerama + Monitor #3 would cause X to either not boot, or not initialize the device based on various tweaking in the conf.  Attempting with the Radeon driver works fine with the 2 monitors, but I've never been able to get it to work with the 2nd video card, which is why I generally use fglrx.

After a couple days of tweaking and rewriting my xorg.conf, I finally give up on KDE 4 and format my / partition (yay for putting /home on LVM) and reinstall 8.04.  

After several days, I've basically achieved the same results in 8.04, primarily because I could never get fglrx to run.  Trying 9.2, 9.1, purging, hand deleting, doing the moon dance.. fglrx always crashes X with an "undefined symbol: miZeroLineScreenKey" error.  Google reveals, well, pretty much nothing, other than some comments about X 1.5 compatibility, and I'm on 1.4.

So at this point, I've been hosed on KDE 4.2 for the third monitor, and now I'm hosed on KDE 3.5 for the third monitor AND DRI. Clearly, I might as well go back to 4.2 where at least I could get fglrx to run on two monitors.  Format, Reinstall 8.10.

With a fresh install, I decide I'll do fglrx the ubuntu way, and find the restricted drivers manager jockey-kde.  It tells me fglrx is available, so I click enable.  And I click enable.  And I click enable.  And it does nothing.  I close.  Reopen.  Try.  Reboot.  Try.  Eventually, I find that it will take command line parameters, so I try to enable it command line, it throws a python exception.  I kill all jockey processes and try again, and nothing.  I kill all jockey processes, and then try the GUI again, and it actually downloads and installs.  Yay.  

Reboot.  No X, just a blinking cursor in the top left of a black screen for a moments before hard locking.

Manage to limp my way back into X.  Go through a similar jockey game before finally getting it to remove the driver through the command line parameters.  And build fglrx the way I always have using the latest binary from ATI.  And get the same behavior.  And give up.

And here I am.  Two screens using xrandr and radeon driver, no #3, completely and utterly stumped.  Maybe it's the 64bit vs. 32bit.  That's the only thing I can think of at this point.  I learned X on FreeBSD 4, have been through several distros, worked as a linux sysadmin, and generally speaking know how to work around and fix these things.  But I think my best option at this point is to give up on the 3rd monitor and then try again in a release or two.

If you read this far, you're either amused by my pain or masochist yourself. :)  Either way, if someone wants to toss some ideas, awesome.  Otherwise, I just needed to kind of pseudo-rant/woe-is-me so I can move on.

System specs, if interested.  Intel Core 2 Duo 6600, 4GB of memory, 1x PCIe Radeon X1300 rv516, and 1x PCI Radeon X1300 rv516.  And tears.  Buckets of tears.

---

### Post by mwray on 2011-09-04
Have never succeeded w/ any driver in 3 monitors unless I was running a separate version of X for EACH monitor, and then running x2x to go from one to the other. I think once I ran 2 instances of X w/ Xinerama on 2, and a second instance of X on the 3rd, but then the second instance had to be logged in as a separate user so that both could have the same desktop. (i.e. to run 2 copies of KDE or to run 2 copies of XDE, or Gnome).  

I gave up on this method, and now actually use 2 PCS dual-headed, and a laptop with an external monitor, and so now I have six displays and use synergy to use one keyboard and mouse to rule them all. Now if I could just figure out Parallel processing....

Typically I run web-browsing/email on the laptop, Streaming video/audio on the 2nd pc, and REal work on the power horse.

(Using Natty-Narwahl 64-bit now.) Did you ever get this solved?

---

