---
title: "Intel d865gbf: More than one possible primary device found"
date: 2009-09-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jamesdcarroll on 2009-09-22
MOBO: Intel d865gbf with onboard Intel 865G Extreme 2 Graphics 2 Controller
Vid Card: HIS H467Q1GHDAP with ATI Radeon HD 4600 AGP Series chipset
OS: Ubuntu 9.04 
X: 7.4
Driver: Latest ATI Prop/fglrx from ATI site and installed per instuctions at cchtml.com
Monitor: ViewSonic VG2230wm 

According to the Intel Tech spec: 
The Intel 865G chipset contains two separate, mutually exclusive graphics options. Either the Intel Extreme Graphics 2 controller (contained within the 82865G GMCH) is used, or an AGPadd-in card can be used. When an AGP add-in card is installed, the Intel Extreme Graphics 2 controller is disabled.

What's happening:
If I run Ubuntu with the on board video and the default xorg.conf I can use the system, though it kinda makes having a video card pointless, performance isn't great, and I can have no desktop effects. Attachments for this: lspci_NoCard.txt. The 'normal' log is too big to post, but if there's something in there you want, please let me know. I don't know what's important.

When I install the card into the board the system starts to boot, but right at the end the Ubuntu splash screen changes color, then drops to command line(tty1). TTY7 has just blinking cursor. Attachments: lspci_withCard.txt,Xorg.0.log.withCard.txt.  This happens with the default xorg.conf and the one thatwas generated by the aticonfig (xorg_ATI_GEN.conf.txt)

Any help would be great. 

Thanks!

---

