---
title: "9.10 no sound on NEC laptop"
date: 2010-02-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by technogeekery on 2010-02-11
Hi all - new to Linux, have installed 9.10 on an older NEC laptop for my kids. Very user friendly install and use in general - but I just can NOT get the sound to work. 

Some of the steps I have taken 


[LIST]
[*]checked manual volume controls to max
[*]checked Sound Preferences and made sure all un-muted and volume sliders up
[*]checked that sound card is recognised (Generic Intel ICH6)
[*]checked modules are loading (they are)
[*]added my username to snd group
[*]tried walking through System Testing audio area - inputs seem to work (eg I can see graphically the mike is working) but no playback heard on speakers or headphones
[*]Tried playing test wav from command line, cds & ripped files from rythmbox - nothing
[*]Checked alsamixer, all seems fine but I tried various options like muting external amp and enabling everything - with no effect
[*]Reviewed the sound troubleshooting posts here, but as far as I can understand them (absolutely no Linux skills but some tech savvy) the hardware seems fine, and Linux seems to be recognising the hardware, loading the drivers etc.
[/LIST]

The laptop is an NEC VersaPro VJ22F/AG-X (Japanese model) with 2 build in speakers that used to work just fine under WinXP. I:m pretty sure this is a software issue - can anyone help me? 

Thanks for reading :)

TG

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-02-11
Two different approaches:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSoundProblems/KarmicCaveats](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSoundProblems/KarmicCaveats)
[http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2009/12/17/upgrade-alsa-1-0-22-on-ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10/](http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2009/12/17/upgrade-alsa-1-0-22-on-ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10/)

---

### Post by technogeekery on 2010-02-13
Thanms for your reply.I have tried all the suggestions on the Debugging Sound link. The other link you provide for manually updating alsa is just too hard, and no real indication that this is the problem. Ive put 10 hours into trying to get sound to work on a generic laptop getting more technical than I ever dreamed necessary... This is just wrong, I don]t mind tinkering with software, but this just says to me Linux is still nowhere near ready for mainstream users. And given the 160 pages of users with similar sound problems on this sub-forum, its not just me. 

sorry to rant, its nto your fault, and you tried to help - appreciated, But Im going to reinstall windows, this is too hard. 

cheers

TG

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2010-02-14
I understand your disappointment, but before doing so you could try installing 10.04 as a last attempt. 

[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

It is an alpha, but surprisingly stable. Sound has worked straight from the installation on all machines where I have tried it.

---

