---
title: "Jaunty 9.04 Xinerama ATI"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by moporoco on 2009-04-24
Before:
Intrepid 8.10 x64
ATI Radeon HD 2400 (9.2 driver)
Dual Monitors using Xinerama
Working Perfect

Now:
Jaunty 9.04 x64
ATI Radeon HD 2400 (9.4 driver)
Dual Monitors using Xinerama
Complete screen corruption with Xinerama enabled

I installed the ATI driver using the instructions from:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Jaunty_Installation_Guide)

After I installed the driver, the option for Xinerama was greyed out saying that I only had one displayed enabled. The Catalyst Control Center only reported one monitor but in two sections. At this point my monitors were both working but were a mirror of each other. I was able to change it to stretch across the screen using Ubuntu's display properties, but this caused the common problem of maximized windows stretching across both screens; not a good solution.

I tried to enable Xinerama with the instructions from:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174)

After that, I now have the option to turn on Xinerama, but I cannot boot when it is enabled, the screen is corrupted.

When I turn Xinerama off, I can boot, but each monitor is a separate desktop and I cannot drag windows between them. I can drag the mouse between them, but each desktop has it's own pointer. Very strange. The resulting xorg.conf file that works, but give me these two desktops is listed below.

In addition to all of this, the screen on the right now sometimes goes black and comes back randomly.

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
	Screen      1  "aticonfig-Screen[1]-0" RightOf "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	    "Xinerama" "off"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "DDCMode" "True"
	Option	    "MonitorLayout" "TMDS,TMDS"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[1]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "DDCMode" "True"
	Option	    "MonitorLayout" "TMDS,TMDS"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[1]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Please help.

---

### Post by DAE51D on 2009-04-24
I just did a fresh install of Jaunty 9.04 on a Dell Optiplex 760 (never had 8.10 on here as it's brand new).

I have this video card and two matching Dell 20" LCD's both using DVI ports.
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Mobility Radeon HD 3450

When I first installed Jaunty, all was good. I could enable the second monitor to be an independent display after unchecking the 'mirror' checkbox in System > Display.

Then I tried to enable Compiz/XGL/effects/whatever and it prompted me to install the "ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver" which I did. I rebooted even. Compiz worked like a champ, but now my displays are mirror again. I tried to go back into System > Display and all it does is pull up a window that is gray with a torquoise blue band through it. Oh, and cause my system to bog down to being unusable and I have to ssh in and reboot basically.

So I uninstalled those and installed "**ati-driver-installer-9-4-x86.x86_64.run**" (v8.602) from ATI's site. Again, effects work awesome, and when I go to System > Display, my screen is still mirrored, and unchecking the box has no effect. But at least it doesn't hose my system as the default Ubuntu drivers did. Clicking Apply tells me to logout and back in. I've tried that. I've tried rebooting. I've tried everything. It doesn't save or enable the second display NON-mirrored.

I went into the ATI control pannel and am greeted with the above Xinerama description from the post above me. I don't think that's installed, unless it somehow comes standard, but this appears like it doesn't:

```

# locate xinerama
/usr/share/doc/libxinerama1
/usr/share/doc/libxinerama1/changelog.Debian.gz
/usr/share/doc/libxinerama1/changelog.gz
/usr/share/doc/libxinerama1/copyright
/var/lib/dpkg/info/libxinerama1.list
/var/lib/dpkg/info/libxinerama1.md5sums
/var/lib/dpkg/info/libxinerama1.postinst
/var/lib/dpkg/info/libxinerama1.postrm
/var/lib/dpkg/info/libxinerama1.shlibs

```

I've tried to run "sudo /usr/bin/gnome-display-properties" as well, thinking that might save (saw that trick in an nvidia thread), but of course, bupkiss.

So in short:

[LIST]
[*]Single screen works find with ALL three drivers Compiz OFF
[*]Single screen works find with ALL three drivers Compiz ON
[*]Dual screen only works mirrored with any ATI driver. Compiz ON or OFF
[*]Display pannel hoses system with Ubuntu ATI driver
[*]Display pannel loads fine with ATI's .run driver but doesn't save/apply.
[/LIST]
I saw this link, but his solution is exactly the problem I'm having:
[http://www.davehay.f2s.com/2008/12/solved-ati-catalyst-control-centre-not.html](http://www.davehay.f2s.com/2008/12/solved-ati-catalyst-control-centre-not.html)

Other related posts:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=970585](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=970585)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1045822](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1045822)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1107753](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1107753)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1019822](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1019822)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1021516&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1021516&page=3)

---

### Post by christomaszewski on 2009-04-25
Ok, so I was disappointed to see that there was such issues with dual monitors in Ubuntu 9.04 as my setup worked perfectly with Ubuntu 8.10. I'm running a Radeon HD4870 with two monitors - one 17" dell and a 19" MAG. Anyway so initially I encountered the same problem described above - ie mirrored screen with ati driver, hanging display applet, etc. Then I found this thread. I did what the user above me described and installed the ati driver from ati's site instead of the native ubuntu ati driver. Unfortunately, this still did not make xinerama accessible (ie ungray). At a loss, I decided to try the display applet again hoping that this time it would not hang. Again, as the user above described, I could uncheck "mirror screens" and click apply, and the system would prompt me to logout and log back in. Once I did so, I found that the screens had gone back to being mirrored. 

This is where it gets interesting. I tried the display applet again and unchecked "mirror screens". Now as I've mentioned, I have two different size/type of monitors, and the 19" inch is older and thus has a slower max refresh rate (60hz) while the newer 17 " has a faster max (75hz). I noticed that for both screens the refresh rate was set at 60 hz. I set the rate for the newer monitor to its max - 75hz - and then just gave up and hit apply. I was greeted with a new message about writing changes to my xorg.conf file. Sounds promising I think. I click ok and logout and login. Loe and behold, I now have dual monitors with the ati driver. I honestly don't know exactly why this works but it seems from the display applet that both monitors are not being recognized - hence the "unknowns" in the screenshot. So maybe manually setting different refresh rates on each monitor allows ubuntu to differentiate between monitors, or perhaps doing so only triggers a write to the xorg.conf file, thereby saving the unchecking of the "mirror screens" box. I don't know why this works, but if anyone does, I would be very interested in learning why. Also Xinerama is still not working. I have posted my xorg.conf file below as well as a screenshot taken after I successfully configured the dual monitors.

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
    Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option        "Xinerama" "off"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    Option        "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option        "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Driver      "fglrx"
    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "Default Screen"
    Device     "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
    SubSection "Display"
        Virtual   2560 1054
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
    Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Virtual   2560 1054
        Depth     24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by aurelihein on 2009-04-27
Hello,
I am facing the same problem, I just installed the new kubuntu 9.04 with an ATI Radeon HD 2400 XT and when I turn xinerama On to get multi screen, the screen is corrupted...
I downloaded the last drivers from ATI website, it does not change anything
What should I do ? come back to 8.04 :-( or do you have any idea to solve this problem
thank you for your time

aurelien

PS: I was using kubuntu 8.04 successfully.

---

### Post by elapouya on 2009-04-27
Same problem with ATI 4850 : the Xorg crashes only when xinerama is getting enabled.

If someone have a solution ...

---

### Post by alive1 on 2009-04-27
Hi, I have the same problem.
8.10 worked perfectly with the 9.1 drivers (Video was even somewhat watchable), and opengl sort-of worked with composite in the 9.3 driver, but ubuntu 9.04 and fglrx 9.4 don't work together at all. I'm trying to get my Xinerama working, but it wont. 
The driver crashes hard when I boot my machine.

---

### Post by Lagoon on 2009-04-27
Same here.

---

### Post by Beleggrodion on 2009-04-27
same issue with my hd 2400 pro. :(

---

### Post by arazyal on 2009-04-27
Wasn't Xinerama replaced with xrandr?

---

### Post by alive1 on 2009-04-27
> **arazyal said:**
> Wasn't Xinerama replaced with xrandr?
In ATI's 9.4 driver the ATI control panel has a configuration page explicitly for en/disabling Xinerama.
This option screen is greyed out.

---

### Post by DAE51D on 2009-04-27
> **christomaszewski said:**
> Loe and behold, I now have dual monitors with the ati driver. I honestly don't know exactly why this works but it seems from the display applet that both monitors are not being recognized - hence the "unknowns" in the screenshot.
Do you have Compiz/XGL/Effects/whatever working with ATI in dual screen mode or is it just plain old dual screens. Because as mentioned in my post, I could get dual screens to work with a stock driver, just not with either ATI one. And I can get Compiz to work great with either ATI driver, just then I'm stuck with mirror screens.

---

### Post by niclupien on 2009-04-27
Hi, dual monitor is so simple with Jaunty ! You just need to know how to do it.

Install Drivers from ati, follow the guide for automatic install. 

In System -> Affichage (sorry i'm in a french ubuntu and i don't know what is the exact translation for this) turn "Écrans clones" to off. 

Maybe somone can translate this plz

Its all you have to do and dual screen works very well with my ati HD 6750 in a "big desktop" mode.

Hope it helps!

---

### Post by alive1 on 2009-04-28
> **niclupien said:**
> Hi, dual monitor is so simple with Jaunty ! You just need to know how to do it.

Install Drivers from ati, follow the guide for automatic install. 

In System -> Affichage (sorry i'm in a french ubuntu and i don't know what is the exact translation for this) turn "Écrans clones" to off. 

Maybe somone can translate this plz

Its all you have to do and dual screen works very well with my ati HD 6750 in a "big desktop" mode.

Hope it helps!
Your solution has been described a few times in this thread. It doesn't provide Xinerama.

---

### Post by Scrim on 2009-04-28
Also having a similar problem with my HD2600XT AGP
after a lot a problems and 3 reinstallations of Jaunty I managed to get a stretched desktop (with compiz effects) after I reinstalled Catalyst 9.4 from [ATI website]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.2&lang=English")

My xorg.conf is only showing one screen I think my problem is related to that possibly but after my problems before Im unwilling to try and edit it.

xorg.conf
```
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	    "Xinerama" "off"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
	Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Configured Screen Device"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual   2384 848
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

I am tempted to try moporocos [attempted forum]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773624") but when I edited my xorg in the past I was unable to revert to the backup and had to reinstall and that method seems slightly old.

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-04-29
Somewhat similar issue.

Mobility Radeon HD 3450
Fresh Jaunty 9.04 install (64 server + apt-get install ubuntu-desktop).
Primary CRT VGA, & secondary HDMI LCD 

Initially worked OK, but when enabled restricted driver & rebooted, display came up all corrupted & when I tried <ctrl><alt><F1>-<F*> or to "/etc/init.d/gdm restart", system became unresponsive (even remote SSH session).
Even removed xorg.conf

Will try installing driver via envyng

Help or advice appreciated

---

### Post by Scrim on 2009-04-29
So I just took a big step forward i think, when trying to alter the desktop in terminal i got an error saying it cant run with randr 1.2. I disabled randr 1.2 following [this forum http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1137576]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1137576"), after that Xinerama was no longer greyed out, however when I tried to restart with it enabled i couldnt get to see the login screen (my displays said no signal and display out of range) I also think it crashed. So I reverted to backups I made using recovery mode (which I only just found out how to do!!)
Does anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-04-29
used installed from ATI site. seems to work now.
disabled /etc/rc2.d/S30gdm from startup.

doing "startx" as a "normal" user brings up a working GUI. 
"aticonfig --xinerama=on" seems to break it.
starting the GDM daemon hangs the system

I had a similar issue prior to the re-installation

(time to make config backups xorg.cong & /etc/gdm)

---

### Post by Scrim on 2009-04-29
Fairly new to linux so out of curiosity what does disabling /etc/rc2.d/S30gdm do?
Does anyone think this issue will be addressed in a future ATI update?

By disabling xrandr 1.2 i have been able to get 2 desktop configuration (as opposed to the stretched desktop) but at an unusable resolution. If I change this resolution after the restart my monitors turn of because of being out of range or no signal (Anybody know what cause this?).

Also I've read xrandr 1.2 replaces xinerama? So should I be trying to configure that instead of xinerama?

---

### Post by emarkay on 2009-04-29
Let's get all the Jaunty 9.04 ATI HD 2 series card data on one post to get this solved:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1133931](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1133931)

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-04-29
> **Scrim said:**
> ...what does disabling /etc/rc2.d/S30gdm do?

In linux, background services are referred to as daemons.
Type in "runlevel" to see what runlevel you're running at. Then got to /etc/rc{your runlevel}.d
Here you'll see a bunch of stuff (links) listed S{number}name, including S30gdm. S30gdm indicates the gnome desktop manager (window GUI), and renaming this to K30gdm disables it from automatically loading at boot.
If you're not going to use the systems video a lot (ie. headless server), doing this would open up a lot of resources

---

### Post by aksival on 2009-05-04
Same EXACT problem as the initial poster.  My card is an ATI HD 2600XT.

Jumping on the bandwagon and waiting to hear a solution :)

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-05-04
Addressed the issue in my case by:
* Making use of the proprietary driver as provided on the site as a ...run file (think you may be OK by making use of EnvyNG)
* hard reset of the config via: aticonfig --initial -f  
you can include --xinerama=off option if you like ([referenced here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1066245.html"))
* start or restart the GUI (startx or "/etc/init.d/gdm restart")
* use a combination of the the "Catalyst Control Centre" & the native "Screen Resolution" tool. Use the native tool to pick up & divorce the displays, and you can then use either tools to tweak the res.
* in Jaunty, I installed the dontzap & disabled to enable the <ctrl><alt><backspace>. Saves time in resetting your X
* make a backup of /etx/X11/xorg.conf & /etc/gdm, since I'm bound to break something again

Quick & dirty, but this worked for my ATI Radeon Mobility HD 3450, & gave me 3D

---

### Post by Stickee on 2009-05-04
freakalad, you have dual monitor *and* 3d working?

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-05-04
> **Stickee said:**
> freakalad, you have dual monitor *and* 3d working?

yip. very well, in fact. (was actually pretty surprised when it did)

Got multi-video working over VGA, DVI & HDMI (including audio over HDMI).
Mirror & extented.

Now looking at setting up [MultiSeat-X]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MultiseatX")

---

### Post by Alpha1125 on 2009-05-05
Confirmed, frakalad's method works.

Just a little annoying that xinerama doesn't work... so when I maximize a window, it spans both monitors.

---

### Post by Stickee on 2009-05-05
> **Alpha1125 said:**
> Confirmed, frakalad's method works.

Just a little annoying that xinerama doesn't work... so when I maximize a window, it spans both monitors.
Tried it and it works for me too, thanks freakalad! :D

I also get the 2-screen maximize too, which is kind of annoying, but this will do for now.

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-05-05
No worries, guys.
Glad I could help ;)

Forgot to mention something, which may point to some bugs.

X/GDM takes a bit long to load & I still get those weird colour-bars at the top, but eventually it blacks out.
I've found that sometimes the video does not come up right (think the monitor indicates bad signal or out-of-range), but a quick fix for me is to switch TTY's out & back; <ctrl><alt><F1> & then <ctrl><alt><F7> (could be F6 or F8 or something else on some other systems)

---

### Post by Mr_Toph on 2009-05-07
Another confirmation that freakalad's method works -- dual screen maximize is a bummer, but at least I'm up and running!

Cheers!

---

### Post by danielwbn on 2009-05-11
Hey guys, I have the same problem here: using a radeon hd4850 under kubuntu 9.04 64bit version I couldn't get xinerama to work.

What i finaly did manage though is a Xinerama-like dualscreen configuration with xrandr. I don't know if that belongs in here, but i think its worth mentioning: I have two tft-monitors, both show different pictures, i can move programm-windows back and forth, maximize only maximizes on one screen and the best thing: I have 3d acceleration working on both screens!! I didn't know this was even possible with ati cards! I have real transparency, wobbling windows, the desktop-cube and all! Here's what i did:

I installed the latest ati driver from their homepage, used the standard xorg.conf file that was created when installing kubuntu:

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"    # I HAD TO ADD THESE THREE LINES MANUALLY
                Virtual 2880 900   # I HAD TO ADD THESE THREE LINES MANUALLY, ADJUST TO YOUR OVERALL MAXIMUM RESOLUTION (I have two monitors with a maximum resolution of 1440 x 900)
        EndSubSection              # I HAD TO ADD THESE THREE LINES MANUALLY
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Default Device"
        Driver  "fglrx"
EndSection


when the computer boots up at first I have only cloned images on the screens, but once logged in i can issue the command "xrandr --output DFP2 --left-of DFP1" in a shell (you might have to adjust the output names DFP1/2) and then I have a working dualscreen configuration with 3d acceleration.
Last note: I am using the latest KDE release 4.2.3 from the PPA. Didn't have to mess with the catalyst control center or anything else.

Hope I can help someone with this, please post here if this works for you

---

### Post by Mr_Toph on 2009-05-11
I attempted this route, but unfortunately was not successful. I received the following output:
```
X Error of failed request:  181
  Major opcode of failed request:  158 (RANDR)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  29 ()
  Serial number of failed request:  29
  Current serial number in output stream:  29
```

---

### Post by Alpha1125 on 2009-05-13
> **Alpha1125 said:**
> Confirmed, frakalad's method works.

Just a little annoying that xinerama doesn't work... so when I maximize a window, it spans both monitors.
I've discovered how to maximize a window to a single monitor on a dual monitor setup, without xinerama.

CompizConfig Settings Manager -> Window Management -> Grid, enabled.

Use the associated key bindings, and wham... windows are being maximized to a given screen.

---

### Post by Stickee on 2009-05-13
> **Alpha1125 said:**
> I've discovered how to maximize a window to a single monitor on a dual monitor setup, without xinerama.

CompizConfig Settings Manager -> Window Management -> Grid, enabled.

Use the associated key bindings, and wham... windows are being maximized to a given screen.

Awesome, thanks! :D

---

### Post by zimac on 2009-05-13
i have a radeon 4830 , amd catalyst 9.4 , a 19 inch 1280x1024 75hz and 24inch 1920x1080. Firstly i turn of the mirror mode in system->preferences, then used amdcccle to set the monitors to its native display ,after the 19 inch went blak and it asked my do i want to keep this setup, give Ok and went back to system->preferences , turn on the 19 one and posytion them as i wanted to. ewerything works , i got one big screen .the xinerama is still gray out in amdcccle.

---

### Post by kipeloff on 2009-05-18
I have the same problem for almost two days, when I was struggling with Radeon 2600 and 9.04.
I tried all the same option, but maximum that I was getting with 'fglrx', mirror monitors or maximize for the both screens.

I've used xrandr, which displays information about your monitors (screens), then add the command,
xrandr --output yourmonitor1 --mode 1280x1024 --output yourmonitor2 --mode 1280x1024 --right-of yourmonitor1

So far, it seems to work.

---

### Post by danielwbn on 2009-05-19
> **Mr_Toph said:**
> I attempted this route, but unfortunately was not successful. I received the following output:
```
X Error of failed request:  181
  Major opcode of failed request:  158 (RANDR)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  29 ()
  Serial number of failed request:  29
  Current serial number in output stream:  29
```

I'm getting a similar output, but with a little different error codes:

```
X Error of failed request:  168
  Major opcode of failed request:  157 (RANDR)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  29 ()
  Serial number of failed request:  34
  Current serial number in output stream:  34
```

For me it works fine, though, as stated above.

---

### Post by chris7cmcc on 2009-05-20
Hi,

I just wanted to provide some feedback on this issue.
My system had a nice dual monitor setup working fine before upgrading Ubuntu 9.x.

'Apologies if the following has been stated previously, just posting the order (for clarity) of what worked to solve this issue for me.

My Ubuntu linux system: Dell Optiplex with a ATI Radeon 2400 HD XT
# lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 9.04
Release:        9.04
Codename:       jaunty

root@spock:/var/log# uname -r
2.6.28-11-server


First I folowed these steps:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver)

I had better luck configuring the display under GNOME and configured via the:
Systems-->Preferences-->Displays,
 Unchecked mirror displays, then was able to drag the displays around for "Big desktop" verital/horizontal, etc.


Note1:
I did NOT use any ATI drivers/sofware, etc., as directed by above URL.

Note2:
I did NOT tweak/hack the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file; this is how it was auto-generated--see below.

(this is working for dual Dell 20" FPD's):

##### xorg.conf auto-generated #####
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        SubSection "Display"
                Virtual 3200 1200
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
        Option  "DontZap"       "True"
EndSection
######################################

For reference, here is my xrandr output--after following steps in the above URL--before following above URL procedures, I only had output from one monitor DVI-0 from xrandr:

Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 3200 x 1200, maximum 3200 x 1200
DVI-1 connected 1600x1200+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 367mm x 275mm
   1600x1200      60.0*+
   1280x1024      75.0     60.0  
   1152x864       75.0  
   1024x768       75.0     60.0  
   800x600        75.0     60.3  
   640x480        75.0     59.9  
   720x400        70.1  
DVI-0 connected 1600x1200+1600+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 367mm x 275mm
   1600x1200      60.0*+
   1280x1024      75.0     60.0  
   1152x864       75.0  
   1024x768       75.0     60.0  
   800x600        75.0     60.3  
   640x480        75.0     59.9  
   720x400        70.1  


Hope this info can help someone out,
-Cmcc

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-05-20
I also have 2 working monitors with a big desktop with the open source radeonhd driver jaunty installed by default. No 3D so no compiz with my HD3650 but it is totally worth the trade to have a working big desktop without jumping through hoops and performing other circus acts just to get squiggly windows.

---

### Post by gyaneshwar on 2009-05-25
TO: Freakalad

Quote:
Now looking at setting up [MultiSeat-X]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MultiseatX")[/QUOTE]
End quote


Did you manage to install MultiSeat?

Thanx

sgy

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-05-25
no, sorry gyaneshwar. been slacking off :-\"

Got all the docco's lines up & ready to go. Been working on my KVM VM's, getting my ATI video to behave (NEVER buying ATI again; NVidia now all the way).

From what I've gathered, there are 2 ways of doing it: the quick & easy way, & a more manual approach that'll give me more control & performance.

Also trying to get better acquainted with remote-x over SSH, CLI VNC (to my VM clients).

Have you managed anything yet?

---

### Post by gyaneshwar on 2009-05-26
> **freakalad said:**
> no, sorry gyaneshwar. been slacking off :-\"

Got all the docco's lines up & ready to go. Been working on my KVM VM's, getting my ATI video to behave (NEVER buying ATI again; NVidia now all the way).

From what I've gathered, there are 2 ways of doing it: the quick & easy way, & a more manual approach that'll give me more control & performance.

Also trying to get better acquainted with remote-x over SSH, CLI VNC (to my VM clients).

Have you managed anything yet?

Nope, I tried [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MultiseatX](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MultiseatX) without success and now I'll get some air and later try 
a)[http://netpatia.blogspot.com/2008/02/multiseat-computer-with-ubuntu-804.html](http://netpatia.blogspot.com/2008/02/multiseat-computer-with-ubuntu-804.html)
b)[http://research.edm.uhasselt.be/~jori/page/index.php?n=Misc.DualSeatX](http://research.edm.uhasselt.be/~jori/page/index.php?n=Misc.DualSeatX)

I gave up on the KVM for the moment as  Virtualbox is crashing (or I have to manually shut it down).

all the best

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-05-26
> **gyaneshwar said:**
> I gave up on the KVM for the moment as  Virtualbox is crashing

KVM is not nearly the same as VirtualBox, and in fact, and you cannot run both on the same kernel/system at the same time.

You can use virt-manager to manage KVM via the libvirt.

---

### Post by Nausser on 2009-05-26
I'm running Jaunty with an ATI HD2400 AGP and freakalad fix worked perfectly. Just hung on the gdm restart, had to ctl+alt+del to do a full restart. Came up beautifully.

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-05-26
Glad I could help, guys..

One of my pet peeves in Jaunty is the fact that the ctrl-alt-backspace GDM/GUI restart/kick-against-the-head is not there.

To address the poor GUI startup/restart, here are a couple of things you can do:
* do a ctrl-alt-f1 then ctrl-alt-f7 to force the reload of the video buffer
* `sudo apt-get install dontzap` then run `sudo dontzap --disable` . This will re-enable the ctrl-alt-backspace feature
* if all else fails, restart the the daemon via `sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart`

---

### Post by HeavyMetaler on 2009-06-04
Adding these lines in /etc/ati/amdpcsdb allowed me to get back big desktop mode without borking everything up. 

```

EnableRandR12=SFALSE
MultiviewXineramaNo3D=V1
DesktopSetup=Shorizontal

```
The Xorg.conf that came from "aticonfig --inital -f" didn't work for me either and I had to revert to a different one.  This is using the fglrx package that came from ati's website.  Full compiz/everything working with big desktop as opposed to two separate X screens.
```

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "amdcccle-Screen[1]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "amdcccle-Monitor[1]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "amdcccle-Device[1]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "amdcccle-Screen[1]-0"
	Device     "amdcccle-Device[1]-0"
	Monitor    "amdcccle-Monitor[1]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

For fun I will post my entire amdpcsdb in case it helps someone else get things working.
```

AMDPCSDBV1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/MCIL]
PXACAutoSwitch=V0
PXDCAutoSwitch=V0
CVRULE_CUSTOMIZEDMODESENABLED=V1
DFP_AddHDTVPixelFormats=V2
DALLinuxSupport=V1
DALNonStandardModesBCD=R140010500000006017921344000000601800144000000060185613920000006016001200000000601280076800000060144009000000006012800960000000601680105000000060
DALRULE_ADDNATIVEMODESTOMODETABLE=V1
DALRULE_ALLOWMONITORRANGELIMITMODESCRT=V0
DALRULE_DYNAMICMODESUPPORT=V1
DALRULE_GetLCDFakeEDID=V1
DALRULE_GetTVFakeEDID=V1
DALRULE_NOFORCEBOOT=V1
DALRULE_POWERPLAYDISREGARDDISPLAY=V1
DALRULE_RESTRICTDISPLAYSBASEDONPANELRES=V0
DALRULE_REGISTRYACCESS=V1
GCORULE_FlickerWA=V1
GCORULE_LCDValidatePixelClkOnly=V1
GXOM5XDisableLaneSwitch=V1
R6LCD_RETURNALLBIOSMODES=V1
TVEnableOverscan=V1
UvdEnabled=V1
Gxo50HzTimingSupport=V1
Gxo24HzTimingSupport=V1
Gxo2530HzTimingSupport=V1
DALLastSelected=V24
DALLastConnected=V24
DALLastTypes=V157
DALObjectData0=R01010001010001010001010001020001020003010203010201040001040003010403010401020001020003010203010201080001080003080103080103080203080203080103080103080403080403080103080103080203080203080103080101100001100003100103100103100203100203100103100103100403100403100103100103100203100203100103100103081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081001010001010001010000000001020000000001010002000201040000000001010002000401020000000001010002000201080000000001080002000101080002000201080002000101080002000401080002000101080002000201080002000101100000000001100002000101100002000201100002000101100002000401100002000101100002000201100002000101080002001001080002001001080002001001080002001001080002001001080002001001080002001001080002001000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALObjectData1=R0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALSelectObjectData0=R01010001010001010001010001020001020003010203010201040001040003010403010401020001020003010203010201080001080003080103080103080203080203080103080103080403080403080103080103080203080203080103080101100001100003100103100103100203100203100103100103100403100403100103100103100203100203100103100103081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081003081001010001010001010000000001020000000001010002000201040000000001010002000401020000000001010002000201080000000001080002000101080002000201080002000101080002000401080002000101080002000201080002000101100000000001100002000101100002000201100002000101100002000401100002000101100002000201100002000101080002001001080002001001080002001001080002001001080002001001080002001001080002001001080002001000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALSelectObjectData1=R0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALCurrentObjectData=R010800020010
DALR6 DFP_MaxModeInfo=R00000000900600001A040000000000004B000000
DALR6 DFPI 2_MaxModeInfo=R00000000900600001A040000000000004B000000
DAL_DFP2ColorTemperatureSourceAC10403C=R0200000064190000
DAL_DFPColorTemperatureSourceAC10403C=R0200000064190000
AsicOnLowPower=V0
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-791E-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
MultiviewHeterogeneous=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-7941-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
MultiviewHeterogeneous=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-796E-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
MultiviewHeterogeneous=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-9610-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
MultiviewHeterogeneous=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-9611-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
MultiviewHeterogeneous=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-9614-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
MultiviewHeterogeneous=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-7124-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
MultiviewHeterogeneous=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-7105-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
MultiviewHeterogeneous=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-710f-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-712e-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-712f-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-710e-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-7125-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-7104-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-940b-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-940a-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-940f-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-9447-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-7152-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-7172-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-7173-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-7153-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-71d2-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-71f2-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-71fa-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-71da-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-728c-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-72ac-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-95cc-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-958d-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-958c-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-9511-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-949c-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-949f-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-949e-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-9444-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-9446-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-9456-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-71bb-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-719b-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-95cd-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-95ce-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-95cf-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-3151-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
ForceMultiHead=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-9452-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
MultiviewHeterogeneous=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/2ID-1002-9519-0/DDX]
MultiviewEnabled=V1
MultiviewHeterogeneous=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/DDX]
OGLFMTA2R10G10B10Enable=V0
EnableRandR12=SFALSE
MultiviewXineramaNo3D=V1
DesktopSetup=Shorizontal
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/DDX/RECENTMODE]
EnableRestore=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/DDX/RECENTMODE/SCREEN00]
Width=V3360
Height=V1050
Refresh=V60
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/LibXUtil/Display1]
Map=V8
Enable=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/LDC]
LastViewedPage=SDisplay Manager
DisplayPopupState=V0
HelpDisabled=V0
DP_MSG_FLAG=V0
WarningDlgDisabled=V0
LastSelectedDevice=S256:38081:4098:3330:4136|4
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/BUSID-1:0:0-0/MCIL]
DAL_ACEspectReady=V0
DALLastConnected=V8
DALLastTypes=V157
DALObjectData0=R01000000010000000000000001000000010000000000000001000000010000000000000001000000010000000000000001000000020000000000000001000000020000000000000003000000010000000200000003000000010000000200000001000000040000000000000001000000040000000000000003000000010000000400000003000000010000000400000001000000020000000000000001000000020000000000000003000000010000000200000003000000010000000200000001000000080000000000000001000000080000000000000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000200000003000000080000000200000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000400000003000000080000000400000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000200000003000000080000000200000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000100000001000000100000000000000001000000100000000000000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000200000003000000100000000200000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000400000003000000100000000400000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000200000003000000100000000200000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000100000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000001000000010000000000000001000000010000000000000001000000010000000000000000000000000000000000000001000000020000000000000000000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000002000000000000000200000001000000040000000000000000000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000002000000000000000400000001000000020000000000000000000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000002000000000000000200000001000000080000000000000000000000000000000000000001000000080000000000000002000000000000000100000001000000080000000000000002000000
DALObjectData1=R0000000002000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000001000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000004000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000001000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000002000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000001000000010000001000000000000000000000000000000000000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000001000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000002000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000001000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000004000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000001000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000002000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000001000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000
DALCurrentObjectData=R010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000
DALR6 DFP_MaxModeInfo=R00000000900600001A040000000000004B000000
DALR6 DFPI 2_MaxModeInfo=R00000000900600001A040000000000004B000000
DAL_DFP2ColorTemperatureSourceAC10403C=R0200000064190000
DAL_DFPColorTemperatureSourceAC10403C=R0200000064190000
AsicOnLowPower=V0
DALSelectObjectData0=R01000000010000000000000001000000010000000000000001000000010000000000000001000000010000000000000001000000020000000000000001000000020000000000000003000000010000000200000003000000010000000200000001000000040000000000000001000000040000000000000003000000010000000400000003000000010000000400000001000000020000000000000001000000020000000000000003000000010000000200000003000000010000000200000001000000080000000000000001000000080000000000000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000200000003000000080000000200000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000400000003000000080000000400000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000200000003000000080000000200000003000000080000000100000003000000080000000100000001000000100000000000000001000000100000000000000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000200000003000000100000000200000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000400000003000000100000000400000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000200000003000000100000000200000003000000100000000100000003000000100000000100000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000003000000080000001000000001000000010000000000000001000000010000000000000001000000010000000000000000000000000000000000000001000000020000000000000000000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000002000000000000000200000001000000040000000000000000000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000002000000000000000400000001000000020000000000000000000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000002000000000000000200000001000000080000000000000000000000000000000000000001000000080000000000000002000000000000000100000001000000080000000000000002000000
DALSelectObjectData1=R0000000002000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000001000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000004000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000001000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000002000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000001000000010000001000000000000000000000000000000000000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000001000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000002000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000001000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000004000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000001000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000002000000010000001000000000000000020000000000000001000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000010000000800000000000000020000000000000010000000
DALInstallFlag=V1
DALR6 DFPI 2640x480x0x60=R000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000100000001000000
DALR6 DFPI 2=R0000000000000000000000006400000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000640000006419000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALR6 DFP640x480x0x60=R000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000100000001000000
DALR6 DFP=R0000000000000000000000006400000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000640000006419000000000000010000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALR6 DFPI 21680x1050x0x60=R000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000100000001000000
DALR6 DFP1680x1050x0x60=R000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000100000001000000
DALLastSelected=V24
GDOADJR6 DFP=R000000000200000010000000000000000100000000000000000000000100000001000000000000000200000002000000000000000200000001000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
GDOADJR6 DFPI 2=R000000000200000010000000000000000100000000000000000000000100000001000000000000000200000002000000000000000200000001000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALDriverGammaData_Index0FS3DRed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
DALDriverGammaData_Index0FS3DGreen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
DALDriverGammaData_Index0FS3DBlue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
DALOvlYUVBrightness=R0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALOvlYUVContrast=R6400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALOvlYUVSaturation=R6400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000640000006400000064000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALOvlYUVHue=R0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALOvlYUVGamma=R0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALOvlYUVInvGamma=R0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
DALOvlYUVOvlKelvin=R64190000
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/BUSID-1:0:0-0/DDX]
GammaCorrectionI=S0x06419064
GammaCorrectionII=S0x06419064
DesktopSetup=Shorizontal,reverse
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/BUSID-1:0:0-0/LDC]
LinkedAllSliders=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/BUSID-1:0:0-0/LibXUtil/Display1]
Map=V8
Enable=V1
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/OpenGL]
StereoMode=Soff
[AMDPCSROOT/SYSTEM/BUSID-1:0:0-1/LDC]
LinkedAllSliders=V1

```

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-06-04
You can put those lines in the Driver section of xorg.conf as an option. That's what I did with 

Option EnableRandR12=FALSE

so I could use CCC to configure my big desktop in KDE. I posted this about that

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152121](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152121)

---

### Post by Mr_Toph on 2009-06-05
The previous issues with a dual screen setup that had windows maximizing across both monitors looks to be resolved using the latest Catalyst 9.5 drivers.

I'm running Ubuntu 9.04, and using an ATI Radeon 3450 card with a DVI and HDMI connection. These are the exact steps I used, from a fresh build. Do NOT install the fglrx driver in the Ubuntu repos.

[LIST=1]
[*]Run the following commands:
```
wget --no-check-certificate https://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/ati-driver-installer-9-5-x86.x86_64.run
chmod 755 ati-driver-installer-9-5-x86.x86_64.run
sudo ./ati-driver-installer-9-5-x86.x86_64.run --buildandinstallpkg Ubuntu/9.04
sudo aticonfig --initial -f
```
[*]Reboot the system
[*]Use System > Preferences > Display to detach the monitors from each other, and set the proper resolution
[*]Log out, and back into the system
[/LIST]

This should enable dual monitors, bigdesktop layout, with full 3D acceleration.

---

### Post by mentarm on 2009-08-05
I confirm that the method described by Mr_Toph works.

Has anybody notified any Ubuntu developers about this problem?

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-08-06
The 9.7 driver does not have this problem. It automatically disables randr when big desktop is set up in CCC with two monitors, at least it did that for me. and yes, compiz does work.

It is another story with three monitors and two gpus. Xinerama must be enabled so no compiz but hey, I got three monitors that I can drag stuff between so that is progress.

---

### Post by psyced on 2009-08-06
> **markbuntu said:**
> The 9.7 driver does not have this problem. It automatically disables randr when big desktop is set up in CCC with two monitors, at least it did that for me. and yes, compiz does work.

9.7 doesn't have what problem? xinerama works as expected in 9.7?

I just got 9.7 working, with xinerama, but the monitors act separate (each screen has it's own mouse pointer).

I don't remember how I had it set up in 8.04 (or if I was even using xinerama), but they were always separate (acted the same way as the default drivers for Jaunty - which I like a load better than ATI's junk).

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-08-07
9.7 does not have the randr problem that 9.4-9.6 had when trying to enable more than one monitor. You do not need to use xinerama for only two monitors, CCC worked for me to set up a big desktop with compiz effects without any xorg.conf editing.

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-08-09
Completely broke my X, again :(
Doubt I'll ever buy ATI again.

Sucks that I'm unable to get Xinerama working, or the X to initialize without switching TTY's.

Seems that [Xinerama]("Xinerama") is required for the [MultiSeat-X]("http://wpkg.org/Configuring_multiseat_X_workstation") config I'm attempting

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-08-10
I got xinerama to work with 2 gpus and 3 monitors using the 9.7 driver. It took a while to figure it out but no xorg.conf editing was necessary, It was all done with Catalyst Control Center.

How I did it:

aticonfig --initial -f. restart
Displays 1 and 2 on gpu1 come up with gpu2 disabled

In CCC enable the gpu/third monitor. restart 
The xinerama option was disabled until I did this.

In CCC enable xinerama. restart

In CCC set monitors one and two (gpu1)to single (independent). restart
The single (independent) option was unavailable for displays 1 and 2 until xinerama was enabled.

Set monitor resolutions.

I now have three independent displays with different resolutions using xinerama and can drag windows to any of them. No compiz though and trying to set this up with big desktop or any other way just makes a mess which can be fixed from terminal with aticonfig --initial -f to get back to default and try again.

I had a lot of trouble getting the monitors in the order I needed which was 2,1,3. It always came up 1,3,2 or 2,3,1. What I eventually had to do was after enabling xinerama disable display 3 before setting 1 and 2 independent and then set 1 and 2 in the order I wanted and then enable display 3 again. A restart was absolutely necesary after each change or the driver would fail.

---

### Post by robspangler on 2009-08-10
> **chris7cmcc said:**
> Hi,

I just wanted to provide some feedback on this issue.
My system had a nice dual monitor setup working fine before upgrading Ubuntu 9.x.

'Apologies if the following has been stated previously, just posting the order (for clarity) of what worked to solve this issue for me.

My Ubuntu linux system: Dell Optiplex with a ATI Radeon 2400 HD XT
# lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 9.04
Release:        9.04
Codename:       jaunty

root@spock:/var/log# uname -r
2.6.28-11-server


First I folowed these steps:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver)

I had better luck configuring the display under GNOME and configured via the:
Systems-->Preferences-->Displays,
 Unchecked mirror displays, then was able to drag the displays around for "Big desktop" verital/horizontal, etc.


Note1:
I did NOT use any ATI drivers/sofware, etc., as directed by above URL.

Note2:
I did NOT tweak/hack the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file; this is how it was auto-generated--see below.

(this is working for dual Dell 20" FPD's):

##### xorg.conf auto-generated #####
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        SubSection "Display"
                Virtual 3200 1200
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
        Option  "DontZap"       "True"
EndSection
######################################

For reference, here is my xrandr output--after following steps in the above URL--before following above URL procedures, I only had output from one monitor DVI-0 from xrandr:

Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 3200 x 1200, maximum 3200 x 1200
DVI-1 connected 1600x1200+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 367mm x 275mm
   1600x1200      60.0*+
   1280x1024      75.0     60.0  
   1152x864       75.0  
   1024x768       75.0     60.0  
   800x600        75.0     60.3  
   640x480        75.0     59.9  
   720x400        70.1  
DVI-0 connected 1600x1200+1600+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 367mm x 275mm
   1600x1200      60.0*+
   1280x1024      75.0     60.0  
   1152x864       75.0  
   1024x768       75.0     60.0  
   800x600        75.0     60.3  
   640x480        75.0     59.9  
   720x400        70.1  


Hope this info can help someone out,
-Cmcc


This solved my problem!  I have a Dell Optiplex 755 with ATI HD2400, a Dell 22" wide and a Dell 24" wide.  I had to actually edit the XORG.CONF and change the  "Virtual 3200 1200", mine came out with something else, but changing to yours magically allowed the driver to see my monitors and allow me to change the resolution.  No fancy wobbly windows, but I can live without that just to have my dual-monitors working at the correct resolution!!  Thanks for the tip...I've been really frustrated with this since 9.04 came out!!!  :guitar:

---

### Post by arloth on 2009-08-17
> **kipeloff said:**
> I have the same problem for almost two days, when I was struggling with Radeon 2600 and 9.04.
I tried all the same option, but maximum that I was getting with 'fglrx', mirror monitors or maximize for the both screens.

I've used xrandr, which displays information about your monitors (screens), then add the command,
xrandr --output yourmonitor1 --mode 1280x1024 --output yourmonitor2 --mode 1280x1024 --right-of yourmonitor1

So far, it seems to work.

yes! this worked for me. The Kubuntu control panel kept messing it up, I now get dual screens, and can drag windows back and forth.  I just had to get the amdcccle to have the xinerama grayed out, and xrandr displaying both monitors, in my case DFP1 & DFP3.  Thanks much. Crisis averted. :)  Now to go crash it with some 3D stuff.

---

### Post by tiger99tiger on 2009-08-17
I have yet another variant of this problem. Eventually, twin head and Xinerama seem to be working, the mouse pointer can traverse to the extremes of either screen, but a window (any application) can't be dragged fully on to the second screen. About 100 pixels width of it remains on the left screen. It can go all the way to the left, and the right side of the window can be dragged fully across, but the left side stays on screen 1 regardless. The driver is the latest from ATI, generated as a .deb and installed with Gdebi. AMD64 CPU, quad core although that is likely not relevant, running in 64 bit mode, with Jaunty on a brand-new machine. Card is "VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV770 [Radeon HD 4850]" according to lspci, two Dell 1600*1200 FP on DVI interfaces. Oh, and nothing is overclocked, nor ever will be.

The meaningful bit of xorg.conf:

[INDENT][FONT="Arial Black"]Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "amdcccle-Monitor[1]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "amdcccle-Monitor[1]-1"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "amdcccle-Screen[1]-0"
	Device     "amdcccle-Device[1]-0"
	Monitor    "amdcccle-Monitor[1]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "amdcccle-Screen[1]-1"
	Device     "amdcccle-Device[1]-1"
	Monitor    "amdcccle-Monitor[1]-1"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "amdcccle Layout"
	Screen      0  "amdcccle-Screen[1]-0" 0 0
	Screen         "amdcccle-Screen[1]-1" 1600 0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "amdcccle-Device[1]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "amdcccle-Device[1]-1"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	    "Xinerama" "on"
	Option	"DontZap"	"False"
EndSection[/FONT][/INDENT]

Obviously this was generated by amdcccle, which seems to be very buggy. I am used to Nvidia cards, and never have seen anything like this, in fact they have been very easy for the last two versions, at least, of Ubuntu.

This seems to be set up as two screens, in comparison to other xorg.confs posted here, which seem to show amdcccle setting up one screen only, albeit big. But it is definitely Xinerama. In separate screen mode it will work, but no window will span across from one to the other, and you get a menu bar on each, so the difference is obvious, and I do need Xinerama. Don't care about Compiz, and have not even bothered to try it.

There may be one more clue, if I try xrandr I get:
Xlib:  extension "RANDR" missing on display ":0.0".
RandR extension missing


I feel that almost everything in this thread is part of one big problem, i.e. buggy fglrx drivers and/or amdcccle, but any thoughts on how to fix it would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks in anticipation,

Alan

---

### Post by mentarm on 2009-08-18
After a kernel update my Xorg broke again and after installing ATI 9.8 drivers I still had the same problem as reported by many others here.

However, I followed Mr_Toph's method again and it worked alright.

Mentar

---

### Post by nmsmith on 2009-08-22
As markbuntu said, Mr_Toph's method is great for two monitors on a single gpu, but the three-monitor situation doesn't work so well.

In big-desktop mode, the third monitor has its own set of gnome panels and a separate desktop, and programs opened there seem to appear on the other desktop instead (monitors 1 and 2)

Then I followed markbuntu's instructions

> **markbuntu said:**
> 
How I did it:

aticonfig --initial -f. restart
Displays 1 and 2 on gpu1 come up with gpu2 disabled

In CCC enable the gpu/third monitor. restart 
The xinerama option was disabled until I did this.

In CCC enable xinerama. restart

At this point I get three monitors in xinerama mode, with newly opened programs appearing split between monitors 1 and 2, and maximising working either spread across 1 and 2 or on 3 only (which is usable, at least).

> **markbuntu said:**
> 
In CCC set monitors one and two (gpu1)to single (independent). restart
The single (independent) option was unavailable for displays 1 and 2 until xinerama was enabled.

Set monitor resolutions.

In my CCC, once I have booted with xinerama enabled, I lose any "Desktop settings" label in the menu tree at the left. The page where I enabled the third monitor is no longer available. Did you/I do something different?

Screenshot attached.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-08-22
You need to drag the disabled display onto the panel in the Display Manager. Then you can set each display resolution individually in the drop down from the Diplay Manager. Desktop Settings is not available with xinerama since each display is independent and can be set from the Display Manger list.

---

### Post by nmsmith on 2009-08-23
UPDATE:

It's quite easy to go wrong doing this isn't it? All is working now.

As Xinerama "*allows windows to be dragged between **desktops***" (not displays) it is important to set up the displays as separate desktops before enabling Xinerama. This is counterintuitive, as it apparently removes functionality, but it is the right step for Xinerama to work its magic. This option was called "Single display desktop (Multi-desktop)" for me, perhaps, as I was using the 9.8 drivers.

So yes: I can confirm that to use the 9.8 drivers for three displays you need to
[LIST]
[*]follow first Mr_Toph's [method]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7404825&postcount=46")
[*]then markbuntu's [method]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7764061&postcount=52")
[*]when he says "*set monitors one and two (gpu1)to single (independent)*" this means select the "*Single display desktop (Multi-desktop)*" mode.
[*]after that, turn on Xinerama and reboot
[/LIST]

It's all fine now. Many thanks for your help.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-08-23
Hmm, it seems they have changed the Catalyst Control Center again... and yes, it is tricky. The 9.7 driver had no option for multidesktop or independent display for my HD3650 until after I turned on xinerama. Apparently they have fixed this with 9.8. I will give it a try soon.

---

### Post by tiger99tiger on 2009-08-27
Thank you, nmsmith!

As you suggested, it was the distinction between desktops and screens which was causing my problem, also the new 9.8 driver, which I have only just become aware of, seems to have fixed some bugs still present in 9.7.

Each monitor set to single desktop, then xinerama selected, and all is well. I think the minor irritant of the cursor being left on the inactive screen was fixed by the 9.8 update (or is that a configuration thing too?), as it went away too.

Anyway, all is well now. I should probably have stuck with Nvidia cards, as I know my way around them quite well, but it does look as if ATI/AMD are actually fixing things fairly quickly , which is good.

Alan

---

### Post by nmsmith on 2009-08-27
Yeah - I have bought nvidia cards exclusively in my other linux box for that reason. In my old Radeon 9700-equipped games machine (until I killed it accidentally in 2007) I used to have ATI problems quite often. I tried installing mythtv, and found that aspect ratios were wrong and not correctable.

On searching for reviews last month before buying my new machine it seemed that people thought the ATI drivers were coming along, see [http://www.hexus.net/content/item.php?item=18017]("http://www.hexus.net/content/item.php?item=18017") for example. This combined with good reports about the ATI performance/£ ratio sealed the deal.

As it turns out, the implementation in linux is fine now, and I'm even using Jaunty 64-bit, although occasionally it doesn't react well to logging out and in. In Windows 7 RC however I have a gripe - I have made a 3840×1024 wallpaper image, which displays fine in ubuntu, but which Windows mixes up, displaying in the wrong order, even though I've told it which screen is where!

---

### Post by MorphiusFaydal on 2009-09-11
So the "word" is that Xinerama is fixed in ATi release 9.8?

I've got two screens of different sizes (1680x1050 and 1280x1024), so I've been using Xinerama to get both monitors working. Now that I've got Xubuntu 9.04, when I turn on Xinerama, both of my monitors go to sleep. *Everything* is the same, except I turn on Xinerama.  I leave it off (or turn it off) everything is fine.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-09-11
Well, you do not need xinerama unless you have more than one gpu. You can set separate monitor resolutions with sudo aticonfig. aticonfig --help for the man page.

---

### Post by nmsmith on 2009-09-12
MorphiusFaydal, I hope it doesn't seem too arrogant if I quote myself here:

> **nmsmith said:**
> As markbuntu said, Mr_Toph's method is great for two monitors on a single gpu, but the three-monitor situation doesn't work so well.

You can find his method at this post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7404825&postcount=46]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7404825&postcount=46")

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-09-20
How did you guys get drivers above 9.4 to work in Jaunty on an HD2600?

I filed this bug report a few weeks ago:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/423711](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/423711)

Basically, I cannot run anything higher than 9.4 until I get the newer version of fglrx-installer that has been fixed by Bryce Harrington, due to be released in **karmic.**

How on earth can I install the newer fglrx-installer and upgraded dependencies in Jaunty so I don't have to wait? I tried adding karmic repositories to my sources list and upgrading it that way, but it still produced the same problem - I presume that it's not only fglrx-installer causing these problems, and that I need to upgrade more packages from karmic... such as some xorg ones. But *which* xorg ones!?! There are a TONNE of them!

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-09-23
Can we get confirmation that this problem with Xinerama greyed out is fixed in the latest (Catalyst 9.9 or 9.10) drivers?

---

### Post by freakalad on 2009-09-24
Presently rebuilding the system for dual-boot with Fedora 11, so unfortunately I've not yet reached that point

---

### Post by sridharavinash on 2009-10-02
I just got my dual monitors with my ATI card to work.
My setup :
Monitor : Dell 2007wfp@1600x1050 Dell 2007fp@1600x1200 via DVI
Card(from lspci -v): ATI Technologies Inc RV610 [Radeon HD 2400 XT]

What I did:
Installed the latest drivers from ati.com/drivers . This was installer version 9-9.
Reboot
-Run Applications->Catalyst Control Center(in super user mode)
-Under Display Manager , make Control Center detect Displays
-Under the Multi-Display select Single(Independent Display) for each Display
-Once I did this the Xinerama option was enabled.

my xorg.conf looks like this
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[1]" 1680 0
	Screen         "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "GLcore"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "dbe"
	Load  "v4l"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	    "AIGLX" "off"
	Option	    "Xinerama" "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	VendorName   "Dell"
	ModelName    "Dell 2007wfp (Digital)"
	HorizSync    30.0 - 81.0
	VertRefresh  56.0 - 76.0
	Gamma        1
	ModeLine     "1680x1050" 119.0 1680 1728 1760 1840 1050 1053 1059 1080 -hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	VendorName   "Dell"
	ModelName    "Dell 2007FP (Digital)"
	HorizSync    30.0 - 83.0
	VertRefresh  56.0 - 75.0
	Gamma        1
	ModeLine     "1600x1200@60" 162.0 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BoardName   "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BoardName   "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual   1680 1050
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1680x1050@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[1]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual   1600 1200
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1600x1200@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
[/CODE]

logout and log back in and everything was at the right resolution and I could drag windows between the 2 monitors etc.

hope that helps someone.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-10-03
Well, I just did a clean install of Karmic 64 bit and enabled the resricted driver which is 9.10. A few notes:
To launch CCC as super user you need to sudo amdcccle from a terminal. The menu thingy is borked.
Full screen flash now sizes properly to the leftmost screen, yay!

Setting up multi gpus/monitors is now a snap.

This is how I got my three monitors working with my HD3650 and HD3450 cards. I have 2 monitors, 20" 1650x1050(screen 1) and 24" 1920x1200(screen2) on the 3650 which is the primary gpu and one 19" 1280x1024(screen3) on the 3450. 
System comes up with screens 1 and 2 cloned as usual and the 3450 in the disabled box. Enabled big desktop and rebooted. Arranged the screens. Dragged the disabled gpu next to the other screens and rebooted. All three screens come up cloned. Enabled xineama and rebooted. Viola!!! three screen native resolution xinerama.

That was cetainly a lot easier than with previous drivers. Kudos to ati devs.

No joy with compiz with xinerama. Nvidia believes it is a general xorg problem. I might try to enable composite in xorg.conf and see what happens but I don't have the inclination right now to do the recovery if it fails. Xorg.0.log tells me that composite is intitalized but...

I will probably put 9.10 on my hardy and jaunty installs when it is released now that multi gpu/monitors is so much easier.

---

### Post by nmsmith on 2010-01-08
I agree: much easier now, Markbuntu. Just rebuilt onto a new disk with Karmic 64-bit and everything went very smoothly.

---

