---
title: "Configure HDMI port?"
date: 2008-08-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by justgeig on 2008-08-06
I have spent hours scouring the internet and messing with my xorg.conf trying figure out how to configure the HDMI port on my Inspiron 1525 under kubuntu. I have found a few threads trying to work through no sound coming through the port but I haven't found anything about how to even get video out so far. I am trying to connect it to my 1080p tv. Any help and ideas of how to get started would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by matt.taylor on 2008-08-06
:lolflag:

I am having the opposite problem i have the visuals but no audio. 

I am using gnome and it just picks it up stright away as to weather connected to standard monitor or a HDTV.

Is it an ATI, Nvidia or Intel GPU?

---

### Post by justgeig on 2008-08-06
It is an Intel GMA....ummm forget which one though lol

---

### Post by justgeig on 2008-08-06
Perhaps the problem is in using the new KDE 4.1

---

### Post by matt.taylor on 2008-08-06
Ahhh, I would get hold of the latest intel drivers, Intel Graphics sucks bigtime they are totally decades behind ATI and nVdia.

ATI i find to be the best on Linx just using the genric fglrx (ish) driver saves so much messing about. Everything just works 

But maybe somone who uses Intel Gaphics can step in here? :-\"

---

### Post by justgeig on 2008-08-06
thats good to know for the next computer i buy lol

---

### Post by justgeig on 2008-08-06
ok, i did some looking around and I think i have the latest driver and it has HDMI support so....?

---

### Post by matt.taylor on 2008-08-06
You will proberbly have to switch it manually then, in order to use the HD side of it, the question is i don't know how :confused:

Just out of interest, do you dual boot? if you do try it in windows and see what happens

---

### Post by justgeig on 2008-08-06
Fortunately/Unfortunately I don't dual boot anymore....interesting note to point out though.....dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg isn't letting me set any values for the monitor...only keyboard

---

### Post by justgeig on 2008-08-06
Anyone? Ideas?

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-08-06
what does your xorg.conf look like? might as well let us have a look.

i dont have intel graphics but i did spend ages getting my hdtv and pc to play niceley, although im using an nvidia 7800gt with dvi to hdmi cable. dvi and hdmi are basically the same thing though, but hdmi has audio tagged on. meh.

you know, it may, if you're lucky, just be the fact that you need to send whatever command switches your laptop screen off and external monitor on, but maybe that'd be just too lucky

---

### Post by justgeig on 2008-08-06
That is exactly what my hope is lol


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by matt.taylor on 2008-08-07
Your Xorg.conf file should look somthing like this 

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xorg.conf]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xorg.conf")

---

### Post by c2olen on 2008-08-07
I have been struggling on my X3100 (Intel GMA) and HD TV HDMI setting too.
I know I can detect the HDTV, by using ```
xrandr -q
```

It tells me the DPMS-1 device is connected and reports the right resolution. So, the port works the cable connects. I get no failure on ```
xrandr --output DPMS-1 --left-of LVDS
```
DPMS-1 is the HD TV and LVDS is the laptops LCD screen.
It appears to work, but the 1080p screen stays blank.

I've given up for now, will try again next week, when I feel like it again. For now, I am way too frustrated on this subject, because I just don't seem to get it to work.
I've been using it on my previous laptop (DVI->HDMI on NVIDIA 6800) up untill three weeks ago. Now I have the X3100 chipset and native HDMI, but no luck yet.

I've tried static configuration in the xorg.conf file, and automatic settings using xrandr. Maybe the new X-server and xrandr versions in Ibex offer more or better options.

---

### Post by matt.taylor on 2008-08-07
I dont think its the OS thats causing the Issues, My ATI card simply switches between the two like a dream,

What i would suggest is asking intel the question see what they come up with (a bit of a long shot i know#-o)

---

### Post by justgeig on 2008-08-07
Yeah a long shot but I'm willing to try ;)

---

### Post by kinkdxm on 2008-08-11
I also have an inspiron 1525 and I can't get hdmi to work.
My tv just says "Not Support!"

---

### Post by c2olen on 2008-08-21
> **c2olen said:**
> I have been struggling on my X3100 (Intel GMA) and HD TV HDMI setting too.
I know I can detect the HDTV, by using ```
xrandr -q
```It tells me the DPMS-1 device is connected and reports the right resolution. So, the port works the cable connects. I get no failure on ```
xrandr --output DPMS-1 --left-of LVDS
```DPMS-1 is the HD TV and LVDS is the laptops LCD screen.
It appears to work, but the 1080p screen stays blank.

I've given up for now, will try again next week, when I feel like it again. For now, I am way too frustrated on this subject, because I just don't seem to get it to work.
I've been using it on my previous laptop (DVI->HDMI on NVIDIA 6800) up untill three weeks ago. Now I have the X3100 chipset and native HDMI, but no luck yet.

I've tried static configuration in the xorg.conf file, and automatic settings using xrandr. Maybe the new X-server and xrandr versions in Ibex offer more or better options.



Just great.
A friend was at my place the other day, and I was struggling to get the HDMI connection to work, again. He asked me, "do you have the right input channel selected?"
I said, "of course, what do you think?!?! (somewhat offended) "
But, still, I tried a different input selector on the TV, guess what. I got my Ubuntu desktop on the TVset.
So my xrandr commands did, work, I was just looking at the wrong input channel on the TV. (slapping myself on the forehead).

:popcorn:

Just figuring out the right settings now.
Make sure you set enough virtual memory for you desktop in xorg.conf. Default is 2048x2048, but if you are trying to go dualscreen on a HD tv, this might not be enough.

**The xrandr commands i use:**
```

xrandr --output TMDS-1 --off --output LVDS --mode 1280x800 (turn off HDtv)
xrandr --output TMDS-1 --mode 1920x1080 --output LVDS --mode 1280x800 (use LaptopLCD and HDTV)

```

**xorg.conf**
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    SubSection "Display"
        Virtual 2048 2048
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by justgeig on 2008-08-24
this looks promising lol I will try it as soon as i get home

---

### Post by Pipen84 on 2008-08-24
I have a problem, which i think is the same,

I have a Asus F6E laptop with a x3100 gfx.

I tried the things mentioned in the thread.

xrandr --output TMDS-1 --mode 1680x1050 --output LVDS --mode 1280x800

that makes my monitor (DVI but connected with a HDMI adapter) wake up and the power indicator goes from orange to green. But the screen is still black. Please help me out here. I need it, 13" is way to small for my profession..

THanks

---

### Post by c2olen on 2008-08-25
> **Pipen84 said:**
> I have a problem, which i think is the same,

I have a Asus F6E laptop with a x3100 gfx.

I tried the things mentioned in the thread.

xrandr --output TMDS-1 --mode 1680x1050 --output LVDS --mode 1280x800

that makes my monitor (DVI but connected with a HDMI adapter) wake up and the power indicator goes from orange to green. But the screen is still black. Please help me out here. I need it, 13" is way to small for my profession..

THanks


Have you checked the virtual desktop (aka memory) size assigned to X11?
If you have too little, one screen stays black.
Add both horizontal and vertical resolutions up, and define this as the virtual memory size in xorg.conf.

In your example, 1680+1280 = 2960, and 1050+800 = 1850.
If not defined, the default virtual desktop size is 2048 x 2048, which is less than 2960.

Add the following to your xorg.conf;
```

Section "Screen"
       Identifier    "Default Screen"
       Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
       Device        "Configured Video Device"
       SubSection "Display"          <<< add this
                Virtual 2960 1850    <<< add this
       EndSubSection                <<< add this
EndSection

```

g.luck

---

### Post by Pipen84 on 2008-08-27
yepp already put that in my xorg.conf without result

---

### Post by c2olen on 2008-08-29
> **Pipen84 said:**
> yepp already put that in my xorg.conf without result

Could you post (attach) your xorg.conf and 'xrandr -q' output, after plugging in the screens? Also the Xorg.log from /var/log could be helpfull.

maybe we can see something that puts us on the right track here.

cheers.

---

### Post by bmwman on 2008-08-30
Has anyone been able to figure out how to enable the sound through HDMI yet? I have ALC889a sound on Nvidia7100 chipset and can't get any sound from my HDMI. I have the latest Nvidia drivers installed and even installed the latest Alsa-driver-1.0.18rc1 and still don't get any sound out of. The sound is working fine thru the 3.5mm jack but i need HDMI to plug to my stereo.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Pipen84 on 2008-08-30
```
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1280 x 800, maximum 2960 x 1850
VGA disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
LVDS connected 1280x800+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 286mm x 179mm
   1280x800       59.9*+   60.0  
   1280x768       60.0  
   1024x768       60.0  
   800x600        60.3  
   640x480        59.9  
TMDS-1 connected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
   1680x1050      59.9 +
   1280x1024      75.0     59.9  
   1152x864       74.8  
   1024x768       75.1     60.0  
   800x600        75.0     60.3  
   640x480        75.0     60.0  
   720x400        70.1  
TV disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)

```

This is not the complete file, only what i thought you might need

```
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        SubSection "Display"
                Virtual 2960 1850
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

```

Mu Xorg.0.log is to big for the attachment, is it something in particular i should be looking for?

---

### Post by c2olen on 2008-09-03
> **Pipen84 said:**
> Mu Xorg.0.log is to big for the attachment, is it something in particular i should be looking for?

Hi there again,

sorry for my delayed response, but damn, have I been busy :-)

To me, both xrandr output and xorg.conf gile look OK.

I think I still need to see your xorg.log file to see if there's anything that could help.
You can compress the logfile of course. 

Cheers

---

### Post by Pipen84 on 2008-09-03
Here is my Xorg.0.log just after plugin in the screen.

I would really appreciate if you can help me with this.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by c2olen on 2008-09-03
There's actually nothing in the xorg.log indicating a reason why it does not work.
All seems to be just fine?

I've uploaded my xorg.conf for you to try out.
It is as default as it can get, so X11 will automatically set the devices according to the autodetection mechanisms. The only thing I've changed is the Virtual Memory, to match my 1080p HDTV and my 1280x800 laptop LCD screen.
The memory setting should however still match your needs (if your box holds enough RAM of course).

Based on the previous posts in this thread, and the settings, commands and results, you should be just fine. 
Again, are you sure you're looking at the right input channel on your external screen? I was looking at the wrong one for days :-D

Sorry I could not be more helpfull.

---

### Post by Pipen84 on 2008-09-03
im 100% about the input channel. sorry did u attach the file?

---

### Post by c2olen on 2008-09-03
Hmmm. strange.
I am sure I attached it. 
Well, here's another try.

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    SubSection "Display"
        Virtual 2048 2048
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

```

---

