---
title: "12.04 nvidia drivers 173 installation"
date: 2012-05-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by bbb13 on 2012-05-10
hi guys, quick question. how do i install nvidia drivers 173 in xubuntu 12.04, either from nvidia site or from x swat ppa? cause in additional drivers section nothing comes up. i'm using a geforce 5600XT and i really don't wanna use the open source drivers. cheers.

---

### Post by vishnumrao on 2012-05-11
Its broken thats why you don't see it in the additional drivers. Installing the binary from nvidia's website will break your installation. 

[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/nvidia-96-graphics-driver-and-ubuntu-12-04-issues-943325/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/nvidia-96-graphics-driver-and-ubuntu-12-04-issues-943325/)

This is the curse of proprietary drivers!

EDIT: launchpad bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-173/+bug/948053](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-173/+bug/948053)

---

### Post by bbb13 on 2012-05-11
yeah,i saw that it was  broken in synaptic.and i tried through the run file and it broke my installation indeed. anyway,i just thought that there was a trick. i reverted back to 10.04 for now.thnx

---

### Post by r233967 on 2013-03-20
The following simple steps worked for me for version 12.04.02 on March 19, 2013.


- Install 12.04.02 (DO NOT enable auto login).
- When the install finishes rebooting, you will be at the login screen (DO NOT LOGIN).
- CTRL-ALT-F1 to get to a command-line.
- login at the command prompt
- sudo apt-get install nvidia-173-updates (DO NOT INSTALL nvidia-173)
- reboot
- enjoy

---

### Post by Revhead on 2014-03-05
> **r233967 said:**
> The following simple steps worked for me for version 12.04.02 on March 19, 2013.


- Install 12.04.02 (DO NOT enable auto login).
- When the install finishes rebooting, you will be at the login screen (DO NOT LOGIN).
- CTRL-ALT-F1 to get to a command-line.
- login at the command prompt
- sudo apt-get install nvidia-173-updates (DO NOT INSTALL nvidia-173)
- reboot
- enjoy

Thanks mate.
Not sure what you mean by DO NOT INSTALL in the brackets, but this worked for me too after trying a lot of other methods.
After cleaning out any nvidia stuff in my system, I installed nvidia-settings first through Ubuntu Software Centre.
I then followed the above procedure.
As soon as I rebooted I went to nvidia-settings and saved the current settings as default configuration.
I'm now up and running again.
Yipee!
Cheers,
Rev

---

