---
title: "11.04 video driver woes"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ChrisInvisible on 2011-04-30
My apologies if this exact scenario has already been solved elsewhere. Here's the rundown: I wanted to get an nvidia driver that would support 1920x1080. I installed 260.19.44, but it didn't do what I needed. The next time I booted into Ubuntu (I'm dualbooting Win7), X didn't start. I discovered I could do the following to get back into the GUI:

```

sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86-260.19.44.run

```Go through the install process, during which a "preinstall script" failed to run. Then startx and I was back in. I upgraded to 11.04, rebooted, and landed back in the command prompt yet again. Tried the same remedy, but it failed to install. I did the following:

```

sudo apt-get purge nvidia*
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo nvidia-xconfig

```That installed 270.41.06 and created a new xorg.conf. Tried to startx and I got "module nvidia not found." I have tried to do sudo modprobe nvidia, but that returns the same error. At this point, my linux experience is exhausted. It seems like I'm completely missing the nvidia kernel module, and all I need to do is get that, but I don't know how.

Halp? It would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by ChrisInvisible on 2011-05-01
Bump? :(

---

### Post by altearius on 2011-05-01
Hello,

I just had a similar problem with nvidia-current.  It was resolved by using nvidia-173 instead, as put forth in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1745185").  In short, try this:

```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-current
sudo apt-get install nvidia-173
sudo reboot
```

Good luck!

---

### Post by ChrisInvisible on 2011-05-03
> **altearius said:**
> Hello,

I just had a similar problem with nvidia-current.  It was resolved by using nvidia-173 instead, as put forth in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1745185").  In short, try this:

```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-current
sudo apt-get install nvidia-173
sudo reboot
```Good luck!

Awesome, thanks for your response. I'll be trying this as soon as I get home!

Here, have a star. :KS

---

### Post by tjones00 on 2011-05-03
```
sudo apt-get purge nvidia*
sudo ./NV*.run --uninstall
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
sudo reboot
```

At grub edit the boot image and replace quiet splash with nomodeset and boot.
```

sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo reboot
```

That should be all that's required. You forgot to uninstall the proprietary driver you installed via the NV*.run that cannot be removed via apt-get.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)


As to your original issue you can add modelines to your xorg.conf it does not require you to install a different driver to get a desired resolution.

eg. 
```

cvt 1920 1080 
```

Then add the modeline to your xorg.conf.

---

### Post by ChrisInvisible on 2011-05-05
Hi tjones, thanks for your help. I went through the first part without much trouble. Uninstalling ./NV*.run did produce some errors. It said the installation had changed (as we knew) and it would try to uninstall as best it could, but there were several files it couldn't locate.

I proceeded anyway and tried to edit the boot image at grub. The last line was *quiet* which I changed to *nomodeset* and pressed 'b' to boot. The computer rebooted rather than booting into Ubuntu. I tried booting without editing the boot image and got no video signal, as expected (I guess) since we just uninstalled the video driver.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-05-06
You can save all the install grief by using pre-compile packages...so no more update/kernel version rebuilds..

[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates?field.series_filter=natty](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates?field.series_filter=natty)

Search your /var/log/Xorg.0.log file for clues...
check that nouveau is not mentioned..

If your monitor is DVI or HDMI then
cvt -r 1920 1080
is more approp...but this is a built-in/defined video mode so can be directly used in xorg.conf file, no modeline needed.

---

### Post by ChrisInvisible on 2011-05-07
Okay, so instead of replacing *quiet* with *nomodeset*, I added it after *quiet*, so it reads *quiet nomodeset*. That allowed me to boot, but I still ended up with no video signal. My monitor is currently using the DVI output. Should I try switching to VGA, or try running off of the onboard video? I don't know if either of those makes a difference.

At this point, I just want to be able to get back to my desktop. :(

---

### Post by ChrisInvisible on 2011-05-12
For the benefit of anyone who might have made the same series of silly mistakes that I made, I'll continue to post here. So far I'm still stuck with no video signal when booting to Ubuntu, with or without the *nomodeset* parameter. The monitor is DVI. I have yet to try VGA or try the onboard video instead of going through the nvidia card. I plan to attempt those, but I'm not really expecting any change.

As far as I have been able to learn, *nomodeset* is supposed to bypass some video setting stuff in the kernel and use BIOS video settings. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem to have worked for me.

Anyway, I have a few things left to try: VGA, onboard video, moving *nomodeset *before *quiet. *Past that, it looks like I'll probably have to wipe and start over fresh. Pretty stupid to have to do that over a video driver I guess, but I'm far from a Linux expert, so that's probably what will happen.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2011-05-12
No, boot to recovery mode and select terminal with network (something like that). Purge all nvidia stuff and reinstall
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia*
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-settings dh-modaliases
sudo depmod -a
sudo nvidia-xconfig
sudo update-initramfs -u

```

---

