---
title: "8800 gts 521"
date: 2012-03-16
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ExSuSEusr on 2012-03-16
Upgraded from 10.04 to this newest version.  Now when I log in my screen goes hinky for a few moments, then I have access to my desktop.  Activating Compiz to get my cube back causes the complete loss of tool bars and essentially a crash - I have to go back in under 2D and remove compiz.

Since I have upgraded do I need to reinstall the nVidia drivers?

---

### Post by ExSuSEusr on 2012-03-16
Ok it seems that my video card drivers are fine.  checked out the settings and ran a test run with Everquest II through WINE - which is a graphically intense game.  Runs great.  

However,

When I go to configure compiz - there is no option for reflection deformation.  I have searched for add ons and there doesn't seem to be anything - according to google...

Any ideas?  Why isn't compiz settings giving me the options of 3D windows and reflection deformation?

EDIT ---

In my Additional Driver listing it shows:

"NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (version current) [Recommended]

3D-accelerated proprietary graphics driver for NVIDIA cards. Required if you want to run Unity.

This driver is required to fully utilise the 3D potential of NVIDIA graphics cards, as well as provide 2D acceleration of newer cards.

You need to install this driver if you wish to use the Unity desktop, enable desktop effects, or run software that requires 3D acceleration, such as some games.

So I am correct in assuming that when I upgraded from 10.04 to 12.04 that it kept my drivers that I installed from NVIDIA?  If that's the case - in 10.04 I could go into Preferences --> Appearance and change my settings to high performance... now I can't.  And as I said above there is no way to enable the 3D cube with Compiz.

I know I am missing something.... two things always give me grief are video and ipods (with linux).

Anyone?

---

