---
title: "4.1 Surround Sound does not work(Rear Speakers)."
date: 2011-04-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-04-26
Hi,
I have these Creative Inspire M4500 4.1 surround sound speakers.
I got them to work succesfully on my older computer by installing the ALSAmixer. and then unmuting the channels. However on my new computer even after installing ALSAmixer, i cannot seem to be able to get playback from my rear two speakers. I tried the community ubuntu documentation and ALSA's own guide(which seemed too complicated for me.) Please Help.
10.04 Lucid LTS
Satyajeet

---

### Post by Aidanomatic on 2011-04-26
Have you checked that they are the default speakers?
Menu> system> Preferences> default sound card

---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-04-26
Hi,
thanks for the reply.
No there is no such option as Default Sound Card in System->Preferences->.
In the "Sound" option under the same menu, there is no place where i can select my Output equipment type, like in earlier releases.
Thanks again.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-26
Hi !

I have numerous options (11.04)

Have you installed "extras"

KegHead

---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-04-26
extras ? 
sudo apt-get install extras ?
can you be more exact?
Thanks

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-26
Hi!

Software center:

type in "extras"

Install

Advise if this works for you!

KegHead

---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-04-26
As far as i can figure out, you're talking about 11.04. i have 10.04 Lucid 32-Bit. But just to see whether your solution works out, i upgraded the software center but typing in 'Extras' in the search box does not yield any useful results. If extras is a category, then i think it exists only in 11.04 and not 10.04.
Satyajeet

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-26
Hi!

Extras are available;

system..admin..synaptic..search--[COLOR="Red"]ubuntu-restricted-extras[/COLOR]


Install

KegHead

---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-04-26
hmm..
Okay i have the 'Extras' installed.
Now what? I am clueless as to why i installed them.
Thanks.
Satyajeet

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-26
Hi!

Make sure you've installed;

system...admin..additional drivers

KegHead

---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-04-26
Hi,
if by Additional Drivers in 11.04 you meant Hardware Drives in 10.04, then after searching it only shows drivers for my Nvidia graphic card, which i already have installed. However there are no drivers suggested by the Hardware Drivers application for Sound Devices. If it helps, the Realtek HD Audio Manager is being used for the same system on Windows on dual boot.
Satyajeet

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-26
Hi!

Could you try switching you wires, etc?

KegHead

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-04-27
What do you have selected as your profile in 'Sound preferences' on the 'Hardware' tab?

---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-04-30
> **KegHead said:**
> Hi!

Could you try switching you wires, etc?


I tried that, does not work. And surround sound works perfect on windows, so i don't think it's a hardware problem.

> **lidex said:**
> What do you have selected as your profile in 'Sound preferences' on the 'Hardware' tab?
In hardware tab I have selected: 
```

Internal Audio
1 Output / 1 Input
Analog Stereo Duplex

```
Thanks

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-04-30
You'll need to use a surround profile.

---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-05-04
I know. That's what i did in my old PC (9.04). But this new PC with lucid does not have the surround sound options/ profiles. all i have is 4 profiles. 2 for analog and 2 for digital.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-04
Use the alsa-info-script to provide detailed information.
Run this command in a terminal:
```
wget http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh 
```
Choose the upload option and provide a link for the output.
[Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"]

---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-05-05
[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=db361335b1716149c66742117ef3caf9160b1789](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=db361335b1716149c66742117ef3caf9160b1789)

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-05
You probably need to add a model quirk. What is the make and model of this computer?

---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-05-06
uhh.. 
It's not Company made. I got it assembled.
2.7 GHz Intel Pentium Dual Core
2 GB RAM
But i think you want the motherboard right?
It's a Foxconn motherboard that requires Realtek Drivers for audio on Windows.

```
Foxconn INT-915 Motherboard
```

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-06
Can you be a little more specific?
```
**Intel 915G** 	 
915M03-G-8EKRS2
915G7MC-8EKRS
915G7MC-8KS
915G7MC-ES
915G7MH-S
915G7MC-S
**Intel 915GV**  
915GV7MC-S
915GV7MH-S
**Intel 915GL** 	  
915GL7MC-ES
915GL7MC-S
915GL7MH-S
**Intel 915P** 	  
915P7MH-S
915A01-P-8EKRS2
915A01-P-8KS2
915P7AC-8EKRS
915P7AC-8KS
915P7AD-8EKRS
915P7AD-8KS
915P7MC-S
**Intel 915PL** 	  
915PL7AE-8EKRS
915PL7AE-8S
915PL7AE-S
915PL7MH-S 
```

---

### Post by satyanash on 2011-05-07
:shock:
I just wrote down the model number from the motherboard's windows driver installation CD. But I guess that's a generic one, meant for a series.
Parts of the **sudo lshw** command that you might find helpful:
```

*-core
       description: Motherboard
       product: G31MXP/G31MXP-K
       vendor: Foxconn
       physical id: 0
       version: FAB:1.0
       serial: UY31006009885

```
```

*-multimedia
             description: Audio device
             product: N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller
             vendor: Intel Corporation
             physical id: 1b
             bus info: pci@0000:00:1b.0
             version: 01
             width: 64 bits
             clock: 33MHz
             capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
             configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0
             resources: irq:16 memory:fdff8000-fdffbfff

```

Meanwhile I will open the cabinet/case/box and try to find out the actual model of the motherboard.

Satyajeet:popcorn:

---

