---
title: "5.1 surround sound plays very poor quality"
date: 2010-11-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Thelinuxgeek on 2010-11-08
I got a 5.1 desktop sound sys for my recently built gaming rig. It sounds great. On Windows, that is. In ubuntu when I'm playing music, primarily when the subwoofer plays the bass, the speakers sound like they're farting and ripping phone books in half. Also, they get very statticy and sort of quiet. In sound preferences, analog stereo duplex is selected, if that's of any value. How can I get good sound playback in ubuntu?

---

### Post by nebunitu on 2010-11-13
I'm using Ubuntu 10.10  32 bit installation inside windows...
I  have a 7.1 Realtek audio on-board using it with a 5.0 analog sound system (works fine on windows 7). At first I experienced poor sound in Ubuntu... I tried to install the HD audio codec found at Realtek site but it didn't install saying it cannot access... something, whatever I don't remember... (I'm a newbie and Linux looks kinda complicated when it comes to install software)... I reinstalled a clean install of Ubuntu 10.10, then I installed the updates recommended by the Update Manager, then I installed the ATI driver recommended in the "System -> Administration -> Additional Drivers", then rebooted.

Then I clicked the Sound Icon in the upper right corner -> Sound Preferences -> Hardware tab and I selected the Profile "Analog Surround 5.0 Output + Analog Stereo Input" in the list-box. I see there is a similar option for the 5.1... 

Now, I am experiencing an even better sound than in Windows. And finally, all my 5 SPEAKERS ARE WORKING, which I am very pleased of because the windows drivers don't allow that for stereo files such as mp3's... oh, and PS: DON'T MESS WITH THE BALANCE / FADE CONTROLS... either of them I moved, the sound quality dropped..  I need to reinstall again :(( 'cause I can't find an option to reset and no matter which position I slide them, sound' quality won't come back...

Hope this helps...

---

