---
title: "8.10 Nvidia unable to save xorg.conf.backup"
date: 2008-11-16
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by rggavubt on 2008-11-16
"Unable to remove old X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup".  I get this message when I try to save to X configuration file in System, Adminstration, Nvidia X Server Settings, X Server Display Configuration.  My resolution maximum is 800X600 after I installed 8.10 fresh.  I go to X server and reset it to 1024X768 and it resets but I can't save my settings to X configuration.  I have a XFX GeForce 8800 GTS 512 Alpha Dog GPU card.  I looked at the existing /etx/x11/xorg.conf file and it does't list my monitor.  In Nvidia X Server Settings it is listed correctly as a NEXGEN NL30.  I have a Westinghouse 30" LCD HDTV W33001 as my PC monitor.  Any help appreciated.

---

### Post by inobe on 2008-11-16
question : vga input or dvi connection ?


anywho do

```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

then set it up :)

---

### Post by rggavubt on 2008-11-16
> **inobe said:**
> question : vga input or dvi connection ?


anywho do

```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

then set it up :)

I'm connected DVI.

---

### Post by rggavubt on 2008-11-16
> **inobe said:**
> question : vga input or dvi connection ?


anywho do

```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

then set it up :)
I did and then saved X configuration and it worked.......Thanks
I rebooted and it retained the 1024X768 resolution but it still lists my monitor as unknown.:popcorn:

---

### Post by Ve6jhc on 2008-11-16
That fixed the issue for me as well....thanks!

---

### Post by charlieab1 on 2009-01-28
i have got to that stage to but what i'm trying to do is add an extra screen, before it would not save and would come up with the error (Unable to remove old X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'.) but when i try and set it up through the terminal it doesn't come up with the error msg but doesn't save the 2 screens settings 

any help will be great 
thanx charlie

---

### Post by manilaph on 2009-02-25
I was having major screen resolution NVIDIA problems similar to this.

I've read all the other similar threads but this is the only one that worked!

My NVIDIA settings are now saved and are retained even after I turn-off the computer.

Thanks to all who helped in this thread!

---

### Post by trindy on 2009-04-01
You are probably running into filesystem UNIX permissions issues on the /etc/X11 directory, which is typically only writable by the root user.  Your nvidia application is probably running as the logged in user.  If you want to be able to run the configuration from the menu, you can temp change the filesystem permissions.

Before hitting the save button try:

```
sudo chown -R *your_user_id* /etc/X11
```

Then, make your changes and when all done (put the permissions back, or not):

```
sudo chown -R root /etc/X11
```

---

