---
title: "10.10 audio/video error"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by KingLear0 on 2010-10-13
Ok, So here's my issue and data:

I'm running on an Acer AspireOne 751h.  This is a system that uses the GMA500 drivers for video.  I have all the drivers installed and regular video works perfectly.

I fresh installed 10.10.

When I attempted to watch a video using Totem, I had no video appear.  I installed a variety of other video players, Mplayer (with both SMplayer and Gnome-Player front Ends), VLC.

I then double checked, and reinstalled the proper codecs from the medibuntu repositories.  They all check out.

When I run basic 'mPlayer' from the command line I get smooth playing video, but no audio.  When I run any of the other players (Totem, SMplayer, etc) I get audio, but no video.  

My investigation implies that it may just be a video output issue.  After playing around in SMplayer, I was able to get very, VERY choppy video playback with one of the alternate video output choices.

Reading a variety of sources it seems that it may be caused by either:

1) possibly needing superuser permissions when running the video players
2) finding an alternate video output
3) looking at the wiki for the GMA500, I guess that the standard output 'XV' has issues on 10.10 right now, so I may just be waiting for someone who knows how to update the drivers


Any ideas?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Joske.be on 2010-10-23
Hi,

I got exactly the same problem. Running on an asus T91mt.
Any progress to get this solved?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-10-23
> **KingLear0 said:**
> 

1) possibly needing superuser permissions when running the video players
No! Who on earth told you this nonsense.

> 2) finding an alternate video output
3) looking at the wiki for the GMA500, I guess that the standard output 'XV' has issues on 10.10 right now, so I may just be waiting for someone who knows how to update the drivers


Gma500 is a horrible device to work with on linux, because Intel wouldn't release the driver that works properly. Instead, it has released a host of drivers that don't work. Updating would have been great, however, there is no alternative to the half broken psb driver. I think your best shot is to use Karmic (works ok after manually installing the osb driver) or the custom Lucid image mentioned in the gma500 wiki.

---

### Post by Debra.S on 2010-10-23
I had this problem too, and no one was able to help me with it really.  There are only a few of us who have run into this, and there doesn't seem to be much that can be done right now.  I ended up just backing up my files and doing a reinstall of 10.04.  I'm going to keep an eye on this thread though to see if anyone can help.

---

