---
title: "9.04 + Blender + ati + opensource drivers problem"
date: 2009-04-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mihai.ile on 2009-04-29
Hello.
If you happened to use an older ATI card then probably you know that they dropped support for many cards and fglrx driver does not work in Ubuntu 9.04

Now, forced to use the opensource driver (it'e quite good actually) I am having an issue with blender: the object appear almost 100% white and have very high contrast.

Could someone using also an ati with opensource drivers try to start blender (just install from repos and start in windowed mode) to confirm this? Just start blender, by default it has a cube that should be gray and not white. I don't want to report a bug before knowing if it's only me that has this problem.

I don't know if it's only a configuration or really the opensource driver...

P.S: on other laptop with nvidia card works ok.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by Tokyo_Joe on 2009-04-29
Radeon x800 with Open Source drivers here (rather good, aren't they? if only I could work out how to get maximum resolution back...).

Anyhow, Blender in a window displays a pure white box in the middle when opened. Is that wrong?

---

### Post by Chainz on 2009-04-29
For me:
9.04, open drivers (working quite good) - everything in draw type: 'solid' (default) is white (yes, it's bad).

I just switch to Textured or Shaded to see colors ;)


But indeed it's annoying!

---

### Post by Proteusiq on 2009-05-10
try Blender.exe with Wine! It work super with me!

---

### Post by mihai.ile on 2009-05-11
thanks for the tip, it seems that the windows version under wine works.

I don't know why or how but I managed to get the jaunty native blender version to work with open source drivers from ATI but after a logout/login/restart it never worked again... :\

---

### Post by abbec on 2009-05-21
Can someone please help with this? I can share that if I first log in to an account with compiz enabled and then log in to another account where compiz is not enabled, blender works!? But instead it is VERY slow.

---

### Post by Labello on 2009-05-21
> **mihai007 said:**
> 
Now, forced to use the opensource driver (it'e quite good actually) I am having an issue with blender: the object appear almost 100% white and have very high contrast.


I must confirm this. Same issue. the standart cube that is set up in the default scene is also flickering when i rotate the camera and change my angle of view to the cube. the shading of some faces is messed up and changes unnaturally.

tuff ****, but one can't change this.

---

### Post by Chainz on 2009-05-22
My little solution:
Go to *user preferences / System # open GL*

Then:
Turn off second "Light" button (those above balls) on that tab.
Just keep the first Light on.

And it will be much better now in all views:)

---

### Post by Labello on 2009-05-26
well with the knew drivers it is fixed for me =)

everything looks as desired.

---

### Post by mihai.ile on 2009-05-27
> **Labello said:**
> well with the knew drivers it is fixed for me =)

everything looks as desired.

you mean with the new open source drivers? an update in synaptic?

---

### Post by Labello on 2009-07-01
> **mihai007 said:**
> you mean with the new open source drivers? an update in synaptic?

no sorry i used a special repo with some bleeding edge drivers, but after reinstall i can't find it anymore :-(

edit:
there it is
[http://webupd8.blogspot.com/2009/05/graphic-video-drivers-ubuntu-repository.html](http://webupd8.blogspot.com/2009/05/graphic-video-drivers-ubuntu-repository.html)

but be careful with what you are doing... you should be capable of restoring your old configuration via CLI if something should go wrong!

---

