---
title: "Graphics Problems - Intergrated via S3 driver"
date: 2009-06-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by dunk on 2009-06-23
Hi all,

I'm having some fairly irritating problems getting these machines to detect the monitors, I have a feeling it may be because of the lack of graphics drivers, but to be honest, as long as it detects the screen properly and displays at 1280X1024 I actually don't care. They are work machines and will be mainly used for basic internet use and text.

The screens are standard IBM 17" screens that'll display 1280x1024, I'd even settle for 1024x768 to be honest. Anything to just get a decent display.

It just comes up unknown monitor in the Display settings and wont let me select anything about 800x600. Is there anything I can do?

What I have so far:

Output from sudo lshw -C display

*-display UNCLAIMED
description: VGA compatible controller
product: K8M800/K8N800/K8N800A [S3 UniChrome Pro]
vendor: VIA Technologies, Inc.
physical id: 0
bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
version: 01
width: 32 bits
clock: 66MHz
capabilities: pm agp agp-3.0 bus_master cap_list
configuration: latency=32 mingnt=2

XORG.Conf file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
Modeline "1280x1024" 109.62 1280 1336 1472 1720 1024 1024 1026 1062

EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Not really sure what else to supply. Please help me guys and guyettes

Dunk

---

### Post by dunk on 2009-06-23
quick update. I have now tested the exact same set up, but on a different Dell monitor. This has worked without any problems after a simple reboot. The problem is that these 8 systems need to use the IBM tfts because we don't have anymore of the Dell tfts.

Cheers

The model number of the IBM TFTs is 6657-HG2 (Thinkvision L170).

Please help me

---

