---
title: "Nvidia 9500 - Driver Troubles"
date: 2010-02-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Ayasugi on 2010-02-13
Excuse my ignorance is there is already a thread about this, but im having quite a bit of trouble with this problem. I ran Ubuntu 8.04 on this same machine flawlessly (although different graphics, i used an 8600gtx before, now a 9500). After installing Ubuntu 9.04, my Nvidia drivers keep messing up (they crash in Kubuntu as well, but we'll worry about that later). Every time i boot, i have to load in low-graphics mode. An OS isnt really useful to me without multi-monitor support, and without my drivers working correctly, im limited to a low resolution and only one monitor. Ive tried driver version 180 (installed via package manager), then (after unistalling v180), i manually installed v190 (from Nvidia's website). I still cant use x server settings to configure my displays. Im not sure whats going on, but it seems similar to this:
 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1090146](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1090146)


[CENTER][LEFT]Ive worked myself stupid on this, im having a little trouble keeping focused now, so help is very much appriciated. Im not sure what else to include, but here is my xorg.conf file:

EDIT: EnvyNG also fails to solve the problem. I guess im going to have to load windows ](*,)

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Tue Dec  8 21:04:28 PST 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/LEFT]

[/CENTER]

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-02-13
Can you post the output of this command in a terminal:
```
lspci -nn | grep VGA

```

Try configuring with:
```
nvidia-settings
```

and/or

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```


**[SIZE="3"]Reboot[/SIZE]**

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-02-13
I'm using the geforce 8800 gts on jaunty.

xorg.conf:
```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Wed Dec  9 16:34:26 PST 2009

Section "Files"
	FontPath        "unix/:7100"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Samsung"
	ModelName      "SyncMaster 226BW"
	DisplaySize	474	303
	HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
	VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
	Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth    24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Mouse0"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "Protocol" "auto"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Keyboard0"
	Driver         "kbd"
	# generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0"
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Device0"
	Driver         "nvidia"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	Option	       "NoDDC"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	"DontZap"	"False"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Ayasugi on 2010-02-15
> **lidex said:**
> Can you post the output of this command in a terminal:
```
lspci -nn | grep VGA

```Try configuring with:
```
nvidia-settings
```and/or

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```**[SIZE=3]Reboot[/SIZE]**

```
lspci -nn | grep VGA
```will post output shortly, when i boot ubuntu.

nvidia-settings & nvidia-config gui's dont work.
I believe the dialog box said it was because i wasnt running an nvidia driver. I installed the driver correctly (tried all 3 available), but i did load ubuntu in low graphics mode (no driver is used, right?) so thats why its saying im not running an nvidia driver, but im not sure why i had to boot in low graphics mode.
The one thing i can do, is open xorg.conf in gedit.
thanks for posting.

---

