---
title: ".mkv playback on Linux vs. WInXP"
date: 2009-01-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mr_raider on 2009-01-04
I just tried playing this supposed test of HD playback:

[http://rapidshare.com/files/82525583/killa.sampla.x264.mkv.html](http://rapidshare.com/files/82525583/killa.sampla.x264.mkv.html)

It's 30 second clip encoded in .h264.

Every rig I have running Ubuntu failed miserably at playing it, with choppy audio and dropped framesI tried VLC, mplayer and XBMC. Three of the same 4 rigs played it flawlessly under Windows XP using Media Player Center Home CInema, and the scary part is #3 doesn't even have GPU acceleration for HD content. #4 couldn't play it, period.

I didn't use any paid software that supports AvivoHD or PurevideoHD.

Does Linux mismanage CPU cycles that bad? Or is it poorly coded software and drivers?

Test rigs:


#1 AMD Phenom 9500, 8800gts (g92), 4 gigs of RAM, WinXP Pro only, simultaneously running two instances of VMware (folding) while playing back!

#2 AMD x2 4850e, on board geforce 8200, 2 gigs of RAM, Ubuntu 8.10 32-bit, Win XP Pro

#3 AMD x2 4200+, x1900xt, 2 gigs of RAM, Ubuntu 8.10 64-bit, Win XP Pro

#4 Asus EEE 1000H (Intel Atom 1.6Ghz with HT, Intel 950 GMA). Ubuntu 8.10 32-bit, WIn XP Home

---

### Post by Psyphre on 2009-01-04
I tried downloading your sample and also failed at playing it.

I have a: 
duo core intel 2.4hghz
2gb RAM
7900GS Nvidia.

I've played plenty of HD mkv files before though (Dark Knight for example) and had no issues at all. This is the first time. Maybe the file itself has some issue with playing under linux for some reason?
Try finding another sample and see if it still happens.

---

### Post by mr_raider on 2009-01-04
I managed to play some 1080p trailers of  Silver Surfer, and they were passable. I had tweak a bunch of settings in mplayer, upgrade to catalyst 8.12 and disable compiz. I'm thinking the ATI drivers just suck.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2009-01-05
Have the same problem with VLC and I am running Nvidia cards.

I am shooting in the dark here, but I note that the download site is in Europe and I wonder if the that particular HD clip is synced at 50Hz instead of 60Hz which we use in North America. VLC could not even begin to play it, but Totem made a passable (poorly passable) attempt.

Running 8.04 Ubuntu with 2GB memory on an intel dual core.

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2009-01-05
> **RedRat said:**
> I wonder if the that particular HD clip is synced at 50Hz instead of 60Hz which we use in North America.  This has nothing to do with it. You're only going to see 50 Hz vs. 60 Hz issues if you play PAL video tapes on NTSC equipment and vice versa. But digital formats on computer screens are the same for everyone.

---

