---
title: ".mkv h264 video playback problem"
date: 2010-07-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by 68k-dude on 2010-07-13
Hi there.  I hope this is the appropriate place for this question.

I watch a lot of anime.  And have recently come up against a problem with playing h264 .mkv files.  The playback will be blocky and then freeze with the audio continuing in the background.  A few seconds pass and a new frame (possibly scene change) will appear with a moments blocky playback then freeze again.  When I first experienced the issue I put it down to a corrupted download or a compression end fault.  It was not.  The issue seems to be affecting a lot of different series of anime I am watching.  As an example, the first ten episodes will be fine then the last couple will give me this problem.  I have had this happen to numerous different series from many different encoders.  The timing for this change seems to be around the 20th of June.  The only thing I can think, is that the codec was changed around then and my codec is out of date.  I'm using any video player I can.  I have tried mplayer, vlc, xine and the movie player.  All exhibit the same problem to a greater or lesser extent.  Any help is greatly appreciated.

Ubuntu 8.04 LTS 64Bit version.  Dual core Athlon 64 2.6GHz. Nvidia 8600Gt 256MB.  2GB Ram.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-07-14
you may try smplayer  it loads some 264 files along with ffmpeg

type it in a terminal it tells you how to install it

if i get 1 that dont play in totem i open the folder and open it with smplayer 

hope this helps you

---

