---
title: "8.04  Resolution will not stay"
date: 2008-08-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by theyain on 2008-08-17
Hey everyone, I am having a problem with my resolution.  Apparently X.org can not recognize my monitor (even though in 7.10 it could), and thus wants to put it at a resolution of 1024 x 768 @ 50, instead of 1280 x 1024 @ 60.

I tried correcting the problem by using the nvidia-settings program (as root), but when ever I restart my computer or simply just restart X (after saving the new .conf file), the resolution really screws up and gets set to 1024 x 786 @ 96 (which my monitor does not support).

Anyone have any idea as to what I should do? :(

---

### Post by GreenN00b on 2008-08-17
Try setting resolution from System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution

---

### Post by theyain on 2008-08-17
Yes, I've done all the basic stuff and have even done some non basic stuff like reading the .conf file and editing it.

---

### Post by dodle on 2008-08-17
Try this:  Go to /usr/share/applications and open "screens and graphics" (I can't remember the command to open it from a terminal).  Select the monitor that best suits you, and, under the graphics driver tab, make sure you have the right driver selected.  Reboot/Restart X and see if that helps.

---

### Post by theyain on 2008-08-18
Tried that already, didn't work.

---

### Post by gjoellee on 2008-08-18
seams like you need to "set back" xorg...

READ THIS BEFORE USING THE CODE!
After you enter the code you will see a text-based menu (you navigate with arrows and the enter button). Go down to "xfix" (I think it is called "xfix" if not, it does start with the letter "X") and press on the enter button, when finished do a select "normal boot"

here the code:
```
sudo shutdown now 
```

---

### Post by theyain on 2008-08-19
Well, thats an interesting tool.


Thanks, that fixed my problem. 

Although now the log in screen isn't completely on the screen.

---

### Post by theyain on 2008-08-19
Question about the tool: How does one 'turn' it off?  Some times I work solely in the terminal and while shut down from it.  But that tool doesn't seem to let me.

---

### Post by theyain on 2008-08-19
bump

---

### Post by theyain on 2008-08-19
bump

---

