---
title: "9.04 doesn't recognize an inserted blank CD-R"
date: 2009-07-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by David Haas on 2009-07-23
When I insert a blank CD-R in my computer running 9.04, no icon appears on the desktop -- so the computer is unaware of the disk's presence. Brassero confirmes that no disk is available for burning. However, an icon appears when a CD-R containing data is inserted. On my other computer, running 8.04, the inserted CD-R is recognized (icon appears), and burning by Brassero works fine. So, can anyone diagnose this problem and offer some solutions?
David

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-07-23
I had some problems with memorex CD-Rs being recognized but that was also with 8.04...

---

### Post by David Haas on 2009-07-24
Thanks Markbuntu. I am using Memorex CD-Rs, but, as you noted, they work fine in my 8.04 machine. Nevertheless, I'll try another brand in my 9.04 machine -- no harm in trying. But I suspect that the problem lies elsewhere. Interestingly, searches show that Windows users have had this same problem. Must be a software bug somewhere. There must be a file that can be edited to remove the problem (?).
David

---

### Post by mock47 on 2009-07-30
I am experiencing the same problem.  Brassero does not recognize DVD_R RW or DVD+R RW.  Worked fine prior to upgrade to Koala (9.08?)

---

### Post by scorton on 2009-08-01
Yep I have the same problem - tried brasero, nautilus cd burner and kde, all refuse to recognise there is a blank cd in the drive so this must be a system level problem.

Looking through old threads this problem keeps cropping up!

---

