---
title: "11.10 M-Audio 2496: No way to control recording volume"
date: 2012-05-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2012-05-22
I've been using the M-Audio 2496 Audiophile card for recording and playback of FM broadcasts for some time, using Audacity. Now that I'm trying to digitise my vinyl recordings I have realised that the recorded volume is too low, but there is no way to change it, either in Ubuntu or in Audacity.

For example, using Alsamixer, I can set the DAC 1 and DAC 2 channel gains to anything I like - including mute - and I get a valid recording through Audacity. The volume is not ideal but it is usable. But there is no control over it.

In Audacity the 'microphone' record volume adjustment is grayed out, at maximum.

PulseAudio Volume Control tells me that no application is recording - which somewhat destroys its credibility - or maybe the developers never heard of Audacity.

The Audacity forum has Linux as a lower priority, with M-Audio lower than that and very few people with knowledge of the two together.

Google didn't reveal a link that was strongly relevant.

The bottom line is that there is no way to set the volume control in Ubuntu with this hardware. This can't be right, can it?

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2012-06-01
I see this post created a lot of interest - so I'm answering it myself...

After studying the FAQs at the m-audio knowledge base I learned that **there are no facilities** on the Delta AP card (which is what they call the 2496 Audiophile card), in either hardware or software to control recording volume. This has to be done from the source. Now, anybody wanting to make a good quality recording takes their source upstream of the volume and tone control circuitry on their amplifier. Down stream the option is usually that of taking the output from the power amps' output stage - not a good idea for feeding into a PC based sound card!

Bottom line: you're screwed with this card; you have to buy an additional low-level volume control box of some sort.

By the way, in Linux you are also somewhat penalised a second time: at last I have understood why alsamixer shows so many inputs and outputs for my card: it's because the implementation of alsamixer utterly misleads the owner of this card. These additional outputs - above Inputs 1 & 2 and Outputs 1 & 2 DO NOT EXIST. But the alsa driver developers have chosen not to distinguish between support for the Delta 1010 card (hence 10 outputs and 10 inputs listed) and the Delta AP card. They both use the ICE1712 chip - so the driver developers, in their wisdom, have assumed the cards are identical.

I cannot understand why they choose to do this and make no mention, anywhere that I have found during the 3 years that I have owned this card, that the support they ship for the Delta AP card is actually for the Delta 1010 card. Perhaps they like confusing non-techies like myself.

---

