---
title: "Dual Monitors need to 'just work'..."
date: 2008-09-15
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by polyopticon on 2008-09-15
First: I love Ubuntu, thank you to all those working hard to make this fantastic Linux distro 'just work' in so many amazing ways.

Second: It is so important to make dual screens "just work" too. I am a university lecturer. Every week I give talks to hundreds of students about the virtues of open source software. Also, (unfortunately) I am often presenting my talks with XP because of the difficulty I having setting up a second screen with Ubuntu.

I regularly have to pop open terminal and edit the xorg.conf to get the 2nd monitor working (which can be dangerous for a noob like me)... And often I don't have time to fiddle around before a lecture. The most common issue is that the second screen registers as 640x480, which is obviously way too small.

This thread is really just a plea for developers to focus on this issue, as it could allow people like me to show off all the things Ubuntu can do to the next generation.

If someone has a magic bullet for this issue, then please let me know.

Thank you.
Alex.

PS: I know this is partly a driver issue to be worked out (with nvidia in this case), but still, it needs to 'just work'. I have included my xorg.conf in case there is an easy fix that I am unaware of... basically I just want the main screen to run at 1280x800 and the second screen at 1024x768, as separate (not clones). Also, I would like this set-up to be quick and idiot proof.

```

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Thu Jun  5 09:26:53 UTC 2008

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Tue Jan 22 19:53:46 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LPL"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce Go 7300"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: 1280x800 +0+0; DFP: 800x600 +0+0; DFP: 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by oxymoron on 2008-09-15
got this working last night after borking my xorg.conf manually, try this:

Assuming you have an Nvidia card & the restricted driver is already installed.

Code:

sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings

Then type this:

Code:

gksudo nvidia-settings

The program itself is self explanatory. I now have 2x monitors working on two desktops, got my pc monitor at 1680x1050 and my plasma tv working at 1024x768.

Enjoy

---

### Post by polyopticon on 2008-09-15
Thanks for the heads up Oxymoron...

I have been using nvidia-settings but it has a bad habit of setting projectors as 640x480 without any options for larger screens... The real problem is that I often walk into a lecture theatre not knowing what projector I will be using and 90% of the time the second screen will setup as too small. This in itself isn't terrible, cause I can set it up in the xorg.conf, but I often don't have time (or confidence) to be poking around this file before a lecture.

Unfortunately (and I hate saying this) XP (and nvidias win32 drivers) actually does this one thing... better. :(

Any other suggestions are welcome.

---

### Post by oxymoron on 2008-09-15
> **polyopticon said:**
> Thanks for the heads up Oxymoron...

I have been using nvidia-settings but it has a bad habit of setting projectors as 640x480 without any options for larger screens... The real problem is that I often walk into a lecture theatre not knowing what projector I will be using and 90% of the time the second screen will setup as too small. This in itself isn't terrible, cause I can set it up in the xorg.conf, but I often don't have time (or confidence) to be poking around this file before a lecture.

Unfortunately (and I hate saying this) XP (and nvidias win32 drivers) actually does this one thing... better. :(

Any other suggestions are welcome.

darn, thats the limit of my knoweldge. I have to post and read like you. Maybe some learned linux user can help. nvidia settings is a god send for tv/pc monitor combo.

Sorry I cant help anymore :(

---

### Post by skullmunky on 2008-09-16
polyopticon:

I definitely agree with the importance of clean, painless dualmonitor support, particularly for projectors attached to laptops.  I'm frequently in exactly the same situation, and alas the nvidia-settings dialog is also my best guess other than hand-editing X which is not a good solution at all.

Have you tried asking on the nvidia linux forums?  They'd actually be the ones who'd have to solve it.

As a counterexample, I have a low-end HP laptop with an ATI card, and mirroring to a projector or monitor does work automatically.

This also got me thinking about how hard it is for ANYONE to get this right 100% of the time.  That same laptop came with Windows XP on it.  The ATI driver in Windows wouldn't provide any 3D acceleration, for one thing (card is too "low end"); but the OpenGL support in linux through fglrx is great.  

Also, when I use that laptop in Windows and have it mirrored to a projector, playing a DVD or video of any kind just shows a big black rectangle on the mirrored screen. 

My other laptop is a shiny new Macbook.  When you plug a projector into one of these, the projector generally defaults to 640x480 or at most 800x600, while the screen is something like 1500 x goodness knows what.  It usually takes a good long while of fumbling around in the preferences to convince the projector to get up to 1024x768, and to make mirroring work in a usable way.

What happens more often is that when you plug in the projector, it hard freezes the whole laptop and you have to reboot.  

So I guess the moral of the story is, there are some options for laptop-initiated lecture fail in any OS.

---

### Post by skullmunky on 2008-09-16
Wait a sec, after looking at your xorg, something doesn't look quite right:
```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: 1280x800 +0+0; DFP: 800x600 +0+0; DFP: 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

You have twinview disabled in this one, right?

so you want something like
```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "MetaModes" "1280x800,1024x768"
    Option          "SecondMonitorHorizSync" "31-80"
    Option          "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "56-76"
    Option          "TwinViewOrientation" "RightOf"

    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

You could try it without the "SecondMonitorHorizSync" and "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" and see if it needs those or not.

The metamodes line also might be:

Option "MetaModes" "1280x800,1024x768; 1280x800"

or similar, if it's having trouble when the projector is NOT connected.

---

### Post by rbaesman on 2008-09-18
Ditto from me (same problems as the original poster).  I've got a ThinkPad T61 with an NVIDIA graphics card, and the current released driver and NVIDIA settings stuff, and the 640x480 problem with projectors is killing me.  The think works "ok" when I'm hooked up to my normal monitors and the driver recognizes the device as something on its list.  But hook it up to the VGA jack on a perfectly normal projector and there's no good way in the UI to force it to a resolution you know darn well that the projector is capable of.

So my plea too to the community to take this sort of issue more seriously.  It's killing the laptop use case.

---

### Post by fermin on 2008-09-19
My experience with Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron, a Toshiba laptop with intel graphics card is that it is not immediate for a projector to be recognized. I had to go to system --> preferences --> Screen resolution, and there check the "clone output" and "detect screens". That works for me.

---

### Post by amppat on 2008-09-19
I agree that dual monitor configuration is one of the biggest pains of using Ubuntu successfully in corporate use.
After lot of tweaking I was able to get this working somehow. Iam using T61 with Nvidia drivers. Key things for me:
1) Do login with projector cable attached and projector turned on. Otherwise projector won't be detected correctly and you are stuck with 640x480 resolution
2) Use Clone mode for displays. When using twin-view, Open office presentation is spread across laptop and projector, so only half is visible for audience
3) Set same resolution for laptop screen and projector. If you use higher resolution for laptop screen then part of the presentation will be cut off in the projector

Iam trying to promote Linux inside my company, but I always get friendly laughs when tweaking around in the middle of meeting to get presentation showing right :)

---

### Post by malte brussels on 2008-10-03
I am waiting for a solution too. There is an extension 
[http://extensions.services.openoffice.org/project/presenter-screen](http://extensions.services.openoffice.org/project/presenter-screen)
available for OpenOffice 3.0 ([http://download.openoffice.org/680/](http://download.openoffice.org/680/)), I would like to use on my EEE 900A ... But I did not manage to install it yet.

So far, Xandros just lets me clone the laptop screen. And as the presentation has a different format than the laptop screen it leaves big black spaces right and left of the presentation. Cloning this screen to an external one, which has exactly the format needed of the presentation, the black spaces are transferred as well and the original view is squeezed...

Grrr.

Malte

---

### Post by krackersk on 2009-08-04
Hi,

Totally agree, automatic dual monitors is really the only thing that is stopping me use at work.

if people stumble across this page looking for info on how to set up dual monitors, there is a command line tool really useful for this 'xrandr'. Check out these how tos:

[http://intellinuxgraphics.org/dualhead.html](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/dualhead.html)
[http://en.opensuse.org/Multiple_Displays_Using_XRandR](http://en.opensuse.org/Multiple_Displays_Using_XRandR)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config)
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=927&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=927&num=1)

---

