---
title: "10.10 64-bit  ATI CCC Linux Edition Malfunctioning"
date: 2011-03-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by carolinabranden on 2011-03-05
The OSs on my computer are Windows 7 Home Premium 64-bit (Primary OS &#8211; 400GB/4 Partitions) with Linux Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat  (Secondary OS &#8211; 100GB Partition). Ubuntu was installed via CD on boot-up. I'm not entirely new to Linux, but in many ways I still am. I installed a AMD Catalyst driver, but it is not working right. Whenever I open &#8220;ATI CCC&#8221; in &#8220;Preferences&#8221; I get an error message.

&#8220;Initialization error
There was a problem initializing Catalyst Control Center Linux edition. It could be caused by the following.

No ATI graphics driver is installed, or the ATI driver is not functioning properly.
Please install the ATI driver appropriate for your hardware, or configure using aticonfig.&#8221;

&#8220;ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver&#8221; under &#8220;Administration&#8221; -> &#8220;Additional Drivers&#8221; &#8220;This driver is activated and currently in use.&#8221; Not sure if that's it or not, but it is not working correctly.

Installed &#8220;AMD Catalyst&#8482; 11.2 Proprietary Linux x86 Display Driver&#8221;

I've tried to diagnose the issue myself without any luck. Re-installed it, nothing . I'm at a loss to what is causing this problem and would really like to fix the issue.

---

### Post by carolinabranden on 2011-03-05
[FONT=Times New Roman][SIZE=3]http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Maverick_Installation_Guide[/SIZE][/FONT]

```

sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xorg-video-radeon
```The last time I restarted my computer I had to fall back on the default driver. Discovered that helpful website. Ran the command above in Terminal then restarted. Tweaked my settings in CCC and everything is looking spiffy. :D

---

