---
title: "10.04 - Microphone Does NOT Work - Audigy SE ???"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by JeZ-l-Lee on 2010-05-03
Hi,

I can't seem to get my microphone to work on Ubuntu 10.04.

I have a Creative Sound Blaster Audigy SE PCI sound card.
[http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/SearchTools/item-details.asp?EdpNo=4459743&Sku=C44-3400](http://www.tigerdirect.com/applications/SearchTools/item-details.asp?EdpNo=4459743&Sku=C44-3400)

Sound card is recognized by System/Preferences/Sound/Hardware as:
------------------------------------
CA0106 Sound Blaster
1 Output / 1 Input
Analog Stereo Duplex
------------------------------------
And sound output works 100% perfectly.

I Google'd for hours and did not see anything to fix my microphone.
My computer has front headphone and microphone ports
and the front headphone port works fine but microphone does not.

Also I tried plugging microphone into all the ports on the back into sound card
but none worked.

Also, I ran alsamixer from terminal and maxed out all volume settings.

I wish to get the microphone working so I can play Counter Strike Source with Wine.

I am willing to buy another sound card if someone can point out a replacement.
(Obviously new sound card microphone MUST work.)

Thanks!

Jesse

---

### Post by pdoma on 2010-05-03
Welcome to the PulseAudio nightmare... I've been trying to get my microphone to work since 9.10 when Ubuntu team decided to switch from Alsa to PulseAudio. After days and days of googling for a solution and submitting a bug report I still can't use the microphone on my laptop.

---

### Post by elespejo on 2010-05-03
You say you have tried alsamixer - have you tried tinkering with pavucontrol? It worked for me.

---

### Post by chrispche on 2010-05-03
None of these suggestions have worked for me. Is there anyway to get ALSA back???

---

### Post by JeZ-l-Lee on 2010-05-03
> **elespejo said:**
> You say you have tried alsamixer - have you tried tinkering with pavucontrol? It worked for me.
Hi,

I installed pavcontrol using package manager, but it does not fix my microphone.
I ordered a new $15 PCI sound card from NewEgg with a really old chipset.
Will see if that works in a few days!

Jesse

---

### Post by chrispche on 2010-05-04
I'm using a laptop and don't have that option. This is really pissing me off. It worked in 9.10.

---

### Post by xaliqen on 2010-05-04
My Audigy microphone input doesn't work either.

After I played around with it for awhile, I just switched over to using sound from my mainboard when I use the microphone.  It's not a great solution, but those of you who have the option should consider it until a more permanent fix is created.

---

### Post by JeZ-l-Lee on 2010-05-05
Hi,

The microphone on my stereo headset was broken!
When I tried another stereo headset with a microphone it worked!

Sorry about that...

If you have a desktop and your current sound chip is not working well,
then _I recommend these two sound cards_ which work perfectly:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**Creative Sound Blaster Audigy SE 7.1 Channels 24-bit 96KHz PCI Sound Card**
[http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16829102003](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16829102003)
- 2 channel stereo output works on Ubuntu 10.04
NOTE: this card does not have microphone port,
but you probably could get microphone working from line-in port on card
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**StarTech PCISOUND5CH 5.1 Channels PCI Interface Sound Card**
[http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16829128003](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16829128003)
- 2 channel stereo output and microphone works on Ubuntu 10.04
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Jesse

---

### Post by 3L33T on 2010-05-11
> **JeZ-l-Lee said:**
> 
The microphone on my stereo headset was broken!
When I tried another stereo headset with a microphone it worked!


Well, I dont have a broken mic but I do have the CA0106 Soundblaster.  It is the Sound Blaster Audigy SE 24-bit 96khz/100db model SB0570L4 and the MIC DOES NOT WORK.

It shows up in Lucid Lynx 10.04 LTS Sound Preferences as:

```

CA0106 Soundlbaster
1 output/1 input
Digital Stereo (IEC958) Output + Analog Stereo Input

```

The mic does not work at all, but, IT USED TO until the latest patches to Lucid Lynx was applied to this machine the week of 05/06 - 05/11/2010.  I used the latest Skype 2.1.X but mic didnt work there either.  I downgraded to Skype 2.0.0.72 based on some google search but mic still does not work.  Output sound works but mic input does not work.  Is anyone else having this issue on Lucid Lynx 10.04 LTS with the Sound Blaster Audigy SE 24-bit 96khz/100db model SB0570L4 card???

In Skype 2.0.0.72 Options --> Sound Devices, I have the following settings:

```

Sound in   CA0106 (hw:CA0106,0)
Sound Out  CA0106 (hw:CA0106,0)
Ringing    CA0106 (hw:CA0106,0)

```

I have *alsamixer* settings turned up but still no mic sound.  Can someone shed light on this please?

---

### Post by 3L33T on 2010-05-13
Update:  I've tried every possible combination in the alsamixer and every possible Hardware Profile Setting in the Sound Preferences but I still can not get the MIC to work.  :confused:

---

### Post by daititt on 2010-05-21
I'm having exactly the same problems.  No mic and no Skype on a CA0106, but sound output OK.  I can hear my mic directly in the speakers, so I know the mic itself is OK.

Someone suggested using the mic input on the motherboard.  Can someone tell me how to do that?  Lucid seems unable to find my motherboard audio system -- though the input jacks are there waiting. Motherboard audio card doesn't show up in arecord, in lshw, in alsamixer or in kmix, all of which only see the CA0106 card.  pavucontrol reports "no connection" and closes. I have tried physically pulling the Audigy card out of its slot, but then NO audio card shows up.  I can find no relevant jumpers on the motherboard.

If anyone finds a solution, please let me know.

---

### Post by daititt on 2010-05-23
I've solved some of my own problem:

> **daititt said:**
> 

Someone suggested using the mic input on the motherboard.  Can someone tell me how to do that?  Lucid seems unable to find my motherboard audio system -- though the input jacks are there waiting. Motherboard audio card doesn't show up in arecord, in lshw, in alsamixer or in kmix, all of which only see the CA0106 card.  pavucontrol reports "no connection" and closes. I have tried physically pulling the Audigy card out of its slot, but then NO audio card shows up.  I can find no relevant jumpers on the motherboard.


My motherboard sound system was disabled in BIOS.  Unfortunately, BIOS didn't say the on-board system (Realtex) was disabled.  Instead, under onboard utilities, it said AZALIA was disabled.  It took me hours to find out that AZALIA is the system that operates the Realtek on board device.  Once I enabled it, alsamixer, etc., were all able to find the device.

The bad news is Audigy, Skype, etc. can't hear the on-board microphone any better than the CA0106 mike.  So the original problem remains unsolved.  Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-23
For skype: Use a terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
Enter these commands, one line at a time:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install linux-alsa-driver-modules-$(uname -r)
```
Reboot.

---

### Post by daititt on 2010-05-23
> **lidex said:**
> For skype: Use a terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
Enter these commands, one line at a time:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install linux-alsa-driver-modules-$(uname -r)
```Reboot.

Thanks for responding, Lidex.  I did as you suggested, but with little success. When I set Skype mic to Ca0106 hw:0,1 or 0,2 -- or to CA0106 Center speaker, and shout, I can hear my voice returned from Skype at very low volume, very distorted (specifically, slowed down and deep). On hw:0,0  hw 0,3 or any of the other speaker settings, I hear nothing.  Nor can I get Audacity to find any mike input.

I appreciate your help.  Any further ideas?

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-23
I'd be a little more helpful if I actually used skype myself, but here's shakin' the tree.

[http://blogs.skype.com/linux/2009/09/some_explanations.html]("http://blogs.skype.com/linux/2009/09/some_explanations.html")
[http://www.blog.arun-prabha.com/2008/05/23/skype-microphone-problem-and-complete-pulse-audio-setup-in-ubuntu/]("http://www.blog.arun-prabha.com/2008/05/23/skype-microphone-problem-and-complete-pulse-audio-setup-in-ubuntu/")

---

### Post by kursk63 on 2010-05-24
have a look on how I managed to make my mic work.

ubuntu uses Pulse Audio, many do say this is a bullshit but it works perfectly with my bluetooth headphones and all I need is just to touch a button on it to make the whole system work. so it's ok.

first of all you need to install Pulse Audio Volume Control. Go to System->Ubuntu software Center and install it.

After it's installed open it.Pulse Audio Volume control appears in Sound&Video section of the menu.

Go to Input Devises. You see you mic? good if so, if not I can't help you here.

There are two lines there for the Front Right and for the Front Left channal, right? Make it o% (switch it off) for the left line and apprx 50% for the right one. try the mic.

I can say that with the same adjustments it worked absolutely perfectly with Ubuntu 9.10, it was crisp and clear. with 10.04 it works fine, with a little nose though.

Ask me if you can't get anything, I'll show a picture.

And yes, I've got Acer AOD 250

And!! :) sorry, you need to uncheck it in skype where it's usually checked "allow Skype to adjust levels.. bla bla", it's in the sound option section. Do it before trying the mic, otherwise go to Pulse Audio Volume Control again.

---

### Post by condeGil on 2011-10-06
maybe is to late, but in my audigy 2 to start microphone record i open alsamixer, then i pressed f4 to open capture section and set to max the mic and the analog mix

---

