---
title: "9.10 flash issue"
date: 2010-02-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by &quot;Username&quot; on 2010-02-08
i recently downloaded ubuntu 9.10, i love it, however there is one issue i am getting with flash, i have downloaded flash and installed it. So i can now watch youtube play flash games Ect. but i can't click on them eg. to pause youtube.
any ideas.

---

### Post by crucialhoax on 2010-02-08
Go to this site:

[http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10_64bit.html](http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10_64bit.html)

scroll down to the bottom, download the tar.gz file. Right click it and extract it. The only contents will be libflashplayer.so

Put that file into this directory ~/.mozilla/plugins

*note if that directory is not present, make it. but the ~/.mozilla folder will be made as long as firefox has been ran before. 

To get to that folder open your HOME folder and hit the Control key + H

---

### Post by &quot;Username&quot; on 2010-02-08
i go into home folder press ctrl+h then it goes to another location called my name, i tried inputting it into that folder then i double clicked it and it says there is no application installed to run shared library files.

---

### Post by crucialhoax on 2010-02-08
it just needs to go into that directory, it doesn't need to be ran

---

### Post by foresthill on 2010-02-08
When you unzip the file, it's just a huge text document full of code that sits in a folder. 

I had to create a folder named "plugins" and drop it in there. It could hardly be simpler. 

It works great on my system, unlike the other command line "solution" I tried which basically wiped out Firefox and much of my system.

---

### Post by clicker4721 on 2010-02-11
> **crucialhoax said:**
> Go to this site:

[http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10_64bit.html](http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10_64bit.html)

scroll down to the bottom, download the tar.gz file. Right click it and extract it. The only contents will be libflashplayer.so

Put that file into this directory ~/.mozilla/plugins

*note if that directory is not present, make it. but the ~/.mozilla folder will be made as long as firefox has been ran before. 

To get to that folder open your HOME folder and hit the Control key + H
If you read the site, it says you should uninstall the old version bwefore you install the new player. How does one go about doing so?

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2010-02-11
> **clicker4721 said:**
> If you read the site, it says you should uninstall the old version bwefore you install the new player. How does one go about doing so?

How did you install the old one?

---

### Post by clicker4721 on 2010-02-12
> **HappyFeet said:**
> How did you install the old one?
From the site...the install site. That you get linked to for "install plugin."

---

