---
title: "Nvidia 9600gt 720p Issues"
date: 2008-10-20
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by bobthedisease on 2008-10-20
Hi 
I upgraded my Nvidia 7300 -> 9600gt and unfortunately i seem to be having issues with High-Def Video. :( 
The driver installation went smoothly and Compiz, Eve Online etc work great however when I try to play 720p video the picture freezes, but the sound keeps playing. A second or two later the picture will catch up. I have removed the restricted drivers, going back to the “nv” drivers and the video plays great.  

I have added the 
*[I]option “RenderAccel” “True”*[/I] 
line into my xorg.conf just in case but don’t seem to be having much luck.
Could this be an issue with compatibility between Hardy and the latest Nvidia drivers, or something obvious that I’ve missed? 

Thanks in advance
Rich

---

### Post by cor2y on 2008-10-20
Unfortunately unlike in windows, Nvidia is not at present actively developing drivers that take use of the ability of their latest video cards to take the burden of hidef playback off the cpu.
Only AMD/ATI is at this time actively pursuing this with their latest drivers both open and close source binary but i must warn you they (AMD and the opensource devs) haven't completely gotten it to work yet.
If you want smooth hidef playback and you have either an ATI or Nvidia card make sure you system is mid range/high end aka 2.8ghz dual core or greater cpu and 2gb or ram for smooth hidef playback.

---

### Post by bobthedisease on 2008-10-20
Sorry i should have mentioned my system is an AMD6000+ with 2gb of DDR3. The video was very smooth with the Nvidia7300, and the new card is ok so long as i don't use the restricted drivers, which i find very strange.
Regards
Rich

---

### Post by cor2y on 2008-10-20
Since its a 3ghz cpu with enough ram then there should be no problem but obviously there is.
What are you using for media playback (is it custom compiled or from the repos), your nvidia driver version and your version of ubuntu?

---

### Post by bobthedisease on 2008-10-20
It's VLC from the Repos + Medibuntu. I have tried reinstalling again, in case there are additional dependencies required by new nvidia drivers, but no luck. I have tried Mplayer and Totem too, both have issues but manifest in different ways. Mplayer speeds up and slows down in during playback, and totem skips frames.  I starting to wonder if it could be an issue with the 3d accelerator, but the fact that it all works fine with the &#8220;nv&#8221; drivers makes me think it is probably not a hardware fault. I think maybe a full reinstall in case things have got screwed up. :( But i will probably wait for 8.10 for that...

Driver version is the latest 177.80 from Nvidia
Ubuntu 8.04.1
Cheers

---

### Post by cor2y on 2008-10-20
Seems like the 9600gt is not listed at the [hardware wiki](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupportComponentsVideoCardsNvidia) so it is very likely a driver problem with 9600gt card although the 9800gx2 is listed as working correctly with the closed drivers but its not listed as how well it is working .

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-10-20
either wait for 8.10, download 8.10 beta (and upgrade to final in 11 days), try getting the latest nvidia drivers with the help of the envy script or try your hand at installing them yourself. i have an older nvidia card (7800GT), and lower hardware specs, and 720p runs fine so its deffinatley an nvidia driver issue. does mplayer or whatever show any errors when you launch it from the commandline with a 720p movie?

---

### Post by bobthedisease on 2008-10-20
Thanks for the suggestion i never thought to check running it from cli :oops:

One quick test later....
I have run vlc from cli, no error messages about skipped frames, or anything for that matter, oh well. 

I have ruled out hardware fault as games etc work. 
I downloaded the beta version (8.10) and attempted to do the driver update from the repos while still running off the live CD. Everything looks ready to support the card, but there seem to be missing packages so i think i will wait until the final release in a few days.
Thanks for your help, i'll let you know how it turns out
Cheers
Rich

---

### Post by cookieforyou on 2008-10-28
I too have a 9600GT and I am also having driver problems.  Does anyone know whether this card will be supported in 8.10, or do I need to get my 8600GT out of storage ;)

---

### Post by dabl on 2008-10-28
My EVGA 9600GT works fine, 8.10 Kubuntu.

I use envyng to install the 177.80 driver.

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Wed Oct  1 15:12:53 PDT 2008
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Fri Sep 26 11:06:49 PDT 2008

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
	HorizSync       30.0 - 130.0
	VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
	Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	Option 	   "PixmapCacheSize" "5000000"
	Option 	   "AllowSHMPixmaps" "0"
	Option         "metamodes" "1600x1200 +0+0"
	Option         "Coolbits" "1"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load           "dbe"
	Load           "extmod"
	Load           "type1"
	Load           "freetype"
	Load	         "glx"
	Disable	"dri2"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Mouse0"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "Protocol" "auto"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Keyboard0"
	Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Device0"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	BoardName      "GeForce 9600 GT"
	Driver	"nvidia"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection
```

You might want to try some of the options in the "screen" section.  Try them one at a time, so you know which one makes a difference (if any).   :)

---

### Post by cookieforyou on 2008-10-28
This is how far my 9600GT gets and just freezes at this point (excuse the picture...it was taken with my cellphone :)).  Currently using the non-proprietary driver which is ok.  Will wait for 8.10 and see what happens.  If that fails too, then I'll try 'envy'.
Regards

---

### Post by dabl on 2008-10-28
> **cookieforyou said:**
> 

  Will wait for 8.10 and see what happens. 



8.10 is done, except for the release announcement.  Whatever is hanging up in your system isn't going to change in the next 2 days.

With three different Nvidia cards running Kubuntu and some other distros, I've never personally observed the driver loading all the way to the Nvidia splash, and then freezing -- that's kinda weird.  I'd say reinstall it, by whatever means you prefer.  :)

---

### Post by bobthedisease on 2008-10-30
Just a quick update about the 720p freezing issue.  I have finally figured what it was. After lots of messing around and waiting for 8.10, i installed it this afternoon, expecting it to fix my issue. However i still had the problem, so i ran Hardinfo.
This reported that my CPU's were running at 1GHz not 3 as they should be. after a bit of detective work, it seems CPU scaling was causing the issue as powernowd doesn't ramp the CPU usage up when playing videos.
why this didn't have an effect with my old card is beyond me, i can only guess that i must have enabled quick and quiet by mistake when i reset the BIOS

---

