---
title: "5.1 Speakers have faint &quot;buzzing&quot; sound with 10.04"
date: 2010-05-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by hotrod6657 on 2010-05-23
Hey all.  I just installed 10.04 after about a year away from Ubuntu due to some windows specific software I needed to run while at school.  Now that I'm back I'm having some trouble with poor sound quality with my Logitech 5.1 surround system.

I installed pulseaudio manager and was able to select the 5.1 system and I get sound out of each speaker, however even at relitavely low volume there is a ringing or buzzing sound on top of the music or video I play.  It's almost like feedback, but I don't have any input devices.  

I'm open for suggestions or ways to investegate this further.  It isn't terrible, but it makes the audio sound really poor.  Almost like I have a very poor quality file, which is not the case.  I haven't had anything like this happen to the speakers in Windows 7 so I know it's probably not their fault.

I'm running the "Realtek ALC888" codec.  

That was the return from:  "head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#*" 

Thanks in advance for any help you can offer.

hotrod

---

### Post by madverb on 2010-05-23
Yeah, this is a known bug with PulseAudio. It happens to me too.
Go into the PulseAudio volume control and move all channels to 100%. You can test this. Move any of them off of 100% and you will get the ringing.

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2010-05-25
I have the same issue, and cannot solve it..

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2010-06-01
This can't be happening..all the problems I had with gutsy are popping up again..

---

### Post by riger99 on 2010-11-23
> **alejandro.mc said:**
> This can't be happening..all the problems I had with gutsy are popping up again..

Same issue here. I had surround working, but in Lucid it's broken! Large chunks of the config GUIs are missing too.

I was even able to duplicate front speakers to the rear speakers, but no more! ] (*,) :-(

---

