---
title: "5.1 sound on stereo speakers"
date: 2010-10-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by tisse on 2010-10-25
When I use my ubuntu computer to watch some movies that are encoded into 5.1 sound I can't hear the voices of the people in the movie. I guess that is because the voices are put on the front speaker and I have connected the computer to an stereo-amplifier.

I mainly use XBMC and have noticed the problem there but I have also tried VLC and noticed the same problem there. In xbmc I checked the box "Downmix multichannel audio to stereo" but it doesn't work. 

I use a standard ubuntu 10.04 64-bit install that was upgraded from a 9.10 install.

---

### Post by UncleClover on 2010-12-23
> **tisse said:**
> When I use my ubuntu computer to watch some movies that are encoded into 5.1 sound I can't hear the voices of the people in the movie. I guess that is because the voices are put on the front speaker and I have connected the computer to an stereo-amplifier.

I mainly use XBMC and have noticed the problem there but I have also tried VLC and noticed the same problem there. In xbmc I checked the box "Downmix multichannel audio to stereo" but it doesn't work. 

I use a standard ubuntu 10.04 64-bit install that was upgraded from a 9.10 install.

I'm having a similar problem. A makeshift solution while I'm trying to find an answer is to turn the volume of either the left or the right channel all the way off - then you can hear the voices and sound and stuff, it just won't be in stereo. I'm still looking for the method to downmix on my particular system configuration, will add it to this if I find one. But the above may be at least a little useful for you for the time being. :-)

---

### Post by tisse on 2010-12-23
My problems was fixed when I updated to the new XBMC. So try the new XBMC.

---

