---
title: "9.10 SPDIF digital Out - Help please!"
date: 2009-11-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by tvcasualty on 2009-11-30
I want to send an un-decoded signal out to my surround receiver from my home entertainment ubuntu 9.10 box.  I can get decoded stereo out just fine over the optical cable, but it refuses to send out 5.1 when running totem and playing a media source with AC3 / 5.1 sound out.  I believe pulse wants to decode the signal, and then sends the 2 channel signal out to my stereo.

Can anyone walk or point me to a solution?

Thanks!

---

### Post by myth88 on 2009-12-03
Well, look under audio settings! I'm an work right now, so I can't check it, but when I come back home, i'll give it a look!

---

### Post by mercury80 on 2009-12-05
I got the same problem! I got a free copy of Win7 from school so i gave it a go, and it works perfectly. In windows it sends dolby digital and dts straight trough for my amplifier to decode. I don't want to boot windows everytime i want to watch a movie... any ideas?

I hav a asus p5q delux mobo with a 8-channel HD audio via Analog Devices AD2000B codec (i think it's pretty much the same as the older AD1988B chip)
Ubuntu Karmic 2.6.31-16 with everything up to date...

---

### Post by hansheijmans on 2009-12-15
Hi all,
 
I was able to send DTS and DD5.1 through S/PDIF, situated on the docking station of my laptop, to my surround receiver in 9.04 using a variety of media players and it played well! 
 
Ever since I upgraded (or actually did a fresh install) to 9.10 Karmic Koala all I get from my laptop is stereo. Which is quite frustrating because I just found out how to use the Svideo connection.
 
Hope someone has the answer!

---

