---
title: "14.04, clean install, need to reconfigure video manually"
date: 2014-06-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by matt42 on 2014-06-29
Hi All,

I have a Lenovo X200s laptop, which I just installed Xubuntu on.  When booting, I initially see the Xubuntu boot screen, but as it tries to load xorg, video crashes, and I just get a blank screen.

I have successfully switched to text mode, and logged in, used a shell, etc.  But I don't know how to reconfigure the video through the terminal/shell.

The specifications for my video chip are the following: Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 4500MHD (GMA 4500MHD), in GS45.

I should note that I previously was running 12.10 on an older Thinkpad X40, and when I installed that Flash Card in this newer thinkpad, it booted and worked properly.  That laptop had "Intel Extreme Graphics 2" video.

Can anyone guide me to a step by step howto?  I can do this myself, but i need step by step instructions.  I've tried web searches, but I've had difficulty locating the correct information.

Thank you!

Matt

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-06-29
*Thread moved to **Multimedia & Video***.

Welcome. Can't help with your issue, but you're better off here. Good luck.

---

### Post by matt42 on 2014-06-29
Update:

Found command for identifying video controller type in terminal:

Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller
Bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
Version: 07
Width: 64 bits
Clock: 33MHz
Capabilities: msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list_rom
Configuration: driver-i915 latency=0

Hope this helps someone to guide me to solution

---

### Post by matt42 on 2014-06-29
Reinstall from the live try xubuntu mode seemed to do the trick....now off to tackle other issues...

---

