---
title: "5.1 channel sound"
date: 2010-12-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by cylo on 2010-12-29
I have Ubuntu 10.04 LTS - the Lucid Lynx.  On a ThinkPad T61P laptop dual booting with Windows 7 on the other side.  On the Windows side my 5.1 sound works perfectly through S/PDIF.  

On the Ubuntu side, only stereo.  I've read several of the threads here, looked at alsa.org, created a asoundrc file with suggested edits, confirmed no muted speakers, tried sound checks, and checked alsamixer.  A common theme is that none of my Preferences>Sound settings shows anything like a multichannel setting.  I'm trying to use the S/PDIF out, but all I see is digital stereo options.  

And I've never recompiled kernels or anything remotely that technical, but can follow directions.  Any place with directions on how to activate the other channels on the ubuntu side?    If this is already covered in a thread I didn't yet discover, please direct me, I appreciate it.

Thanks.

---

### Post by cylo on 2010-12-30
Dan,
Do you have 5.1 sound working on Ubuntu?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-12-30
Have 5.1 digital working here (coax), though have never tried in lucid. (using natty and maverick.

Also using a desktop with different hardware than you've got. Mentioning because when mucking around with such it can be a pita to revert if things don'r work out.

Anyway the basic method is shown here, though if inclined to try then read comments i've added in post 18.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1608804](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1608804)

Referenced here so it would seem should be good for lucid
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/348353](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/348353)

---

### Post by cylo on 2010-12-30
Well, I tried the stuff in your first thread, and didn't get any errors.  Got through all the installs, the configures, the make, etc.  Reloaded alsa and killall pulseaudio.  No errors in the whole sequence.  Even opened up Sound Preferences, and saw a 5.1 digital option under the Hardware tab, for the first time ever.  Great!

Selected 5.1 audio, didn't hear anything with the sound tests, though my receiver confirmed that it was now receiving a dolby digital signal from the pc, it's showing it even now.   I tried swapping the "card 0" for "card $CASH", still no go.  And I've only seen the 5.1 option one time, now when I go into Sound preferences, there's not a thing showing on the Hardware tab, not even my old previous selections.  As suggested, if I remove my asound.conf file, my original hardware tab options show, and I'm back to square one.  

I guess if I go through the entire reinstall of the libasound modules, etc, then I could get back my 5.1 option, but it never produced any sound.

It seems so close, any ideas or suggestions on something I've missed or not tried?  Thanks.

---

### Post by cylo on 2010-12-30
Another thing to add, I have never seen in alsamixer any reference to anything 5.1 channel related, even when I momentarily saw the 5.1 digital option available on the Hardware tab in Sound preferences.

---

### Post by cylo on 2010-12-30
Even if I go through all the steps again, I can no longer get to the point of having a 5.1 digital option.  Whatever happened the first time isn't being repeated, I'm stuck with nothing showing under hardware on the sound prefs, unless I remove the asound.conf file.

---

### Post by cylo on 2010-12-31
After playing a bunch with asound.conf, disabling pulseaudio autospawn  (whatever that is), and running it manually, I managed to get the 5.1  sound playing on some movies via VLC.  Even the THX sample from the  movie THX-1138.  But even though it's playing right now, the pulseaudio  is showing a bunch of errors.  I can't even look at my sound prefs, it  may stop the playback.  Wish I know what I did to make it work!

---

### Post by brunowarne on 2010-12-31
5.1 channels is very good for create music in laptop.

---

### Post by cylo on 2010-12-31
I think my biggest issue was with the pulseaudio.  In case it helps anyone else, below is my asound.conf, though I think it would work just as well with "card $CARD" instead of "card 0":

pcm.a52 {
  @args [CARD]
  @args.CARD {
    type string
  }
  type rate
  slave {
    pcm {
      type a52
      bitrate 448
      channels 6
      card 0
    }
  rate 48000 
  }
}


Below is the error stream my manual invocation of pulseaudio generated, I did go into the pulse conf and disable autospawning.  This error is currently showing in a terminal window which I'm afraid to close since it may disable whatever made my 5.1 start working.  I've left this terminal window running and minimized.  Since it didn't return a prompt I'm assuming pulseaudio is still running:

ibook@ibook-laptop:~$ pulseaudio
E: module-alsa-card.c: Failed to find a working profile.
E: module.c: Failed to load  module "module-alsa-card" (argument: "device_id="29" name="platform-thinkpad_acpi" card_name="alsa_card.platform-thinkpad_acpi" tsched=yes ignore_dB=no card_properties="module-udev-detect.discovered=1""): initialization failed.
E: alsa-sink.c: snd_pcm_rewind() failed: Unknown error 4226
E: alsa-sink.c: process_rewind: Unknown error 4226


Even though I have 5.1 sound playing right now, my alsamixer still does not show any indication of anything 5.1 related, no reference to any extra channels.  The S/PDIF is there, but only to switch between PCM and ADC.  Don't know how to insert a screen print of it here.

If anyone has any tips or suggestions on the alsamixer issue or my pulseaudio errors, I'd appreciate it.  Thanks to MC4MAN for the links which helped me get to this point, at least my 5.1 audio is playing.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-12-31
I'm glad you got it going (maybe? ). There should be no reason the keep pulse from autospawning, nor use alsamixer.
(the point here was to enable 5.1 digital in pulse vs. using alsa which is another option.

Sorta figured it may not be as straightforward on your laptop as was here on a desktop. (more often than not it's all about the hardware in linux.

Works quite fine here - settled on having 5.1 digital for pulse/pulse apps and then setting a couple of apps to use alsa/spdif instead where it was easy to do so
(mplayer cli, gecko-mediaplayer, smplayer, audacious.

That allows a choice of having stereo output as Coax/stereo for music files if desired and in the case of mplayer also gives 5.1 Digital on ac3 and dts as configured.

Tested on all sorts from dvd's, regular audio, ac3 and dts audio files, 5.1 flac and 5.1 wma (the 5.1 flac and wma I send thru pulse thru pulse

---

### Post by cylo on 2010-12-31
Funny thing, now none of my regular MP3 files will play with Rhythmbox.  Still have 5.1 sound, but no regular sound.  Even using VLC, which plays the 5.1 movie vob files, will not play the mp3s.  And I can't seem to figure out what to back out to make it play them.  So, still close but no complete cigar as yet.....

---

