---
title: "8.04.3 LTS - stuck with 640x480 display on Nvidia hardware"
date: 2010-01-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Objekt on 2010-01-07
I built a new machine which uses the ASUS M2N68-AM PLUS motherboard.  This motherboard has a built-in NVIDIA GeForce 7025 video chipset, but I can't get it working properly.  I  hope someone can help, because for now it's stuck at 640x480 with a 50 Hz refresh rate.  This looks terrible on my 21" monitor and makes it impossible to do almost anything.  Trying to edit settings etc. is like reading a book through a soda straw.

After installing Ubuntu 8.04.3 LTS, I installed the proprietary Nvidia drivers when prompted by the "Hardware Drivers" icon.  I rebooted as required, but there are at least 3 weird things happening:

1) Even after a restart, the nvidia-settings app was nowhere to be found.  I had to manually install it, using apt-get at the command line.

2) The nvidia-settings app won't do anything useful.  It only gives me the option of either 640x480 or 320x200 resolutions, no option on refresh rate.  The app is nearly impossible to use, because the window is much larger than the desktop.

3) I tried to manually edit etc/X11/xorg.conf, but there is apparently nothing there specifying the desktop resolution.  All the fields say something like "default" except the bit depth, which is set at 24.  I can post the contents of the xorg.conf file later, if it will help.  If I could manually edit a config file to use a higher resolution display, maybe that would get me started setting things up properly, but I can't see how.

Possibly useful details: I have the machine plugged into a KVM switch, which then goes into an NEC AccuSync 120 CRT monitor.  This monitor is a 21" beast from the past, well capable of at least 1600x1200 resolution, so I'm not sure why the Nvidia app only wants to run at 640x480.

---

### Post by del_diablo on 2010-01-07
Nvidea does not support xrandr(what X uses to specify monitor and resolution and all that), which means you need the help of a real pro to get anything done.......... With bruteforce commandline...........

---

### Post by Objekt on 2010-01-07
Well that's weird, because I have had absolutely no problems using the Nvidia proprietary driver on my other Ubuntu desktop.  It has a GeForce 9800 GTX+ card, and the Nvidia control panel under Ubuntu 9.10 64-bit detects the monitor correctly.  I use it with a 1600x1200 @ 75 Hz setting without issue.

update:

OK, I figured out what was going on.

The Nvidia-settings app appears to autodetect the monitor, so it only offers display modes it thinks the monitor can support.  Having it plugged into the KVM switch the first time I started the settings app appears to have messed up the monitor detection.  When I plugged the new machine directly into my monitor, then started up, nvidia-settings automagically chose an appropriately high resolution.  The monitor was detected properly and I had all the display modes it can use to choose from.

This is a case of some software - not sure whether it's the nvidia drivers or Xserver itself - being a little too clever for its own good.  I infer that the KVM switch somehow interfered with monitor detection.  Possibly the software was unable to detect any display at all, so it defaulted to the usually safe 640x480 mode.

---

