---
title: "12.04 NO SOUND  in my regular user session but it's ok in guest user gnome sesion."
date: 2012-04-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by appleater on 2012-04-29
I'm new to Ubuntu, forgive me not to read completely and practice the Sound Troubleshooting thread on the top, since it doesn't suggest compatible with 12.04:wink:

After install this latest LTS and follow the post installation guide from [http://www.my-guides.net/en/guides/linux/330-ubuntu-1204-precise-pangolin-post-installation-guide](http://www.my-guides.net/en/guides/linux/330-ubuntu-1204-precise-pangolin-post-installation-guide)

Seems that everything is fine, except for no sound (of music/movie player or system alert). Well, I found that if I switch to a guest user with standard Gnome session. The sound is OK.

The Sound Settings GUI is a little different and the output device is different, my regular user session w/o sound says on Output tab is "Play sound through - Digital Output(S/PDIF)"
while the guest user gnome session w/ sound says on the same tab is "Choose a device for sound output  - Build-in Audio Analog Stereo". Apparently, the former one is not normal, and it seems that in this session no audio device is found.

I uploaded the 2 screenshots. 

Can anybody give me some hints? Thanks in advance!


p.s.
In case of any mis-configuration (I don't think so), I reinstall 12.04, and still the same.

Here is my audio information, if somebody may tell me some possible reasons from it.
[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=234b099ffe18aba5c14fddb9db8d0f516490f283](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=234b099ffe18aba5c14fddb9db8d0f516490f283)

I read it through, but got no reasonable doubt..
my audio device is not supported by alsa? 82801H (ICH8 Family)

well, btw, during investigation on my ubuntu, I noticed that  under
/proc/asound/card0/pcm0c/sub0,
all hw_param or info or status files show "closed" status. is this why no sound hardware tab in the Sound Settings GUI and no "Analog Stereo" in output tab? If so, how can I open it?

Still, thanks in advance.

---

### Post by krunalpatel on 2012-04-29
I'm getting the same.  My first install, audio was working. My 2nd install - no audio.

---

### Post by philosomoyka on 2012-04-29
I'm having the same issue, sound works fine in GNOME guest session, but not anywhere else.  I also discovered that audio does work through the headphones, although I have to open the sound settings and manually select the headphone output.

---

### Post by appleater on 2012-04-30
I update audio information on my main post. thanks.

---

### Post by appleater on 2012-04-30
With the help of **wjchen** from [http://forum.ubuntu.org.cn/viewtopic.php?f=42&t=372678](http://forum.ubuntu.org.cn/viewtopic.php?f=42&t=372678),

and several try model options for my Realtek ALC262 device in corresponding section of [http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sound/alsa/HD-Audio-Models.txt](http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sound/alsa/HD-Audio-Models.txt)

Finally, "fujitsu" works, although my laptop is Lenovo.

sudo vim /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
add one line at the last
```
options snd-hda-intel model=fujitsu
```

then the speakers of my laptop have sound when choose Analog Output in the Sound Settings.

BTW, if I plug in 3.5mm socket with headphone, the Headphone will show in the Sound Settings, and it will sound when I choose it even if no change of alsa-base.conf.  I didn't use my 3.5mm of my laptop before because this socket has some issues, only left channel sounds, so I usually use a external usb sound card MUSILAND US03 + Dual-RCA wire with my external HiVi speaker to listen in Windows. But unfortunately, alsa doesn't support MUSILAND card. so I can only depend on the speakers of the laptop itself:)

---

### Post by jcoles on 2012-04-30
Really. This is ridiculous. The setup program is supposed to take care of these details. 

hwinfo says my audio is "Intel 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) High Definition Audio Controller" That's not even listed in that text file. So, what do I do?

In all previous releases, the sound simply worked. Users shouldn't have to hack their system to get basic functions. 

I did a clean install because upgrade wouldn't work. 

Upgrade postponed. No way is 12.04 ready for release!

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-04-30
Try installing/running pavucontrol & see if your audio can be coaxed into life..

There are complaints that the 12.04 sound control has been dumbed down to useless..

---

### Post by jcoles on 2012-04-30
pavucontrol shows general configurations Analog Stereo Output, Analog Stereo Duplex, Digital IEC958 (never seen that before), for outputs the Headphone and Speaker devices, Mic and Line as inputs. No combo of settings produces sound. A video with sound is playing.

---

### Post by rookcifer on 2012-05-01
Let's face it, after all these years of Pulseaudio development it still sucks.  I am having the same intermittent sound issues.  Sometimes my music will just stop playing.  I will check syslog and see a bunch of PA tracebacks.  I did not have this issue in 11.10 and I was thinking that all the bad PA problems from my past were over.  Now with a fresh install of 12.04 they are back.

I would just compile OSSv4 like I have done in the past, but I am afraid I will break something since Ubuntu has so many packages dependent on others.

Does anyone know how I can easily provide the tracebacks in a readable form to the devs?

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-05-01
You can still just use alsa to directly access the audio h/w.
Just ignore pulse.
Hasn't caused me any trouble from 8.04 with S/PDIF PCM pass-thru',alsa encoder or alsa up-sampler..
There is a pulse plug device for alsa..

The pulse audio project must have a mailing list & bug tracking system..

@jcoles
find the alsa info script mentioned in post #1 etc..& post a link to your info script output..

Are you sure your user is a member of audio group & possibly pulse-access.

What media app are you using?
What audio output method do you require, analogue, S/PDIF HDMI etc..?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-05-01
if it works on guest
```
rm -rf ~/.pulse
```
logout and back in

---

### Post by appleater on 2012-05-01
> **jcoles said:**
> Really. This is ridiculous. The setup program is supposed to take care of these details. 

hwinfo says my audio is "Intel 82801FB/FBM/FR/FW/FRW (ICH6 Family) High Definition Audio Controller" That's not even listed in that text file. So, what do I do?

In all previous releases, the sound simply worked. Users shouldn't have to hack their system to get basic functions. 

I did a clean install because upgrade wouldn't work. 

Upgrade postponed. No way is 12.04 ready for release!

Well, I really didn't expect we need to handle so much audio stack details to fix our sound and I'm totally layman. Well from what I learned and practiced, I think if in the similar situation of mine, we just need to find a matched vendor model option for our audio codec chip.

You can get your ACC type from
 ```
aplay -l
```

and go to the corresponding section of 
[http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sound/alsa/HD-Audio-Models.txt](http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sound/alsa/HD-Audio-Models.txt)

and try each model option and restart. Hope you have that luck.

Just FYR
[I]
"[/I]*What `model` option values are available depends on the codec chip. Check your codec chip from the codec proc file (see "Codec Proc-File" section below).  It will show the vendor/product name of your codec chip.  Then, see Documentation/sound/alsa/HD-Audio-Models.txt file, the section of HD-audio driver.  You can find a list of codecs and `model` options belonging to each codec.  For example, for Realtek ALC262 codec chip, pass `model=ultra` for devices that are compatible with Samsung Q1 Ultra.  Thus, the first thing you can do for any brand-new, unsupported and non-working HD-audio hardware is to check HD-audio codec and several different `model` option values.  If you have any luck, some of them might suit with your device well.*"from [http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sound/alsa/HD-Audio.txt](http://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/sound/alsa/HD-Audio.txt)

---

### Post by mstrelan on 2012-05-02
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> if it works on guest
```
rm -rf ~/.pulse
```
logout and back in

Thanks! This fixed it for me. Problem occurred after I installed and played around with gnome-shell, gnome-panel, xubuntu-desktop and xfce4, and then uninstalled them all after deciding Unity suited me best.

---

### Post by sorooshubu on 2013-02-07
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> if it works on guest
```
rm -rf ~/.pulse
```logout and back in

Thank you, it worked for me too.

---

### Post by birddogalex on 2013-02-07
Sweet! I've just received my free Riot Points!

>> FreeRiotPoints.me <<

---

