---
title: "12.04 - poor sound quality"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Alan.Brown on 2012-04-28
I have been using Ubuntu for some years now and have had very little trouble.   Yesterday I upgraded to 12.04 without any problems.

Now the sound output is poor - the volume seems to be louder than before but the quality is poor.   Music sounds distorted and scratchy.  This happens with VLC, Gnome Media Player and with streamed music through Firefox.I get the same problem when using both the speakers and headphone outputs.

  This also happens another computer - also upgraded yesterday.     It also happens with both Xubuntu and Ubuntu.

Before upgrading I was getting very good quality music.

Any suggestions??

TIA

Alan

---

### Post by coldjeanz on 2012-04-28
I'm getting crappy quality out of RhythmBox but that's because the Equalizer plugin I had installed in 11.10 no longer works on 12.04 so now I need to find a new player since music ain't worth listening to like this.

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2012-04-28
I would first test audio from a LiveCD/USB of 12.04 if you're able to. (You can also boot directly from the ISO file with grub2. I can post a link if you are comfortable editing config files.) That way we know if it's an issue with 12.04, or maybe something is left over from before the upgrade that isn't normal on a fresh install.

Past that, or to start if not doing that... **Just typed two paragraphs and remembered this:**

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSoundProblems](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingSoundProblems)

There was a lot of updates especially in the kernel for 12.04 to enable features on a lot of Intel HDA spec based sound cards (My realtek card in my laptop, now lets me adjust the subwoofer without hacks for example) and it's quite possible some quirks need to be worked out. If you do everything on that page, and wind up having to file a bug report, the sound guys especially Dave Hessington (sp) is really on top of things. Just follow up on the bug in case he asks for more info like an alsainfo report or anything.

---

### Post by Alan.Brown on 2012-04-28
Having another look at the problem.   I put pen to paper too quickly!!!

It seems to be **only** VLC that is giving trouble.   Audacious plays music in good quality.   Streaming through Firefox is good too.  This would suggest that 12.04 is OK basically.

I will follow your suggestions.   Thanks

Alan

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2012-04-28
It is almost guaranteed to be just a VLC probably itself then, especiall since VLC can boost sound to 200-400% normal level which can degrade the quality. Have you checked the setting and any equalizers in VLC itself?

While it won't tell you the actual problem, if you don't have a lot of custom settings in VLC you could just delete the contents of $HOME/.config/vlc as you did jump to version 2.0 and it could be a simple incompatibility with a 1.x setting. That may very well fix it and get you on your way a save for head scratching for real issues later. :)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-04-28
Moved to the multimedia forum.

---

### Post by Alan.Brown on 2012-04-28
I deleted the files as suggested with no effect. 

I had always run VLC with the audio volume set at 200% and controlled it through the system.  I reduced the VLC volume setting to 100% and got a perfect result.   As I said the output was much louder than before 12.04 so it must have reached a level where distortion was being produced.

All is OK now.   Thank you for your replies and suggestions.

Alan

---

### Post by Seven_Six_Two on 2012-07-30
Perhaps the instructions at [http://dotcadot.ca/articles/bad-sound-wine-14-under-ubuntu-1204-x64]("http://dotcadot.ca/articles/bad-sound-wine-14-under-ubuntu-1204-x64") will help? I don't know if it's related, but if you're using something related to Wine like games or skype, there is a config change that improves it.

---

### Post by billyevil on 2012-09-11
Just in case someone comes across this again, here is the fix that solved the problem in vlc for me. It seemed vlc was the only thing affected in ubuntu, as the flash videos and other audio and video programs were unaffected by the scratchy and just poor sound. The nice thing about this is that once I did the fix I did not even need to reboot, vlc was fixed the next time I opened it.

1. Open a terminal and copy and paste this:
```
sudo gedit /etc/pulse/default.pa
```

2. You will enter your root password and gedit will open with the pulse audio file. IF you don't have gedit, change the name to another text editor such as mousepad or leafpad.

3. Look for the following:
```
load-module module-udev-detect
```
add the following to the end:
```
tsched=0
```
The end result should look like so:
```
load-module module-udev-detect tsched=0
```

4, Once done, save the file and start up vlc. The audio should be good.:D

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2012-09-16
Thanks billyevil,
Same problem here with several PCs.  VLC sound problem but MoviePlayer was fine.
Edit to /etc/pulse/default.pa worked for me. :)
I'll be glad when pulseaudio gets displaced by something better as the default.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-09-17
> **ridgeland said:**
> 
I'll be glad when pulseaudio gets displaced by something better as the default.

Lubuntu might be worth trying if you don't like Pulseaudio.

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2012-09-17
My apologies for going off subject...

I've stayed with Ubuntu but I've toyed with xfce and lxde.  Gnome3 is reason to visit the others again so I did.
On this partition I started with lubuntu but put gnome on and can select which DE I use.
But...
ps -el | grep pulse
in lubuntu shows pulseaudio is still up and running.  Maybe it's pollution from the gnome option.  Would virgin lubuntu not have pulse?
I haven't ruled out lxde and xfce I just haven't spent the time to learn how to customize which icons on the panels and what the desktop shows.
Thanks for the suggestion.  I've penciled lubuntu in as a this winter project.
I'm posting this while in Lubuntu.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2012-09-22
The command
```
ps -el | grep pulse
```
does not return anything on my computer (clean install of Lubuntu 12.04).

---

### Post by OBI_Ron on 2012-11-11
If I may - I tried the suggestions, and they didn't seem to work.  I had this problem initially, after upgrading to 12.04, then suddenly, it started working again.  Then I loaded a 3D shooter - Sauerbraten to try out - ended up deleting it, and the sound quality was bad again.

I tried .wav and .mp3 - both very bad.  Then I played an mp4 video - sound was fine, then I tried a wav - great, mp3 as well.

Sounds wierd, but it seems like playing an mp4 kicked it in the pants and got it working again.

Apologies for the not so technical description of events.

Best of Luck!

---

### Post by chipschap on 2013-04-23
> **Alan.Brown said:**
> 

I had always run VLC with the audio volume set at 200% and controlled it through the system.  I reduced the VLC volume setting to 100% and got a perfect result. 


This general solution worked for me also. At first I (somewhat stupidly) couldn't understand why vlc (actually cvlc run via EMACS!) was fine on my netbook and distorted on my desktop. It is, of course, quite obviously dependent on the specific sound card. 100% is fine on my netbook but I had to go down to about 90% on my desktop. So there is some fine tuning required, but it's definitely the answer.

---

