---
title: "(11.04) ATI Radeon HD 5650M + Radeon HD 4200M - Cannot use 5650 with FGRLX drivers?"
date: 2011-10-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Leopardson on 2011-10-01
Hi,

I am using Ubuntu 11.04.
I have a Toshiba Sattelite which uses two graphics chips.
The first is a HD4200 card which is used for battery saving, and the second is a HD5650 which is used for gaming.

When I use Ubuntu's standard open-source drivers, I cannot run any 3d games well at all, GLXgears gives me 60fps, and the few games that do run don't run well at all. However, they let me use the Radeon 5650.

When I use the proprietary FGRLX drivers, I cannot run any 3d games at all, GLXgears gives me <40fps, the image on GLXgears is frozen, and the 3d games I can actually run barely run, and are certainly not playable -- because the FGRLX automatically uses the Radeon HD 4200, and I have no option in the catalyst control center or anything to change that.

How can I make the FGRLX drivers use my fast video chip instead of my battery-using ones?

This is really depressing, especially as the Indie bundle just came out and I'm waiting to play my games.

---

### Post by Leopardson on 2011-10-02
[IMG]http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_rn9Bn8xdY7U/TFIdBDedmgI/AAAAAAAAAFY/uo1r6QH4zGE/s1600/cute-kitten-miley-cyrus-2258429-443-450.jpg[/IMG]

Bump?

---

### Post by Leopardson on 2011-10-03
I've done some googling and have found nothing but the fact that there are a lot of people with the same question. Nobody has an answer?

---

### Post by Leopardson on 2011-10-04
[IMG]http://www.myfacewhen.net/uploads/942-okay-meme.jpg[/IMG]


To those of you with the same question as me:
Sorry, you're screwed too.

---

### Post by Leopardson on 2011-10-08
Is it safe to assume that I am pretty much screwed at this point?

---

### Post by lloose on 2011-10-10
I've had the exact same problems. Even going back to 10.10, I either get to use my 4200 because the fgrlx drivers can't switch, or I can use the non-proprietary which has support for vgaswitcheroo, but the drivers aren't capable of handling games so switching to the 5650m just heats up my laptop for nothing.

When I was in 11.04 using the fgrlx drivers wouldn't even allow me to boot.

---

