---
title: "Can not enable Visual Effects"
date: 2008-06-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by cavy on 2008-06-12
Hi guys new to ubuntu, hope you can help, after getting my dual monitors setup the way that i like i can not enable the visual effects options,

Nvidia 800GTX
ubuntu 8.04 Hardy

any suggestions would be greatly appreciated



xorg.conf:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" LeftOf "Screen1"
    Screen      1  "Screen1" 1600 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"

# Removed Option "Xinerama" "0"
    Option         "Xinerama" "1"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTX"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTX"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Videocard1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
EndSection

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2008-06-12
Unfortunately, you can't have visual effects (Compiz) on two screens simultaneously. I suppose work is being done to remedy this, but for now it's still impossible.

---

### Post by cavy on 2008-06-12
ahhh ok, at least i know now dont have to keep trying to figure it out,

Cheers,

---

### Post by blazercist on 2008-06-12
> **Pjotr123 said:**
> Unfortunately, you can't have visual effects (Compiz) on two screens simultaneously. I suppose work is being done to remedy this, but for now it's still impossible.

Wrong, I have dual monitors and compiz works on both of them whether I'm  using twinview or seperate x servers.... i have the 9600GT

@OP: is that a typo in your original post?  you have the 800GTX or the 8800GTX? the 8800 should be able to handle dual compiz while older cards may not support a 2560x1024 texture size which would cause compiz not to work.  --edit : I just looked at your xorg and it appears you have the 8800GTX so in theory it should work, tell me which driver are you using, is it the proprietary or the one from the repos?

---

### Post by cavy on 2008-06-13
> **blazercist said:**
> Wrong, I have dual monitors and compiz works on both of them whether I'm  using twinview or seperate x servers.... i have the 9600GT

@OP: is that a typo in your original post?  you have the 800GTX or the 8800GTX? the 8800 should be able to handle dual compiz while older cards may not support a 2560x1024 texture size which would cause compiz not to work.  --edit : I just looked at your xorg and it appears you have the 8800GTX so in theory it should work, tell me which driver are you using, is it the proprietary or the one from the repos?


Hi thanks for the reply, 

yep it is a typo, oopsies, as noticed i do have a 8800 GTX
I am using the proprietary drivers

i Should Clarify:

when in separate X server mode, i can enable compiz, and all seems to work ok, but i prefer to use Twinview, with 'Xinerama' enabled. I have no idea of Xineramas specific function, but when enabled it allows ubuntu to treat the workspace as one stretched, but the applications function as two independent workspaces. ie if i maximize firefox, it maximizes to the extent of which ever monitor it was in, does not maximize to the extent of both monitors combined (i know this all doesn't make any sense! heh) 

Blazercist, does this mode still allow for compiz to be enabled that you know of? (i haven't read your link yet, just got home from work)


Cheers,

---

### Post by blazercist on 2008-06-13
actually, I usually use twinview with my 9600GT, I have just recently been experimenting with seperate X servers, in any case it should work both ways, I don't use xinerama maybe thats your problem.

twinview allows you two drag windows across both desktops and treats the two monitors as one large desktop as you are describing, i don't know what xinerama does either but you dont need it.  Twinview does that same behavior that you are describing with firefox only maximizes to the monitor its on, only full screen apps like games seem to cause issues with the dual monitor setup in twinview.

---

### Post by cavy on 2008-06-15
Hi Blazarcist, hmmm i had a bit more of a play, and disabled the Xinerama, and now its all working correctly,visual effects are all working and the apps maximise to the way i want them to. its strange but this is the way that i had it enabled at teh start, but i couldnt get the visual effects to work originally,i obviously did something wrong heh, anyways thanks for the help 

cheers

---

