---
title: "9.04 Desktop Wont Boot with two nvidia nvs 290 graphics cards"
date: 2009-08-20
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by lee- on 2009-08-20
Hi

I have tried to install 9.04 desktop and a new HP system with 2 x nvidia nvs 290 graphics cards.

Booting from the install cd ubuntu wont install nor will it load x. and simply takes me to the prompt "ubuntu@ubuntu"

I have since removed one of the nvidea nvs290 cards and the system boots and i can install ubuntu.

I have done all updates and installed nvidea drivers and everything works perfect untill i put the second card in again x wont load and cant boot in to ubuntu everything just seems to hang

does anyone have a solution has anyone else experienced the same problem?

Thanks in advance

Lee

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-08-20
Okay are you trying to run these cards in SLI? If so I might be able to help, never messed with any 290's but we'll give it a shot. 
First does the machine drop you into a command line log in after installing the second card or does it actually hang before getting to the prompt?

---

### Post by lee- on 2009-08-20
hi i am not entirely sure what "sli" is so please excuse my ignorance 

I am trying to install both graphics cards to enable me to run 4 monitors.

when i install the second card and boot the pc i get the ubuntu splash screen and it starts to boot and then hangs at the following point

"setting advanced power management level to 0xfe (254)"

it does not boot past this point and the screen seems to flicker 

Lee

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-08-20
Well, SLI uses both cards to run a single monitor, mainly for gaming.
I'm afraid I'm no help with setting up multiple monitors.
I'd trying looking in the tips & tutorials section, actually do a search. There about has to be something there.
I'm sorry I can't offer more help.

dagrump

---

### Post by lee- on 2009-08-20
No problem 

I have looked everywhere and cant seem to find anything of any use apart from a couple of threads from people with the same problem and the only solution was to remove one of the cards :-) 

posting here was a last resort as i have now exhausted all my googleing skills :-)

if anyone could point me in the right direction it would be gratefully appreciated 

Lee

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-08-20
I know I've seen random threads with useful info it's just hard to narrow down the search.
I seem to think you need to edit xorg.conf to identify both cards by BusID & then assign the monitors as screen0, screen1, etc...
the issue is you need to configure the OS to see the extra card & put it to use.
The only thing is my search skills are garbage & I can't remember squat.
Now, maybe that might give you something more to search for, I don't remember how you designated the cards.
I think the screens are designated screen0 thru screen3.

---

### Post by lee- on 2009-08-21
strange thing is if i remove one of the NVS 290's and replace it with a different NVidea card the system boots up with out any problems its only when i have the two NVS 290's in the system that ubuntu wont boot and freezes at the point mentioned in my previous posts.

Lee

---

### Post by PuffyElvis on 2009-08-22
I'm afraid I have the exact same problem.  I have a Dell Precision T3400 with dual Nvidia Quardo NVS 290 video cards.  I run triple monitors fine under windows XP.  I can get Ubuntu to load fine with one card installed.  I install the v. 180.44 drivers without any problems (after enabling restricted package sources or something another), reboot the machine and everything's ok, i.e. green light for the new hardware driver.  
 
When I power down, however, and add the second NVS 290 card I get the same error message.  Not sure if this is a bug in the driver or if further configuration is required.  As my post count shows (1)- I'm a complete newbie.
 
I also haven't found any other solutions in my google searches, but will post here if I can get it working.  I might try to load the drivers available for linux from Nvidia, as they might be newer.  Oh, I also run the 64 bit version- not sure that makes any difference.  Big thanks in advance to anyone with suggestions to resolve this issue!

---

### Post by lee- on 2009-08-22
i have feeling we are missing something really simple i only wish i knew what :confused:

FYI i am also running 64 bit.

Lee

---

### Post by lee- on 2009-08-23
[SIZE=2]ok sorted 

I got one of my linux guru's to have a look at this and he has managed to get the system to boot with both cards installed i understand none of the following but he tells me that this is what he did 

[/SIZE][SIZE=2]_**boot PC without kernel crash**_

[/SIZE]```
[SIZE=2]/boot/grub/menu.lst
## ## End Default Options ##

title           Ubuntu 9.04, kernel 2.6.28-15-generic
uuid            ca73861b-46f3-4d59-acbd-b3f93ed864e1
#kernel         /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-15-generic root=UUID=ca73861b-46f3-4d59-acbd-b3f93ed864e1 ro xforcevesa quiet splash
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-15-generic root=UUID=ca73861b-46f3-4d59-acbd-b3f93ed864e1 ro vga=773 noapic acpi=off
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-15-generic
quiet[/SIZE]
```[SIZE=2]
[/SIZE][SIZE=2][B][U]then configure xserver-xorg to use 2 cards
[/U][/B]
[/SIZE]```
[SIZE=3][SIZE=2]cat /etc/X11/Xorg.conf


[/SIZE][/SIZE][SIZE=3]Section "Device"
    Identifier  "Nvidia0"
    Driver      "nvidia"
    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen 0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "nvidia1"
    Driver      "nvidia"
    BusID       "PCI:8:0:0"
    Screen 1
EndSection


Section "Monitor"
    Identifier  "monitor0"
    Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier  "monitor1"
    Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier  "screen0"
    Device      "nvidia0"
    Monitor     "monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
    Depth       24
        Modes       "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier  "screen1"
    Device      "nvidia1"
    Monitor     "monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Modes       "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier  "Default Layout"
    Screen      "screen0"
    Screen      "screen1" RightOf "screen0"
#    InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
#    InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
    Option "xinerama" "on"
    Option "clone" "off"
EndSection
[/SIZE]
```[SIZE=3]


[/SIZE]

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-08-23
The xforcevesa in the boot line forces the generic VESA driver to be loaded so you can get to the login screen and beyond.

The xorg.conf file is at /etc/X11/xorg.conf which you can edit yourself.

The "Device" section defines the two cards by PCI address. Yours may be different. You can use lspci to discover that.

For four monitors you can add more monitor and screen sections to the xorg.conf or you can probably use the nvidia utility to set them up. 

The xinerama "on" option is necessary with multiple gpus since RandR1.2 is incapable of dealing with multiple gpus. I would suspect that the driver in its original configuration tries to use randr with both cards unidentified so x fails.

I don't know that much about nividia. I have 3 monitors on 2 ati cards but the issue seems very similar to what I encountered trying to set them up a few months ago.

---

### Post by lee- on 2009-08-23
Well looks like i am finally getting somewhere

Now to get both cards working with 4 monitors

Lee

---

