---
title: "3D for HD2600..."
date: 2009-11-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-11-04
Hi,

So I'm using the radeon open source driver at the moment on Karmic because the fglrx driver gives me a kernel panic (grr).

As I understand it, I cannot run 3D on this driver... compiz won't enable, Google Earth runs very slowly... etc etc

So why then do I get 350 FPS on glxgears? Is this not 3D?

I've heard talks about an "experimental" 3D support for r6xx/r7xx cards... how do I install this? Should I?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-11-04
> So why then do I get 350 FPS on glxgears? Is this not 3D?
Yeah, it's 3D... accelerated in software (by your CPU) and not your GPU.

> I've heard talks about an "experimental" 3D support for r6xx/r7xx cards... how do I install this? Should I?
1. Purge fglrx: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver)
2. Get a recent kernel: [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.32/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.32/)
3. Add the xorg-edgers PPA: [https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

> Should I?
The worst it can do is set your computer on fire.. but think of what you can gain - wobbly windows and gamez! Of course you should.

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-11-04
Oh sweet, easy as pie... I'm gonna try it out now. Wish me luck! You'll soon know if it didn't work because i'll be back here crying for help... haha

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-11-04
Holy Crap, it works!

---

### Post by panache on 2009-11-05
humphreybc, can you confirm that this is still working for you?

I have virtually identical specs and have been in search of a solution since upgrading to 9.10

Had everything as I wanted it in 9.04 with the ATI drivers. Everything worked except playing vids full screen with compiz enabled. Had to make do with a keyboard shortcut that toggled compiz on and off.

Since the upgrade... nothing but trouble.

I would be thrilled to hear that this works. Can you play vids full screen with compiz enabled?

a second question -- is there an alternate naming scheme for ATI cards? Looking at guides like this one - [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI) - you would think there was no HD2xxx range at all. Is this just an oversight in the guide or does the HD2600 go by another name?

Cheers and thanks for your other posts around the traps regarding these issues...

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-11-05
> is there an alternate naming scheme for ATI cards?
...
```
Recent ATI code names:
        RV505 : Radeon X1550, X1550 64bit.
        RV515 : Radeon X1300, X1550, X1600; FireGL V3300, V3350.
        RV516 : Radeon X1300, X1550, X1550 64-bit, X1600; FireMV 2250.
        R520  : Radeon X1800; FireGL V5300, V7200, V7300, V7350.
        RV530 : Radeon X1300 XT, X1600, X1600 Pro, X1650; FireGL V3400, V5200.
        RV535 : Radeon X1300, X1650.
        RV550 : Radeon X2300 HD.
        RV560 : Radeon X1650.
        RV570 : Radeon X1950, X1950 GT; FireGL V7400.
        R580  : Radeon X1900, X1950; AMD Stream Processor.
        R600  : Radeon HD 2900 GT/Pro/XT; FireGL V7600/V8600/V8650.
        RV610 : Radeon HD 2350, HD 2400 Pro/XT, HD 2400 Pro AGP; FireGL V4000.
        RV620 : Radeon HD 3450, HD 3470.
        RV630 : Radeon HD 2600 LE/Pro/XT, HD 2600 Pro/XT AGP; Gemini RV630;
                FireGL V3600/V5600.
        RV635 : Radeon HD 3650, HD 3670.
        RV670 : Radeon HD 3690, 3850, HD 3870, FireGL V7700, FireStream 9170.
        R680  : Radeon HD 3870 X2.
        M52   : Mobility Radeon X1300.
        M54   : Mobility Radeon X1400; M54-GL.
        M56   : Mobility Radeon X1600; Mobility FireGL V5200.
        M58   : Mobility Radeon X1800, X1800 XT; Mobility FireGL V7100, V7200.
        M62   : Mobility Radeon X1350.
        M64   : Mobility Radeon X1450, X2300.
        M66   : Mobility Radeon X1700, X1700 XT; FireGL V5250.
        M68   : Mobility Radeon X1900.
        M71   : Mobility Radeon HD 2300.
        M72   : Mobility Radeon HD 2400; Radeon E2400.
        M74   : Mobility Radeon HD 2400 XT.
        M76   : Mobility Radeon HD 2600;
                (Gemini ATI) Mobility Radeon HD 2600 XT.
        M82   : Mobility Radeon HD 3400.
        M86   : Mobility Radeon HD 3650, HD 3670, Mobility FireGL V5700.
        M88   : Mobility Radeon HD 3850, HD 3850 X2, HD 3870, HD3870 X2.
        RS600 : Radeon Xpress 1200, Xpress 1250.
        RS690 : Radeon X1200, X1250, X1270.
        RS740 : RS740, RS740M.
        RS780 : Radeon HD 3100/3200/3300 Series.
        R700  : Radeon R700.
        RV710 : Radeon HD4550, HD4350.
        RV730 : Radeon HD4670, HD4650.
        RV740 : Radeon HD4770. EXPERIMENTAL AND UNTESTED.
        RV770 : Radeon HD 4800 Series; Everest, K2, Denali ATI FirePro.
        RV790 : Radeon HD 4890.
        M92   : Mobility Radeon HD4330, HD4530, HD4570. EXPERIMENTAL.
        M93   : Mobility Radeon M93. EXPERIMENTAL AND UNTESTED.
        M96   : Mobility Radeon HD4600.
        M97   : Mobility Radeon HD4860. EXPERIMENTAL AND UNTESTED.
        M98   : Mobility Radeon HD4850, HD4870.

```

---

### Post by grigio on 2009-11-05
same problem with fglrx and Radeon 4850

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-11-05
> **panache said:**
> humphreybc, can you confirm that this is still working for you?

I have virtually identical specs and have been in search of a solution since upgrading to 9.10

Had everything as I wanted it in 9.04 with the ATI drivers. Everything worked except playing vids full screen with compiz enabled. Had to make do with a keyboard shortcut that toggled compiz on and off.

Since the upgrade... nothing but trouble.

I would be thrilled to hear that this works. Can you play vids full screen with compiz enabled?

a second question -- is there an alternate naming scheme for ATI cards? Looking at guides like this one - [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI) - you would think there was no HD2xxx range at all. Is this just an oversight in the guide or does the HD2600 go by another name?

Cheers and thanks for your other posts around the traps regarding these issues...

Well at the moment I'm using the experimental radeon drivers to enable 3D and it works great, I've got full compiz enabled and it works fine. I still get screen tearing when using Google Earth, but for videos I use VLC with X11 output which solves that problem. Fullscreen works well, even the notifications don't interrupt and make the video flicker like they used to.

I'm not sure how dual monitor support is with the experimental drivers, I'll check when I get back home in a week and can hook it up to my external monitor.

So far, so good. I don't think I'm ever going back to the fglrx Catalyst drivers, ATI are useless.

---

### Post by lapor on 2009-11-05
I have similar problems with ATI drivers. Probably I am going to freshly install 9.10 and then install opensource drivers for my HD2600.

Thanks for the topic!

---

### Post by kozij on 2009-11-05
i think ive formatted ubuntu 9.10 at least 5 times already, 9.04 i had full 3d support after a bit of fiddling, but this is driving me nuts. I'm hoping this method works! So just to clarify, after 9.10 is cleanly installed I just do the 3 steps and reboot? thanks for any replies

---

### Post by kozij on 2009-11-05
sorry to be a noob, but i did all 3 steps and rebooted, still desktop effects cant be enabled?, i have the same laptop as [humphreybc]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=785254") so i must be doing something wrong. Any help would be appreciated

---

### Post by kozij on 2009-11-06
sorry to triple post, but i think the problem may with with the xorg-edgers PPA, i try to update it and it always fails, is it down? ive tried on many servers.

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-11-06
xorg-edgers PPA updates fine for me. Post some more information about your problem and I'll have a think about it overnight.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-11-06
> I still get screen tearing when using Google Earth
Try starting the program with:
```
googleearth vblank_mode=0
```

> So just to clarify, after 9.10 is cleanly installed I just do the 3 steps and reboot?
If you've never installed fglrx/Catalyst, then you don't need step 1.

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-11-06
> **Temüjin said:**
> Try starting the program with:
```
googleearth vblank_mode=0
```



Thanks for trying to help but that makes no difference unfortunately.

---

### Post by kozij on 2009-11-06
must have just been the sources, after many many attempted updates, one finally worked and asked to reboot, and now everythings working a treat, compiz and all. thanks guys for the help.

---

### Post by grigio on 2009-11-06
this works also for radeon 4850 thanks!

---

### Post by lapor on 2009-11-06
Ok, I tryed to fix my problems, but I had several dificulties. I was fallowing this:
1. Purge fglrx: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troublesho...thRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troublesho...thRadeonDriver)
2. Get a recent kernel: [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa...e/v2.6.32-rc6/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa...e/v2.6.32-rc6/)
3. Add the xorg-edgers PPA: [https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)

As someone said, if I don't have ATI drivers installed, I don't need first step. Now, what do I have to install under the second number. I installed the image of recent kernel. After that I added PPA and restarted, but I could not get to the desktop. It just stoped in the midlle. I had terminal all over the screen.

Please, help.

PS. I have HD 2600

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-11-07
lapor: That procedure will only work for Ubuntu Karmic. Your profile says you're using Hardy. Please tell us what version you're using.

---

### Post by donloveslinux on 2009-11-07
I have a Radeon 2600 in a old Dell desktop and can't fresh install 9.04 or 9.10.  After "Choose English" and maybe a few screen messages it goes dark.  I don't see any graphic choices in BIOS. Had similar problem on newer Dell at work until I replaced the card with a new GeForce 9600 and 9.04 & later 9.10 went on easy.

---

### Post by lapor on 2009-11-07
Sorry. I forgot to change my profile :)

I have 9.10 Karmic 64-bit

---

### Post by Duskao on 2009-11-07
With updating the kernel, how do I do it? just download the 3 of them and install? I'm not running a 64bit system, so the 3 i386.debs?

Nvm, got it. And it all works like a charm on a Radeon 4850 so far. Gonna check out some games and see how they go.

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-11-08
> **Duskao said:**
> With updating the kernel, how do I do it? just download the 3 of them and install? I'm not running a 64bit system, so the 3 i386.debs?

Nvm, got it. And it all works like a charm on a Radeon 4850 so far. Gonna check out some games and see how they go.

You actually only need the "linux image" one, I think it's about 25mb in size. Download it and double click it.

---

### Post by Duskao on 2009-11-08
Thx. Now I know for next time. The drivers work pretty well, I'm impressed. Once they get a few more things worked out they will be really good. Still missing some textures and stuff like that on a couple games, but certainly a step in the right direction. The only problem now is I can't properly use the catalyst drivers cause of the new kernel.

---

### Post by lapor on 2009-11-08
I will try now. First install new kernel, restart computer and then will add 
deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/xorg-edgers/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/xorg-edgers/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main 
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/xorg-edgers/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/xorg-edgers/ppa/ubuntu) karmic main 
to source list. And I have to update after adding PPA.

I hope everything is going to be ok.

I will report!

---

### Post by lapor on 2009-11-08
I just installed everything and it works great. Thanks for helping!!!

---

### Post by panache on 2009-11-10
got it working also!

---

### Post by Stratis on 2009-11-20
> **kozij said:**
> sorry to be a noob, but i did all 3 steps and rebooted, still desktop effects cant be enabled?, i have the same laptop as [humphreybc]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=785254") so i must be doing something wrong. Any help would be appreciated

Yeah; disable Xinerama (if selected) in Catalyst and set Multi-display (with display 1/2) (For each display that is), and crank up the desktop effects.

The only problem I've found with this is that my framerate has dropped to dismal levels with `glxgears` (Also with any 3D games):

```

stratus@EnGlow:~$ glxgears
887 frames in 5.0 seconds
875 frames in 5.0 seconds
908 frames in 5.0 seconds
875 frames in 5.0 seconds
895 frames in 5.0 seconds
^C
stratus@EnGlow:~$ 

```

On the upside the desktop effects are nice and snappy!

(VisionTek Radeon 2600 HD Pro)

---

### Post by bgenc on 2009-11-20
I have a HD3300 on board graphics chipset. I am having very bad performance with ATI drivers. Shall I also try this open source driver for better performance?

---

### Post by donloveslinux on 2009-11-26
Failing to get past "Choose English" installing Ubuntu 9.04 (or 9.10) on old Dell Dimension 8200, I removed one year old Radeon 2600 AGP card (motherbrd has plastic holder clip to pry), blew off dust from very old Asus AGP card, put it in, and Unbuntu 9.10 installed PERFECT.  My guess is ATI lacks driver, so buy Asus, Nvidia, but NOT ATI.  Had very poor sound on 8.10 & none on 9.10 because no driver for Intel motherbrd sound.  Bought USB stereo audio adapter Syba SD-CM-UAUD for $10.98, rt-clkd sound icon upper rgt desktop, changed from internal to usb, unchkd Mute, opened video from CNN, and loud, clear sound.  Ubuntu requires hardware compatible with drivers available for Linux.  For the moderately savy but not real smart (ie like me!) it's tough finding info on what hardware works and solutions to Sound and Video problems.  Hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-11-26
> My guess is ATI lacks driver, so buy Asus, Nvidia, but NOT ATI.
ATI has open-source and proprietary drivers. Maybe you just needed to start in safe graphics mode to install Ubuntu. Also, the Asus video card you used probably had an ATI chip in it.

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-12-03
For those who need a tutorial on how to get 3D working on r600/r700 cards, I've written one on my blog:

[http://humphreybc.wordpress.com/2009/12/04/enable-3d-support-on-r600r700-with-the-open-source-radeon-driver/](http://humphreybc.wordpress.com/2009/12/04/enable-3d-support-on-r600r700-with-the-open-source-radeon-driver/)

---

### Post by Clancy_s on 2009-12-06
I have a mobility Radeon HD2600 and am thinking of trying this (@ donloveslinux - new install 9.10 worked fine with the default drivers btw, I just don't have 3D acceleration).

I like to keep things as simple as possible so please excuse me if this is a silly question:

at the xorg-edgers site, besides the 'fresh X crack' page linked to there is another for card drivers that says 

> Latest card drivers (DDX) from xorg git. There are no other libraries/dependencies in this PPA so the drivers built here can be used as drop-in replacements in a stock Ubuntu installation, and can be easily reverted.


That sounds to me like I could drop a package from that list into Karmic with the current kernel as it is and have it work: does anyone know if that's right?  The card driver ati package is listed as being the same version as they offer from the 'fresh X crack' ppa.

Or do I need a newer kernel to enable 3d even if the package installs OK?

tia

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-12-06
> Or do I need a newer kernel to enable 3d even if the package installs OK?
You'll need a 2.6.32 kernel, and you need the to add the xorg-edgers PPA to your software sources.

---

### Post by Clancy_s on 2009-12-06
> **Temüjin said:**
> You'll need a 2.6.32 kernel, and you need the to add the xorg-edgers PPA to your software sources.

OK, thanks for the extra explanation.  I'll give it a try.

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2009-12-06
Yeah the two requirements are the 2.6.32 kernel (easiest to install from the Ubuntu debs) and the Xorg-edgers PPA. Restart, enable Compiz and you should be all set to go.

Oh, and another thing - dual screen setup is a breeze with the radeon drivers. I've got Compiz, fullscreen video, games, dualscreen hotplugging for my laptop and no flicker on anything except OpenGL at the moment all working in harmony. And fast too!

---

### Post by Icarus315 on 2010-01-12
Here's a question: I've installed kernel 2.6.32 RC8 and xorg-edgers to use radeonhd for my Ati 2600HD pcie, under Preferences > Appearance > Visual Effects, I set it to None just to do it for a second.  Now when I try to reenable those effects up pops a request to install fglrx.  I obviously can't do that now so does anyone know the workaround?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-01-12
Uninstall fglrx-modaliases package so you won't get that prompt.
What does your glxinfo say?
```
LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose glxinfo
```

---

### Post by Icarus315 on 2010-01-12
> **Temüjin said:**
> Uninstall fglrx-modaliases package so you won't get that prompt.
What does your glxinfo say?
```
LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose glxinfo
```

Thank you! Uninstalling that package did the trick! ;) Also, here's the glxinfo output:

name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.2
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGIS_multisample, 
    GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group
client glx vendor string: Mesa Project and SGI
client glx version string: 1.4
client glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_allocate_memory, 
    GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, GLX_MESA_swap_control, 
    GLX_MESA_swap_frame_usage, GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_OML_sync_control, 
    GLX_SGI_make_current_read, GLX_SGI_swap_control, GLX_SGI_video_sync, 
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, 
    GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap
GLX version: 1.2
GLX extensions:
    GLX_ARB_get_proc_address, GLX_ARB_multisample, GLX_EXT_import_context, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_info, GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_MESA_swap_frame_usage, GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGI_make_current_read, 
    GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group
OpenGL vendor string: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI R600 (RV630 9589) 20090101  TCL
OpenGL version string: 1.5 Mesa 7.7
OpenGL extensions:
    GL_ARB_depth_texture, GL_ARB_depth_clamp, GL_ARB_draw_buffers, 
    GL_ARB_fragment_program, GL_ARB_imaging, GL_ARB_multisample, 
    GL_ARB_multitexture, GL_ARB_occlusion_query, GL_ARB_point_parameters, 
    GL_ARB_provoking_vertex, GL_ARB_shadow, GL_ARB_shadow_ambient, 
    GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp, GL_ARB_texture_compression, 
    GL_ARB_texture_cube_map, GL_ARB_texture_env_add, 
    GL_ARB_texture_env_combine, GL_ARB_texture_env_crossbar, 
    GL_ARB_texture_env_dot3, GL_MESAX_texture_float, 
    GL_ARB_texture_mirrored_repeat, GL_ARB_texture_rectangle, 
    GL_ARB_transpose_matrix, GL_ARB_vertex_array_bgra, 
    GL_ARB_vertex_buffer_object, GL_ARB_vertex_program, GL_ARB_window_pos, 
    GL_EXT_abgr, GL_EXT_bgra, GL_EXT_blend_color, 
    GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate, GL_EXT_blend_func_separate, 
    GL_EXT_blend_logic_op, GL_EXT_blend_minmax, GL_EXT_blend_subtract, 
    GL_EXT_compiled_vertex_array, GL_EXT_convolution, GL_EXT_copy_texture, 
    GL_EXT_draw_range_elements, GL_EXT_fog_coord, 
    GL_EXT_gpu_program_parameters, GL_EXT_histogram, GL_EXT_multi_draw_arrays, 
    GL_EXT_packed_depth_stencil, GL_EXT_packed_pixels, 
    GL_EXT_point_parameters, GL_EXT_polygon_offset, GL_EXT_provoking_vertex, 
    GL_EXT_rescale_normal, GL_EXT_secondary_color, 
    GL_EXT_separate_specular_color, GL_EXT_shadow_funcs, 
    GL_EXT_stencil_two_side, GL_EXT_stencil_wrap, GL_EXT_subtexture, 
    GL_EXT_texture, GL_EXT_texture3D, GL_EXT_texture_edge_clamp, 
    GL_EXT_texture_env_add, GL_EXT_texture_env_combine, 
    GL_EXT_texture_env_dot3, GL_EXT_texture_filter_anisotropic, 
    GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias, GL_EXT_texture_mirror_clamp, 
    GL_EXT_texture_object, GL_EXT_texture_rectangle, GL_EXT_texture_sRGB, 
    GL_EXT_vertex_array, GL_EXT_vertex_array_bgra, GL_APPLE_packed_pixels, 
    GL_ATI_blend_equation_separate, GL_ATI_texture_env_combine3, 
    GL_ATI_texture_mirror_once, GL_ATI_separate_stencil, 
    GL_IBM_multimode_draw_arrays, GL_IBM_rasterpos_clip, 
    GL_IBM_texture_mirrored_repeat, GL_INGR_blend_func_separate, 
    GL_MESA_pack_invert, GL_MESA_ycbcr_texture, GL_MESA_window_pos, 
    GL_NV_blend_square, GL_NV_depth_clamp, GL_NV_light_max_exponent, 
    GL_NV_packed_depth_stencil, GL_NV_texture_rectangle, 
    GL_NV_texgen_reflection, GL_NV_vertex_program, GL_OES_read_format, 
    GL_SGI_color_matrix, GL_SGI_color_table, GL_SGIS_generate_mipmap, 
    GL_SGIS_texture_border_clamp, GL_SGIS_texture_edge_clamp, 
    GL_SGIS_texture_lod, GL_SUN_multi_draw_arrays

8 GLX Visuals
   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0x21 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x22 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x6a 24 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x6b 24 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x6c 24 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x6d 24 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x6e 24 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x61 32 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 Ncon

8 GLXFBConfigs:
   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0x62  0 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x63  0 tc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x64  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x65  0 tc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x66  0 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x67  0 dc  0 32  0 r  .  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow
0x68  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
0x69  0 dc  0 32  0 r  y  .  8  8  8  8  0 24  8 16 16 16 16  0 0 Slow


Although there shouldn't be anything too out of whack in there as things do work...!

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-01-12
Yeah, looks good. Enjoy your wobbly windowz.

---

### Post by panache on 2010-03-28
Hi all,
I followed this thread a while ago and got everything working using the 2.6.43-020632rc6 kernel and the xorg-edgers ppa.

I booted up a few days ago after some updates and couldn't even get to the login screen - the screen was a garbled output of mostly white and some coloured lines.

I was able to boot into kernel 2.6.32-20, but only in a gnome-SAFE session. Trying to boot into a normal Gnome session failed (it just brought me back to the login screen).

I've since installed, and can boot into kernels 2.6.32-020632rc8 and 2.6.33, but in both of them, I can't enable compiz. When trying to enable it in system>preferences>appearance>visual effects it searches for available drivers, doesn't find any and won't allow the effects to be enabled. (I saw above that someone solved a similar problem by uninstalling fglrx-modaliases -- I don't have this installed)

Has anyone else had any troubles after an update?

I have a vague memory of having edited my xorg.conf last time I was dealing wit all this stuff. It's contents are below in case it helps:

```
# SAM'S EDIT OF xorg.conf.failsafe (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Mobility Radeon HD2600"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x540" "720x400" "640x480"
		Virtual	2560 1024
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Mobility Radeon HD2600"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by humphreybc on 2010-03-28
I'm still getting emails from this thread... just to clear some stuff up, in Ubuntu 10.04 (Lucid) you should get 3D support by default using the default drivers.

---

### Post by panache on 2010-03-29
> **humphreybc said:**
> I'm still getting emails from this thread... just to clear some stuff up, in Ubuntu 10.04 (Lucid) you should get 3D support by default using the default drivers.

Sure. I just don't understand what broke it - I had everything working before. Not sure why I can't get it working again.

Do I really have to wait til 10.04 is released in a month? (Or is the 10.04 beta stable enough to install?)

---

### Post by HardBall.21 on 2010-03-29
> **panache said:**
> Hi all,
I followed this thread a while ago and got everything working using the 2.6.43-020632rc6 kernel and the xorg-edgers ppa.

I booted up a few days ago after some updates and couldn't even get to the login screen - the screen was a garbled output of mostly white and some coloured lines.

I was able to boot into kernel 2.6.32-20, but only in a gnome-SAFE session. Trying to boot into a normal Gnome session failed (it just brought me back to the login screen).

I've since installed, and can boot into kernels 2.6.32-020632rc8 and 2.6.33, but in both of them, I can't enable compiz. When trying to enable it in system>preferences>appearance>visual effects it searches for available drivers, doesn't find any and won't allow the effects to be enabled. (I saw above that someone solved a similar problem by uninstalling fglrx-modaliases -- I don't have this installed)

Has anyone else had any troubles after an update?

I have a vague memory of having edited my xorg.conf last time I was dealing wit all this stuff. It's contents are below in case it helps:

```
# SAM'S EDIT OF xorg.conf.failsafe (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Mobility Radeon HD2600"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes    "1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x540" "720x400" "640x480"
		Virtual	2560 1024
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Mobility Radeon HD2600"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
EndSection

```

Yes, I can confirm the same; With Xorg 1.6.5 and ppa edgers and all recent GIT mesa and libgl1-* has stopped working with a recent update (during this past week); several kernels give the same results, including 2.6.32-rc8, 2.6.33-rc3, 2.6.34-rc1.  The system worked fine for 3D accel for the last couple of month; but with a mysterious update (likely one 25/26 march) has stopped working with 3D at all, and glxinfo now glxinfo shows fallback to software rendering.  

Not sure of exactly what changed, haven't had all that much time to look into it.  The HW specs is Mobility Radeon 4830 (RV740) by the way.

---

### Post by panache on 2010-03-29
I've since upgraded to 10.04 - the problem persists...

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2010-03-31
This is an update problem 3D accel seems to have gone.
Remember this is only in the testing stage at present.
You`ll probably find an update in a few days will rectify the problem.

---

### Post by panache on 2010-03-31
Cool. Will wait for the update. Though the problem began when I was still running 9.10...

---

### Post by panache on 2010-03-31
[B]Edit 04.04.10 - tis broken again
-----------------------------------------[/B]

Wobbly windows have been restored!

(10.04 beta 1, running kernel 2.6.32-16)

Somehow, my xorg.conf file was using the "fbdev" driver.

After making sure that the relevant open source driver was installed, I simply reconfigured xorg according to the following instructions ([http://www.osguides.net/operation-systems/217-how-to-create-xorgconf-in-ubuntu-910.html](http://www.osguides.net/operation-systems/217-how-to-create-xorgconf-in-ubuntu-910.html))

Note that upon restarting gdm the system crashed. But on rebooting, X was using the "radeon" driver and compiz could be enabled.

thanks for the help yall!

**Edit:**
for anyone interested, here is my reconfigured xorg.conf
```

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "X.org Configured"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

Section "Files"
	ModulePath   "/usr/lib/xorg/modules"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath     "built-ins"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "dri2"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "dbe"
	Load  "record"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Keyboard0"
	Driver      "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Mouse0"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5 6 7"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	#DisplaySize	  330   210	# mm
	Identifier   "Monitor0"
	VendorName   "LPL"
	ModelName    "dc00"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        ### Available Driver options are:-
        ### Values: <i>: integer, <f>: float, <bool>: "True"/"False",
        ### <string>: "String", <freq>: "<f> Hz/kHz/MHz"
        ### [arg]: arg optional
        #Option     "NoAccel"            	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "SWcursor"           	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "Dac6Bit"            	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "Dac8Bit"            	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "BusType"            	# [<str>]
        #Option     "CPPIOMode"          	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "CPusecTimeout"      	# <i>
        #Option     "AGPMode"            	# <i>
        #Option     "AGPFastWrite"       	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "AGPSize"            	# <i>
        #Option     "GARTSize"           	# <i>
        #Option     "RingSize"           	# <i>
        #Option     "BufferSize"         	# <i>
        #Option     "EnableDepthMoves"   	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "EnablePageFlip"     	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "NoBackBuffer"       	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "DMAForXv"           	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "FBTexPercent"       	# <i>
        #Option     "DepthBits"          	# <i>
        #Option     "PCIAPERSize"        	# <i>
        #Option     "AccelDFS"           	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "IgnoreEDID"         	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "CustomEDID"         	# [<str>]
        #Option     "DisplayPriority"    	# [<str>]
        #Option     "PanelSize"          	# [<str>]
        #Option     "ForceMinDotClock"   	# <freq>
        #Option     "ColorTiling"        	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "VideoKey"           	# <i>
        #Option     "RageTheatreCrystal" 	# <i>
        #Option     "RageTheatreTunerPort" 	# <i>
        #Option     "RageTheatreCompositePort" 	# <i>
        #Option     "RageTheatreSVideoPort" 	# <i>
        #Option     "TunerType"          	# <i>
        #Option     "RageTheatreMicrocPath" 	# <str>
        #Option     "RageTheatreMicrocType" 	# <str>
        #Option     "ScalerWidth"        	# <i>
        #Option     "RenderAccel"        	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "SubPixelOrder"      	# [<str>]
        #Option     "ShowCache"          	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "ClockGating"        	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "VGAAccess"          	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "ReverseDDC"         	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "LVDSProbePLL"       	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "AccelMethod"        	# <str>
        #Option     "DRI"                	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "ConnectorTable"     	# <str>
        #Option     "DefaultConnectorTable" 	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "DefaultTMDSPLL"     	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "TVDACLoadDetect"    	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "ForceTVOut"         	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "TVStandard"         	# <str>
        #Option     "IgnoreLidStatus"    	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "DefaultTVDACAdj"    	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "Int10"              	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "EXAVSync"           	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "ATOMTVOut"          	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "R4xxATOM"           	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "ForceLowPowerMode"  	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "DynamicPM"          	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "NewPLL"             	# [<bool>]
        #Option     "ZaphodHeads"        	# <str>
	Identifier  "Card0"
	Driver      "radeon"
	VendorName  "ATI Technologies Inc"
	BoardName   "M76 [Radeon Mobility HD 2600 Series]"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Screen0"
	Device     "Card0"
	Monitor    "Monitor0"
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     1
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     4
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     8
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     15
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     16
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by panache on 2010-04-04
So 3D support mysteriously broke again. Booting up there was a dialogue box with various options telling me that Ubuntu was running in low graphics mode.

For those similarly affected, the problem was fixed by booting into a TTY console session:

**1) Turn Kernel Mode Setting (KMS) Off**
Do this by changing the value of "options radeon modeset" to 0
```
sudo nano /etc/modeprob.d/radeon-kms.conf
```

**2) Reconfigure Xorg**
```
sudo Xorg -configure
sudo mv /home/samgood/xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

**3) Reboot**
```
sudo reboot
```

Turning KMS off means the boot process is not as pretty, but it enabled me to turn on Desktop Effects

More info on KMS: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/KernelModeSetting)

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2010-04-05
Panache...
Have you configured your own xorg.conf file here.
Correct me if i'm wrong, but i was under the impression that using the open source drivers in 10.04 needed no xorg.conf.
 I'm messing with 10.04 and i don't have any xorg.conf file??

---

