---
title: "Pithos Problem"
date: 2018-01-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by 1-retired-surfer on 2018-01-02
Relatively a n00b to Linux. ):P

 I tried about 10 distros until I found Ubuntu 16.04 as a solid platform for what I want. (eg: Puppy, Studio*, Lubuntu, Kubuntu, Mepi*s, Mint, PCL, Zorin*, Antergos, and a few others that I lose to defective memory)[INDENT]* = favorites that I will dual-boot later with my system.
[/INDENT]
 
I searched this topic (Pithos) and noticed someone made a question about it, but it was closed because of a rule infraction. So - I am asking a different question

I've run Pandora and a slug of other streaming radio stations for my listening pleasure - I do NOT record them. They just play in the background as I'm posting, answering emails and I play along with my guitars to them as a kinda 'musical roulette' to keep me sharp on key and chord changes. 

OK - that said: Pithos is getting stranger and stranger. 

It would play for as long as I had my desktop 'puter running - seldom lost WiFi - although that was a problem at first, now resolved ---> I think so anyway! 
[CENTER]____________________________________________________________________________________
[/CENTER]
 
Now - Pithos loads up about 6-8 songs in the GUI and when it plays them it just stops. 

No warning. No notices - although I've heard on other websites that there are error messages being generated by Pandora that come over to Pithos. This I have NOT seen. 

It just quits. 

Any hope for Pithos to self-correct or is there something I should/could do? 

Be gentle if you suggest lines of code. I can do it - but I am very slow on it.



Thank you 'way in advance for any help or consideration. 

[sig]jpv[/sig]

---

