---
title: "109e:036e bttv"
date: 2010-06-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by bibble235 on 2010-06-21
Hi folks,

Have a cheaponasto card which refuses to play ball with the kernel. I have tried several card types with no luck.

I is just a video capture with no TV tuner. v4l-conf complains there is no framebuffer address and therefore (I think) xawtv will not start.

Running 64-bit 2.6.32-22

01:00.0 Multimedia video controller: Brooktree Corporation Bt878 Video Capture (rev 11)
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 64 (4000ns min, 10000ns max)
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 17
	Region 0: Memory at dfffe000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=4K]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: bttv

Any help, as ever accepted.

Iain

---

### Post by ronnielsen1 on 2010-06-21
I used to have one of those (well still do but the audio broke) and I  found out that sometimes one program could access it while another  couldn't.

What's the output of[COLOR=Blue] lspci | grep Bt878 in a  terminal?

[COLOR=Black]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=153935[/COLOR]

[/COLOR]> 1) Make sure the module will be loaded
sudo gedit /etc/modules
add bttv if not already present

2) Options for the module. Create this file:
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/bttv
 	Code:
 	# i2c
alias char-major-89 i2c-devb
options i2c-algo-bit bit_test=1
# bttv
alias char-major-81 videodev
alias char-major-81-0 bttv
# My TV Card
options bttv card=23 tuner=18 radio=0 pll=1 adc_crush=0 
3) Install tvtime
sudo apt-get install tvtime
then run tvtime-scanner ; takes a few minutes


---

### Post by ronnielsen1 on 2010-06-21
Ok, try some of the other programs. I've had xawtv not work before and others that did.

mythtv - hard to configure
tvtime - worked good for me [http://tvtime.sourceforge.net/](http://tvtime.sourceforge.net/)
motv - 
[http://motv.klik.atekon.de/](http://motv.klik.atekon.de/)

---

### Post by bibble235 on 2010-06-24
No joy with the suggestions.

Tbis card has no radio or tuner

Output of lspci is 

01:00.0 Multimedia video controller: Brooktree Corporation Bt878 Video Capture (rev 11)
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 64 (4000ns min, 10000ns max)
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 17
	Region 0: Memory at dfffe000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=4K]
	Capabilities: [44] Vital Product Data <?>
	Capabilities: [4c] Power Management version 2
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI+ D1- D2- AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0-,D1-,D2-,D3hot-,D3cold-)
		Status: D0 PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-
	Kernel driver in use: bttv
	Kernel modules: bttv

01:00.1 Multimedia controller: Brooktree Corporation Bt878 Audio Capture (rev 11)
	Control: I/O- Mem+ BusMaster+ SpecCycle- MemWINV- VGASnoop- ParErr- Stepping- SERR- FastB2B- DisINTx-
	Status: Cap+ 66MHz- UDF- FastB2B+ ParErr- DEVSEL=medium >TAbort- <TAbort- <MAbort- >SERR- <PERR- INTx-
	Latency: 64 (1000ns min, 63750ns max)
	Interrupt: pin A routed to IRQ 10
	Region 0: Memory at dffff000 (32-bit, prefetchable) [size=4K]
	Capabilities: [44] Vital Product Data <?>
	Capabilities: [4c] Power Management version 2
		Flags: PMEClk- DSI+ D1- D2- AuxCurrent=0mA PME(D0-,D1-,D2-,D3hot-,D3cold-)
		Status: D0 PME-Enable- DSel=0 DScale=0 PME-

---

### Post by ronnielsen1 on 2010-06-24
> 
01:00.0 Multimedia video controller: Brooktree Corporation Bt878 Video  Capture (rev 11)
It is seeing it. I'm assuming you do have some kind of cable hooked up to the card. 
Try this

[COLOR=RoyalBlue]sudo modprobe -v dvb_bt8xx[/COLOR]

[COLOR=RoyalBlue]sudo gedit /etc/modules[/COLOR] followed by your  password, and add '[COLOR=RoyalBlue]dvb_bt8xx[/COLOR]' to the bottom of the list and save the  file. 

[COLOR=RoyalBlue]sudo apt-get install libxine-extracodecs[/COLOR]
[COLOR=RoyalBlue]sudo apt-get install kaffeine[/COLOR]

Run kaffeine and post any errors.

---

### Post by ronnielsen1 on 2010-06-24
If this doesn't work, I'll put in my Brooktree tv tuner card and post what I did to get it working (My audio died on it - it's no fun watching tv if you can't hear it)

---

### Post by moboticdes on 2010-09-10
> **ronnielsen1 said:**
> If this doesn't work, I'll put in my Brooktree tv tuner card and post what I did to get it working (My audio died on it - it's no fun watching tv if you can't hear it)

I have a bt878 based card, ubuntu doesn't autodetect it, to make it work I need to create a file named /etc/modprobe.d/bttv.modprobe and add the line below:   options bttv card=77
to support the bt878 video card. 

hope it helps

---

