---
title: "ATI card resetting to mesa on reboot"
date: 2008-07-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by 4wd22r on 2008-07-09
Sorry for the double post (also in Dell Ubuntu Support) feel free to delete one of them, I realized this is probably the better place for such a post :)



I've been dealing with this problem the best I can, searching and trying a variety of fixes detailed in the forums but nothing seems to work permanently. Every time I boot into Hardy I get a white screen, so I'm forced to logout, login to a failsafe terminal and run these two commands:
> sudo insmod /lib/modules/`uname -r`/volatile/fglrx.ko
sudo dpkg-reconfigure linux-restricted-modules-`uname -r`
I've uninstalled and reinstalled the restricted drivers several times, attempted to edit the xorg.conf but I'm mostly lost there. Now everything is working fine, fglrxinfo returns:
> kyle@marcel:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Mobility Radeon X1300
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7412 Release

and glxinfo | grep render returns:
> kyle@marcel:~$ glxinfo | grep render
direct rendering: Yes
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Mobility Radeon X1300

I would love to figure this one out, I've just run out of places to look if anyone has any ideas for me or places for me to look I'm all ears! Also possible solutions welcome! Since it will probably help here's the output of cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf:
> kyle@marcel:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "enable"
EndSection


When I run the first two commands it works just fine, but without that, fglrxinfo says:
> display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.4 (1.5 Mesa 6.5.2)

:\


Sorry if this is in the wrong area, and thanks in advance.



EDIT: I noticed the doubles in the xorg.conf and deleted the ones that didn't say something about "aticonfig" no luck yet :\

---

### Post by snakeyez11 on 2008-07-09
Which method did you use to install the driver?

---

### Post by 4wd22r on 2008-07-10
the "ubuntu method" i.e. enabled the restricted driver then restarted the computer :\

I think I have a missing "symbolic link" as everything works just fine once I run the insmod command and insert the module into the kernel I just want it to do that all by itself, as it's booting heh :)

Any direction would be very helpful. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by snakeyez11 on 2008-07-10
Try this:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh linux-restricted-modules-`uname -r`
sudo insmod /lib/modules/`uname -r`/volatile/fglrx.ko
sudo depmod -a
```

Then log out and log back in to see if the driver loads.

---

### Post by 4wd22r on 2008-07-11
No such luck, just did it and I had to manually run the insmod command after again being greeted with a wonderfully useless white screen.

Apologies for the long response time, I work nights and got home about an hour ago heh, left the house right after my last post....suck.

Thank you so far sir.....any other ideas? Prehaps someone else has one?

Thanks!

---

### Post by 4wd22r on 2008-07-13
Bump.

Any ideas o ubuntu gurus?

---

