---
title: "9.10 negative colour while playing a video"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by LinLou on 2009-10-31
Hello,

Ive recently upgraded to ubuntu 9.10 but when i tried to watch a movie on movie player or on Mplayer the colour was like the negatives of a photo film. Anyone has any idea how can i fix that? My graphics card is Nvidia 9600GT.

thnx

---

### Post by cowboy7305 on 2009-10-31
Thank god iam not the only one that is having trouble with my dvd play back with colour,i am also using a NVIDIA Driver Version 185 the recomended one for my computer <Dell Inspiron 530 ,never had any trouble with colour before 9.1 update

---

### Post by threetwoone on 2009-10-31
I am having a similar problem but I'm not sure.  Do the video's all look blueish?

I have an nvidia 9500m GS (using the 185 driver) and that is whats happening to me.  If you open up the "nvidia xserver settings" utility while the movie is playing it fixes it for me, you can close it after.  It isn't a fix but its an easy work around.  I was using the 185 with 9.04 and this wasn't a problem.  Maybe the one from the nvidia site won't have this problem?

It would seem that the setting for Hue (in the "X server XVideo Settings" tab) gets messed up when you play a video (mine was at -1000).  If you put it back to zero (or hit it reset hardware defaults button) then you can just open it to fix the movies like i mentioned before.

Unfortunately I don't even know how to start looking for a fix but I hope this helps.

---

### Post by cowboy7305 on 2009-10-31
As above  i also did that set hue to o  or pressed reset  then closed it and then restated my computer and that has worked for me so far

---

### Post by rannuG on 2009-10-31
I had the same problem. I solved it by going to Preferences in Movie Player. In Display, I moved the Hue to the middle instead of far left.

Good luck with your issues and I hope this might help!

---

### Post by LinLou on 2009-10-31
yeap! SOLVED!! ive opened the Nvidia Xserver Settings and set up the hue to 3 and the colors are perfect!!

Thank u all!!

---

### Post by Ken-san on 2009-11-01
I can confirm that the "fix" works for me as well. Somehow, the hue messes up when opening a video and everything looks blue-ish (although watching blue fire -watched new Mythbusters episode last night- looks really cool </offtopic>), and rebooting would not solve it. Instead, restoring the defaults on Totem or whatever you use to watch videos works just fine.

---

### Post by fasmike on 2009-11-01
I have a similar problem to what some of you are describing except I have a blue hue over everything, not just Movie Player.  When I adjust the hue in Movie Player it just changes the color of the photo negative effect it doesn't get rid of it. 

I looked at the NVIDIA X Server settings and found my hue was set to 0 and moving that slider had no effect in any way, good or bad, almost like it was being ignored.

I have a NVIDIA Quadro 770M on a Dell Precision M4400.  This was a fresh install of 9.10 on a new laptop.  

Any help would be greatly appreciated.  I'm still browsing the forums for a clue.

---

### Post by JBAlaska on 2009-11-01
Have you tried using VLC player to see if it's localized to your video driver or mplayer? The version of VLC in the Karmic repo seems to be a good one. Smoother HD playback for me than mplayer.

---

### Post by fasmike on 2009-11-01
> **JBAlaska said:**
> Have you tried using VLC player to see if it's localized to your video driver or mplayer? The version of VLC in the Karmic repo seems to be a good one. Smoother HD playback for me than mplayer.


I'm not sure if this was meant for me, but I went ahead and tried VNC to see if that helped.  It seems like the blue haze does not appear on my second machine when I connect to the affected laptop...however this revealed a second problem to me.  I only get a screen shot of my Ubuntu box.  I can see the mouse moving on the Ubuntu machine, but on my client machine nothing moves.  I'll figure this one out later.

What does a clear VNC session suggest to you?

Hmmmmm....you said VLC not VNC...my bad.  But it did show me that my video seems ok from a remote session (maybe).

---

### Post by manoriax on 2009-11-01
Maybe it helps someone: [http://www.wiredrevolution.com/ubuntu/fix-blue-tinted-video-in-ubuntu](http://www.wiredrevolution.com/ubuntu/fix-blue-tinted-video-in-ubuntu)

---

### Post by LinLou on 2009-11-01
I think the change of colors is not handled only by the Nvidia Xserver settings, but also from the video options of each player. So just try to edit each option and see if it gets fixed.

---

### Post by craftbrewer on 2009-11-02
Same problem.  None of the "fixes" suggested are persistent for me.  As soon as a new video stream is initialized, the blue hue effect returns.

The only persistent fix that works for me is reverting to version 173 of the NVIDIA drivers.

---

### Post by amishphysicist on 2009-11-03
weird. Had the same issue, found the hue slider all the way over to the left. Reset. Fixolio. I love the Ubuntu community!

---

### Post by bencoder on 2009-11-06
same problem here.

It's not negative exactly, But like the colours are switched around somehow. People come out blue.

Hue slider in nvidia settings was at 0 and seems to do nothing. everything else is at 0 as well. It's in VLC and Movie Player.

Anyone who's hue slider does nothing manage to sort this?

Edit: managed to miss the link above: [http://www.wiredrevolution.com/ubuntu/fix-blue-tinted-video-in-ubuntu](http://www.wiredrevolution.com/ubuntu/fix-blue-tinted-video-in-ubuntu) (thanks manoriax)

this fixes the problem in move player(totem) but not in VLC :(

---

### Post by bencoder on 2009-11-07
> **bencoder said:**
> same problem here.

It's not negative exactly, But like the colours are switched around somehow. People come out blue.

Hue slider in nvidia settings was at 0 and seems to do nothing. everything else is at 0 as well. It's in VLC and Movie Player.

Anyone who's hue slider does nothing manage to sort this?

Edit: managed to miss the link above: [http://www.wiredrevolution.com/ubuntu/fix-blue-tinted-video-in-ubuntu](http://www.wiredrevolution.com/ubuntu/fix-blue-tinted-video-in-ubuntu) (thanks manoriax)

this fixes the problem in move player(totem) but not in VLC :(

OK, fixed VLC by changing the output plugin to opengl, but I would still like to know the cause of this problem and how to fix it.

---

### Post by mrwoody on 2009-11-08
> **bencoder said:**
> OK, fixed VLC by changing the output plugin to opengl, but I would still like to know the cause of this problem and how to fix it.

I have the same problem here. 
It works if I use video output x11 or gl in mplayer. Or it would work if I press "reset to hardware defaults" in nvidia-settings. So it is clearly an nvidia bug. Also it would work if I downgrade nvidia to 173. 

I think this bug should have higher priority.

---

### Post by LinLou on 2009-11-08
Try reseting also the options of the video of the player you use into the default.. Not just the Nvidia settings.

---

### Post by Rainbow Chelita on 2009-11-08
I have the same issue. I don't know what happened, it came out of nowhere, everything worked fine, the tint issue started randomly, i know cause i was watching a video and when it came to an end and started the next one was when all became blueish.

The hue fix doesn't work for me, it changes to normal when i open the NVIDIA X Sever Settings, but the when i want to save the file it says that it failed to create the back up, so i guess it doesn't save. Well, the thing is.. everytime i open the NVIDIA X Server the video goes back to its original colors, i can close the server and watch it full with everything ok, but when i open another one, it comes out blueish and have to open again the server.

I don't think its a solution to open it everytime i want to watch a video.

I hope the bug is fixed soon, if somebody already knows a solution please do tell :).

---

### Post by m4443 on 2009-11-08
> **Rainbow Chelita said:**
> I have the same issue. I don't know what happened, it came out of nowhere, everything worked fine, the tint issue started randomly, i know cause i was watching a video and when it came to an end and started the next one was when all became blueish.

The hue fix doesn't work for me, it changes to normal when i open the NVIDIA X Sever Settings, but the when i want to save the file it says that it failed to create the back up, so i guess it doesn't save. Well, the thing is.. everytime i open the NVIDIA X Server the video goes back to its original colors, i can close the server and watch it full with everything ok, but when i open another one, it comes out blueish and have to open again the server.

I don't think its a solution to open it everytime i want to watch a video.

I hope the bug is fixed soon, if somebody already knows a solution please do tell :).

I have exactly same problem.

---

### Post by CFBauer on 2009-11-08
Also having this issue. The Totem fix seems to be persistent, but is only temporary for VLC and SMplayer.

---

### Post by CFBauer on 2009-11-08
Bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gstreamer0.10/+bug/409640](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gstreamer0.10/+bug/409640)

---

### Post by jkogut on 2009-11-14
Hello,

glad to see the bug on launchpad. 

Have the same problem on my t61p laptop (nVidia Quadro FX 570M).

Problem with totem solves the previous wiredrevolution link. Problem with MPlayer is solved by switching video driver xv to gl. But ... I used to do some video editing (Kino) and unfortunately I have not found any solution yet :-/

Hence waiting till upgrade.

Cheers,
JK

---

### Post by senectus on 2009-11-20
Same problem here as well... what a weird bug.

---

