---
title: "13.04 audio and vidio skips"
date: 2013-04-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Slixt on 2013-04-28
I recently installed a new copy of 13.04 and suddenly experience the audio from rythmbox skips. It also happens when watching videos on youtube, so it's probably something system wide I assume. It was fine in 12.10 but wifi was crapped. It's not constant but, randomly it will skip two or three times throughout a song and occasionally the video skips along with it the sound.

---

### Post by Slixt on 2013-04-29
I've tried removing pulse audio incase it's yet another issue with pulse but, that doens't seem to be the case as I still get it. I'm currently listening to youtube (same song) to check if it's skipping and it is. Any ideas what else could be up? This is driving me insane...

---

### Post by jngdwe on 2013-05-10
Same here. I've got a clean copy of 13.04, installed 2 days ago. The audio skipping is extremely frequent, to the point of ruining everything I listen to. No idea why it is happening.

---

### Post by Slixt on 2013-05-18
Yeah, sorry for the late reply. I confirmed it's not pulseaudio by removing it, and sucks putting it back in. I'm still missing the volume control at the top of my screen. It's horribly annoying that every song skips so, I agree the issue just kind of ruins music a bit for me too.

---

### Post by hunterkil on 2013-05-20
It seems we may have the same kind of issues. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2146443](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2146443)

What kind of hardware configuration do you have?

---

### Post by Slixt on 2013-05-20
I think I have the Sandy Bridges onboard graphics set and Cougarpoint soundcard.

---

