---
title: "3d Games crash after 10mins, strange lockups while using Ubuntu-- please help"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Leopardson on 2009-04-28
Hi,
I used to use Windows XP on this hard drive, which had no problems in 3d games or anything. Nothing on the system has changed, except for the fact that I wiped out Windows XP because I hate walls, fences, Windows, and Gates.  

I have used Kubuntu, and have been hearing really good things about the latest Ubuntu, and decided to try it. So far, my experience is awful. Notice: When helping me, **please speak newb english ("Type in Sudo Gedikt Xorg.Conf", not "Do this in xorg") I am an  ubuntu newbie.**

Whenever I play a 3d game in linux, after about 10 minutes, the game goes to windowed mode, starts flickering, and disables my keyboard and mouse entirely, requiring me to restart my computer.

When I try to do something in Wine, the screen flickers and my computer locks up which requires me to restart.

When I open the Display Manager, I get the same effect I get when doing something in wine (Screen flickering & Lockup), requiring a restart.

When I open the Ubuntu-native Chess program, and press the 3d button, I get a "You need OpenGL to do this" message.
 

Current system:
AMD Sempron 3100+  - No previous problems.
1gb DDR Ram - Memtested many times, has no errors.
ATI Radeon HD 3650 - No previous problems, except in Crysis, where it did a lot more then it was supposed to.
Ubuntu 9.04 - It has problems. I just told you them.

I have tried both the ATi Website proprietary drivers (Catalyst 9.4) , AND the FGRLX ATi proprietary drivers from the hardware manager on two different ubuntu installs.

After it didn't work the first time, I tried completely reinstalling Ubuntu, and getting the ATi drivers through the hardware manager.
It didn't work.

Original install:
All problems listed above, except the display manager one. Also, I was stuck at 1024 x 768, and couldn't change.
ATi Catalyst 9.04 from the website.

New install:
I am at 1600 x 1200, but I am afraid to change it, because last time I did that (On the original Ubuntu 9.04 install), it freaked out and got stuck at 1024 x 768 and refused to change.
ATi Proprietary FGRLX drivers from the hardware drivers tool.



I have tried playing:
Hitman: Blood Money through Wine: 
Gets my wine lockup for about 3 minutes, installs, then gets it eternally when I try to start it.
Crysis Retail through Wine: 
Gets my wine lockup, eternally when I try to start the installer.
World of Warcraft through wine:
Gets my wine lockup. I used to play it in Wine on Kubuntu.
World of Padman (Native linux install) (Q3 Engine):
Gets my 10-minute crash.
Tremulous (Native linux install) (Q3 Engine):
Gets my 10-minute crash.
Sauerbraten (Native linux install via Apt-get)
Gets my 10-minute crash.
Flash games through firefox:
Work fine with no problems.
Compiz 3d effects:
Works fine with no problems.

I have tried:
Uninstalling/Reinstalling the games
Uninstalling/Reinstalling the whole Ubuntu OS and trying different drivers.
Biting my cat. (He bit me first!) -- Most effective, took away all my stress, but it pissed off my cat. He lost a little fur, I lost my ear.  

This is my Xorg.conf:
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
    Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    Option        "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option        "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Driver      "fglrx"
    BusID       "PCI:5:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
    Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```If you  happen to post some instructions, please note that the only things I know how to do are execute commands edit Xorg.Conf and get repositories via commands and editing sources.list. Also, if you do  that, I don't have any money to tip you with, but I do have access to a range of smilies to the right the forum text editor that I can award you.

Fake example award:
:D

Are these problems just mine, or are others having them too?
I read something I found on google about there being problems with the latest FGRLX drivers. If that has any credibility, I will understand that it is a temporary problem and wait like everyone else.

If not, how can I fix them?

If I can't fix them, is Karosene more effective then Diesel for melting my computer/monitor/keyboard/mouse/dog in a barrel with?

---

### Post by Leopardson on 2009-04-28
Bump

I guess either I have a very unique problem, or everybody hates me.
I doubt everybody hates me.
Well, I'm considering trial-and-error. I don't know what else to do.

---

### Post by Leopardson on 2009-04-29
I turned all desktop effects off and Sauerbraten seemed to work for the 30 minutes I had.

I am going to start it and leave it on for an hour to see if anything screws up.

Translation:

Bump :(

---

### Post by GeBo on 2009-05-02
I've put myself a new system together these past days and of cause installed Ubuntu on it. Because I read somewhere that the Ati drivers matured lately, I decided to go and pick me a 4850, instead of an Nvidia, which I always bought because of better drivers for Ubuntu. And my Ubuntu days go back as far as 5.04 :D. (And before that Fedora.) So I use Linux quite some time now.

Although gaming only takes a very small part in my usage of the computer, I must say: fps is not bad at all. Only... compiz don't seem to like the fglrx driver, because I get random lockups.

For instance:
* playing a movie seems like slow motion with hick-ups
* changing movie to full screen helps, but only when selecting with the mouse! When using keyboard to maximize: Bang! Lockup...
* 3D games like Openarena or Alien Arena random lockup.

I like compiz a lot, especially the small preview windows. But at the moment I unfortunately am forced to let it be turned off.

I must add that all these lockups were under Gnome. This afternoon I've installe KDE and didn't experience any trouble, but testing was only a small amount of time.


My systemspecs:
MSI X58 Pro - Core i7 920 - ATI 4850 - 2x 1TB Samsung - 3x 2GB triple channel mem OCZ - Ubuntu Jaunty AMD64

---

