---
title: "x64 11.04 server: How to install Unity or ubuntu-desktop?"
date: 2011-05-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by faisalsadaf on 2011-05-04
I am logged in, connected to the internet. Not sure how to install the Unity gui interface on this install.

I can also live with ubuntu-desktop and have tried the following:

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

I get the following response:

> E: Unable to Locate package ubuntu-desktop

I am actually getting this above error on just about everything that I tried to install, so I guess the issue is more global than just the ubuntu-desktop package.

I'm new at this; any suggestions please?

Thanks!!

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-05-04
Try ```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```
Perhaps your repos in software sources were not refreshed and therefore not showing anything yet.

---

### Post by faisalsadaf on 2011-05-04
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Try ```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```
Perhaps your repos in software sources were not refreshed and therefore not showing anything yet.

I tried, and got the same result:

```
Reading package lists ... Done
Building Dependency Tree
Reading State Information... Done
E: Unable to locate package ubuntu-desktop
```

Thanks for your reply. Any other suggestions I may try out?

---

### Post by faisalsadaf on 2011-05-04
I should add, when I do: sudo apt-get update
I get the following error at the end of the process:

> W: GPG Error: http//extras.ubuntu.com natty Release: The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 16126xxxxxxxxxx 

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-05-05
Can we see the output of ```
cat /etc/apt/sources.list
``` please.

---

### Post by faisalsadaf on 2011-05-05
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Can we see the output of ```
cat /etc/apt/sources.list
``` please.

Alas, I was in a rush to get the system up and running and reinstalled Ubuntu Workstation on it. So I won't be able to do this.

Thanks so much for your response. I consider this matter closed.

---

