---
title: "[SOLVED] dual screen extended desktop - Radeon 9600 in 8.10"
date: 2008-11-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by markofealing on 2008-11-21
I've taken the plunge and decided to run Kubuntu 8.10 on main PC (dual boot for now) as I think the KDE4 interface is better than Windows XP!

I'm having difficulty getting dual screen working properly. It works using the FGLRX  driver and I get two screens. However, I have two problems:

**_Problem #1: Reversed screen 1 and 2_**

My DVI screen is on the right and my main monitor on the left is a CRT using the VGA. Currently, they are reversed and it is a bit of a pain. Before someone makes the obvious suggestion, there are physical reasons why the LCD is on the right and the CRT on the left!

I've added the line

	[FONT="Courier New"]Option	    "DesktopSetup" "horizontal,reverse"[/FONT]

in my xorg.conf file but it seems to have had no effect in swapping over the monitors. What am I doing wrong?

[U][B]
Problem #2: The need for different screen resolutions on each monitor[/B][/U]

My CRT works best at 1024x768 @ 70Hz, and my LCD 1280x1024, however at present both are being driven at the same resolution (1280x1024 I think). How can I get a different resolution on each screen?

Below is a copy of my current xorg.conf file:
[FONT="Courier New"]

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "DesktopSetup" "horizontal,reverse"
	Option	    "Capabilities" "0x00000800"
	Option	    "PairModes" "0x0+0x0"
	Option	    "EnableMonitor" "crt1,tmds1"
	Option	    "ForceMonitors" "crt1,tmds1"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

[/FONT]

---

