---
title: "GeForce 6100 on 8.10"
date: 2009-01-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by saisrujan on 2009-01-14
Yet another thread on Geforce graphics, with a new twist.

I am finally able to make Ubuntu 8.10 work with geforce 6100 chipset, but it survives only until I reboot. Once I reboot, I get the oh-so-disgusting black screen with the brown line on top.

Now, here are the steps I need to take to get the video-card working again.

1. Hit Ctrl-Alt-F1, open /etc/X11/xorg.conf and change the driver to vesa.
2. Hit Ctrl-Alt-F9, and then Ctrl-Alt-Backspace to re-start x-server.
3. Go to System -> Administration -> Hardware drivers, and re-enable nvidia driver 177.
4. Go to terminal and run nvidia-xconfig. 
5. Hit Ctrl-Alt-Backspace to relaunch x-server.

Now it works. When I go to System -> Administration -> nVidia xerver settings, I can see that my video-card and monitor were identified correctly.

As long as I don't reboot. Once I reboot, I get the black-screen-of-death.

I have checked and my xorg.conf file is not being updated during reboot. So, the problem seems to be somewhere else. I have checked /var/log/xorg.0.log and xorg.0.log.old and there were no errors what-so-ever. I can post them here if you need them though.

Here's my xorg.conf file.

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Tue Nov  4 17:18:57 PST 2008

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:04 UTC 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic VA712"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 85.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6100"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

I have removed and re-installed all nvidia drivers, but I see no improvement.

Please help.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-01-14
so there major problems with nvidia 6100 in 8.10?  I'm still using 8.04 LTS...makes me glad that, for once, I didn't give in to the urge to upgrade!

---

### Post by saisrujan on 2009-01-15
> **logos34 said:**
> so there major problems with nvidia 6100 in 8.10?  I'm still using 8.04 LTS...makes me glad that, for once, I didn't give in to the urge to upgrade!

Well, it's part of the [release notes]("http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/810").

> 
**nVidia "legacy" video support**

The 71 and 96 series of proprietary nVidia drivers, as provided by the nvidia-glx-legacy and nvidia-glx packages in Ubuntu 8.04 LTS, are not compatible with the X.Org included in Ubuntu 8.10. Users with the nVidia TNT, TNT2, TNT Ultra, GeForce, GeForce2, GeForce3, and GeForce4 chipsets are affected and will be transitioned on upgrade to the free nv driver instead. This driver does not support 3D acceleration.

Users of other nVidia chipsets that are supported by the 173 or 177 driver series will be transitioned to the nvidia-glx-173 or nvidia-glx-177 package instead. However, unlike drivers 96 and 71, drivers 173 and 177 are only compatible with CPUs that support SSE (e.g. Intel Pentium III, AMD Athlon XP or higher). Systems with older CPUs will also be transitioned to the nv driver on upgrade. 

I have an AMD Athlon 3200+ and it supports SSE, so I thought the 177 driver would just work. I am sure it will work, but there's some loose end that I need to secure and I need help on identifying what's going wrong.

I will start from scratch today now that I know what exactly needs to be done. Let's see if I can make it work.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-01-15
I'm using the 180 driver in Intrepid. It looks like you are behind on your updates. You should make sure you are using the latest xserver-xorg.

I should start out with the basic /etc/X11/xorg.conf, then setup your dual monitor setup.

Jim

---

### Post by saisrujan on 2009-01-15
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I'm using the 180 driver in Intrepid. It looks like you are behind on your updates. You should make sure you are using the latest xserver-xorg.


180 is not available on my hardware-drivers list. Nvidia drivers page indicates I need to use 177 for my specific card GeForce 6100.

> **cariboo907 said:**
> 
I should start out with the basic /etc/X11/xorg.conf, then setup your dual monitor setup.


I am not interested in a dual-monitor setup. I am trying to setup my first monitor to use the graphics card (instead of sticking with vesa or nv and lose my glx).

I have re-installed ubuntu and end up with the same problem. I need a way to ensure that my graphics settings survive a reboot. I am not sure why I am getting the black screen after reboot and have to go through the steps after every reboot.

Please help.

---

### Post by saisrujan on 2009-01-15
I tried using [Envyng]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html") and in the first run, it seemed to install 177 driver fine, but when I restarted, I got the dreaded black screen. 

I later mucked around with installing, uninstalling and reinstalling drivers using Envy and seem to have got the kernel / supporting files to an irreparable state. Now, I can't seem to enable drivers using System -> Administrator -> Hardware drivers utility.

I am going to re-install ubuntu 8.10 again (for the third time). I will live with vesa driver until someone can help me.

Tseliot! Help!

---

### Post by waynefwayne on 2009-01-18
I am trying to install nvidia driver for a GeForce 6100
I have used ubuntu's auto install and envyng-core
Installed driver version 177 and 173
every time I get a black screen on restart.

---

### Post by saisrujan on 2009-01-19
I wish I had done more searching on the nv forums and ubuntu bug reports on this. The truth is out there if I ever cared to look, and now I have the first-hand experience.

NVidia's recent drivers have not been working on the Geforce 6100. I have tried Windows 7 beta and got the same black screen with a thin line on top. People all over the internet have reported issues with other recent Linux distributions as well. Some have even reported that the latest Vista / XP drivers do not work either.

I think it will be immature on my part to blame either the OS Kernels or NVidia drivers. But one thing is for sure - NVidia will have to open up its drivers to public, at least the Linux drivers. Let them have full control over Windows and OS X drivers (in tune with their closed-source philosophies) if they so wish, but open up Linux drivers to the public. 

For now, nVidia has left their Geforce 6100 users in the lurch. If any Geforce 6100 users / potential purchasers are reading this (hopefully before they bite the bullet and upgrade), the lesson here is to stick with your current working configuration or buy a more recent hardware. 

For now, this thread just adds to the numerous others about the same topic on the internet. 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-177/+bug/282214](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-177/+bug/282214)
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=116946&page=2](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=116946&page=2)

Let's hope that NVidia has moved so much ahead with their technology that they think the 6100 series is archaic. But the problem is that I have heard of users who are still buying motherboards with in-built 6100 graphics. Tough!

---

### Post by Insane_Homer on 2009-01-19
Have you tried the 180.xx Beta drivers?

the .16 has been really good to me for over a month, very stable.

[ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/180.16/](ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/180.16/)

Install instructions here.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990978&highlight=nvidia+180.06+beta&page=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990978&highlight=nvidia+180.06+beta&page=4)

---

### Post by saisrujan on 2009-01-19
> **Insane_Homer said:**
> Have you tried the 180.xx Beta drivers?

the .16 has been really good to me for over a month, very stable.

[ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/180.16/](ftp://download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/180.16/)

Install instructions here.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990978&highlight=nvidia+180.06+beta&page=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=990978&highlight=nvidia+180.06+beta&page=4)

Thanks for responding. I will give this a try when I get a chance and post back. Hope you have really tested it with Geforce 6100!

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-01-19
I've used the onboard nvidia 6100 on both Vista and Ubuntu with absolutely zero problems. I'm running 64bit versions of both. Intially when I started using Ubuntu back about Dapper, I had to use safe graphics mode to boot up the LiveCD, but since Gutsy it just plain works. 

When doing a fresh install I always make sure all the updates are done before installing the restricted drivers, Ive never had a driver installation fail.

Jim

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-01-19
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I've used the onboard nvidia 6100 on both Vista and Ubuntu with absolutely zero problems. I'm running 64bit versions of both. Intially when I started using Ubuntu back about Dapper, I had to use safe graphics mode to boot up the LiveCD, but since Gutsy it just plain works. 


+1

That's my experience too (x64 here also).  Hence my surprise to hear there was a problem in Intrepid (hadn't read the release notes).  I wonder if the beta nvidia drivers really work, as mentioned--would sure save a of heartaches.

---

