---
title: "12.04, NVIDIA Quadro NVS 160M, Black Screen, Dell Latitude E6400"
date: 2012-05-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mrkrrtft on 2012-05-02
Hi all,

I've run 10.10 on my Dell Latitude E6400 before and used the nvidia-173 drivers.  However, with a fresh install of 12.04 I can't get the nvidia drivers to work at all.

I've tried the following:

* nvidia-current
* nvidia-current-updates
* nouveau drivers
* downgrading X to Oneiric 

Nothing works. Every time I install an NVIDIA specific driver i get a black screen once it logs into the desktop.  I have my desktop autologging in so I can exit by pressing power, and then the ENTER key to shut down.  I can also press CTRL+ALT+F1 to reach a terminal screen.  So the system is running, but the X NVIDIA drivers aren't.

I'm not sure where to go to now.  I did read some bug reports on launchpad that the nvidia drivers are possibly broken.

This issue (video drivers not working) is the only think keeping me from using Ubuntu full time.  I've tried Kubuntu also and have the same issues.  I can use the laptop for anything that doesn't require any video accelleration, but what good is that? No games. ;)  I mean... isn't that what computers were created for? Gaming? ;)

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-05-02
Check out the solution [here]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/93809/nvidia-quadro-nvs-160m-in-the-dell-latitude-e6500").

---

### Post by mrkrrtft on 2012-05-02
This process also leaves me with the same black screen which I can switch from to a terminal. Is there a log i can read that may show what's going on?

---

### Post by mrkrrtft on 2012-05-13
Ok, so I've done some clean installed, tried Kubuntu, and done more troubleshooting.

When the screen goes black after installing the nvidia-current drivers the system doesn't lock up, just the resolution is out of range of the laptop's monitor.  I found this out by pressing the power button and then hitting Enter to shut down.

I then did another clean install, and activated the Remote Desktop option so I could connect via VNC and see what's going on.  

Upon rebooting after installing the nvidia-current drivers, the system goes into a resolution of 640x480.  The NVIDIA driver is being loaded as the nvidia-settings config utility will open and lists the nvidia driver as active.

So how do I get the resolution to change?

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-05-13
Could try
sudo nvidia-xconfig
sudo service lightdm restart
(login)
Then run
nvidia-settings & set your resolution.

Post your /var/log/Xorg.0.log if you still get problems..

The latest 295.49 is a bug fix for older GPU & security hole.

---

