---
title: "9.04 - No Sound except PC Bleep"
date: 2009-05-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by zabzoo on 2009-05-21
Hi, help me please ):P


**I've checked these -**
[LIST]
[*]Volume controls nothing is down.
[*]Tried basic troubleshooting here >
[/LIST]
[INDENT][https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting)[/INDENT]

Got stuck here since my script did not have what was expected -

@>  "find a section that looks like this, which matches up with my soundcards codec: "

**ADDITIONAL INFORMATION**

**Sound Device:**
```

00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Intel Corporation Device 3001
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 22
        Memory at e3220000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
        Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel
```


**Hardware:**
Motherboard:  Intel DP35DP
uname -r   :  2.6.28-11-server (Installed Gnome afterwards)

**Alsa/Codec details**
Alsa Driver Version:            1.0.18rc3
Also Module Loaded:             snd_hda_intel
HDA-Intel Codec Information:    SigmaTel STAC9271D

[Click-here to view the Alsa Information Script]("http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=ca17a509ed4bc0d81f2f58ea78dfe347bc982a6c")

**Special note**
For some reason I can here the PC speaker sounds controlled by "PC Beep" control but none of the other applications produce any sound.

Your time will help me greatly.

---

### Post by zabzoo on 2009-05-22
I'm stuck - is there anyone willing to help me?

---

### Post by dailyacts56 on 2009-07-09
I just found out my sound is not supported by Ubuntu. I am guesing though because I had the video card a lot of information come up and when I did not know what I was looking for to find my PC's sound card. I ran a lot of other tests with my terminal and they were positive But none of this makes no sence because I have gotten the sound card to work before. Why not now? My sound settings are perfect. Must be something else.

Exactly what am I looking for in the code for my sound card? Then I can go to the link which shows all supported sound cards.

If it is something else, give me all or some of the options to get my speakers working.

Thank you!

---

