---
title: "13.04  HP Mini 1030NR grafics fail after suspend"
date: 2013-04-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by freeulster on 2013-04-12
I installed Ubuntu 13.04 on my HP Mini 1030.  Since I installed the graphics fail whenever I come out of suspend the screen just shows vertical lines of color and I have to reboot. Is there a setting that needs change or just wait until the official release?

---

### Post by Nullbrot on 2013-04-29
> **freeulster said:**
> I installed Ubuntu 13.04 on my HP Mini 1030.  Since I installed the graphics fail whenever I come out of suspend the screen just shows vertical lines of color and I have to reboot. Is there a setting that needs change or just wait until the official release?

Experiencing the same issue on an HP Mini 1033 (formerly running 11.10 with no issues).  Installed from the release ISO and have run one update.

---

### Post by dmacias on 2013-05-03
I have a similar problem with my wife's HP Mini.  After resume from suspend the display is blank but the system is still responsive.  I can reboot or hibernate and resume and all is fine but I can't get the display to work after suspend.

---

### Post by paoloelefanti on 2013-05-24
Same problem on (HP) Compaq Mini 700EL: no solutions?

Paolo

---

### Post by dvdhudson33 on 2013-06-05
Same with me, on a HP Mini 1001TU.  The colours are kinda pretty, but I'm growing tired of seeing them.

Strange that *hibernate* seems to work fine (if you re-enable it via Terminal), not that I'd use it as an alternative to suspend.

---

### Post by dvdhudson33 on 2013-07-06
Bump!  I'd just like to give a big
**[COLOR=#ff0000][SIZE=6][FONT=comic sans ms]THANK YOU[/FONT][/SIZE][/COLOR]**
to the Ubuntu developers who fixed this problem in one of the recent updates.  :D

---

