---
title: "Using TV as primary display with ATI Radeon 9250 AGP (RV280) S-Video TV-Out"
date: 2008-09-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by viper77 on 2008-09-18
Hello, this is my first post here! :)
I just wanted to know if it's possible to have only a TV as a primary display in Ubuntu Intrepid, i'm using the latest xorg open source drivers. I already have TV-Out working properly at 800x600 on a second computer, and it would be great to take the monitor away, as it will be used mainly to watch videos.
I read somewhere this is easy to do with NVidia cards, but with ATI is a different song.
The only working method i found so far to enable TV-Out with this card is through xrandr commands, but it only works with the monitor connected first, and then it clones the desktop to TV with the following commands:

xrandr --addmode S-video 800x600
xrandr --output S-video --mode 800x600

I could paste my xorg.conf if you need it.
Any help or ideas to try will be appreciated, thanks! :)
Sebastian

---

### Post by viper77 on 2008-09-19
Bump!

---

### Post by viper77 on 2008-09-23
Finally after so many trials and erros i gave up trying this with this video card, but luckily a friend of mine gave me a better card to try, a Radeon 9550 256mb with fglrx propietary drivers, and by modifying xorg.conf several times, i managed to run it only with the TV as a primary display with no monitor attached, but first i had to go back to Hardy 8.04 again because at this moment fglrx is not supported in Intrepid, it´s already reported, hopefully it will on the final version, let´s cross fingers... :)

---

### Post by gdlx on 2008-09-25
Viper77,
Thanks for your effort. I want to do something similar and I'll use the info to get there.

---

### Post by viper77 on 2008-09-26
You´re welcome! :)
Let me know if you need the xorg.conf i used to make it work!

> **gdlx said:**
> Viper77,
Thanks for your effort. I want to do something similar and I'll use the info to get there.

---

### Post by szac on 2008-10-22
Hi Viper, I am trying to enable TV out with my 9550 and could use your xorg.conf settings. 

Thanks!! 

P.S. What resolutions were you able to achieve? Are you using a 7 pin to component adapter?

---

### Post by viper77 on 2008-11-27
Hi, sorry for the delay in getting back to you, i managed to get a TV working as a primary display with a Radeon 9550 (finally i discarded the 9250, because it didn´t want to work with the TV as a primary display, with the 9550 it doesn´t even need the monitor to be connected) with this xorg.conf
I´m using a S-Video 7 pin cable adapter to RCA male.

Sebastian

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "aticonfig-Screen" 0 0
	Screen         "aticonfig-Screen2"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor"
	HorizSync    30.0 - 50.0
	VertRefresh  60.0 - 60.0
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor2"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "ATIFGLEXTENSION" "Screen"
	Option	    "Centermode" "off"
	Option	    "FSAAEnable" "on"
	Option	    "TVFormat" "PAL-B"
	Option	    "ForceMonitors" "tv"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device2"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "ATIFGLEXTENSION" "Screen"
	Option	    "Centermode" "off"
	Option	    "FSAAEnable" "on"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
	Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"

#		Modes "800x600"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

#	Modes "1024x768" "800x600"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen2"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device2"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor2"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection

```

> **szac said:**
> Hi Viper, I am trying to enable TV out with my 9550 and could use your xorg.conf settings. 

Thanks!! 

P.S. What resolutions were you able to achieve? Are you using a 7 pin to component adapter?

---

### Post by szac on 2009-02-12
Thanks Viper! I'll give it a try.

---

### Post by Sonja on 2009-02-12
I'm wondering the same thing, but my card is Radeon HD 2400 PRO.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1068304](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1068304)

What should I do?

---

### Post by RGPerson on 2009-02-13
And we bought a Diamond Radeon 4550 HD.  We'd like to use the DVI port (with a DVI to HDMI adaptor).  Do we need to take this back and get a different card?  Need to know soon as we only have 30 days.

Gabrielle

---

### Post by Sonja on 2009-02-13
I wonder if the answer is maybe here [http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/ATI#TV_out](http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/ATI#TV_out)

I will read it later tonight.

---

### Post by RGPerson on 2009-02-13
> **Sonja said:**
> I wonder if the answer is maybe here [http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/ATI#TV_out](http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/ATI#TV_out)

I will read it later tonight.

Well, we can't so much try it now.  I am at work, and the computer is at home.  That said, I can remote in to it and see some stuff. It's just a lot of work to do something deep in it right now.

By the way, we have perhaps a different issue. I don't think we have the flrgx whatever it is driver.

But when I go to ati's site, I don't see anything for Radeon 4000 series.  I see 4800 series and 3xxx series.  Which driver should I get?

Gabrielle

---

### Post by jaysmit9 on 2009-02-15
> **Sonja said:**
> I'm wondering the same thing, but my card is Radeon HD 2400 PRO.


I too have the HD 2400 card and want this to work! 

I have just converted my PC into a Linux box using ubuntu.  I'm using the "gutsy" version (I already had a disti CD).  I've successfully downloaded and installed the latest ATI fglrx drivers.  ---  I cannot configure my xorg to output video to the component cables.  I'm sure I'm just missing a config somehow.  Below is my "Single Display" version of the xorg.conf and some info from the Xorg.0.log and result from the aticonfig --query-monitor.  Please let me know if there is anything else needed.

Thanks in advance!  Jay
------------aticonfig output---------
aticonfig --query-monitor
    Connected monitors: crt2, cv
    Enabled monitors: crt2
sudo aticonfig --enable-monitor=crt2,cv --effective=now
    ati_dm:FGLRX EnableDisplays failed when try to enable display: 50
------------Xorg.0.log---------

(II) fglrx(0): ***Display: ConnectedDisplayTypes=0x00000050, disabled=0x00000000
(II) fglrx(0): Connected Display1: CRT on secondary DAC [crt2]
(II) fglrx(0):  Display1: No EDID information from DDC.
(II) fglrx(0):  Display1: Failed to get EDID information.
(II) fglrx(0): Connected Display2: Component Video [cv]
(II) fglrx(0):  Display2: No EDID information from DDC.
(II) fglrx(0):  Display2: Failed to get EDID information.
(WW) fglrx(0): DALEnableDriverInstance on secondary failed: 9
(II) fglrx(0): For single mode, Component Video is disabled


------------xorg----------
Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Identifier     "Default Layout"
        Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
        InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
        Option      "Xinerama" "off"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver      "kbd"
        Option      "CoreKeyboard"
        Option      "XkbRules" "xorg"
        Option      "XkbModel" "pc105"
        Option      "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
        Driver      "mouse"
        Option      "CorePointer"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
        Option      "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
        Option      "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
        Option      "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "stylus"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option      "Type" "stylus"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "eraser"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option      "Type" "eraser"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "cursor"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option      "Type" "cursor"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
        Option      "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
        Option      "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
        Option      "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        BusID       "PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
        Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
        Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Viewport   0 0
                Depth     24
                Modes    "1280x720" "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by jaysmit9 on 2009-02-15
Quick update.  I got it working (sortof).

If I enter the command:
   aticonfig --enable-monitor cv
The component video is enabled.  However, it doesn't have the same resolution.  It scrolls around on the 1280x720 screen.  

Also - It added --> Option      "EnableMonitor" "cv"
to the xorg.conf device section.  Unfortunately, it still boots to the VGA device.

Jay

---

