---
title: "9.04 / ATI 4870 slow"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by j0natz on 2009-05-03
Hi, 

I've setup i386 version 9.04 on my desktop. Its a C2D E6650 on a GA-EP45-DS3. It has 6 GB RAM and a Radeon HD4870. 

If I install any driver for my graphics card (the one which is recommened by ubuntu or the one provided by ati themselve I do get really bad performance.

Also I cannot change any settings like resolution... (See screenshot attached)

[IMG]http://img9.imageshack.us/img9/9473/bildschirmfotoanzeigeei.png[/IMG]

Everything lags as hell and its not workable...

Is this a known problem with a fix maybe?

Btw. I don't know if this is relating to my problem but I use ndiswrapper for my usb wlan card...

Thanks

Jonas

---

### Post by molochi on 2009-05-03
I'm no expert, but shouldn't you be using the 64bit version of Jaunty, rather than i386?

---

### Post by isa.k on 2009-05-09
> **molochi said:**
> I'm no expert, but shouldn't you be using the 64bit version of Jaunty, rather than i386?
LoL!

When I saw the 4870 + 5GB Ram with the word i386 in the same sentence, I thought exactly the same thing!

Then I though to myself, "Wow! The power of Linux!" LoL!

Then I read your post :P

Yeah, I think AMD64 has to be installed **j0natz**.

---

### Post by Pitboss on 2009-05-09
Hi :) You have problems with the ati proprietary driver. You shouldn't worry about this cause it's normal. You should uninstall this driver right now. Instead use the open-source. See [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130235") for more detail. It's a pity ati doesn't have a nice driver for linux, but life is life.

---

### Post by sambarluc on 2009-05-13
I'm not exactly sure I understood your problem, anyway I had very bad performance issues with an old ATI (RV250) too, due to some changes that has been done in the drivers from 8.10 to 9.04. I had the problem almost solved adding in my /etc/X11/xorg.conf the XAA option (it seems it's not the default) like this:

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Option "AccelMethod" "XAA"
EndSection


Please remember to !!!BACKUP!!! your xorg.conf because messing with it, you may get an ugly black screen.

---

### Post by braveerudite on 2009-05-15
I have same exact problem.  This is the only thing that angers me about ATI.  I had to disable the drivers and everything went back to normal.  No 3D support for us.

---

