---
title: "11.10 upgrade, flash sound issues with chrome"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by phour10n3 on 2011-10-16
Just updated to 11.10 from 11.04 and I am now having some sound issues in flash (I think...). On a lot of online videos and with the facebook notification sound I get a tinny sound and a pulsing beep-like thing. Youtube works fine, however, and affected videos play fine in firefox.

I tried the program flash doctor to no avail, and I tried to play with alsamixer but got no results. Does anyone have suggestions on what might be missing?

---

### Post by lecneri on 2011-10-16
I'm having a issue like this.

My sound, even on Youtube, sometimes does not work. I've tried in 3 differents browsers, opera, firefox and chrome. 

Sometimes closing the browser and opening it again works, but most of time I hear no sound.

I've googled about this, tried some tips but nothing solved this problem so far.

---

### Post by shubhamgupta731 on 2011-10-16
Just install adobe-flashplugin from ubuntu-restricted-drivers and restart!!!

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2011-10-16
I recommend install [Flash-Aid](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/flash-aid/) in Firefox... it will give you the correct plugin for all three browsers.

This add-on is by a mod of this forum, BTW. :popcorn:

---

### Post by phour10n3 on 2011-10-17
Unfortunately, none of these have worked. Maybe it isn't an issue with flash drivers? Like I said, youtube works fine, and there are no issues in firefox. 

For another example, I was watching a video on Daily Motion and had no issues with it, but ads that would pop up during the video would have the vibrating, tinny effect.

---

### Post by mrsirrisrm on 2011-10-17
I'm having the same problem occasionally after upgrading to 11.10. Only occurs in chrome and chromium, with sound from some (but not all) flash things (videos, but also grooveshark, soundcloud etc).
Flash works just fine in opera, firefox, playing video in VLC etc.

---

### Post by mrsirrisrm on 2011-10-17
Update: Flash Aid (see post by mister_playboy above) sorted it all out for me, by installing the correct flash version. Thanks heaps!

---

### Post by phour10n3 on 2011-10-17
Tried the flash aid for a second time, still no results. Perhaps my running 64 bit is the difference in this not working for me vs working for you?

Looking at one of the previous posts, I confirm that soundcloud is a good example of the issue occurring while youtube videos work fine. Not sure what the difference is in those flash apps.

If no one has any other ideas I'm going to cross-post this in beginner talk/some other forum.

---

### Post by gbd on 2011-10-18
Have you tried installing ubuntu-restricted-extras? If already installed, re-install just in case the upgrade messed with it. This package includes the latest version of Flash, and sound plugins that may do the trick.

---

### Post by DavidSimms on 2011-10-19
After messing around with the aforementioned solutions, and running "Computer Janitor" (to clean away the cruft), I did the following:

1) Opened a new tab
2) Entered "chrome://plugins/"
3) Pressed the "+ Details" button
4) Saw **two versions of flash plugin, disabled the older one**.

Currently in use:

Version: 11.0 r1
Location: /usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so

Solve my problem with distorted sound.

64-bit if that means anything to you (kernel, browser and plugin).

---

### Post by phour10n3 on 2011-10-19
> **DavidSimms said:**
> 
1) Opened a new tab
2) Entered "chrome://plugins/"
3) Pressed the "+ Details" button
4) Saw **two versions of flash plugin, disabled the older one**.

Currently in use:

Version: 11.0 r1
Location: /usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so


Well, it really was that easy...
Thanks David!

---

### Post by amias on 2011-10-26
i have this problem , it effects soundcloud.com but not youtube or iplayer.

i'm using 64bit ubuntu studio upgraded to 11.10.

mine says : 

Flash - Version: 10.3.162
Shockwave Flash 10.3 d162
Name:	Shockwave Flash
Version:	10.3 d162
Location:	/usr/lib/chromium-browser/plugins/libflashplayer.so
 	 Disable
MIME types:	
MIME type	Description	File extensions
application/x-shockwave-flash	Shockwave Flash	
.swf
application/futuresplash	FutureSplash Player	
.spl

---

### Post by rogerfgay on 2012-05-07
Months old but helped me fix the problem ... had multiple Flash and disabled all but one too ... thanks.

---

