---
title: "10.04 and Nvidia GeForce 210"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by brucehvn on 2010-05-06
I've posted in the installation/upgrade forum, but just can't get any response to this.  I upgraded a working Karmic installation to Lucid a few days ago and I cannot get the restricted Nvidia drivers or the Nouveau drivers to work completely.

If the Nouveau drivers are being used (after an "apt-get purge nvidia-*"), the text mode seems to work ok, but the X nouveau driver acts as if it cannot recognize the card.  The only way I can get into X is to make sure I have the "nv" driver in the xorg.conf.  I can then get into X normally.  The Hardware->Drivers dialog has no suggestions for any restricted drivers.

If I install nvidia-current, the machine will just lock up at the splash screen.  The Xorg.0.log file is zero bytes.  I've checked and installing nvidia-current properly blacklists the nouveau drivers and I see no evidence in the messages file that the nouveau drivers tried to load in text mode.  In fact, it shows the nvidia driver loading for console mode.  I've tried the nouveau.modeset=0 kernel option as well, but that doesn't do anything.

This is a fairly new nvidia card, maybe only a couple months old.  I think it's been out for quite some time though.  But it was working fine under Karmic with the restricted drivers.

I really want to get this working as I need full support of the video card.  Does anyone have any clue what might be going on?  Has anyone had success with this card under Lucid?

---

### Post by mfraser on 2010-05-08
Not sure if this is related, but I've been Kubuntu 10.04 for a while now with a GeForce 210 without problems until this morning where I can't get x to start with the nvidia or nouveau drivers.

At the moment I'm having to use the VESA drivers.

---

### Post by davoudi on 2010-06-01
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470822](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470822)

---

### Post by bclintbe on 2010-06-01
I have the eVGA Nvidia 210, and when I install the "version current" my video works great, but I don't have sound anymore. Basically all my sound properties are unselectable.

---

