---
title: "9.04 Sound only works in Totem"
date: 2009-04-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Robby517 on 2009-04-21
Well the title pretty much sums it up. I upgraded from 8.10 to 9.04 when the RC was available, it needed a few tweaks, i.e. the monitor wasn't recognized and i couldn't change the resolution to anything above 1024x768, but that's fixed now. The only thing i cant seem to fix, even though I've used a dozen of guides is the sound, i only seem to get sound in totem, all the others (vlc, audacious, flash, amarok,..) don't play any sound at all. When i go to preferences>sound my devices are all set to my sound-card with the alsa driver and everything works, but when i use an app it only works in totem. If anybody has the same issue or knows how to fix it, please let me know, thx .

---

### Post by Robby517 on 2009-04-21
anybody?

---

### Post by Robby517 on 2009-04-22
i'd like to update this thread with the info that it's  still only playing sound trough totem, but now it's impossible to listen to anything at all since it makes an very annoying sound at the same time and music seems to play at half the speed it's supposed to

---

### Post by Robby517 on 2009-04-23
help, i need somebody.

---

### Post by PureW on 2009-04-23
I too have no sound from totem, flashplayer in firefox, amarok, rythmbox. Only thing that makes sound is mpd.

---

### Post by markitoxs on 2009-04-23
Hey guys, same here, noooooooooo sound throught the speakers, however everything works perfectly fine with the headphones.

---

### Post by CraigPaleo on 2009-04-23
Try this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578)

---

