---
title: "8.04 Odd Flash problems"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by thecheat on 2008-05-01
Alright so I have flash installed and sites like YouTube work alright (although you can't use the seek bar to rewind or fast forward a video), however most other sites like Break.com and CollegeHumor.com for example, don't work. And even though YouTube "works" it doesn't work that well.

Another odd one that doesn't work for me is [http://springfield-armory.com](http://springfield-armory.com)

I have the flash package installed through Synaptic, any other ideas?

---

### Post by tubunu on 2008-05-01
Here's what I did to solve a similar problem with flash: 

```
sudo apt-get purge flashplugin-nonfree gnash gnash-common swfdec-mozilla && sudo apt-get install flashplugin-nonfree libflashsupport

```

:)

---

### Post by thecheat on 2008-05-01
Perfect! Everything is working perfectly now!

---

### Post by martin15s on 2008-05-02
just browsing and found your post - worked perfectly many thanks

---

### Post by frokki on 2008-05-07
Many thanks for that!

---

### Post by coolnfunky_raj on 2008-08-11
Wonderful. Flash works beautifully now. Thanks. Can you tell me

---

### Post by Vinegarcat on 2008-08-16
Ah, worked, but uninstalled oss which I have to use for my sound card :(

---

### Post by bakarocket on 2008-08-18
Nice work, thanks a million. I couldn't figure out how to purge the old stuff, now youtube works perfectly.

---

### Post by Mehtis on 2008-12-24
Thanks! I finally registered here to say that this worked for me too. Really appreciate it.

---

### Post by bmomjian on 2008-12-24
I wasn't able to watch Onion videos so I upgraded to Flash 10, but then I couldn't play Youtube HD videos.  With this fix they both work fine now.  Thanks.

---

### Post by Dr.Jeckyl on 2008-12-25
> **tubunu said:**
> Here's what I did to solve a similar problem with flash: 

```
sudo apt-get purge flashplugin-nonfree gnash gnash-common swfdec-mozilla && sudo apt-get install flashplugin-nonfree libflashsupport

```

:)
Fixed my issues too. Much appreciated.

---

### Post by obsrv on 2008-12-25
Very good info! Thank you a lot! A lot of my friends gets problems with *FLASH*.

---

### Post by ddd42 on 2009-01-07
> **tubunu said:**
> Here's what I did to solve a similar problem with flash: 

```
sudo apt-get purge flashplugin-nonfree gnash gnash-common swfdec-mozilla && sudo apt-get install flashplugin-nonfree libflashsupport

```

:)

Excellent!! Thank you SO MUCH!! I've been looking for 6 months, and this is all it took!? Thank you so much!!:popcorn::KS:KS:KS:KS:KS

---

### Post by UriahHeap on 2009-01-07
I have been scouring the forums trying to get sound on hulu.com  Installed/uninstalled java & flash several times but your command did the trick!  

Now I can get back to Babylon 5 in the morning!

Thank you!

---

### Post by Aaris on 2009-01-07
Just wanted to say that I was having similar problems for the last few days and rand the command above and everything is back to working great. Thanks for the great advice! :)

---

### Post by rath3r on 2009-01-27
Thanks, tubuntu, there are a lot of posts about them. they should be directed here.

Thanks, again!

---

### Post by Yrathir on 2009-02-03
> **tubunu said:**
> Here's what I did to solve a similar problem with flash: 

```
sudo apt-get purge flashplugin-nonfree gnash gnash-common swfdec-mozilla && sudo apt-get install flashplugin-nonfree libflashsupport

```

:)
Thanks a lot! I'm new to Ubuntu and was a little worried with this problem, lol. After a lot of methods, this one was the only one that worked!:D

---

