---
title: "1080P works at login screen, but is cropped after"
date: 2008-06-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by RobbieCrash on 2008-06-01
I've got my computer hooked up to an LCD tv via a DVI to HDMI cable. 

When I first get to the log in screen after booting up, my TV detects the screen properly at 1080p hd and the entire picture shows up clearly. 

However, after I log in, the resolution Ubuntu claims is 1920*1080, but the top, bottom and sides are all cropped off. 

I've tried altering the refresh rate, and going into all my TV's settings, however when it's an HDMI input, I'm left with nothing but colour options to configure. I've manually entered the resolution into my xorg.conf, but that didn't change anything.

Any ideas?

Ubuntu 8.04 32bit with all updates, GeForce7200, 1GB ram, AMD Athalon 3400+

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-06-01
this happens with many HDTVs. you'll probably find that it is cropping the login screen too, or perhaps the login screen is at a lower resolution. TVs are designed to overscan slightly. if you cant find settings on your tv to change the display (sometimes you can change to things like 4:3, 16:9, xinerama, zoom, full etc) so it shows all your on screen information then you'll need to create something akin to a resolution within a resolution.

for example for my 720p television, which should have a resolution of 1280x720 i had to create a custom modeline that did 1240x692 or else it would just crop the edges off (it still crops about 2 pixels off each side but what the hell).

read up on custom modelines and hdtv overscanning stuff. i found the easiest way to get my modeline was by booting into windows and using powerstrip, which can copy a linux modeline to the clipboard which you can then use in your xorg.conf

---

### Post by RobbieCrash on 2008-08-15
It appears as though overscanning isn't my only issue.

In addition to overscanning, the actual resolution is only showing as 1080i, not 1080p as my TV is capable of. 

I've tried all the recommended fixes:
	
Option	"ModeValidation""NoMaxPClkCheck, AllowNon60HzDFPModes, NoVesaModes, NoXServerModes, NoPredefinedModes"
Option		"TwinView"	"0"
Modes		"1910x1060_60"
Option		"metamodes"	"nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 

None of them have worked to any avail.

If I leave that mode line uncommented, my X server will not properly start. 

My entire xorg.conf is here, please tell me wtf I am doing wrong:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option		"Xinerama"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor0"
	Vendorname	"Unknown"
	Modelname	"Proview NS-LCD42HD"
	Horizsync	31.0	-	70.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0	-	85.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Videocard0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA Corporation"
	Boardname	"GeForce 7100 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	
	# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1900x1060 +0+0"
	# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1900x1060 +0+0; 1900x1060_60 +0+0"
	Identifier	"Screen0"
	Device		"Videocard0"
	Monitor		"Monitor0"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Option		"UseEdidFreqs"	"false"
	Option		"ModeValidation""NoMaxPClkCheck, AllowNon60HzDFPModes, NoVesaModes, NoXServerModes, NoPredefinedModes"
	Option		"TwinView"	"0"
	#Modes		"1910x1060_60"
	Option		"metamodes"	"nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1920x1080_60 +0+0"
EndSection

---

