---
title: "H.264 files into DVD"
date: 2010-01-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by chandika on 2010-01-26
Hi everybody,

I've got a Canon Full HD video camera which records in .mts file format which is in H.264 codec. However I can't write my videos into DVD from the Pixela image utility which is the default bundle software distributed with the camera. I'm trying to find a way to convert my mts files into DVD formats (such as .vob or .mpg). Does anybody know about a software I can use in Ubuntu. Thanks in advance

Chandika

---

### Post by inobe on 2010-01-26
there might be a little command line in this article 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1045153&highlight=.mts](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1045153&highlight=.mts)

---

### Post by inobe on 2010-01-26
actually' give handbrake a try

[http://handbrake.fr/downloads.php](http://handbrake.fr/downloads.php)

also i realized' don't know why i missed it, but to make a dvd is relatively easy using **devede**, however devede may not be able to recognize that codec and you will need to convert the .mts with handbrake to .mp4 prior to using devede.

i apologies for initially giving bad advise.

---

### Post by mixmaster on 2010-01-26
> **inobe said:**
> actually' give handbrake a try

[http://handbrake.fr/downloads.php](http://handbrake.fr/downloads.php)

I think handbrake only does DVD->H264, not the other way around.

There is a utility knocking around called mkv2vob,  but it is a windows program.  It might run under wine.

Have you tried asking Canon?

---

### Post by inobe on 2010-01-26
i was over at the hanbrake forums and searched .mts, many were able to convert this format.

i have used handbrake to convert video, it worked great.

---

### Post by chandika on 2010-01-26
guys I tried handbrake but my videos are distorted. It does recognise H.264 codec and it can convert those files into mp4 or mkv files. But for some reason my videos get distorted. I don't know whther its specific to my settings.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-01-27
it looks like (pitivi ) will do it for you

---

### Post by chandika on 2010-01-27
> **no2498 said:**
> it looks like (pitivi ) will do it for you

I tried Pitivi but it doesn't recognize H.264 codec (mts file extension). I got the video working in Avidemux but has a wiered outcome. The video flows in slow motion and the audio flows normally.

---

### Post by killabee44 on 2010-01-31
Guys, Devede works just fine for doing .mkv to dvd. I just converted a movie. Quality was good but conversion took a very long time. 

I guess speed will vary depending on the speed of your pc and other factors.

---

