---
title: "11.10 gthumb fails to create video thumbnails"
date: 2011-11-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mawahh on 2011-11-05
Gthumb fails to create thumbnails of video files after update from 11.04 to 11.10. It trys to create them and they are stored in .thumbnails/fail/gnome-thumbnail-factory as 1x1px png.

JPG files work.

Video thumbnails are created fine when I open the directory in Nautilus. Seems to be an isolated gthumb problem?!

---

### Post by rockney on 2011-11-19
I see the same behavior. Not sure what that's about. Working on it. Will report back here if I find a solution.

---

### Post by chrb on 2012-01-30
Did you ever find a solution?

---

### Post by rockney on 2012-01-31
> **chrb said:**
> Did you ever find a solution?

Since upgrading and the many updates that issue was cured. Don't know by what or when.

But do have another that hasn't been fixed. The video on 11.10 is so slow that multiple ads and/or players in Firefox make it glacial.  VLC does the same so it's something with the O/S. Sure makes cruising the web difficult.

---

### Post by bcarlowise on 2012-01-31
> **rockney said:**
> Since upgrading and the many updates that issue was cured. Don't know by what or when.

But do have another that hasn't been fixed. The video on 11.10 is so slow that multiple ads and/or players in Firefox make it glacial.  VLC does the same so it's something with the O/S. Sure makes cruising the web difficult.

Interesting. I am not seeing nay problems playing video in 11.10 from a browser or from the video player. Both Chromium and Firefox play videos fine for me.

---

### Post by rockney on 2012-01-31
> **bcarlowise said:**
> Interesting. I am not seeing nay problems playing video in 11.10 from a browser or from the video player. Both Chromium and Firefox play videos fine for me.

Odd. I'm using the provided nVidia driver. Maybe I need to upgrade to that from nVidia. Just been a little spooky about break it :P

Prior to 11.10 I always added the latest from nVidia.

---

