---
title: "14.04 requires pavucontrol to pass audio through HDMI. How to make default or..."
date: 2014-09-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Roasted on 2014-09-08
Hello friends. I have a Dell Latitude E7440 with Ubuntu 14.04.1 on it. I noticed earlier I could not pass audio through HDMI hooked up to my TV. I recalled users speaking highly of Pulse Audio Volume Control, known as pavucontrol. Sure enough, that gave me the audio option for HDMI (whereas the "sound settings" only gave me "internal speakers" even with HDMI plugged in).

This got me wondering. On one hand, I'm happy that pavucontrol gives me this capability. But I got to wondering if there was a way I could make a keyboard shortcut to toggle to the next audio device. In other words, hit my magic key (say CTRL F12), and it flips from Internal Speakers to HDMI, CTRL F12 again, HDMI to Internal Speakers. 

On top of that, it got me wondering if I could "replace" the default Sound Settings with pavucontrol. Is there such a way to do so? I think I'd prefer the shortcut, though substituting it would be acceptable as well.

Thanks!

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-09-09
As far as setting the sound indicator to open pavucontrol it's done in source, here's a package for Ubuntu. (update, log out/in
[https://launchpad.net/~mc3man/+archive/ubuntu/sound1](https://launchpad.net/~mc3man/+archive/ubuntu/sound1)
(- changes posted [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2241054&p=13111654&viewfull=1#post13111654")
A toggle would be possible via a script if pavucontrol can be controlled from cli or it saves your setting in a place that can be set. You'd need to take a look at that. Edit: pulse seems to use file(s) in .config/pulse/, may be a bit tricky if even possible..

---

### Post by Roasted on 2014-09-09
Thanks for that info. Good to know that switching it is a simple PPA away. I can't help but to be curious about something. What if I add that PPA, install it, and later remove it. I wonder if it'll revert back to the default 'sound settings' entry by default...

---

