---
title: "Nikon D7000 will not mount (automatically)"
date: 2012-12-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by maclenin on 2012-12-28
When I connect a Nikon D7000 to my (12.04) desktop (via USB), the camera does not (auto) mount.

**dmesg** reveals the following:
```
usb 1-2: new high-speed USB device number 5 using ehci_hcd
```

**gtkam**, though it can see the D7000 and access the memory card, is prone to crashing (two crashes during the two instances I tried using gtkam to access the camera).

An earlier-generation Nikon D50, on the other hand, does auto-mount - out of the box - and a file manager (Thunar) window opens on the (12.04) desktop, allowing intuitive access to and management of the images on the D50's memory card.

I would love to be able to use Thunar (simply and similarly) to browse the D7000.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by maclenin on 2013-04-29
Just a quick update - with a solid solution, methinks.

I have taken to managing / downloading media generated by my Nikon D7000 with **gphoto2** (via the command line). 

The basics.

1. Install gphoto2 [I use xubuntu 12.04].
```
@terminal:~$ sudo aptitude install gphoto2
```
2. Connect the powered-off D7000 to a (powered-on) computer via USB.
3. Power on the D7000.
4. Navigate to / create a destination directory on the computer into which you'd like to download (copy) your media (from the camera). 
5. Open a terminal in / change directory to the destination directory.
6. Use gphoto2 to list the folders (full of media) created on your camera's memory card...
```
@terminal:/destination/directory$ gphoto2 -l
```
...output will be in a form similar to:
```

There is 1 folder in folder '/'.                                               
 - store_00010001
There is 1 folder in folder '/store_00010001'.                                 
 - DCIM
There are 2 folders in folder '/store_00010001/DCIM'.
 - 101D7000
 - 102D7000
There are 0 folders in folder '/store_00010001/DCIM/101D7000'.
There are 0 folders in folder '/store_00010001/DCIM/102D7000'.

```
7. Using the folder names '/store_00010001/DCIM/101D7000' and '/store_00010001/DCIM/102D7000' download ALL (media) files from the camera card folders to the computer destination directory.
7.a. from folder 101D7000:
```
@terminal:/destination/directory$ gphoto2 -f /store_00010001/DCIM/101D7000 -P
```
7.b. from folder 102D7000:
```
@terminal:/destination/directory$ gphoto2 -f /store_00010001/DCIM/102D7000 -P
```
8. If the destination directory window is open, you can watch the (media) files from the camera populate the destination directory.
9. Please read the gphoto2 man pages for myriad additional options.
10. Any thoughts / suggestions are welcomed!

Hope this helps others.

---

