---
title: "nvidia driver issue"
date: 2012-04-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
Is there a command line input to force the use of the nvidia proprietary drivers?

video card is a PNY geforce 9400GT

When I go to system>administration>additional drivers, I get this:

[[IMG]http://i1094.photobucket.com/albums/i459/bcgeorge/th_Screenshot.png[/IMG]](http://s1094.photobucket.com/albums/i459/bcgeorge/?action=view&current=Screenshot.png)

What could the problem be that keeps the driver from being used?

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
I have been searching the ubuntu help at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia")

I've tried everything there and in other places. still no accelerated graphics enabled. No way to get anything working like it should be.

So what, if anything can be done?

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-07
Could be the same as this thread was sorting out .....


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1433955](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1433955)

This below is Natty

[http://papablogger.com/solved-nvidia-driver-activated-but-not-in-use/778/](http://papablogger.com/solved-nvidia-driver-activated-but-not-in-use/778/)

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
I did all that was suggested in those threads, and more. no joy. and still no accelerated graphics, 3d graphics. 

the file /etc/X11/xorg.conf claims the use of an nvidia driver, but gives no version nor does it say nvidia_current.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-07
Can you run synaptic package manager ...... 

search for nvidia and show me what it shows please .....

also if you can [COLOR=Blue]**cut and paste**[/COLOR] the [COLOR=Blue]**xorg.conf **[/COLOR]

so we can see what its set up for ...... please

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
[[IMG]http://i1094.photobucket.com/albums/i459/bcgeorge/th_Screenshot-1.png[/IMG]](http://s1094.photobucket.com/albums/i459/bcgeorge/?action=view&current=Screenshot-1.png)

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.41.06  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-08.nvidia.com)  Mon Apr 18 15:14:00 PDT 2011

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 270.29  (buildd@allspice)  Fri Feb 25 14:42:07 UTC 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "COMPAQ V720"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 85.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9400 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1152x864_85 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
I think that is what you asked for. As I said, it will not tell what driver is being used.

I have tried to do the ```
jockey-text -e nvidia_current
```
but still refuses to do what it's supposed to.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-07
We could try removing everything and reloading ..... up to you as your graphics is working

> 
**jockey-text -e nvidia_current --list**
lsmod 

(would show what is currently loaded)

Also

> 
root@keith-Aspire-7730ZG:/etc/X11# lspci -v | perl -ne '/VGA/../^$/ and /VGA|Kern/ and print'
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation G98 [GeForce 9300M GS] (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
        Kernel driver in use: nouveau
        Kernel modules: nouveau, nvidiafb
root@keith-Aspire-7730ZG:/etc/X11# 




Type  these into a terminal ..... ( to keep a copy of your xorg.conf ) as we may create another one
after you have run this .....

**sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf2**

But if you want - try the following - it will remove the nvidia drivers and start afresh ....
ensuring that everything is loaded ......

**sudo apt-get update  **

**sudo apt-get install linux-headers-'uname -r' **
 
[B]sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-* 
[/B] 
**sudo apt-get install nvidia-current **

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
To answer the unasked question: Yes unity does work, somewhat. very slow, and closes what I want to minimize, or doesn't open it at all. Hard to navigate when you have to literally search for what you want, and then slow to respond. On top of that, it's eye candy that just plain doesn't work for me.

```
jockey-text -e nvidia_current --list
``` returns

```
charlie@charlie:~$ jockey-text -e nvidia_current --list
xorg:nvidia_173 - NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (Proprietary, Disabled, Not in use)
xorg:nvidia_current - NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (Proprietary, Enabled, Not in use)
charlie@charlie:~$ 

```

To be honest, the last several "updates" have been getting too much like winblows -- breaking as much as they fix -- just what I wanted to get away from.

I can't work with the graphics programs I need to use without the accelerated or 3D capable graphics, that is why I needed the help with this.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-07
Open a terminal and type these commands in one at a time ....

**sudo apt-get update  **

**sudo apt-get install linux-headers-'uname -r' **
 
[B]sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-* 
[/B] 
**sudo apt-get install nvidia-current **                                                                                                                   


you have more than one graphics driver loaded by the looks of that ......

the above will make sure only one is being used .....

> 
To answer the unasked question: Yes unity does work, somewhat. very  slow, and closes what I want to minimize, or doesn't open it at all.  Hard to navigate when you have to literally search for what you want,  and then slow to respond. On top of that, it's eye candy that just plain  doesn't work for me.
There are 2 versions ..... a 2D and 3D ..... from what I read .....

I use KDE nowadays ..... but its personal preference .....

( theres also KDE ..... Gnome-Shell .... XFCE ...LXDE .... E17 )

If you want to install something else other than UNITY I can take you through the procedure ......

If you have enough hard drive space .....

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-'uname -r'
```returns
```
charlie@charlie:~$ sudo apt-get install linux-headers-'uname -r'
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package linux-headers-uname -r
charlie@charlie:~$ 

```

So that appears to be a no joy as well.

---

### Post by jawilljr on 2012-04-07
Try the commands below:

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current libvdpau1
```

That is how I install NVidia drivers.

IMO Jockey is a piece of junk.

Jerry

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
Just did the ```
sudo apt-get update 

sudo apt-get install linux-headers-'uname -r' 

sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-* 

sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

```

then did the ```
charlie@charlie:~$ jockey-text -e nvidia_current --list
kmod:nvidia_173 - NVIDIA binary Xorg driver, kernel module and VDPAU library (Proprietary, Disabled, Not in use)
kmod:nvidia_current - nvidia_current (Proprietary, Enabled, Not in use)
charlie@charlie:~$ 

```

so nothing changed. 

will not remove --purge.

I might as well be running winblows for all the trouble ubuntu is giving me.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-04-07
Unfortunately the poster who suggested using `uname -r` had the wrong quotation marks.  You need to use the "backtick" character which is to the left of the numeral 1 on the top row of a standard keyboard.

The construct `program` runs the specified program and returns the output as a string.  If you run the command

```
uname -r
```

from the prompt, you'll see it return the kernel's version number.  On my 12.04b2 system it returns "3.2.0-21-generic".  So the construct

```
linux-headers-`uname -r`
```

would be interpreted by the bash shell to be the string "linux-headers-3.2.0.21-generic" on my system.

However, like jawilljr, I don't use jockey, but I also don't use the PPA he mentioned.  I just get nvidia-current from the standard repository for my Ubuntu version with

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
```

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-07
> 
[SeijiSensei]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=698195") thanks .... just tried it on my own system and wondered what I had done wrong there .....



What does 

**uname -a**

return ..... please .....

( not sure if installing another driver will work - but it is an option ..... 

I often advise people to use the xswat ppa ..... as it can get some peoples cards working better....

not sure thats the issue here though .... the problem is using the one properly that you have installed

and reading your past thread you had some problems with a upgrade ...... am wondering if that is related

But you can try other drivers ..... to see if they work ......

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current didn't work -- see above posts --

sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-* didn't remove or purge anything

I'm now waiting on the slow download of the libvdpaul ... another 15 min....

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
Yes, I did have problems with an upgrade. I had to resort to a complete purge, full wipe,  and clean install.

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
charlie@charlie:~$ uname -a
Linux charlie 2.6.38-13-generic #57-Ubuntu SMP Mon Mar 5 18:29:54 UTC 2012 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
charlie@charlie:~$ 


I'm curious about one thing....

```
nvidia-current.ko:
Running module version sanity check.
 - Original module
   - [COLOR="Red"]No original module exists within this kernel[/COLOR]
 - Installation
   - Installing to /lib/modules/2.6.38-13-generic/updates/dkms/

```

could this be part of the problem?

With the proper backtics --thanks SeijiSensei--


charlie@charlie:~$ sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r`
[sudo] password for charlie: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
linux-headers-2.6.38-13-generic is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  nspluginwrapper libqt4-network libqt4-sql-sqlite libqt4-sql xmms2-core
  libqt4-sql-mysql sqlite3
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 8 not upgraded.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-07
Now you have to do this again .... to complete it ....
[FONT=monospace]
it realised its missing here ...

[/FONT]- [COLOR=Red]No original module exists within this kernel[/COLOR]

Then this part says its installing it ....
> 
- Installation 
   - Installing to /lib/modules/2.6.38-13-generic/updates/dkms/
( if you have loaded the driver from the x-swat ppa then it needs a reboot )

otherwise do

sudo apt-get install nvidia-current ( to load in the current latest driver from the repositories )



Then reboot .... your machine for it to work .....

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
```
charlie@charlie:~$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
[sudo] password for charlie: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
nvidia-current is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  nspluginwrapper libqt4-network libqt4-sql-sqlite libqt4-sql xmms2-core
  libqt4-sql-mysql sqlite3
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 8 not upgraded.
```

and the persistent problem remains. not using the nvidia driver, any version, even though the xorg.conf file claims to be using "nvidia"

Ok, how would I go about manually purging all the x-server and nvidia files? I have no clue where all of them are, or how to find them.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-07
Did you reboot the system ... ?

This bit here means it will now be used by the kernel 

> 
nvidia-current.ko: Running module version sanity check.  - Original module    - [COLOR=Red]No original module exists within this kernel[/COLOR]  - Installation    - Installing to /lib/modules/2.6.38-13-generic/updates/dkms/


But it needs to be restarted to use it ...........

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-04-07
First, let's see if the driver is actually running.  Run the command "lsmod | grep nvidia".  If it's installed and running you should see a result like 

```
nvidia              12281608  40
```

The numbers may be different, there should be a line beginning with "nvidia".

If the module is loaded, I'd try renaming /etc/X11/xorg.conf to xorg.conf.disabled and rebooting.  Usually there's no need to have an xorg.conf any more unless you have a specific problem that needs fixing.  (In my case, I have one because the driver can't seem to detect the correct pixel density when connected to my Sony TV.)

If that doesn't work, try recreating xorg.conf by running 
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```and rebooting again.

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
Ok, it is running some sort of nvidia, but glx gears still doesn't run.....

```
charlie@charlie:~$ lsmod | grep nvidia
nvidia              12285779  40
```

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-07
cut and paste this in to a terminal and see what it returns ....

[B]date  && lsb_release -sd || cat /etc/*release &&  uname    -s  -r && unity --version &&     /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p && dpkg -s mesa-utils


If its working it should return something like this

[/B]> 

keith@keith-Aspire-7730ZG:~$ date && lsb_release -sd || cat /etc/*release && uname -s -r && unity --version && /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p && dpkg -s mesa-utils
Sun Apr  8 05:42:02 CEST 2012
Ubuntu precise (development branch)
Linux 3.2.0-22-generic-pae
unity 5.8.0
OpenGL vendor string:   nouveau
OpenGL renderer string: Gallium 0.4 on NV98
OpenGL version string:  2.1 Mesa 8.0.2

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity 3D supported:       yes
Package `mesa-utils' is not installed and no info is available.
Use dpkg --info (= dpkg-deb --info) to examine archive files,
and dpkg --contents (= dpkg-deb --contents) to list their contents.
keith@keith-Aspire-7730ZG:~$ 





if like mine ,,, mesa-utils is not installed ..... install it with

sudo apt-get install mesa-utils

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
charlie@charlie:~$ date && lsb_release -sd || cat /etc/*release && uname -s -r && unity --version && /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p && dpkg -s mesa-utils
Sat Apr  7 22:41:43 CDT 2012
Ubuntu 11.04
Linux 2.6.38-13-generic
unity 3.8.16
OpenGL vendor string:   NVIDIA Corporation
OpenGL renderer string: GeForce 9400 GT/PCIe/SSE2
OpenGL version string:  3.3.0 NVIDIA 295.33

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity supported:          yes
Package: mesa-utils
Status: install ok installed
Priority: optional
Section: x11
Installed-Size: 148
Maintainer: Ubuntu X-SWAT <ubuntu-x@lists.ubuntu.com>
Architecture: amd64
Source: mesa-demos
Version: 8.0.1+git20110129+d8f7d6b-0ubuntu2
Replaces: xbase-clients (<< 6.8.2-38)
Depends: libc6 (>= 2.4), libgl1-mesa-glx | libgl1, libx11-6
Description: Miscellaneous Mesa GL utilities
 This package provides several basic GL utilities built by Mesa, including
 glxinfo and glxgears.
Homepage: [http://mesa3d.sourceforge.net/](http://mesa3d.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
charlie@charlie:~$ glxgears
23858 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4771.470 FPS
23995 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4798.913 FPS
24024 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4804.774 FPS
22497 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4499.385 FPS
24058 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4811.460 FPS
23888 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4777.533 FPS
24033 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4806.433 FPS
23998 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4799.567 FPS
21318 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4263.538 FPS
21389 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4277.774 FPS
21295 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4258.805 FPS

^[21321 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4264.148 FPS
21299 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4259.609 FPS
XIO:  fatal IO error 11 (Resource temporarily unavailable) on X server ":0.0"
      after 53 requests (53 known processed) with 0 events remaining.

the gears actually showed up this time, instead of a black window. however, there was absolutely no movement of the gears.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-07
According to that everything should work ....

have you tried going into the desktop ..... again .....

Which session are you choosing ?


UNITY 3D ...... is the one you need to be in .... 


> but we could load kde in if you want

sudo apt-get install kde-full

takes a while though ....

Then choose KDE .... I much prefer this .... but as I say its personal preference

need 1 gig at least available to do this ....

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-07
by session, are you referring to classic or unity?

classic. I have a strong dislike for unity.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-07
Yep classic is that 3D or 2D ...... cannot remember now .... long time since I used it

I use Gnome-Shell or KDE ...... over the last year or so ....


What computer are you using - how much memory and what processor ..... ?

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-08
Last time I was able to find the settings, all desktop effects were enabled.

Curser shadows etc work, so yes, it is a pseudo 3d environment.

Self build. 

AMD Athlon 64 X2 5000+

4GB memory

on an Asrock MB

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-08
A quick check I do - as I do a lot of 3d is to load in k3dsurf

Just see if this works ok ... its not a big install .... let me know if its sluggish

sudo apt-get install k3dsurf

(can you post back a screenshot)


The figures you gave earlier seem ok ..... but with you not seeing anything is worrying .....
The above will show if GL is working ok .... too

> 
charlie@charlie:~$ glxgears
23858 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4771.470 FPS
23995 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4798.913 FPS
24024 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4804.774 FPS
22497 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4499.385 FPS
24058 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4811.460 FPS
23888 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4777.533 FPS
24033 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4806.433 FPS
23998 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4799.567 FPS
21318 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4263.538 FPS
21389 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4277.774 FPS
21295 frames in 5.0 seconds = 4258.805 FPS


---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-08
Hmmm. Interesting.

Works relatively fast. Follows the curser movements without lagging.

however, all the text and boxes are in my opinion way too large. Was it designed for much higher resolution than 1152x864?

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-08
[[IMG]http://i1094.photobucket.com/albums/i459/bcgeorge/th_Screenshot-2.png[/IMG]](http://s1094.photobucket.com/albums/i459/bcgeorge/?action=view&current=Screenshot-2.png)

See what I mean? everything appears to be cut off.

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-08
Can you do a screenshot .....

The text on mine is like this .....

but I am on a 32 inch TV @ 1280 x 720

Yep mine is different .... - you may have scaled your text up somehow ......


[IMG]http://img339.imageshack.us/img339/3106/snapshot3cd.jpg[/IMG]


Do you have gnome-tweak-tool installed at all

sudo apt-get install gnome-tweak-tool 

You can scale the fonts ..... and alter them for different things in it .....

[IMG]http://img268.imageshack.us/img268/2372/snapshot4so.jpg[/IMG]



I find this simple to use ..... and it works in Gnome-Shell too .... but the thing is .... if you are still not getting the
speed with the graphics then maybe there are other drivers more suitable .....

But I think you are almost sorted now .... or so it seems .....

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-08
never heard of it. doesn't seem to be in synaptic under that name, either. apt-get install can't find it either.

E: Unable to locate package gnome-tweak-tool

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-08
Ok its maybe in later versions - sorry .... the only other way may be the settings manager
under fonts and appearance

Will thank [jawilljr]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1006445") and [SeijiSensei]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=698195") for helping out there .....  too while they are still on ....

Ok going to leave it there as there is not a lot else I can add now ....

But I hope it works ok for you now .... keep the thread open if its still not quite right 

someone with the same graphics card may have a better driver ....

sometimes people find ones that work better with their system

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-08
Thanks for your help!

I'll keep trying, and see what happens

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-04-08
ok best of luck .... cheers .... ):P

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2012-04-08
Marked as solved, sort of...

The newest driver that is being used on this computer isn't the 270.*******, it is 295.*****. So I'm assuming that what this boils down to is a bug or glitch in the reporting.

Anyway, Thank you all for walking me through the fixes!

Charlie

---

