---
title: "download of multiple videos files &amp; flashgot"
date: 2012-06-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Heart4Linux on 2012-06-26
I have been looking around without any luck to find a solution to something that is above my expertise, hopefully someone here can point me in the right direction and show me how to solve it. 

Imagine that after logging on a religious website you reach a web page where there are, let's say, 30 different links. If you click on each link, a new window opens and a flash player starts the video clip (usually of about 3 to 5 minutes). Flashgot allows to save these videos one by one, but I was wondering if there is a tool to download all the videos without clicking on each single link. 

I have tried to "copy link location" but  when i paste it in a video downloader i get  "javascript:void(0);" 

Thank you guys

---

### Post by Kreaninw on 2012-06-26
It seems the links point to video page via javascript, not to the video file itself.  To my knowledge, this can't be fix. It's more of how the site were build rather than download manager issue.

---

### Post by Heart4Linux on 2012-06-26
Thanks Kreaninw, 
I appreciate your effort in looking into it, I wonder if exists a solution at all. In my elementary understanding what the software/script should be able to do is:

1. find (all) the links on the page;
2. click/follow the links;
3. download/save the flash video with audio (in the specific) folder from each link.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Kreaninw on 2012-06-26
Your understanding is right, only IF the links point to video file. But you mentioned the links were point to "javascript:void(0);", which is a javascript. In short, there is no video files or the player embed in that page. The pages you watched the video were generated by some script, but download manager isn't detect script, it only detect media file on the page. To compute a specific script is beyond download manager capability.

---

