---
title: "Video issues with Nvidia GTX 260 &amp; Jaunty"
date: 2009-09-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by NidStyles on 2009-09-07
Hey all, I'm running an EVGA 780i FTW with a single GTX 260, until I can get SLI issues solved, and trying to play even basic .avi files I have stuttering and extremely poor performance. I have the current Nvidia driver's installed, and graphic performance within game's is decent.

This setup performed amazingly with XP 64, and Win 7. There is no reason that this setup should be experiencing the issue's I'm having. I went from a Slackware 10 install to Ubuntu for my wife. The Slackware install had no issue's with this setup and the performance was great. I would prefer to stick with the Ubuntu as reinstalling Slackware can be a pain, especially making it usable for her. I'm not a linux noob, but I'm new to Debian based distros, and the configuration setup is a bit oddly done IMHO. 

The whole setup is as follows:
E8400 @ 4Ghz
EVGA 780i FTW
2x GTX 260 (trying to get SLI enabled properly before using them both)
4GB of Mushkin 1066RAM
OS Drive Vertex 30GB with 1.3 FW
Edubuntu with Medibuntu packages as well. This is based on the Ubuntu AMD64 kernel
Current Nvidia driver's, and current VLC player.

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-09-07
What does your xorg.conf file look like? Just installing the drivers only seems to add a driver line to the device section. I have always ran "sudo nvidia-xconfig" to create a xorg.conf file after installing the drivers. You could give that a shot.
Seems that proc is being pushed a little extra voltage:)
Try the new xorg.conf file, then the SLI is fairly straight forward. Takes the whole of 2 lines to the xorg file.

---

### Post by NidStyles on 2009-09-08
LOL! Here's the thing I went through the whole proces of reconfiguring Xorg to make sure it was actually using the Nvidia driver's. Now it's not starting the X server. I have no idea what happened, the xorg.conf somehow got corrupted, and now the driver's are no where to be found.... 

I'm at loss here, Debian confuses me for some reason, and I don't understand how the .conf file's are accessed at boot up for it to go through this. I have it booting now, after two hour's of it dropping to the ash shell. That was a nightmare to get Ubuntu to recognize the Vertex again. The first time I went through this was a month ago, and I don't remmeber how I got it all working the first time. 

At this point of time Ubuntu is telling me xserver.xorg doesn't exist on the system, and X11 is MIA as well. GDM start's, but default's back to the shell as X is MIA. 

Here's the /etc/X11/xorg.conf: 

# Nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder58) Fri Aug 14 18:33:37 P$

Section "ServerLayout"
       Identifier        "Layout0"
       Screen      0   "Screen0"
       InputDevice   "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
       InputDevice   "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
      # generated from default
      Identifier     "Mouse0"
      Driver         "mouse"
      Option         "Protocol" "auto"
      Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
      Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
      Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevie"
     # generated from default
     Identifier      "Keyboard0"
     Driver          "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier          "Monitor0"
    VendorName    "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unkown
    HorizSync         28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh      43.0 - 72.0
    Option              "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier         "Device0"
    Driver             "nvidia"
    VendorName   "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier        "Screen0"
    Device           "Device0"
    Monitor          "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth  24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth        24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
    
I had to hand type this from my laptop, so bear with me here.

Odd the driver is there in the .conf file, but for some reason X11 which doesn't seem to want to start up isn't recognizing the conf file. I'm so confused on what happened right now. I have both card's installed and was going to enable the SLI after the reboot. Upon the reboot everything went haywire. Seem's I have to start diggin around config file's, and see what went wrong. BTW just to add to my trouble's I can't seem to view any of the log's. It keep's telling me they don't exist :confused:. That's what's making me even more confused about this. All I wanted was my stupid video's to play properly.  

Yeah the CPU is actually at stock volts :). I had it up to 4.7Ghz before when running benchmark's, but I dropped it a bit to do daily computing and let the wifey use it with being scared of breaking it. It seem's I can break it on my own, and I have a general idea of what I'm doing, even if it take's me while to get it working right. 

Stupid Nvidia not opening thier driver's....

---

### Post by NidStyles on 2009-09-08
Well this is extremely frustrating. I don't have a clue why it would simply stop working properly when all I had done was install the medibuntu packages.

I've tried wiping the drive, and reinstalling, but I keep getting the ata revalidation errno 19 & 5, which make's the main drive non-existent to the liveDVD/install disk.

I'm about to go back to Slackware. I'd rather not, but this is ridiculous how much of a hassle it's been trying to get this to work. I don't understand how Ubuntu is so well rated when you have a common error in the boot-up that make's all of your drive's non-existent.
I have to modify the /..menu.lst just to get the install to boot normally, and now the install disks are having this same error.:confused:

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-09-08
When it boots to a shell, log in and run "lspci" , then record the BusID of your vga compatable controllers or whatever they call them. 
Then edit the xorg.conf file "sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf"
Arrow down to EndSection of the device section & hit enter twice, then arrow up twice add type BusID  "xx:yy:zz".
x, y, z being the numbers recorded earlier.
now arrow down & add a line like so.. Option  "SLI"   "SFR" 
Now ctrl+o to write the changes  ctrl+x to quit nano.
Now sudo shutdown -r now to reboot, & it should be good.

---

### Post by NidStyles on 2009-09-08
^^ I used lspci | grep -i vga  to get the address, and I have it setup already for SLI. It's X though, I think I need to reinstall it. I've tried to use apt to install some additional packages, but it's claiming the libraries and dependencies for apt are missing. I'm confused on this....

I want to get it working, but I'm short on time with work and all.

Ok I finally got the Xserver error log. The last entry is 

[b](II) Primary Device is:
(EE) No Devices detected.

Fatal sever error:
no screens found[/b]

I say huh?

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-09-08
The xorg file you posted has no module section, I another person I'm working with also has no module section & similar issues.
What I told him was either try to regenerate the xorg.conf file or add the module section from my xorg file. 
I think trying to regenerate the file is the safest bet. After looking at his file & mine the missing  section is the only difference.
This is what my xorg.conf looks like.

---

### Post by NidStyles on 2009-09-08
> **dagrump said:**
> The xorg file you posted has no module section, I another person I'm working with also has no module section & similar issues.
What I told him was either try to regenerate the xorg.conf file or add the module section from my xorg file. 
I think trying to regenerate the file is the safest bet. After looking at his file & mine the missing  section is the only difference.
This is what my xorg.conf looks like.

Thank's for that. I had to rewrite a bunch of the xorg.conf using your's as a guideline. Apparently the module pointer's were broken, so I had to go through and edit those as well.

Issue solved.

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-09-08
Well, glad it's working. I'm on a different machine than the one the xorg file I've posted & kinda different? Only "glx" in the modules section, but I don't remember the other one having a Modes nvidia-auto-select in the screen section. This box has a pair of 9800s, the other one is a pair of 9600s.
Must be just an older file, on the 9600s, as the both running 9.04 64 bit, & current. I used the package list from the old one to set this one up. Still ended with different files. 
Any way, mark it solved.So others will know you got it fixed, & they can ask you about editing the pointers.  :)

---

