---
title: "9.10 Google Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Konqueror - No Sound flash video sudo"
date: 2010-02-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by cscott0108 on 2010-02-24
I am using 64bit Kubuntu 9.10. I am having a problem with sound on my browsers, all of them Google Chrome, Firefox 3.6, Opera, and Konqueror. If my browsers are in local user mode when I go to sites such as youtube and the like. However if I open in a terminal and type 'sudo  google-chrome, or sudo firefox' and go to youtube the sound works. this leaves em to believe that this is a permissions issue but I cannot figure out what needs to be done, I have checked I have the current version of the Adobe Flash. Again it seems as if it is a permission issue for any help Thanks.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-02-25
NEVER start Firefox with sudo. Graphical applications that need root privileges should be started with gksudo. When you start Firefox with sudo, it uses your Firefox profile as root, which changes the ownership of ~/.mozilla to root, causing all sorts of problems.

To fix that, [see this](http://lovinglinux.megabyet.net/?page_id=220#Firefox-doesn%27t-start-through-regular-command/menu-but-starts-using-%22sudo-firefox%22--2).

About the sound, first make sure you don't have any [conflicting plugins](http://lovinglinux.megabyet.net/?page_id=220#Can%27t-play-streaming-flash-videos-2) then go to "System Settings >> Computer Administration >> Multimedia" and set the primary sound device to Pulse.

---

### Post by cscott0108 on 2010-02-26
Thanks one of your solutions worked, I ended up removing pulse audio and installing esound this worked, thanks again.

---

### Post by Flake Remix on 2010-02-28
> **lovinglinux said:**
> About the sound, first make sure you don't have any [conflicting plugins](http://lovinglinux.megabyet.net/?page_id=220#Can%27t-play-streaming-flash-videos-2) then go to "System Settings >> Computer Administration >> Multimedia" and set the primary sound device to Pulse.

I have that problem too, but pulse doesn't work
[IMG]http://i46.tinypic.com/w8av84.png[/IMG]

but I have sound everywhere else besides browser

---

### Post by Flake Remix on 2010-02-28
solved, had to volume up PCM and Front in ALSA mixer

---

