---
title: "14.04: Audio Sync Issues"
date: 2015-01-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ap0ll0uk2 on 2015-01-24
I'm running 14.04 x64 and have had issues with audio sync for while. I originally thought this might be an XBMC / Kodi related issue but when watching something on YouTube or the Sky News watch live feed on their website in Firefox, the audio still drifts out of sync the longer the video plays for. Therefore the issue seems like it is not related to the format of video file I am playing as it also affects flash streams.

My PC is connected to a Samsung 5.1 surround sound system via an optical cable. My Geforce 640GT is then connected to my Tv via HDMI.

Based on the info on this page [http://kodi.wiki/view/PulseAudio](http://kodi.wiki/view/PulseAudio) I setup the optical / SPDIF from my PC to the surround sound system, installed pavucontrol and then got it working using the combination of settings in below screenshots.

Does anyone know if there are any known issues or workarounds related to audio sync with the kind of setup I'm using please? Or does anyone know how I can troubleshoot this?

[ATTACH=CONFIG]259456[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]259455[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]259454[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]259453[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2015-01-24
You can try the position_fix=1 setting as shown here: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/PositionReporting](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/PositionReporting)

---

### Post by ap0ll0uk2 on 2015-01-24
Many thanks for the suggestion, I'll apply it now and test it out this evening :D

---

### Post by ap0ll0uk2 on 2015-01-24
The position_fix=1 didn't work unfortunately, the audio started creeping out of sync after about 30 minutes.

I'm going to try the other suggestion on that page which relates to PulseAudio and see if that helps.

---

### Post by ap0ll0uk2 on 2015-02-21
I've still got the same issue unfortunately. Not sure what to look at next so any pointers would be appreciated.

---

### Post by seanos on 2015-03-15
Not very helpful, but for me this has only started happening in the last couple of months. Audio starts in sync but drifts out of sync. It used to be flawless. My audio is going through HDMI to the TV then optical to the audio system. It&#8217;s the same for every player and for all sorts of files including MythTV recordings.

Ubuntu 14.04.2

---

### Post by ap0ll0uk2 on 2015-06-17
> **seanos said:**
> Not very helpful, but for me this has only started happening in the last couple of months. Audio starts in sync but drifts out of sync. It used to be flawless. My audio is going through HDMI to the TV then optical to the audio system. It’s the same for every player and for all sorts of files including MythTV recordings.

Ubuntu 14.04.2

Are you still having issues with this or have you found a fix?

I'm still suffering with it unfortunately.

---

