---
title: "Resolution reset on reboot and custom refresh rates"
date: 2009-11-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ZyaX on 2009-11-26
I've been fiddling around with ubuntu for a few weeks now, making an earnest effort in trying to migrate from windows. The ubuntu forums and launchpad have been of great help, and google of course for the general linux newbie help.

Recently I've been trying to solve some problems I'm having with X. I have an nvidia geforce 8800GTS graphic card and an Eizo F930 CRT monitor. I have driver version 185 installed.

I have two problems regarding my monitor in fact, I'll start of with the first one for the sake of structure.
The first one is that whenever ubuntu starts up, the resolution is set to 2048x1536 @ 75hz. When I enter nvidia's X server settings I see that it has identifiend my monitor properly as the correct model, but the resolution and refresh rates are set to 'Auto'. Even when I change it to 1600x1200, the next time I restart my computer those settings are back to 'Auto' again, resulting in the same old 2048x1536 @ 75hz.
I googled for this issue and found this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1192754](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1192754)
There they managed to solve this by not changing the resolution through nvidia's display settings, but rather the default display settings in ubuntu(System/Preferences/Display). When I enter the default display settings it says that my monitor is 'Uknown' and the only refresh rates that I can choose for 1600x1200 (which is the resolution I want to use) aren't ones that I want. I can only choose from 69, 70, 71, 72, 73 and 133hz. This is where it gets odd and funny.
When I try to change my resolution to 1600x1200 and choose 69hz, I get 85hz(84.8).
When I choose 70hz I get 75hz(74.4).
When I choose 71hz I get 70hz(69.8).
When I choose 72hz I get 65hz(64.7).
When I choose 73hz it doesn't do anything, but one of those temporary error messages pops up in the top right corner of the screen and says "**The selected configuration for displays could not be applied** could not set the configuration for CRTC 321"
When I choose 133hz I get 85hz(84.7)
Even though the anomalies of these values, it did actually work to set it from the default display panel and have them be re-applied in the event of a restart.

I have an objection to using this method though, and that is that I know for a fact that my monitor can handle 100hz in 1600x1200, but apparently I cannot set that.
I ran it in 100hz in windows and it also says here in the manual that it can.
[http://www.eizo.com/data/downloads/manuals/umeng/F930um.pdf](http://www.eizo.com/data/downloads/manuals/umeng/F930um.pdf)
I know now that from writing this, there will definitely be a reply regarding modifying the etc/X11/xorg.conf file. I know this because I've found countless of threads about it. But my problem with those are that most of them are 3 or 4 years old, and when I tried to apply the changes they recommended once, ubuntu ended up not being able to start X and I was stuck at a tty with my monitor flashing in an odd way that I've never seen it do before and I was barely able input any text from my keyboard. It sort of only registered key presses every 3 seconds when I tried to type, so it would have been impossible for me to write my password in that state.
And I haven't found any recent threads about editing the xorg.conf file, so I assume that they're outdated and you do it differently these days, or? I mean, in those threads people post their big and shiny xorg.conf files with so many lines of lavish settings. Mine just looks like this.

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Fri Aug 14 18:33:37 PDT 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


```I did find a fairly recent thread about the issue of being able to change refresh rates to higher than ubuntu offered, overriding the EDID of the display in this case. [https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+question/39299](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+question/39299)
But I am quite apprehensive to tamper more with the xorg.conf file at this time. Even though I've consumed a fair bit of this troubleshooting literature about adding your preferred refresh rates into the xorg.conf file, I'm not so sure in which display panel you would be able to see the results. Is it in nvidia's or the ubuntu default? Because on my computer the refresh rate options are different. Similar, but different.

I see that I have touched on my second issue without proper introduction. It is the one where I would like to be able to set whichever refresh rate I want for every resolution.

There is one more thing that comes to mind on this subject. (But if it isn't really related to the previous issues I'll make its own thread.) It is when an application sets its own resolution upon launch(usually games), another than the desktop resolution, and when it is terminated it stays in that resolution(which usually is lower) with panning view. Is this perhaps because my game that isn't nice enough to switch back to the previous resolution upon termination? It used to in windows at least.

---

### Post by ilil on 2009-11-26
Well, editing xorg.conf is not simple thing at all. I try not to touch it recently.
I have similar problems with Jaunty (with every reboot I need to reset resolution) :(

---

