---
title: "5.1 Surround Sound - Need Help"
date: 2009-01-15
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-01-15
Hello.  First off, if this is in the wrong forum, please move it.

I have not been able to get my surround sound working (or working as well as Vista did).  I have tried many things, though I don't remember exactly what I have done.  I am pretty new to Ubuntu, so if somebody could please give me simple instructions I would really appreciate it.

At one point, I got it to work.  However, the sound was scratchy and poor, unlike when I used Vista.  I tried to fix it, but because of that, I now have no surround sound at all.

Could someone please help me?

Thank you.

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-01-15
Anyone?

---

### Post by MeURi on 2009-01-15
I assume you're using the latest stable version of Ubuntu, which is 8.10 (also referred to as Intrepid Ibex or just Intrepid).

Take a look at [thread=795525]this thread[/thread] and if you solve your problems, mark this thread as solved ;-)

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-01-15
Thanks for the post!  However, this didn't do it.  I think it may have messed up my computer some how (when I had restarted my computer, it would freeze when I had the volume on - I restarted it several times.  However, now it is fine, though I haven't done too many restarts).  Is there a way I can get it back to the way it was when I first installed Ubuntu?  If so, I want to do that then refer to that guide again.

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-01-15
I got it working by just going to to Preferences>Sound then changed everything to USB Audio USB Audio (OSS).  However, this still doesn't fix one of my problems:  The audio still has crackling noises in the background.  = Bad quality.  It did not do this on Vista.  Could somebody please help me with that?

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-01-16
Well, I don't think I can make the quality any better.  My questions have been answered.  Thanks!  I would like to mark it as Solved, but I cannot seem to find it.  I know I have done it before.  Could somebody help>

---

### Post by MeURi on 2009-01-17
I'm sorry you can't improve your audio quality.

Anyway, you should see the option to mark the thread as solved under the "thread tools" menu, at the top of the page.

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-01-18
I would like to mark this as solved, but there isn't an option to mark the thread as solved under thread tools.  Where could it be?

So the audio on Vista is better than Ubuntu?  That is strange...

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-01-19
I just found out something kinda interesting.  I turned the volume on my 5.1 surround sound to full volume and roamed the internet.  Everytime I went to a website, there would be that crackly annoying noise...Is there a way to fix this?

---

### Post by MeURi on 2009-01-19
Actually, I don't know...

Could be someting related to the flash plugin, but you didn't give much information... and I'm not expert on this subject, I just have a soundcard that works without many issues...8-[

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-01-20
I'm thinking perhaps it is best to find clips that go onto wires that block interference from external things (i.e. WiFi or cell phones).  Could you please helpe me about this "mark as solved" option?  I am not seeing it under thread tools.  Thanks!

---

### Post by MeURi on 2009-01-20
According to [thread=726150]this thread[/thread], you do find that option under thread tools.

Yet I don't find the "unsubscribe from this thread" entry, even from subscribed threads, so maybe something has changed...

---

### Post by andddlay on 2009-01-21
Yeah.  I am truely sorry...There is no option to mark the thread as solved unde rthread tools.

---

### Post by MeURi on 2009-01-21
I don't think it's a problem, anyway you have not fully solved your issues, so... :-P

---

