---
title: "12.04: Pbs with getting the propper audio output"
date: 2012-07-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by sovietique on 2012-07-28
Hello

I want to record a series of conference streams, using avconv.
I figured out how to capture the video. But I can't get the audio right. 

whether using 
```
avconv -f alsa -i pulse -y out.wav
```
or 
```
avconv -f alsa -i hw:0,0 -y out.wav
```
I keep recording a noisy signal comming out of the internal microphone and not the audio output.
I used gnome-sound-recorder or audacity successfully, and get the video synchro in mkvtoolnix. But I would prefer a straitforward solution. Any ideas?

What I tried:
- I tried here  to modify the Alsa driver to see if I get control
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto)
- I updated to the latest alsa
- I tried to locate the built-in audio output ... hw:1,0 or hw:0,1 didn't work.
=============================
Configuration:
 
Latitude Dell E6500, with Ubuntu 12.04 LTS
Sound Card: HDA Intel, Chip: IDT 92HD71B7X 
with an Internal microphone.

~$ cat /proc/asound/cards
 0 [Intel          ]: HDA-Intel - HDA Intel
                      HDA Intel at 0xf6fdc000 irq 48

~$ cat /proc/asound/devices
  1:        : sequencer
  2: [ 0- 0]: digital audio playback
  3: [ 0- 0]: digital audio capture
  4: [ 0- 0]: hardware dependent
  5: [ 0]   : control
 33:        : timer

~$ cat /proc/asound/pcm
00-00: STAC92xx Analog : STAC92xx Analog : playback 1 : capture 1
--------------------
~$ arecord -L
default
    Playback/recording through the PulseAudio sound server
sysdefault:CARD=Intel
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    Default Audio Device
front:CARD=Intel,DEV=0
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    Front speakers
surround40:CARD=Intel,DEV=0
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    4.0 Surround output to Front and Rear speakers
surround41:CARD=Intel,DEV=0
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    4.1 Surround output to Front, Rear and Subwoofer speakers
surround50:CARD=Intel,DEV=0
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    5.0 Surround output to Front, Center and Rear speakers
surround51:CARD=Intel,DEV=0
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    5.1 Surround output to Front, Center, Rear and Subwoofer speakers
surround71:CARD=Intel,DEV=0
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    7.1 Surround output to Front, Center, Side, Rear and Woofer speakers
dmix:CARD=Intel,DEV=0
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    Direct sample mixing device
dsnoop:CARD=Intel,DEV=0
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    Direct sample snooping device
hw:CARD=Intel,DEV=0
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    Direct hardware device without any conversions
plughw:CARD=Intel,DEV=0
    HDA Intel, STAC92xx Analog
    Hardware device with all software conversions
--------------------

---

