---
title: "Ub 12.4 some Mp4racks not work"
date: 2012-05-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by JohnPta on 2012-05-02
I upgraded from 11.10 to 12.04.
I have some MP4 tracks on my HD which use to work with 11.10 and Movie player. Now in Ub 12.04 some, most, of the tracks not work anymore. No sound and no picture. 
Can someone give me a tip how to solve this problem.

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2012-05-02
Try VLC which has much broader codec support.

```
sudo apt-get install vlc
```

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2012-05-02
I think a lot of vids are not converted correctly in the 1st place.
Had the same using Arch a while back it was the apps using Gstreamer codecs so I ran the vids in avidemux and recoded as mp4 all was OK.

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2012-05-02
> **kelvin spratt said:**
> I think a lot of vids are not converted correctly in the 1st place.
Had the same using Arch a while back it was the apps using Gstreamer codecs so I ran the vids in avidemux and recoded as mp4 all was OK.

You're probably right about many things being encoded improperly. Though encoding a lossy stream to another lossy stream will make the videos look worse and the audio less clear. If the videos can be played in another player (regardless of whether they were encoded properly) that's a better way to go in my opinion. Or maybe keeping the video and audio streams but dumping them into a different container with better support for various codecs and metadata could work (like Matroska).

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2012-05-02
> **lukeiamyourfather said:**
> You're probably right about many things being encoded improperly. Though encoding a lossy stream to another lossy stream will make the videos look worse and the audio less clear. If the videos can be played in another player (regardless of whether they were encoded properly) that's a better way to go in my opinion. Or maybe keeping the video and audio streams but dumping them into a different container with better support for various codecs and metadata could work (like Matroska).
I did not say recode to another code just recode to the same code if they don't work you still have the originals H264 works very well with Avidemux by the way better than Xvid.

---

