---
title: "10.04 + ATI 4850 + CRT 19 '' 160hz = No luck?"
date: 2010-08-16
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by fateful on 2010-08-16
I'm trying to migrate completely from windows (last version was 7 x64) to Ubuntu, but unfortunally i'm having problems on setting up my hardware properly to my liking.

I need my CRT monitor to perform 160hz at 640x480, becouse i'm a FirstPersonShooter enthusiast and I intend to use Ubuntu for gamming as well. 

I have a 19' Wide LCD and just bought this CRT some months ago JUST BECOUSE it would perform great on Quake Series games and Warsow.. as it's capable of amazing 160hz at 640x480 that grants me smoothness and perfect tracking of my enemies in game.

I'm having no luck with Catalyst Control Center drivers.. i've googled for hours and spent all my sunday trying to solve this issue.. editting **xorf.conf** a thousand times and even getting it to keep Ubuntu from booting or giving me a black screen, and managed to get it working back again.

my actual xorg.conf is as follows:

```

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "0-CRT1"
    HorizSync    30 - 96
    VertRefresh  50.0 - 160.0
    Option        "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option        "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS" "true"
    Option        "Position" "0 0"
    Option        "Rotate" "normal"
    Option        "Disable" "false"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "Configured Screen Device"
    Device     "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Virtual    2880 1200
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "amdcccle-Screen[1]-0"
    Device     "amdcccle-Device[1]-0"
    Monitor    "0-CRT1"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth     24
        Modes    "640x480_160.00, 1280x1024_85.00"
        Virtual    2880 1200
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "amdcccle Layout"
    Screen      0  "amdcccle-Screen[1]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
    Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "amdcccle-Device[1]-0"
    Driver      "fglrx"
    Option        "Monitor-CRT1" "0-CRT1"
    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option        "Xinerama" "off"
EndSection

```I really would appreciate if some expert would present me a solution to this problem.. 

on my gratest desperation i've already tried to dual-boot with windows XP so that i would be able to have a 'backup gamming system' for the fun time.. but even then I was unable to get any windows installation to proceed with Ubuntu 10.04 on.. It freezes as it tries  detecting hardware and probably can't manage to read HD's NTFS partition since I have a EXT3 /boot/ partition mounted on the early tracks of my HD.


Anyone that can help me getting either 160hz on Ubuntu or Windows XP installed with no need to format the whole HD right now, would be greatly appreciated!


Thanks for your time on reading this, and have a nice day.

---

### Post by I8NY on 2010-08-19
160hz! you will never see that many frames, 75 is good 85 is great.  You are better off raising the res to see your enemies than having them pop up in front of you in 1/160 of a second.  The only reason you need that many frames is to do 3D.

---

### Post by fateful on 2010-08-19
I presented a ~problem~ trying to explain it in a detail level.. and yet you expect me to simply go " ***Ah, ok, he's right.. why I even bother buying that monitor, or wasting 3 days of my life trying to get Ubuntu to run my hardware at it's full capabilities***"  ?
 
 
Seriously now.. I appreciate that you took your time instructing me (23 years old, playing competitive FPS games since 12 yrs old) that all i need to do is forget my problems and increase my resolution instead.. :< 
 
As i figure now, there's no quick fix to that.. or so these forums tell me as every entry on similar issue ends up with a frustrated (or conformed) user.. I could manage to install Windows XP   (despite my SATA controller being damaged) so I can dual-boot  there to use my Samsung 997mb at it's maximum performance.
 
Still I'll be looking for the day when I can do that on Ubuntu, so that I can quit using Windows forever.

---

### Post by I8NY on 2010-08-20
well you are right, editing the xorg file never really works.(i have tried too)  So the only i got my monitors to get normal 75hz instead of 60hz was to get them identified by the driver.(shows model of CRT in ATI)  If the monitor is not identified then the driver doesn't know the max refresh rates it can handle.  So check that, if it is identified then use windows until xorg fixes it's bugs.

---

### Post by fateful on 2010-08-20
indeed it detects my monitor as some generic SyncMaster and it fails to read that it's maximum refresh rate is 160hz. Funny thing is that stuff like max resolution is actually correct.. 

[img]http://img802.imageshack.us/img802/4576/screenshot4g.png[/img]

---

### Post by fateful on 2010-08-20
I'm not completely alone.. 
[http://forums.amd.com/game/messageview.cfm?catid=279&threadid=124947](http://forums.amd.com/game/messageview.cfm?catid=279&threadid=124947)

---

### Post by I8NY on 2010-08-20
well just try plugging the monitor in the other video port, it might detect it correctly then.  The other thing is the video card might not support that high of fps at the resolution.  That should be only with old card 3yrs ago, also the ubuntu ati drive might not support the full frame rate rang as windows.  This should not be the cause but it is a possibility.

---

### Post by htiarw on 2010-08-29
> **I8NY said:**
> 160hz! you will never see that many frames, 75 is good 85 is great.  You are better off raising the res to see your enemies than having them pop up in front of you in 1/160 of a second.  The only reason you need that many frames is to do 3D.

That's not correct.  If we went with some scientific research, we should all be content with 30hz, or 60hz...  There are people who can catch complete details of images at > 200 frames per second (pilot testing for instance); however, the problem here is smoothness, motion, tearing in high speed FPS games.  Yes, people who are capable of this are a minority, but that doesn't mean they should be ignored.

I'm encountering the same issue with an ATI 4870 and a Dell P1130 (the sony trinitron g520 guts), and this is how I was able to get it to work on the desktop: [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-change-display-resolution-settings-using-xrandr.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-change-display-resolution-settings-using-xrandr.html)

That doesn't help when going fullscreen, though.  Now, in windows of all places, you can manually limit each resolution to only have one refresh rate by editing the registry or using a program like reforce, independent of the driver.  I have dozens of linux sessions at work, but this is the first time I'm using it to play Q3 at high refresh rates.  It would seem to me that the highly configurable linux OS should have a way (and probably does) to force refresh rates at resolutions in fullscreen.

So I can successfully run the desktop at 1280x960@120hz and 1024x768@150hz, and I can open Q3 and run it windowed at both of those settings.  So I know the monitor and driver can do it.  I guess a compromise would be to resize the desktop, run in windowed, hide the task and title bar (is it possible to hide the window bar? -- whatever the bar is at the top of each window with the close and minimize), and use that...  not ideal.

**Edit:** I forgot to mention that in windows the ATI driver could be used to get that refresh rate if you disable EDID, but I haven't found out how to do this with the linux driver (ATI might not have implemented it, but I'm looking around for that).

---

### Post by htiarw on 2010-08-29
I've got good news for me.  In the ATI control panel, it does show the correct name (DELL P1130), so I decided to change the Generic Autodetecting Monitor to DELL P1130.  I loaded up Q3 and it was running at 1024x768@150hz.  I know the whole "Autodetecting" is the newer, xorg.conf-less ubuntu stuff, so I figured I'd just try it (I don't like randomly playing around with xorg.conf, but figured it can only not work in which case I'd just restore it).

Unfortunately, I don't know that that will work for you, since the drivers aren't detecting the correct name.  You might want to try finding a similar model (your monitor might be a clone), or find the identifier of the monitor.  You could also set the ModelName as "Unknown" in the hopes it will let you do whatever you want and use the correct horizrange and vertrefresh.

---

### Post by fateful on 2010-09-14
Hi there htiarw, thank you for the input..

unfortunally i don't seem to be able to add a new modeline.. i'm trying to generate one based on the info i get for my samsung monitor here and this modeline generator but whenever I try to add the modeline i get some errors like :

X Error of failed request:  BadName (named color or font does not exist)
  Major opcode of failed request:  156 (RANDR)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  16 (RRCreateMode)
  Serial number of failed request:  31
  Current serial number in output stream:  31

I tried to google 'em up but I haven't really found any specifics on them..

first thing i thought was that TYPING the modeline instead of pasting it on ubuntu's terminal would have an effect on the first error line: "X Error of failed request:  BadName (named color or font does not exist)" as it seem to be looking for some font/color.. but i get the same error typing or pasting it..

I also tried to get a 'working' modeline such as 60hz and simply adding a 160hz instead .. it would not give the error on '--newmode' but that resulted on a video crash..

---

### Post by pajazo on 2011-03-20
This can be done with xrandr. This is my xorg.conf

```
Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier     "Default Layout"
        Screen      0  "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
        Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "Radeon HD 4850"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "Default Screen"
        Device     "Radeon HD 4850"
        Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"

#           Modes               "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
                Virtual   3200 2048
                Depth     24
        EndSubSection
EndSection
```

This is how you set the resolution and refresh rate (notice that in my case it could not be set to exactly the maximum supported monitor vert refresh of 160hz, but 125hz was accepted. I think 159hz@640x480 would probably work too.

```
cvt 640 480 125 #generate the mode, copy it to the next command
xrandr --newmode "800x600_125" 86.75  800 856 936 1072  600 603 607 648
xrandr --addmode CRT1 "800x600_125"
xrandr --output CRT1 --mode 800x600 --rate 125
```

I saved this to a script to set the gaming display mode and I made a similar script to restore the normal desktop mode.

---

