---
title: "12.10: Music though Banshee but not Amarok"
date: 2012-10-19
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by damien_d on 2012-10-19
Dear all,

I have recently upgraded to Ubuntu 12.10 RC from 12.04. I use gnome, not unity. I cannot say if the upgrade has specifically caused my problem (it may have been there before), but anyways...

In short, I can play music through Banshee, but not Amarok, even for the same music files.  I am using normal analogue speakers (not HDMI or SPDIF)

Amarok appears to play the files: it ticks the time remaining in the song normally. The sound level on the right hand bar has no effect. Clicking on Desktop -> Volume -> Sound Settings -> Applications has a slide bar for Banshee, but not for Amarok.

I have not tested any other KDE application at this stage.

To speculate, is there a possible phonon -> gnome issue at play?  I'm not yet sure how to go about debugging this issue.

  -- Damien

EDIT: "KDE System Settings -> Multimedia -> Phonon -> Music -> Test" plays a sound and "system settings" appears in the "applications" section of sound settings. I wonder what's causing the grief with Amarok?

---

### Post by dom134 on 2012-10-21
Hello, I have a similar problem.  I have also upgraded from 12.04 to 12.10 and use unity.  I can successfully use Banshee to play my music; however, as soon as I attempt to restore Amarok it just closes itself.

EDIT: Belay all above, for some reason it has started working again; probably after switching it off and on again!

---

