---
title: "AAC &amp; Rhythmbox: Here we go again..."
date: 2013-10-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by forliberty on 2013-10-11
I recently installed Ubuntu 13.04-64 and have been unable to get Rhythmbox to play AAC files created by Audacity. I tried changing the default extension (.m4a) to .mp4 or .aac, to no avail. I've verified that the following are installed: ubuntu-restricted-extras, gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly, gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad, and gstreamer0.10-plugins-good. Playback of AAC files works fine in Totem and VLC. I also tried deleting registry.x86_64.bin, which, according to several posts I read, should reside in ~/.gstreamer-0.10. I have no such folder, although I did find registry.x86_64.bin in ~/.cache/gstreamer-1.0, but deleting it did not help. 

Ironically, I had no issues with AAC playback in Ubuntu 10.04. 

Thanks,

David

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-10-12
Okay, but you need gstreamer**1.0** bad package to get the faad decoder since rhythmbox now uses **1.0**...
gstreamer1.0-libav might work as an alternative.

---

### Post by forliberty on 2013-10-12
Thanks for the quick reply! I checked, and I do also already have gstreamer1.0-plugins-bad installed, as well as gstreamer1.0-libav. 

David

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-10-12
Hmm. Try starting rbox from terminal
```
rhythmbox
```
Any errors when you try to play aac/m4a file?

---

### Post by forliberty on 2013-10-12
Well, I feel like a bit of an idiot. Turns out that Rhythmbox is able to play the AAC files; it just cannot read the tags generated by Audacity for some reason. So when I tried to add some specific AAC files to Rhythmbox, they were not showing up under the expected artist name, and so I thought Rhythmbox was just rejecting them. Instead, they showed up under "Unknown." Interestingly, when I try to edit the tags in Rhythmbox by adding the correct artist, I get an error: "Error while saving song information GStreamer encountered a general stream error." I'll do some more googling to see if I can resolve this issue. 

Thanks again for the help!

David

---

### Post by forliberty on 2013-10-30
After doing some googling and playing around a bit, it seems there are a lot of MP3 and MP4 tagging incompatibilities amongst the various audio programs in Raring Ringtail (Audacity, Sound Juicer, Rhythmbox). I don't have the time to mess around with it anymore; maybe it'll get fixed by the time I upgrade my distro...sigh.

---

