---
title: "Jaunty Intel Graphics Problems"
date: 2009-08-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by sunburstgl on 2009-08-02
Hi I'm running Ubuntu 9.04 on a Dell C400 Laptop. It has an intel graphics card inside (I believe it is the Intel 830 or something like that.

Everything seems fine when I first boot up, but after a while the fonts start to get lines in them, and then a little while latter specific letters will be blacked out. If I wait long enough all my fonts are all blurred together and I can't read anything.

I have no idea what's causing this. I do know that there is trouble with Intel graphics cards and ubuntu 9.04.

Here is my output for "lspci" on the graphics end:
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82830 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller] (rev 04)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation 82830 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]

Here is my xorg.conf file:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"AccelMethod"			"uxa"
	Option		"EXAOptimizeMigration"		"true"
	Option		"MigrationHeuristic"		"greedy"
	Option		"Tiling"			"false"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


And I attached some screen shots of what things start to look like. I'll see if I can get some when it's really bad. Thanks for looking into this. Any help is greatly appreciated!

EDIT:
Everything works great when I use Ubuntu's failsafe graphics/VESA drivers, but with VESA I can't get a screens resolution above 600x460. If I could get VESA to work with a higher resolution that would be great.
Thanks again.

---

### Post by sunburstgl on 2009-08-03
Bumping it up. Can someone please help me with this?

---

### Post by djurny on 2009-08-03
try
```
Option "AccelMethod" "exa"
```
its a bit strange that you have some exa specific options set and yet choose uxa rendering?

---

### Post by sunburstgl on 2009-08-03
It worked! Thanks a lot. Just one little letter made all that difference.

---

