---
title: "10.10 fresh install - problem with MCE remote and lirc"
date: 2010-11-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by the_camera_man on 2010-11-26
I am moving this thread to a more appropriate forum and editing slightly.

Thank you for taking the time to read this and possibly throwing some advice my way.

I have recently installed Ubuntu 10.10 64-bit on a custom built desktop.   I am using MythTV with the HD-PVR, along with ZoneMinder for security  cameras, and CUPS for interfacing with Windows printing.  Thus far,  things have been very smooth and I am enjoying the transition from XP  and BeyondTV.

I have hit a little snag with lirc.  I have decided not to try to use  the Hauppauge remote with my setup, rather I purchased a Pinnacle MCE  transceiver to perform remote functions and IR blasting.

I have followed a number of rabbit trails by doing anything from  compiling lirc from source, to installing from the repositories  (apt-get), to simply trying to use inputlirc.  None of these options  appear to be getting me where I needed to be.

My current status is:
1) The device is recognized by viewing lsusb, lsinput, etc. as /dev/input/event3
2) When I run "sudo evtest /dev/input/event3" and start pushing buttons,  I get output on the screen that corresponds with the button I press, so  the remote itself appears to be functioning.
3) After installing lirc from the repository (apt-get install lirc) without the lirc-modules-source installed and with the lirc_mceusb module blacklisted, I start up irw and very few  buttons respond.  Things like volume and power actually perform system  events, while things like Up,Down,left,right produce output like "^]]D"  and "^]]C" ... One thing to note is that upon installing lirc, I choose  "Linux Input Layer" for the remote, but the lircd service will not start  until I modify the hardware.conf file and put /dev/input/event3 as the  remote_device, and then restart the service of course.  Is that normal?  I'm not sure the service is starting correctly.  Running --verbose does not give me any additional issues.
4) I have tried by using the lircd.conf file that is specified by  default, and I have also tried the lircd.conf file from sourceForge.   They seem to be the same file, except one specifies the key values in  hex and the other in decimal.  I have heard however, that the lircd.conf  file is usually the reason you get garbage from irw.
5) Finally, irrecord does not function for me.  I try "sudo irrecord -H  dev/input -d /dev/input/event3 ~/lircd.new" and I receive "driver  'dev/input' not support -- supported drivers: default' ...

I have spent a few hours trying to shake this booger loose, but I am  running out of fresh ideas.  Has anyone hit this before?  If I need to  provide any of my config files or any other pertinent information, I  will be more than happy to.  Thanks for your time!

---

### Post by the_camera_man on 2010-11-26
I have resolved the issue.  I took the update to go 23-generic on the kernel.  Upon installing lirc, the device got picked up as lirc0 instead of /dev/input/event3 ... I won't be touching that again :)

---

### Post by wilma92010 on 2010-11-29
Hi There!

I am having the same issue.  I did a fresh install of 10.10 and it looks like my kernel version is 2.6.35-22-generic.  

Excuse me if this is the wrong place to ask this question, but how do I upgrade to 23-generic, especially keeping a bunch of stuff I have fixed from the clean install (used to use 9.10).   

I was hoping the 'upgrade' (via fresh install of 10.10) would address poor MCE remote performance.

Thanks,

Wilma

---

