---
title: "Xinerama: xorg.config help - ati x300"
date: 2009-02-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by tacomachine on 2009-02-24
I'm running a Dell Dimension 8400 with an ATI Radeon x300. Currently I have two monitors setup.  I had tried using [Xinerama]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773624") (xorg.config file at the bottom) to configure the monitors to my desired modes to no avail. 

I have two different sized monitors, 1 17"@1280x1024 on the left and 1 15"@1024x768 on the right.  Right now I have the 17" monitor sideways and would like to run it at 1024x1280 while at the same time running the 15" at 1024x768. 

Any way of doing that? I'm clueless...

Thanks in advance.


> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "0 Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "fglrx"
    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
     Screen     0
    Option "DDCMode" "True"
    Option "MonitorLayout" "CRT,TMDS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "1 Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "fglrx"
    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
     Screen     1
    Option "DDCMode" "True"
    Option "MonitorLayout" "CRT,TMDS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Main Screen"
    Device        "0 Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Main Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        1
        Modes        "1024x1280"
    EndSubSection
# Subsections for other display depths not shown...
EndSection
 
Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Second Screen"
    Device        "1 Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Second Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth        1
        Modes        "1024x768"
    EndSubSection
# Subsections for other display depths not shown...
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen      1  "Main Screen"
    Screen      0  "Second Screen" LeftOf "Mainscreen
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Option "Xinerama" "true"
EndSection
P.S. i'm new at this whole Ubuntu thing...
Danke schön

---

### Post by wjlroe on 2009-02-25
I'm not too sure about using the fglrx drivers, but it is all possible with the open source drivers (radeon, rather than fglrx - but you lose 3D acceleration). There are two main things you need to do, configure a large enough Virtual screen size (the sum of the sizes of your screens), e.g.:

```
SubSection "Display"
      Viewport   0 0
      Depth     24
      Virtual 2704 1680
   EndSubSection
```

The values are total X dimension (1024+1024) and total Y dimension (1280+768 ). Once that is in there (in the screen section of the config), Xinerama can reconfigure the screens dynamically. (The forum post you mention shows how to set this stuff up statically, which I don't normally do because I mostly use a laptop). Once that's working and X is using both screens (by default it will clone the screens I think), then you can use the tool xrandr to change the screen layout and rotate them (not sure about rotating with the Radeon card though, might need checking...). Such as:

```

xrandr --output DVI1 --left-of DVI2
xrandr --output DVI2 --rotate left

```

That's assuming two DVI ports. Running xrandr without arguments will show the current configuration (which is always useful) and screen identifiers (DVI1, VGA1 etc).

When using the fglrx driver, have you tried using the aticonfig tool (installed alongside the driver)? It can set this sort of thing up for you I think.

Another new option is to check out this tool: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DisplayConfigGTK](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DisplayConfigGTK) - but it's new and might not be the best for custom layouts like rotated screens.

I hope that helps a little, and getting this stuff working can be pretty difficult (I backup my xorg.conf for virtually every change because it can be so fussy sometimes) - so best of luck.

Will

> **tacomachine said:**
> I'm running a Dell Dimension 8400 with an ATI Radeon x300. Currently I have two monitors setup.  I had tried using [Xinerama]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773624") (xorg.config file at the bottom) to configure the monitors to my desired modes to no avail. 

I have two different sized monitors, 1 17"@1280x1024 on the left and 1 15"@1024x768 on the right.  Right now I have the 17" monitor sideways and would like to run it at 1024x1280 while at the same time running the 15" at 1024x768. 

Any way of doing that? I'm clueless...

Thanks in advance.


P.S. i'm new at this whole Ubuntu thing...
Danke schön

---

### Post by daehenoc on 2009-06-29
I've got a Radeon HD2400XT R600 low-profile PCI-e video card (it's got a special high-density DVI-type plug with a special splitter cable to two DVI outputs) and are using the opensource radeon driver.  I've got a Dell 24" and an Acer 24" LCD monitors and would like to rotate the Dell and keep normal rotation for the Acer.

Here's my xorg.conf file:
```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	3840 1200
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```
When I increase the Virtual entry to '3840 3840', I can log on to X but as soon as the desktop comes up, X locks up!  Does anyone have any ideas for me to try?

*Edit: actually, it would need to be (1920+1200=3120) by 1920, duh*

Thanks!

---

### Post by daehenoc on 2009-06-30
Hah, fixed!  Solution here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1199329](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1199329)

---

