---
title: "vga/config?"
date: 2008-10-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by azmo35 on 2008-10-18
Hi, one more "convert" and i need help i use wubi install the install works ok but i can't put my tv work using the vga port so this is my xorg.conf 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
THIS IS EASYER ON WINXP,
HELL PLEASE THANKS AZMO.

---

### Post by azmo35 on 2008-10-20
Hello this is my first post,	
so I am a rookie all that ubuntu thing 	
a months and everything has worked well but i need help in connecting my tv through the vga port.I have to do edition of xorg.conf or a different way like in winXP. HELL PLEASE :(

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-10-20
you may find it easier to use nvidia-settings rather than editing the xorg.conf. its very similar to the nvidia control panel in windows. if you're wanting to make changes you need to run it with root permissions. in a terminal (system > accessories > terminal) do:
```

sudo nvidia-settings
```

be sure you arent outputting a resolution the tv cant handle. mine has the old vga input resolution of 1024x768 which i had to put up with until i got an hdmi cable. its still possible to output a widescreen ratio in most video players if yours is the same.

---

### Post by azmo35 on 2008-10-23
Thanks for the reply but my video card is intel, so i should install the nvidia drives? Code:command not found

---

### Post by azmo35 on 2008-10-26
Hello again under applications/other/screens and graphics I can configure. But under tab scree the only thing i can change with some success is when enable secondary sreen and slect mirror default screen this make the default on my laptop goes black, the TV connected through the VGA port works.Graphics tab /graphics card is INTEL 915 drivers no driver some help to fix this it will be appreciated many thanks from a rookie,azmo.

---

