---
title: "5.1 sound down to 3.1 sound or not at all"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by HappyLinux on 2011-05-02
I've got an annoying and confusing problem with Kubuntu 11.04, my sound card and 5.1 speakers.

My sound card is a VIA VT1708S built into the motherboard which is an Asus P7P55 LX. There is another sound output device, but it's through the HDMI connection on my GeForce GTS450 card.

Obviously I don't use the HDMI connection.

For some reason, as a hidden default, it only uses 3.1 speakers. That's the Sub, 2 front side speakers and centre. It doesn't use the 2 back speakers for some strange reason.

I've tried going through the only hardware settings I could find for sound cards but that only makes matters worse. I've attached several images of what I'm referring too. There is no Screen Capture 1 image as that was badly done as I'm still getting use to the KDE screen capture feature which doesn't work properly.

Images 2 and 3. These simply show what is available. Input and Output hardware.

Images 4, 5 and 6. Under the Speakers tab, things go wrong fast. Under the Sound Card drop down list, there is only 2 options, Internal Audio and GF106. In other words, built in card and GeForce (HDMI). If you look down in the bottom right, you'll see popup messages. These messages popup, no matter which setting I select, and practically randomises a selection that it refers back to.

However, as soon as I select one of them, doesn't matter which, the sound cuts out. Even clicking Reset doesn't work. I have to restart the computer to get sound back.

Under the profile list for each Sound card is a nice little selection of choices. Here are those choices;

Internal Audio
   	 	 	 	 	 	  Analogue Stereo Duplex
 Analogue Stereo Stereo
 Digital Stereo (IEC958) Output + Analogue Stereo Input
 Digital Stereo Duplex (IEC958)
 Analogue Surround 5.1 Output + Analogue Stereo Input
 Analogue Surround 5.1 Output
 Analogue Surround 7.1 Output + Analogue Stereo Input
 Analogue Surround 7.1 Output
 Analogue Stereo Input
 Off
 
GF106
  	 	 	 	 	 	  Digital Stereo (HDMI) Output
 Digital Stereo (HDMI) nr 4 Output
 Digital Surround (HDMI) Output
 Digital Surround (HDMI) nr 4 Output
 Off
 
Like I said, doesn't matter which one of these I select, it knocks the sound out full stop, forcing me to restart the computer. Not changing anything, and I only get 3.1 speakers out of the full 5.1.

Can anyone help?

---

### Post by HappyLinux on 2011-05-03
Anyone??

---

### Post by gnagnibu on 2011-05-04
I have ASUS P7P55D EVO and also I have som problems with audio.
I can listen to by back audio connectors, but not by front audio panel.
I've tried to change audio profile from System Settings -> Hardware -> Multimedia -> Phonon -> Speaker Settings -> Audio Output -> headphone but it doesn't work...

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-04
Use the alsa-info-script to provide detailed information.
Run this command in a terminal:
```
wget http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh 
```
Choose the upload option and provide a link for the output.

---

### Post by gnagnibu on 2011-05-05
Here mine: [http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=c4b85e7d1acfbcbb69d9be6d2f0ca80c582af113](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=c4b85e7d1acfbcbb69d9be6d2f0ca80c582af113)

---

### Post by HappyLinux on 2011-05-07
And here is mine
[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=beeefcc78f5023738dddcf1785d5daf35f485142](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=beeefcc78f5023738dddcf1785d5daf35f485142)

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-08
Both of you try this:
```
echo "options snd-hda-intel model=6stack-digout" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
``` **Reboot**

No joy? Remove that edit and follow the link in my sig for the alsa-upgrade script.

Editing:
```
 kdesudo kate /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf 
```

---

### Post by HappyLinux on 2011-05-15
> **lidex said:**
> Both of you try this:
```
echo "options snd-hda-intel model=6stack-digout" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
``` **Reboot**

No joy? Remove that edit and follow the link in my sig for the alsa-upgrade script.

Editing:
```
 kdesudo kate /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf 
```

Sorry, I don't understand.

Oh, to add one more thing. My sound has started being picky when boot into Kubuntu. Sometimes the sound doesn't activate and I have to restart the computer. I know this because of the login sound. When it boots into the desktop, you have that welcome tone. If I don't hear that, then I won't hear anything from anything else (video files, youtube, etc.)

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-15
> **HappyLinux said:**
> Sorry, I don't understand.

Oh, to add one more thing. My sound has started being picky when boot into Kubuntu. Sometimes the sound doesn't activate and I have to restart the computer. I know this because of the login sound. When it boots into the desktop, you have that welcome tone. If I don't hear that, then I won't hear anything from anything else (video files, youtube, etc.)

Run the first command in a terminal and reboot.

---

### Post by gnagnibu on 2011-05-16
OK, I will try.
I can confirm that I can hear system sound but no music or video.

PS: installing from scratch sound works

---

### Post by HappyLinux on 2011-05-19
> **lidex said:**
> Both of you try this:
```
echo "options snd-hda-intel model=6stack-digout" | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
``` **Reboot**

No joy? Remove that edit and follow the link in my sig for the alsa-upgrade script.

Editing:
```
 kdesudo kate /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf 
```

I did the first part and rebooted. Nope, problem still remains.

I don't understand the second part, so I went to the part in your signature. Started reading through and it scared the heck out of me. It's way too complicated for me to understand.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-19
> **HappyLinux said:**
> I did the first part and rebooted. Nope, problem still remains.

I don't understand the second part, so I went to the part in your signature. Started reading through and it scared the heck out of me. It's way too complicated for me to understand.

The script does all the work, that's why I recommend it. Just read through it a couple of times and follow posted directions. You can even copy-and-paste terminal commands. 

But first open alsamixer and scroll to the right. You are looking for element 'Channel'. Toggle value to 6 and check 'Sound Preferences'for 5.1 surround profile.

---

### Post by HappyLinux on 2011-05-20
> **lidex said:**
> The script does all the work, that's why I recommend it. Just read through it a couple of times and follow posted directions. You can even copy-and-paste terminal commands. 

But first open alsamixer and scroll to the right. You are looking for element 'Channel'. Toggle value to 6 and check 'Sound Preferences'for 5.1 surround profile.

alsamixer? where do I go to find that?

Oh yes, I've ran the command "kdesudo kate /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf" and attached a copy of the file.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-21
Sorry, work...
**Alsamixer**
Using a Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
```
 alsamixer 
```
Press <F6> to select the correct soundcard.
Press <F3> to show playback levels. <F4> selects capture levels [or use <Tab>]
Use the left/right arrow keys to select and up/down arrow keys to change levels. <M> to mute/unmute.

---

### Post by gnagnibu on 2011-05-24
I'm sorry guys but my audio still doensn't work.

I've tried reinstalling from scratch and the first time audio works (I used Kubuntu 11.04 CD, no dayly build); after updating, audio stop to work.
I've noticed that when audio worked, only "Pulseaudio Server" appeared in phonon preferencies; after updating, I have to choise between HDA Intel (my audio card) and nVidia HDMI (my video card).

I think pulseaudio is the problem, isn't it??

---

### Post by HappyLinux on 2011-05-25
> **lidex said:**
> Sorry, work...
**Alsamixer**
Using a Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
```
 alsamixer 
```Press <F6> to select the correct soundcard.
Press <F3> to show playback levels. <F4> selects capture levels [or use <Tab>]
Use the left/right arrow keys to select and up/down arrow keys to change levels. <M> to mute/unmute.

I tried the alsamixer, and couldn't find anything to do with Channel. I did make sure the correct sound card was selected though.

I've attached a couple of images of the alsamixer.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-25
You have more elements to the right, note the right-pointing carets. Use the right arrow key, pressing until it stops.

---

### Post by HappyLinux on 2011-05-26
> **lidex said:**
> You have more elements to the right, note the right-pointing carets. Use the right arrow key, pressing until it stops.

OK, I did that. Found it easier to simply enlarge the Terminal window. Were you referring to the "Smart 5.1"? If so, turning it on results in a window popping up asking to send details to the programmers and ultimately logging into Launchpad which I don't have an account for.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-05-26
Try resetting pulse config:
```

rm -r ~/.pulse ~/.asound* ~/.pulse-cookie
sudo rm /etc/asound.conf
```
**Reboot**
* Ignore any 'No such file or directory' errors*

---

### Post by HappyLinux on 2011-05-28
> **lidex said:**
> Try resetting pulse config:
```

rm -r ~/.pulse ~/.asound* ~/.pulse-cookie
sudo rm /etc/asound.conf
```**Reboot**
* Ignore any 'No such file or directory' errors*

OK, one big problem. Cannot do the above commands. See attachment for results.

---

### Post by gnagnibu on 2011-06-02
I uninstalled pulseaudio and all works great now.
Front Panel works if I put "Indipendent HP -> OFF" in Kmix

Hope this can help, bye!

---

### Post by HappyLinux on 2011-06-15
I got rid of Kubuntu and put Ubuntu back in. Now my audio is stable.

---

### Post by gnagnibu on 2011-08-31
Yesterday I installed pulseaudio back: all fine.
Maybe some bugfix? I've not checked...

---

