---
title: "Twinview, primary right screen and desktop icons"
date: 2009-01-16
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by johj on 2009-01-16
Hi,

I've set up Twinview so that my primary monitor is right of my secondary (smaller) monitor. However it seems nautilus doesn't correctly understand this and places the desktop icons on my secondary monitor.

Also I notice that the "flashing effect" when taking a photo in Cheese with my webcam appears on the left secondary monitor as well.

Anyone know of any way to fix this? I guess the problem is with Twinview not exposing both monitors to the X server in a way that non-twinview aware applications can understand..?


I'm running Ubuntu Intrepid 386
nVidia GeForce 8800 GT and version 177.82 of the nvidia drivers

Please see attached xorg.conf (generated by nvidia-settings)

---

### Post by takeboat on 2009-02-16
No solutions for this? I think I have the same problem. My laptop is to the left of my monitor; my menu bars appear on the regular monitor but the icons appear on the laptop monitor. Not only that but even more annoying, the icon placement on the laptop screen extends below what it should, so that I can't see a number of the icons. Any ideas?

---

### Post by johj on 2009-02-16
> **takeboat said:**
> No solutions for this? I think I have the same problem. My laptop is to the left of my monitor; my menu bars appear on the regular monitor but the icons appear on the laptop monitor. Not only that but even more annoying, the icon placement on the laptop screen extends below what it should, so that I can't see a number of the icons. Any ideas?

Yep, I still have this problem and haven't found any solutions to it yet :-/

---

### Post by Lanrat on 2009-09-17
I am also having the problem with icons going off the screen.

It seems that since my primary monitor (laptop) is smaller than my secondary that the overall desktop size expands beyond the laptop screen causing the icons to go off with it.


Any fix?

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-09-17
Do
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```
then go to X-server display configuration (on the left)

You will see representations of your monitors. Drag them around until they are like how you have them set. Click on the one you want as primary. Make sure twinview is selected. Then click "make this the primary display for the X screen". Then "apply" and then "save to x configuration file". quit and reboot.

---

### Post by Lanrat on 2009-09-17
> **HappyFeet said:**
> Do
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```
then go to X-server display configuration (on the left)

You will see representations of your monitors. Drag them around until they are like how you have them set. Click on the one you want as primary. Make sure twinview is selected. Then click "make this the primary display for the X screen". Then "apply" and then "save to x configuration file". quit and reboot.

I am vary familiar with the nvidia settings. The problem is the left over space from the monitor with the larger resolution. Below are links to others discussing the same problem, but there does not seem to be a fix yet.but please post if there is!

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/nautilus/+bug/360970](https://bugs.launchpad.net/nautilus/+bug/360970)
[http://www.mail-archive.com/desktop-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com/msg319311.html](http://www.mail-archive.com/desktop-bugs@lists.ubuntu.com/msg319311.html)

Thanks.

---

### Post by TheCleaner on 2009-12-16
Did anyone manage to find a fix for this?  It's just frustrating have the icons on the wrong monitor.  I'm in the exact same shape as the OP.

---

### Post by sototallycarl on 2010-01-16
I too have this problem. Ubuntu 9.10 (installed and use KDE 4.3 though) and absolute latest nvidia drivers I could easily find and install 195.30.

The desktop icons are actually fine in KDE, window maximize is good too, but the cursor and windows can still get outside the physical bounding box of my smaller/main laptop display.

Mentioned this issue on twitter and some guy said he fixed it (in nautilus too) but sadly he said he can't remember where.

It kind of makes sense that you can drag windows like this up into the dead space but I much prefer the Mac way (never used Windows) where if you have offset monitors or weird sizes and you try and drag a window, it's like the window hits a wall until you line it up correctly.

With the current TwinView approach, it's all up to KDE and Gnome to get this right because KDE can each desktop bounds and obviously controls the window dragging, so it needs to be aware of all surrounding monitor bounding boxes and react appropriately.

---

### Post by takeboat on 2010-02-28
Ugh, still a problem for me- Ubuntu 9.10. Am happy with the menu bars being placed on my external monitor, but icon placement is on my laptop screen and extend to the larger resolution of my external.

---

### Post by lyall on 2010-02-28
see the following links they might help you

[http://www.oreillynet.com/linux/blog/2007/02/nvidia_twinview_and_xorgconf.html]("http://www.oreillynet.com/linux/blog/2007/02/nvidia_twinview_and_xorgconf.html")

[http://globalsyzygy.wordpress.com/2007/12/31/how-to-set-up-dual-screens-twin-view-on-ubuntulinux/]("http://globalsyzygy.wordpress.com/2007/12/31/how-to-set-up-dual-screens-twin-view-on-ubuntulinux/")

[http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/linux-desktop-x-windows/136987-twinview-different-resolutions.html]("http://www.linuxforums.org/forum/linux-desktop-x-windows/136987-twinview-different-resolutions.html")


for more info  you can do a web search for "Linux Twinview"

hope this helps

good luck and have fun learning

---

### Post by avad on 2010-04-11
I am seeing this problem as well. (that computer is running Fedora, but I believe it's the same issue.)

lyall: unfortunately those tutorials aren't very helpful because the problem is that the orientation is correctly configured in xorg, and the gnome menubar and taskbar are correctly display in the first screen (the right screen), but the desktop icons are displayed in the second screen (the left screen).

A bug report has been filed but apparently it's being ignored:
[https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=580366](https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=580366)

---

### Post by brenca on 2010-04-19
Yes, this problem still exists on my Ubuntu 9.10 as well, but I've found something. I have a smaller primary screen with 1024x768 and a larger one with 1280*1024, and if I maximize firefox on the primary one, and i keep switching between maximize and normal size on the larger one (I use World of Warcraft with wine to do so), the screen "overloads", it goes black for a secound and then the icons can only be placed in the visible areas, however they can't be placed on the larger one in a row, where the deadspace is above the smaller one... At least I can see my icons now :) Sorry for the bad english, hopefully it's not too bad.

---

### Post by FunkyPajamas on 2010-05-26
Long time reader, first time poster. Currently running Ubuntu 10.04 LST on a dell 1440 laptop, having the same issue. It's annoying but not really a critical bug. I'm tagging this thread in case a solution comes up eventually. Sorry for the bump.

---

### Post by dasbooter on 2010-05-27
Just to let u guys know I have had this problem since the time of edgy and feisty. U guys know your alphabet and can count...I am on lynx and yet no solution ;)

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-05-27
After I set up my dual monitors the same thing happened to me, but launching nvidia-settings with sudo again, instantly puts everything where it should be.

---

### Post by deezer on 2010-10-25
> **WinterRain said:**
> After I set up my dual monitors the same thing happened to me, but launching nvidia-settings with sudo again, instantly puts everything where it should be.

Launching nvidia-settings and doing what?  Just launching it doesn't seem to do anything for me.

I have desktop icons appearing halfway off the screen on my thinkpad T510 - I am using Twinview with an Nvidia 3100M.  My laptop display is 1600x900, and my other screen is 1680x1050 - so that extra 80px makes the icons on the bottom of the screen appear halfway off of the screen.

---

### Post by Cas07 on 2011-01-21
I have been following this issue for a while now  and as other have pointed out this is not a simple twinview configuration issue these are unfixed bugs that have been irritating multi-monitor users for at least 4 years now. 

I thought I would see what bug reports have been filed and found there are two distinct issues that are at the core of the problem of missing icons and a third annoyance that is the OP icon placement on secondary monitor.


[LIST]
[*]Mouse leaving the non-rectangular dual-head areas:
[INDENT][I][#389519: Cursor can move off-screen when dual-monitors do not form rectangular area ](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/389519)
[[s]#373367: Pointer goes offscreen on non-rectangular dual-head[/s] ](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libxrandr/+bug/373367)[/I]

There is a [patch]("http://lists.x.org/archives/xorg-devel/2010-November/015495.html") released but no comments so far as to whether it works.[/INDENT]


[*]Icons disappearing into dead area created by different resolution monitors
[INDENT][I][#360970 Configure display settings - Icons off screen!]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/nautilus/+bug/360970")
[#57784: After xrandr desktop icons can go missing ](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/57784)
[[s]#408710: Icons fall off in dual-screen (stretched, NVIDIA TwinView) desktop when secondary monitor is larger height[/s]](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/408710)[/I][/INDENT]

[*]Icons not appearing on primary screen when secondary screen is to the left.
[INDENT][I][Gnome #420624: Nautilus desktop icons are not placed relative to primary monitor / head ](https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=420624)
[Gnome #580366: Desktop icons are displayed on the wrong screen when using Twinview and the main screen is on the right ](https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=580366)
[/I][/INDENT]
[/LIST]

I hope this helps people vote/comment on the relevant bug.

---

### Post by Runaway1956 on 2011-06-06
> **HappyFeet said:**
> Do
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```
then go to X-server display configuration (on the left)

You will see representations of your monitors. Drag them around until they are like how you have them set. Click on the one you want as primary. Make sure twinview is selected. Then click "make this the primary display for the X screen". Then "apply" and then "save to x configuration file". quit and reboot.


"**Drag them around**until they are like how you have them set."

Bolded part is what I was missing.  Ubuntu 10.04 64 bit, and this is the first time I've had dual screens.  I got into nvidia-settings by way of the GUI menu, as well as through the CLI.  It never occured to me to DRAG the screens around.  As soon as I had a bit of separation between the screens, my toolbar and my icons shifted themselves to the primary (left) screen, and the secondary screen became "extra" real estate in which I can park my windows.

If you're still around after all this time, Happy Feet, THANK YOU!!!

---

### Post by Mordof on 2011-08-10
> **Runaway1956 said:**
> "**Drag them around**until they are like how you have them set."

Bolded part is what I was missing.  Ubuntu 10.04 64 bit, and this is the first time I've had dual screens.  I got into nvidia-settings by way of the GUI menu, as well as through the CLI.  It never occured to me to DRAG the screens around.  As soon as I had a bit of separation between the screens, my toolbar and my icons shifted themselves to the primary (left) screen, and the secondary screen became "extra" real estate in which I can park my windows.

If you're still around after all this time, Happy Feet, THANK YOU!!!

Just to clarify for any subsequent users, this isn't at all similar to the OP problem. I'm still having this issue in 11.04 and it's even more annoying since I've used Prism and DevilsPie to place a local web app as my secondary (left) monitor background. However since icons keep getting placed beneath the webapp, it's very troublesome.

Will look into the tickets Cas07 has brought up and see if I can bring a solution into the mix and report back.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-08-10
The OP problem could be related to the incomplete line
Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "string"

If both/all screens (wired ports CRT-1 DVI-0 etc) are listed this overrides the default order reported by driver..
This new order is reported to the desktop display manager.
The driver readme is very vague on the subject..


Panning domains is a soln to the invisible regions of meta-screen in twinview..
You may want this false
Option "PanAllDisplays" "boolean"

I believe the default screen order is related the device sections in xorg.conf..

---

