---
title: "12.04 flash lags when moving mouse"
date: 2013-05-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by n3wbvip3r on 2013-05-29
okay, so i have done everything under the sun to get a perfect running flash. reinstalling both manually and through the software center, different versions, work arounds and the likes. i do have a pretty low end machine, intel atom 270n (i believe) and a gma950 graphics card, 2gb ram. i use it as a mobile station for when i'm away from home. everything works great but flash in both 2d and 3d unity. on firefox, chromium, chrome, midori. i stumbled upon this:

 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1987116](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1987116)

and it worked beautifully! flash played so much better!! but one catch. when i move the mouse, it lags. keep the mouse still, perfect playback. move it again, freeze.. keep it still, plays perfect again. i know ubuntu and flash have a love hate relationship. but this seems almost hardware related. big question, is there a way to fix this? so i can move my mouse and not worry about flash spazzing out? like, mouse speed, or some setting making the mouse do something special?

thanks.

---

### Post by n3wbvip3r on 2013-05-30
am i the only one with this issue? i've tried digging myself with no luck. can't find a post with an answer, i only found 2 other posts on this issue, all unanswered. can someone point me in the right direction? thanks.

---

### Post by Vontux on 2013-05-30
> **n3wbvip3r said:**
> okay, so i have done everything under the sun to get a perfect running flash. reinstalling both manually and through the software center, different versions, work arounds and the likes. i do have a pretty low end machine, intel atom 270n (i believe) and a gma950 graphics card, 2gb ram. i use it as a mobile station for when i'm away from home. everything works great but flash in both 2d and 3d unity. on firefox, chromium, chrome, midori. i stumbled upon this:

 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1987116](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1987116)

and it worked beautifully! flash played so much better!! but one catch. when i move the mouse, it lags. keep the mouse still, perfect playback. move it again, freeze.. keep it still, plays perfect again. i know ubuntu and flash have a love hate relationship. but this seems almost hardware related. big question, is there a way to fix this? so i can move my mouse and not worry about flash spazzing out? like, mouse speed, or some setting making the mouse do something special?

thanks.

This might be a bit of a silly question, but which video drivers are you using for your device? Are there any proprietary drivers available? I for one found a plethora of video related issues all across the board improved on my system when I switched from the open source to the proprietary drivers, unfortunate though that may be.

---

### Post by n3wbvip3r on 2013-05-31
driver: intel 945gme x86/mmx/sse2

from what i've been told through a few forums, thats the top dog. no drivers are available for my graphics in the driver updater, just my wireless (which i am using). is there perhaps another one available which is better? thanks for the reply!

---

### Post by n3wbvip3r on 2013-06-17
anyone? still having this issue, can't figure it out...

---

