---
title: "11.10, Easycap And VLC- Halfway There!"
date: 2011-10-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by marcmeier on 2011-10-28
Hi, All

Well, I've got the video working using the Easycap in VLC, by selecting <Open Capture Device> and entering "/dev/video0" under "Video Device Name", but I can't get the sound to work (needs something in "Audio Device Name").

Sound will work in mplayer, if I use the string:

mplayer tv:// -tv driver=v4l2:norm=PAL_BGHIN:outfmt=uyvy:device=/dev/video0:input=0:buffersize=16:alsa:amode=1:forcechan=2:audiorate=48000:adevice=plughw.1,0:forceaudio:immediatemode=0 -hardframedrop -vo xv -ao alsa

Anyone got any ideas for VLC?

---

### Post by rmt1947 on 2011-10-28
I think the device name you need for vlc is

```
plughw:1,0
```

Notice particularly that for vlc you require a colon in place of the full stop used for mplayer.  Works for me on Ubuntu 11.10.

Mike

---

### Post by marcmeier on 2011-10-28
@rmt1947

Dead right- works!  Thank you.

Only 7/8th's of the way there though- audio and video freeze after a minute or so- why is it always 1 step forward and then a bit backwards?

Cheers

---

### Post by rmt1947 on 2011-10-29
I think this may be a problem with the video source rather than with the driver itself.  It can arise with worn-out videotapes, for example, even when the first item mentioned in the ./README file under the heading "Known Runtime Issues" isn't applicable.  A different video source might give a better result. 

Mike

---

### Post by neogeo1128 on 2013-01-24
Hi, 

I have the exactly same problem ...(mplayer is ok but not VLC)

kindly list out the command I need to type for VLC....

(the one I used in mplayer is )
```
mplayer tv:// -tv driver=v4l2:norm=PAL-I:width=720:height=405:outfmt=uyvy:device=/dev/video1:input=1:fps=25:alsa:amode=1:forcechan=2:audiorate=48000:adevice=plughw.2,0:forceaudio:immediatemode=0 -hardframedrop -vo xv -ao alsa
```before typing the above command I need to type the following commands first:
sudo rmmod em28xx
sudo modprobe em28xx card=2 


thanks.

---

