---
title: "how can we get xmms back into ubuntu repos"
date: 2008-05-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Intangir on 2008-05-05
we need xmms back (in 8.04+)

xmms with xmms-mplayer plugin provides unreplacable BADASS functionality

it allows you to use 1 application as a playlist/player for both ALL AUDIO and ALL VIDEO, its lightweight, its hotkeyable, and mplayer is very configurable and powerful

ive been looking for a good replacement, pretty much the entire internet seems to say that audacious is the closest replacement to xmms so i figured it would be a good starting place for replacing the functionality

a couple guys have started making audacious versions of the xmms-mplayer plugin but none of them work very well.

also i went to the audacious support channel to talk to the devs and within 5 minutes (of simply asking if they knew of a good way to get this functionality thru audacious) 4-5 guys in the channel were calling me all manner of names

i wish i had saved the log just cause of the sheer disbelief, i thought the days of complete asswipe elitist sack of **** linux related channels were over but these guys show that it still is alove in well.. (got insulted from being from texas, got compared to being biggot. got called a 'fool who wont be suffered' and threatened with banning, this all started from having the audacity to compare xmms to audacious.., in short they were all 100% uncooperative insulting hate spewing assholes... so i rather doubt they will be much help implementing this functionality (im pretty sure im permabanned))..

....

so how do we get xmms back into hardy? it works perfectly. it hasnt NEEDED an update in years.. its lightweight and provides so far irreplaceable functionality thru its plugins (and also thru its plugins has managed to continue to support newer and newer functionalities, like pulseaudio support)


i want my xmms back
(and screw the audacious guys.., i havent seen devs this rude in .. about 10 years now. they are a disgrace to opensource in my opinion)

---

### Post by rhauff on 2008-05-08
I agree, xmms needs to come back.  I also have been trying to use Audacious to replace it, and though I really like the way it looks and configures, I am having major difficulties with it:

1.  It refuses to play my Ogg m3u files generated by my Edna music server.

2.  Playing Jamendo streams requires ~30 second delays before songs and after any music control requests (FF, RW, Play, etc.).  

Can't find any help on Google on either of these, problem is on ver. 1.4.5 and 1.50 on both Xubuntu 7.10 and 8.04.

---

### Post by elfuego on 2008-05-10
I am also very, VERY disappointed that we don't have xmms in 8.04! :mad:

I tried recompiling it from source, tried installing old version but it rams into dependency problems with libglib1.2 and libglib1.2dbg that are mutually exclusive :(

Audacious is no replacement for xmms - streaming doesn't work correctly and it stops playing on random occasions - its full of gremlins. Why integrate something as crappy as that?

Anyway, did anyone successfully install xmms on heron?

---

### Post by elfuego on 2008-05-10
Well I found the answer... Here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=774461&highlight=xmms](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=774461&highlight=xmms)

It finally works! :-)

---

