---
title: "xorg.conf Color depth"
date: 2009-07-19
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by taha116 on 2009-07-19
So basicly let me explain first what i want to solve then ill go into more details in the bottom.

I installed battle tanks using add/remove programs in xubuntu... it works sounds fine but the screen area is all covered up with lines across the screen. I got the same issue with wolfinstine ET and im fedup now, how can i solve this? som1 suggested its to do with the xorg.conf file and i dont understand how to check and change those settings.

This is what the file looks like
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection                      

How can i change depth or solve the problem of the lines and screwd up stuff? What do i have to edit in here to change color depth? What do you suggest?

Thanks... Note* i am a total nub to linux, so forgive my nubiness

---

### Post by Chatoyer on 2009-08-12
I'd installed various versions, Xubuntu Edgy, Ubuntu Heron, et al. on Microsoft's 'Virtual Machines', and there is a similar well documented issue.  I don't know whether it's identical, though.

I'm very far from expert, too, and when I find things working, I sometimes don't really know why.

In a 'Terminal' window, try:

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```You may need to enter a password.

Here the file can be edited much like 'notepad.'  Try adding a line:

```
DefaultDepth 16
```It would go just before the final "EndSection" in the quoted code you'd posted, that is, after the "Device" line in 'Section "Screen".'  It would look like this:

```
Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth 16
EndSection                      
```If this fails, perhaps add the following after the 'DefaultDepth' line:

```
SubSection "Dispaly"
     Depth 16
     Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
```Completed, it would look something like this:

```
Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth 16
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth 16
        Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection                      
```Close the file with ctrl-x and enter "Y" to save changes.

And remember to forgive me if all this fails as well.  In that case, someone more expert shall have to describe what particular is needed.

---

