---
title: "monitor resolution problem"
date: 2009-12-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by asrarshaikh on 2009-12-05
[B]I have had the following problems installing the new 9.10 version of Ubuntu from CD:
 ) Ubuntu can not detect the proper monitor resolution.  I have tried two different monitors with the same issue.

i have samsung 1024x768 res moniter
mercury pvm900m MB[/B]

---

### Post by BalaViknesh on 2009-12-05
Suffered with the same problem.

Refer to this thread.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1332296](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1332296)

Hope this ll help.
Update ur drivers to the corresponding latest.

---

### Post by asrarshaikh on 2009-12-05
thank u bala 

here is my output

administrator@ubuntu:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
        Driver "sisimedia"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
administrator@ubuntu:~$

_-______________________________

administrator@ubuntu:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.1 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.2 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.3 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.4 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:00.5 PIC: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 I/O APIC Interrupt Controller
00:00.6 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Security Device
00:00.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237/VX700 PCI Bridge
00:02.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 PCI to PCI Bridge Controller (rev 80)
00:03.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 PCI to PCI Bridge Controller (rev 80)
00:0f.0 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. Device 5372
00:0f.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 07)
00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b0)
00:10.4 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 90)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237S PCI to ISA Bridge
00:11.7 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8251 Ultra VLINK Controller
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 7c)
00:13.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8237A Host Bridge
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. CN896/VN896/P4M900 [Chrome 9 HC] (rev 01)
80:01.0 Audio device: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT1708/A [Azalia HDAC] (VIA High Definition Audio Controller) (rev 10)
administrator@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by BalaViknesh on 2009-12-05
Hi Shaikh,

need answers : is ur monitor capable of that resolution and ur graphic card drivers are uptodate.

am also a noob... not an expert to resolve all. But the forum which i referred helped me in changing my screen resolution..

Hope this works for u and changes 4 u.

---

### Post by asrarshaikh on 2009-12-05
> **BalaViknesh said:**
> Hi Shaikh,
 
need answers : is ur monitor capable of that resolution and ur graphic card drivers are uptodate.
 
am also a noob... not an expert to resolve all. But the forum which i referred helped me in changing my screen resolution..
 
Hope this works for u and changes 4 u.
 
 
yes is my moniter support 1204x768 resolution
its work fine on my anotehr running pc XP and 7

---

### Post by juliobahar on 2009-12-20
> **asrarshaikh said:**
> yes is my moniter support 1204x768 resolution
its work fine on my anotehr running pc XP and 7

Try this:

```

xrandr --newmode "1024x768_60.00" 63.50 1024 1072 1176 1328 768 771 775 798 -hsync +vsync


```
and post the following:

```

xrandr -q

```

After that change your resolution from the your System-> Preferences->Display

Tell me if that helped

---

