---
title: "10.04 64 bit w/ Nvidia: cannot display console!"
date: 2010-06-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2010-06-21
Hey guys,

when I try to access the console (e.g. by pressing CTRL-ALT-F1 or trying to boot into recovery mode), my screen stays blank. It seems that the driver (195.36.24) cannot display the console properly. Now, most of the time, I use the GDM UI anyway, but it's kind of scary, knowing that if something about my system breaks, I won't be able to fix it because I cannot access (see) the console.

Did anybody ever encounter the same problem? I would really like to solve this!

Hope you can help me.

---

### Post by UltraZone on 2010-08-02
I have this same problem

btw GeForce Go 7900 GS

---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2010-08-02
I haven't been able to do much about it since I first posted myself. On my desktop PC, in text mode, the screen no longer stays blank: I see many colourful pixels instead where text should be. I am actually able to execute commands that way and guess the computer's reactions from how the pixels re-assemble themselves on the screen.

That way, I've been able to re-install my graphics driver after the last couple kernel upgrades.

When I installed 10.04 on my laptop, I decided to just install the proprietary driver that Linux provides from the repos after first boot. It will be outdated in a while, but at least it (likely) won't break.

And lo and behold, on my laptop, the console can be accessed just fine.

Would still love to hear if anybody else has the problem and found a solution!

---

### Post by py8elo on 2010-08-04
Hi,
type these commands on a terminal:
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo reboot
sudo nvidia-xconfig
sudo reboot
I hope it can solve your problem!

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-08-04
Nah,
sounds more like a nouveau resolution problem.
Have you disabled nouveau according to the nvidia`s drivers README ?

---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2010-08-06
Yeah, Nouveau's gone.

py8elo, I tried your commands - no success though :-( Still, thanks so much!

One thing though: I also updated to the new Linux (Ubuntu) kernel today. Usually, kernel updates mean I have to reinstall the Nvidia driver from the console, because X won't start. This time, I did this:

sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
install updated kernel
sudo reboot
=> X started! But no compiz

sudo nvidia-xconfig
sudo reboot

All back, and I didn't have to blindly go through the console to reinstall the Nvidia driver, guessing what it was doing!

---

