---
title: "8.04 Hardy disables ATI radeon x1600 (agp)"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by patrikwa on 2008-04-27
My graphics card (ati radeon x1600 pro 512mb AGP) worked flawlessly in gutsy gibbon, but after upgrading to hardy heron (8.04) it isnt working correct. It seems to be in use but when i try to use it in my hardware accelerated applications i get an error that says my card doesnt support glsl (openGL shading language) which is weird. Tried to use envy to install aswell as the normal command-line way but both tells me i already got the latest drivers installed :S
Anyone else got problems with upgrading to hardy and managed to solve it?

Thx in advance for respone.

---

### Post by Torgas Prim on 2008-04-27
There are probably 500 threads on the ATI issue in Hardy right now.
Wish I could help point you in the right direction, but I am having problems too with it.
And not one of these threads have an answer to fix these issues. Maybe 2 people got their cards working from all I have read so far. 

This is in Ubuntu's and ATI's court right now. They both broke it and they both need to fix it.
Sorry but I have to point out the obvious.

---

### Post by patrikwa on 2008-05-09
Doh! It worked so good in gutsy... any way to revert it w/o actually re-installing from scratch? :S Not that i needed this upgrade that badly...

---

### Post by seps1816 on 2008-05-25
> **Torgas Prim said:**
> There are probably 500 threads on the ATI issue in Hardy right now.
Wish I could help point you in the right direction, but I am having problems too with it.
And not one of these threads have an answer to fix these issues. Maybe 2 people got their cards working from all I have read so far. 

This is in Ubuntu's and ATI's court right now. They both broke it and they both need to fix it.
Sorry but I have to point out the obvious.

I completely agree i have been searching fora fix for like 2 hours now and gettin no where its kinda of annoying ati doesnt just make a driver that works but if anyone gets anywhere let me know

---

### Post by Kaneda187 on 2008-05-25
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=784463](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=784463) 

some guys help me with Ati problems on this thread some useful info too, hope it helps good luck:)

---

### Post by Kaneda187 on 2008-05-25
and let me kno if you get anywhere! I have mine working well now video quality could be better though!:( 

ATI need to get off ther *** and make a driver that works cant be that hard if it worked befor!

---

### Post by dhondu on 2008-07-21
Anyone try the new ati driver released today? does it help solve the problem? 
I guess I am a little scared to try them after reinstalling ubuntu several times to repair the damage caused by ati install

Release notes claim:

New Features

This release of ATI Catalyst™ Linux introduces product support for the following new operating systems:

    * Ubuntu 8.04 production support
    * SLED 10 sp2 production support 

Resolved Issues

The following section provide a brief description of resolved issues with the latest version of the ATI Catalyst™ Linux software suite. These include:

    * The display no longer fails to display an image after the installation of the Linux graphics driver. Further details can be found in topic number 737-35929

---

