---
title: "11.04 killed sound for other OSes?"
date: 2011-06-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Tom_AUT on 2011-06-25
Hiya!

I'm running a dual-boot machine with Win7 Ultimate 64bit and Ubuntu 11.04 64bit, both kept up-to-date. Now the weird problem is that I don't get any sound at all except in Ubuntu. Everything works fine here, but Win7 is silent since a couple of days. At first I thought it was a Win7 problem, but it isn't. And I don't have a dedicated sound card but am using onboard/internal sound.

In the meantime I've installed several others Linux distros (the latest versions of Zenwalk, Vector Linux, and anti-X to be precise) instead of Ubuntu, and I didn't get any sound at all in any of them. So I've now re-installed Ubuntu 11.04 from scratch and have I sound again, yet still only in Ubuntu and not Win7. And I've also installed Win7 from scratch, just to be sure.

For those who are familiar with Windows, the "green volume bars" are nicely moving up and down (yeah, very technical phrasing ;) )when I'm playing videos or music as they are supposed to - there's just no sound to hear.

The reason why I think that this problem is related to / caused by Ubuntu is that everything worked fine until the last Ubuntu update a couple of days ago. And if it was a Windows problem, at least the other Linux distros ought to produce sound.

Any help is desperately needed and highly appreciated. Thanks! :)

---

### Post by Tom_AUT on 2011-07-11
Still having that problem. Searching around the web showed that a similar problem occured with Ubuntu 9.10, but the solutions provided back then don't work for 11.04; [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/453395](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/453395)

The suggested solution that seemed to work back then was to edit /etc/init.d/alsa-utils, and comment the 378th line: > # mute_and_zero_levels "$TARGET_CARD" || EXITSTATUS=1

Strangely, there is no alsa-utils in the described location or anywhere else. The only alsa-related files are alsa-store and alsa-restore.

---

### Post by xmagixx on 2011-08-09
i have the same problem, no sound in other OS then ubuntu 
and can't use the fix because there is no alsa-utils in /etc/init.d/ strangely enough 

BUMP

anyone here that can help ?

---

### Post by xmagixx on 2011-10-25
Bump ! still got the problem 
could still need some help

---

