---
title: "10.04 dvd::rip losing frames"
date: 2010-05-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by r2d242 on 2010-05-14
I'm having a problem with dvd::rip version 0.98.11 under Ubuntu version 10.04.  I've done a search for dvd::rip on these forums and read through the past week of responses.  None appear to address the problem I'm having.

I did not have this problem with dvd::rip under Ubuntu 9.04.  I made the unfortunate mistake of upgrading, thinking functionality would be the same. :|

At any rate, the problem is simple:

Every DVD ripped with dvd::rip, regardless of source/type, now reports lost frames under Ubuntu 10.04.  About 20% (1 in 5) frames are being dropped on the same hardware that has flawlessly ripped dozens of DVDs from my DVD collection in the past with Ubuntu 9.04

The exact error is:
" It seems that transcode ripping stopped short.  The movie has 79125 frames, but only 63735 were ripped.  This is most likely a problem with your transcode/libdvdread installation, resp. a problem with this specific DVD. "

I have tried 5 different DVDs, and they all produce the same errors.  My transcode and libdvdread are up to date, and I've followed the instructions regarding post installation scripts as they've been outlined in these and other forums, but nothing has changed.  I have tried copying the DVD to an ISO on a different computer, then copying & mounting that ISO locally to eliminate the DVD player from the mix.  The problem is identical.

I would really like to continue using 10.04, but at this point, I'm facing a nuke-and-pave-over situation if I can't get this resolved.  I'll have to go back to 9.04, so please, if you know what the problem is, tell me so I can fix it.

thanks in advance,
r2


  ```
Program              Version   
  -------------------------------
  dvd::rip             0.98.11   
  transcode            1.1.5     
  ImageMagick          6.5.7     
  ffmpeg               SVN-r23138,
  xvid4conf            1.12      
  subtitle2pgm         0.3       
  lsdvd                0.16      
  rar                  3.90      
  mplayer              cvs       
  ogmtools             1.5       
  dvdxchap             1.5       
  mjpegtools           1.9.0     
  xine                 0.99.6    
  fping                2.4       
  hal                  0.5.14    
  -------------------------------
```:lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset DRAM Controller (rev 02)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset PCI Express Root Port (rev 02)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5
00:1a.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) HD Audio Controller
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) PCI Express Root Port 1
00:1c.5 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) PCI Express Root Port 6
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 90)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801JIR (ICH10R) LPC Interface Controller
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) SATA AHCI Controller
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) SMBus Controller
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV770 [Radeon HD 4870]
01:00.1 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc HD48x0 audio
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications Atheros AR8121/AR8113/AR8114 PCI-E Ethernet Controller (rev b0)

:cat /proc/cpuinfo 
processor    : 0
vendor_id    : GenuineIntel
cpu family    : 6
model        : 23
model name    : Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU     E8400  @ 3.00GHz
stepping    : 6
cpu MHz        : 3003.000
cache size    : 6144 KB
physical id    : 0
siblings    : 2
core id        : 0
cpu cores    : 2
apicid        : 0
initial apicid    : 0
fdiv_bug    : no
hlt_bug        : no
f00f_bug    : no
coma_bug    : no
fpu        : yes
fpu_exception    : yes
cpuid level    : 10
wp        : yes
flags        : fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe nx lm constant_tsc arch_perfmon pebs bts aperfmperf pni dtes64 monitor ds_cpl vmx smx est tm2 ssse3 cx16 xtpr pdcm sse4_1 lahf_lm tpr_shadow vnmi flexpriority
bogomips    : 6010.71
clflush size    : 64
cache_alignment    : 64
address sizes    : 36 bits physical, 48 bits virtual
power management:

processor    : 1
<same as 0>

:cat /proc/meminfo 
MemTotal:        3355068 kB
MemFree:         2712932 kB
Buffers:             208 kB
Cached:            72056 kB
SwapCached:            0 kB

---

### Post by ShortyMac on 2010-05-17
Having a similar issue(i.e. same error code), any insight would be helpful.

---

### Post by dodongo on 2010-05-31
I'm also getting this error.  It was produced in 9.10 though I don't know for sure about 9.04.  The only difference is that now the error appears in a pop-up window rather than simply in the output log.

It does not appear to affect playback in any way.  Please reply if this is not your experience.

---

### Post by elianthony on 2010-06-06
I'm having the same problem on 10.04 64 bit. Anyone figure this out?

---

### Post by dodongo on 2010-06-07
> **elianthony said:**
> I'm having the same problem on 10.04 64 bit. Anyone figure this out?

Do you actually have a problem with the video that is produced?  Or are you just getting the error message with no visible problems in the ripped video?

---

### Post by elianthony on 2010-06-12
> **dodongo said:**
> Do you actually have a problem with the video that is produced?  Or are you just getting the error message with no visible problems in the ripped video?

Sorry for the delay. No, it does not seem to affect the video.

---

### Post by dodongo on 2010-06-12
> **elianthony said:**
> Sorry for the delay. No, it does not seem to affect the video.

Hey, man, no worries!  Glad to hear you're not seeing an issue with the video.

If it's not affecting the end result, then I say sigh when you see the box, click OK, and move on.

I've got the same symptoms yet I see no issue at all with the video on playback.  And the video is absolutely not truncated. 

I'm noticing a perhaps-related issue in mythtv right now where the hi-def things I record are reported as shorter than they actually are.  Yet when you play it back, it's the normal length and I don't notice anything wrong at all.

I assume it's related to the codec libraries.  But really, if it's not actually a visible issue, when all is said and done, is it worth worrying about?

Methinks the issue here is really that the ripper is acting like there's *some huge issue* when in fact there is not.  I'd propose the dialog box / underlying codecs need a review, and that Ubuntu is in no way in the wrong / at fault / responsible for any potential fix here.

---

### Post by wurzzero on 2010-06-12
The same for me, i thought it could be the DVD, but i ripped it in other OS (yes, W7) and with the files the same erros occurs. If you do the math, its 80% of the DVD.

[I][FONT="Courier New"]"It seems that transcode ripping stopped short.
The movie has 145929 frames, but only 116873
were ripped. This is most likely a problem with your
transcode/libdvdread installation, resp. a problem with
this specific DVD."[/FONT][/I]

Edit1: writing error

Edit2: I found this, a guy post the same error and a 'transcode-users' said:
[FONT="Courier New"]"I *think* it is a known issue that transcode chokes on dvd input
when the dvd has changing frame rates, which is very common with
NTSC dvd's..."[/FONT]

This is my case, NTSC DVD... i'll try to do the job with mencoder, he suggested...

---

### Post by kclipper on 2011-02-21
> **dodongo said:**
> I'm also getting this error.  It was produced in 9.10 though I don't know for sure about 9.04.  The only difference is that now the error appears in a pop-up window rather than simply in the output log.

It does not appear to affect playback in any way.  Please reply if this is not your experience.

It most definitely does make a difference. The picture looks choppy.
Running Ubuntu 10.04 and trans-code ripping stops short every time with the exception of tv shows and short films.

---

### Post by dodongo on 2011-02-21
> **kclipper said:**
> It most definitely does make a difference. The picture looks choppy.
Running Ubuntu 10.04 and trans-code ripping stops short every time with the exception of tv shows and short films.

Then it seems very likely our problems are not the same.  For me, the error condition continues, now into Ubuntu 10.10, but nothing is wrong with playback.  Moreover, the ripping doesn't stop short.  I suspect you're dealing with a different issue, though I can't speculate as to what.

---

### Post by dez93_2000 on 2011-09-15
potentially same/similar issue - rip quality fine but final avi size is ~870mb instead of ~ 700

---

### Post by hotshot247 on 2011-09-18
i have the same problem except it does affect my video. the video will play for a couple of mins and then start twitching a little bit and repeat over and over and it get's really annoying. does anybody know how to fix this or either does anybody know some other program to rip dvd's? thanks!

---

