---
title: "8.10 Video Configuration Problems - keyboard broke"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by giovannizero on 2008-11-07
Ive been searching and reading for the last week trying to find a solution to this problem on my own but to no avail. 

**What Happened**
After installing 8.10, I was rolled off of the Nvidia 96.43.05 drivers (as expected). When 96.43.09 came out I installed it via EnvyNG. That worked fine expect now my super key, arrow keys and home keys all don't work.

I thought it could be solved by doing a quick sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg but that goes straight to keyboard settings and skips all the video configuration settings. After doing that my driver gets rolled back to the generic nv one and I loose hardware acceleration. 

**What I've tried so far**
[LIST]
[*]Upgraded all packages
[*]Edited my xorg.conf to include info about the keyboard (previously missing)
[*]Tried copying the video configuration that works to the keyboard config version that works (no change)
[*]Editing keyboard settings in Ubuntu settings (Its detected as a 101 keyboard but after I change it to the exact model it makes no difference)
[*]Using windows (worst...experience...ever)
[/LIST]

Some help would be really appreciated! I don't think I should have to choose between graphics working and keyboard working.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-07
Xorg.conf is no longer the place to configure your mouse and key board. This is the way it is done now:

> The X.Org configuration file (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) still has InputDevice entries for the mouse and keyboard, but they are ignored now because input-hotplug is used. The keyboard settings come from /etc/default/console-setup, and to change them please use "sudo dpkg-reconfigure console-setup". After that, HAL and X need to restart. 

I knew I had seen something about the above, it was just a matter of finding it.

Jim

---

### Post by giovannizero on 2008-11-10
```
 * Saving console font and keymap for next boot...                              WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 130
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 153
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 160
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 161
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 162
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 164
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 174
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 176
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 198
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 231
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 232
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 233
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 234
WARNING: Undefined kernel key code for 236
                                                                         [ OK ]
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.27-7-generic
ronin@ronin-box:~$ 
```

I've tried doing a couple different settings for the keyboard but this happens and most of my keys still don't work.

---

### Post by giovannizero on 2008-11-10
Here's some more information about the keys that are missing/wrong

super - none
insert - none
home - Pause
Pg UP - SP_Divide
delete - none
End - none
Pg Down - Menu
Up - Print
Left - None
Right - None
Down - None

Keypad area (w/ numlock, these are mostly correct):
/ - Insert
* - KP_Multiply
- - KP_Subtact
+ - KP_Add
7 - KP_Home
8 - none
9 - KP_Page_UP
4 - blank
5 - KP_Begin
6 - blank
1 - KP_End
2 - blank
3 - KP_Page_Down
0 - KP_Insert
. - KP_Delete
Enter - none

The super keys is by far the most irritating. Ive also tried manually editing the console-setup to pc104...

---

