---
title: "Display Settings Corrupted After Upgrade to 9.10"
date: 2010-01-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by rpatrick on 2010-01-09
Hi folks,
My display settings seem to have been corrupted after I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10.  I can only view my screen in 1280 x 1024 - no other resolutions work.  Ubuntu is also not detecting my monitor, a Dell E193FP (19").  In reading some other posts, I see that the first question will be to post my xorg file, which follows.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.
___________

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by rpatrick on 2010-01-10
Bump - I need help!

---

