---
title: ".mkv audio problems in kaffeine"
date: 2008-12-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by twidget on 2008-12-14
Hi,
I'm having audio playback issues with some (not all) .mkv files. The video will play perfectly but i get no audio. I would assume this was a codec problem except that one of the files explicitly states that it is a vorbis file which from my limited knowledge is a Linux native format. has anyone had this problem or know of a solution?

---

### Post by twidget on 2008-12-17
as an update it looks like audio fails on .mkvs that have multiple audio channels. my guess would that kaffeine isn't changing channels when i tell it to. anyone know how to test and/or fix this?

---

### Post by twidget on 2008-12-21
I dont' know if this is relevant or not but i tried switching from Xine to gstreamer in Kaffeine just now. this gives me an error message saying "Can't init Video Driver 'xvimagesink' - trying another one.." followed by another one saying "No usable video-driver found! (xvimagesink)"

---

### Post by twidget on 2009-01-18
bump

---

### Post by Legio on 2009-01-18
Can vlc handle it ? VLC is a very good player and can handle almost any format straight from a fresh install. 

You could use mkvtools to split the mkv file and see if there is any problems with the streams, you say multiple audio channels, lets focus on trying to play them. Is there any diffrence?

I personally use ffmpeg to convert my mkvs (play them in PS3) to xvid. If I do see them at my computer I do use vlc, i know this isnt directly related but ffmpeg is a great tool converting multimediafiles.

---

### Post by twidget on 2009-01-21
Thanks for the reply.I don't particularly like VLC, i got garbled images and other misbehavior last time i tried it.  Mplayer plays with audio but i can't figure out how to get the subtitles to display also it doesn't seem to have very good playlist management. the thing that bothers me is that i believe both Kaffeine and Mplayer use xine so shouldn't they have the same type of audio issue? 
conversion to xvid would be rather lengthy I imagine since we're talking about greater than 100 gigs of files. the other strange thing is that the files worked properly on a previous version of kubuntu. I think they might have even worked on this one. I wish i knew how to troubleshoot this.

---

### Post by Legio on 2009-01-21
The reason for the other programs were merely for error probing.

If it works in VLC but not in kaffeine then its probably your driver that is to blame.

So just by playing a sourround sound audio does it work?

If you play a dvd (with sourround audio) does that work?

If you have spdif out and play the dvd will you get sourround sound then?

If we can find the answer to theese questions we might come a bit closer.

If you have sourround maybee it is output on the digital line and you have only analog connected, it might be just that or vice versa.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-01-22
Hi,

I do not use kaffeine but perhaps you could examine one or more of these files to find what their contents are and this would give a hint as to why they are failing in your media player. The problem is that an mkv or matroska file is simply a container for a variety of media types, you could very well be lacking the ability to playback one or more media types in the container.

Can you get hold of a copy of ffmpeg and examine the files with this? The easiest way may be:

```
sudo apt-get ffmpeg libavcodec-unstripped-51
```

although the definitive method is to [compile from source]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=786095"). Then examine the file as follows:

```
ffmpeg -i **[COLOR="Red"]myfile.mkv[/COLOR]**
```

This should give quite a detailed look at the contents of the matroska file and hopefully give you a steer towards getting kaffeine to play the file. Sorry I cannot give any advice about kaffeine itself though :(.

Andrew

---

