---
title: "10.04: Updating nvidia driver beyond 195.36.24"
date: 2011-07-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by chrisstankevitz on 2011-07-11
Hello,

My ubuntu 10.04 64 bit system uses the nvidia driver 195.36.24.  I do not remember installing it, but I must have installed it using "official channels" such as
  Synaptic Package Manager  - OR
  System | Administration | Hardware Drivers

In fact, the package nvidia-current is installed on my system.

Question: What is the cleanest way to upgrade to a later version of the nvidia driver?  I need to do this in order to run a CUDA 4.0 enabled application.  Minimum driver version I need: 270.41.  I'm willing to ditch Ubuntu 10.04 if necessary.

Thank you,

Chris

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-07-11
Just go to nvidia.com and download the latest linux driver.

---

### Post by chrisstankevitz on 2011-07-11
> **wolfen69 said:**
> Just go to nvidia.com and download the latest linux driver.

If I do this, and later the nvidia-current package is "updated" to a version that is older than the one I just installed from the website, what will happen?

Thank you,

Chris

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-07-11
Uninstall nvidia-current first before installing the new one. Then you'll be OK.

---

### Post by chrisstankevitz on 2011-07-13
> **wolfen69 said:**
> Uninstall nvidia-current first before installing the new one. Then you'll be OK.

Thank you.  After I uninstall nvidia-current, but before I follow the nvidia instructions for installing the latest driver, will my computer be usable?

For example, if I uninstall nvidia-current and the power goes out before I can install the driver from the nvidia website, will I be able to boot normally?

Thank you,

Chris

---

