---
title: "Trouble loading Nvidia drivers on Hardy Heron"
date: 2008-07-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Paladiamors on 2008-07-12
Hi guys. I've been reading up on the discussion threads on how to install the Nvidia drivers but it just not working for me. Without the drivers, I can't get dual monitors working. Some help would really be nice.

I've got a GeForce 9600 installed in the computer running on an AMD 5200+ CPU. I've downloaded and am trying to install the 173.14.09 drivers from nvidia's website into Ubuntu 8.04.1 (AMD version)

I've followed the instructions at [Nvidia Restricted drivers PROBLEM!!!!]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5086971&postcount=6") but things didn't work out. 

The summarized process was:

sudo gedit /etc/modules
	Add "nvidia" without quotes to the list.
	Save and Exit

sudo gedit /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common
	Add "nv" to the restricted list. 
	Save and Exit

CTRL+ALT+F1
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-173.14.09-pkg2
	Yes to all questions, nvidia-xconfig wrote me a new xorg.conf file
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

There was a warning during the installation. 

```
WARNING: Unable to perform the runtime configuration check for library
         'libGL.so.1' ('/usr/lib32/libGL.so.173.14.09'); assuming successful installation.
```

What happens when I try to start X? The monitor flickers on me 3 times and then goes into a low resolution mode with a chunk of the screen corrupted. I bet that the synching is totally off. I drop back into terminal, and reload the old xorg.conf and restart X.

I've attached a snippet from the written xorg.conf file below:

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Thu Jun  5 00:08:24 PDT 2008

-----snip----

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Ok, so the problem here, compared to some of the other xorg.conf files is that the video card isn't being detected properly as the video card type should be written into this file. 

I thought maybe the computer wasn't identifying the video card correctly, so I tried the following:
```

paladiamors@Halcyon99:~$ lspci | grep VGA
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation Geforce 9600 GT 512mb (rev a1)
```

Hmm, but it seems that lspci can see the video card fine. I also checked out the nvidia-installer.log if it can't recognize the video card, but I find these lines:
```

   [  646.817116] ACPI: PCI Interrupt 0000:02:00.0[A] -> Link [LN0A] -> GSI 19
   (level, low) -> IRQ 19
   [  646.817127] PCI: Setting latency timer of device 0000:02:00.0 to 64

```

which I think means that it sees the video card at PCI interrupt 2:00.0 which is my GeForce 9600 GT card. 

Could it be that nvidia-xconfig has a problem and isn't writing out a  xorg.conf file with the parameters to use my video card? If that is the case, does anyone have a good xorg.conf with the GeForce 9600 recognized in it? 

Could there be a problem because 'libGL.so.1' ('/usr/lib32/libGL.so.173.14.09') couldn't do the run time check during nvidia driver installation?

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by Paladiamors on 2008-07-13
Oh I just tried copy pasting the following into my xorg.conf file to see if I could manually get xorg to load the driver. The code looks like the following:
```

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9600 GT"
EndSection
```

and I just took a peek at the xorg.0.log file before and after trying to load the drivers and saw the following:

This is what a section of the xorg.0.log file looks like without using the downloaded driver:

```

(II) Primary Device is: PCI 02:00:0
(WW) NV: No matching Device section for instance (BusID PCI:0:1:3) found
(--) Assigning device section with no busID to primary device
(--) Chipset GeForce 9600 GT found
```

This is with the downloaded nvidia driver:
```

(II) NVIDIA Unified Driver for all Supported NVIDIA GPUs
(II) Primary Device is: PCI 02:00:0
(WW) NVIDIA: No matching Device section for instance (BusID PCI:0:1:3) found
(--) Assigning device section with no busID to primary device
(--) Chipset NVIDIA GPU found
```

So the NVIDIA drivers can't detect the video card properly??

---

### Post by Paladiamors on 2008-07-13
Figured it out!

Turns out that an extra external power connector wasn't attached to the video card and the video card was throwing an error in the xorg.0.log file.

Good grief, since when did these video cards start needing an external power connector??

Just happy that things are working now!

---

### Post by timosa on 2008-10-02
> **Paladiamors said:**
> Turns out that an extra external power connector wasn't attached to the video card and the video card was throwing an error in the xorg.0.log file.

I had similar problem with GeForce 9600 GT + Hardy Heron. When the "extra" power connector wasn't attached the computer booted successfully and lspci showed correct information but X wasn't able to find driver even if I installed the latest nvidia drivers. After connecting the power connector the card was detected successfully and worked like a dream.

---

