---
title: ".wtv files"
date: 2009-05-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mr_raider on 2009-05-11
Windows 7 seems to record TV in a format called .wtv. ANyway to play these on Ubuntu? I tried VLC, mplayer and totem.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-05-12
Hi mr_raider,

> **mr_raider said:**
> Windows 7 seems to record TV in a format called .wtv. ANyway to play these on Ubuntu? I tried VLC, mplayer and totem.

I could not find any samples of this format, can you give any addresses for these?

Andrew

---

### Post by ThomasK_45 on 2009-06-01
[http://w14.easy-share.com/1701207119.html](http://w14.easy-share.com/1701207119.html)

Another forum had this link...

(its 52mb)

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-06-02
Hi ThomasK,

> **ThomasK_45 said:**
> [http://w14.easy-share.com/1701207119.html](http://w14.easy-share.com/1701207119.html)

Thanks for that :-). The svn MPlayer / svn FFmpeg / vlc 1.0 rc2 could do nothing with this file. Perhaps when windows 7 comes out there might be some work on this format.

Andrew

---

### Post by ^_Pepe_^ on 2010-01-18
Hi all.

Any update with this?

I have a Media Center which records this format (Windows Vista), but I can't open it at all from any Ubuntu machine....

Thanks

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2010-01-30
When in Windows right click on the recorded file and convert to dvr-ms. vlc can play this back but mplayer still struggles with it.

There is also something called MCEBuddy on its way to help with conversions to accesible formats, but you'll have to do all the work in Windows with that

---

### Post by sports.car.guy on 2010-01-30
This is a new format for Windows Media Center. It has DRM from what I understand applied to it regardless if it is OTA TV Premium content, what have you. They had to release a new DRM scheme because someone cracked the previous one in order that people could have fair use of recorded television.

---

### Post by his221 on 2011-01-13
Hi!

For those who are interested in this format, you can use the program attached (is a .jar file, just open it with java vm) to extract the contents of the .wtv file or convert it to another format.

It would be interesting if someone could create a .deb file out of this program.

---

### Post by aliendave on 2012-06-26
Hi all, I see this thread's been around a while, just thought you'd like to know how I've had some success playing wtv and dvr_ms files in Ubuntu 12.04 lts 64bit on a netbook.

Using Ubuntu software centre installed VLC and linking the files via the right click menu> open with other application>vlc usually plays over my windows 7 wireless n network as long as there is a fast enough connection. (no conversion required but these files do take up a lot of space ;))

If I just see video but don't hear any sound, I try changing the audio track in the audio menu and usually get some success. If that doesn't work I just put it down to drm on the server.

I'll probably switch to a Mythtv server when I get compatible tuners.  There seems to be a lot more on the fly options than Media Centre and the menus might respond quicker on this low power ion 330 dual core server.
Hope this helps someone else out and thanks to those who've already posted.:popcorn:

---

### Post by fatbuttlarry on 2012-11-18
> **aliendave said:**
> Hi all, I see this thread's been around a while, just thought you'd like to know how I've had some success playing wtv and dvr_ms files in Ubuntu 12.04

I'd like to chime in as well (apologies bumping an old thread) since this is the first result from Google when trying to see if "wtv" files will play in Ubuntu Linux.

I record my files via HDTV ATSC Antenna, Windows 7 Media Center and HDHomeRun Dual, and although larger files are slow to load over the network, I'm happy to say Ubuntu 12.10 x64 + VLC plays them fine (Video as well as audio).  VLC also seems to be able to process them well too.  There are performance issues with Flash in Linux, but this 1080i recording seems to play great.  Attached is a screenshot.

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/z1yUg.jpg[/IMG]


-Tres

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2012-11-18
Looks like MPlayer has no trouble with these files now and there is a very small collection here if anybody wants to test their copy:

[http://samples.mplayerhq.hu/wtv/](http://samples.mplayerhq.hu/wtv/)

Mind you the logic behind Microsoft creating this new container is not entirely clear...

---

### Post by kevin34ct on 2013-05-26
Yes there is a great way without much fuss.  XBMC 12.2 Frodo plays these files right out of the box.  I just tried it and it worked great.  I too have an HTPC running Windows Media Center (Win 7) and I have a Ceton InfiniTV card which receives pay channels.  I was able to watch a Movie that was recorded on Starz on my Ubuntu computer with XBMC with no problem.

---

