---
title: "8.04/ALSA/Creative X-Fi: Card recognized but no sound"
date: 2008-09-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by sketchy_c on 2008-09-18
Hey all,

I installed Ubuntu for the first time a few days ago as a dual-boot w/ WinXPSP3 and am enjoying a lot of things about it.  Once I get some sound from my X-Fi card, I should be pretty good to go (or a lot better off).  I've tried a few different things to certain levels of success, but I'm not quite there yet.

I followed the instructions _[here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4823915&postcount=675")_ to rebuild a kernel with ALSA modules, so I could install Creative's 1.18 beta driver over them.  Once I re-partitioned my boot and root drives and re-installed the OS, the aforementioned guide worked without a hitch.  

I've got the X-Fi listed in 'aplay -l', and the volume control and alsamixer levels show appropriate volume levels for my system.  Playing a WAV file in aplay, however, gives me the following error message:

> aplay: pcm_write:1266: write error: Input/output error

I thought this might be an ALSA problem (/proc/asound/version is blank, and so is evertyhing else in that folder!), so I tried downloading building the latest ALSA files per _[this guide]("http://alsa.opensrc.org/index.php/Quick_Install")_, but I'm getting errors at the 'make' command.

For the record, I did try _[installing OSS]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenSound")_ before the kernel rebuild and got to a similar point.  The card was recognized, but osstest just give white noise from both left and right channels.

At this point, I'm a bit burned out on the issue really sure where to focus or what to do next.  Any guidance is certainly welcome.

---

### Post by jukingeo on 2008-09-23
Just follow the link in my sig, I got it to work AND with Jack with that guide.

---

