---
title: "lirc on 10.10 with mceusb: irw shows nothing"
date: 2010-11-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by vop on 2010-11-21
Hi,

it's my first time trying to get lirc to run. I have a MCE RC6 USB receiver plugged into my Lenovo Q150, Ubuntu 10.10 was freshly installed a couple of weeks ago.

I read various threads here about the new /dev/input/eventX method and tried several suggestions, but I am still stuck and do not know what else to try.

irw simply shows nothing (i am using a logitech harmony 895 remote control which has a "Windows Media Center" device configured. It is definitely sending something since a red light on the usb dongle flashes when i press a button).

I had installed lirc-modules-source at some point (which apparently can cause problems, i also had no /dev/lirc0 device then which is now back), but i did *sudo apt-get purge* for both lirc-modules-source and lirc and reinstalled only lirc.

*uname -a*:
[PHP]Linux voptop 2.6.35-22-generic #35-Ubuntu SMP Sat Oct 16 20:36:48 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux
[/PHP]*dmesg* looks good:
[PHP][   10.881085] Registered IR keymap rc-rc6-mce
[   10.881377] input: Media Center Ed. eHome Infrared Remote Transceiver (147a:e017) as /devices/virtual/rc/rc0/input4
[   10.881541] rc0: Media Center Ed. eHome Infrared Remote Transceiver (147a:e017) as /devices/virtual/rc/rc0
[   10.881598] mceusb 4-2:1.0: Registered Formosa21 SnowflakeEmulation on usb4:2
[   10.881661] usbcore: registered new interface driver mceusb
[   11.024991] IR JVC protocol handler initialized
[   11.097958] IR Sony protocol handler initialized
[   11.241710] lirc_dev: IR Remote Control driver registered, major 250 
[   11.246269] rc rc0: lirc_dev: driver ir-lirc-codec (mceusb) registered at minor = 0
[   11.246281] IR LIRC bridge handler initialized[/PHP]*cat /proc/bus/input/devices*:
[PHP][...]
I: Bus=0000 Vendor=0000 Product=0000 Version=0000
N: Name="Media Center Ed. eHome Infrared Remote Transceiver (147a:e017)"
P: Phys=usb-0000:00:1d.2-2/input0
S: Sysfs=/devices/virtual/rc/rc0/input4
U: Uniq=
H: Handlers=kbd event4 
B: EV=100003
B: KEY=fff 0 0 0 108fc326 2176041 0 0 0 0 118000 4180 100001 9e9680 0 0 10000000
[/PHP]config files were generated by calling *sudo dpkg-reconfigure lirc*, choosing *Linux input layer (/dev/input/eventX) / Microsoft Windows Media Center V2 (usb) : Direct TV Receiver  / /dev/input/event4*

*cat /etc/lirc/hardware.conf*:
[PHP]# /etc/lirc/hardware.conf
#
#Chosen Remote Control
REMOTE="Linux input layer (/dev/input/eventX)"
REMOTE_MODULES=""
REMOTE_DRIVER="devinput"
REMOTE_DEVICE="/dev/input/event4"
REMOTE_SOCKET=""
REMOTE_LIRCD_CONF="devinput/lircd.conf.devinput"
REMOTE_LIRCD_ARGS=""

#Chosen IR Transmitter
TRANSMITTER="Microsoft Windows Media Center V2 (usb) : Direct TV Receiver"
TRANSMITTER_MODULES="lirc_dev mceusb"
TRANSMITTER_DRIVER=""
TRANSMITTER_DEVICE="/dev/lirc0"
TRANSMITTER_SOCKET=""
TRANSMITTER_LIRCD_CONF="directtv/general.conf"
TRANSMITTER_LIRCD_ARGS=""

#Enable lircd
START_LIRCD="true"

#Don't start lircmd even if there seems to be a good config file
#START_LIRCMD="false"

#Try to load appropriate kernel modules
LOAD_MODULES="true"

# Default configuration files for your hardware if any
LIRCMD_CONF=""

#Forcing noninteractive reconfiguration
#If lirc is to be reconfigured by an external application
#that doesn't have a debconf frontend available, the noninteractive
#frontend can be invoked and set to parse REMOTE and TRANSMITTER
#It will then populate all other variables without any user input
#If you would like to configure lirc via standard methods, be sure
#to leave this set to "false"
FORCE_NONINTERACTIVE_RECONFIGURATION="false"
START_LIRCMD=""
[/PHP]*cat /etc/lirc/lircd.conf*
[PHP]#This configuration has been automatically generated via
#the Ubuntu LIRC package maintainer scripts.
#
#It includes the default configuration for the remote and/or
#transmitter that you have selected during package installation.
#
#Feel free to add any custom remotes to the configuration
#via additional include directives or below the existing
#Ubuntu include directives from your selected remote and/or
#transmitter.

#Configuration for the Linux input layer (/dev/input/eventX) remote:
include "/usr/share/lirc/remotes/devinput/lircd.conf.devinput"

#Configuration for the Microsoft Windows Media Center V2 (usb) : Direct TV Receiver transmitter:
include "/usr/share/lirc/extras/transmitters/directtv/general.conf"
[/PHP]loaded modules seem fine:
*lsmod |grep lirc*
[PHP]ir_lirc_codec           3092  0 
lirc_dev                9393  1 ir_lirc_codec
ir_core                14654  9 ir_lirc_codec,ir_sony_decoder,ir_jvc_decoder,rc_rc6_mce,ir_rc6_decoder,ir_rc5_decoder,mceusb,ir_nec_decoder
[/PHP]*sudo service lirc start* looks fine:
[PHP] * Loading LIRC modules                                                  [ OK ] 
 * Starting remote control daemon(s) : LIRC                              [ OK ] 
[/PHP]*/var/log/syslog* seems fine too:
[PHP]Nov 21 15:56:51 voptop lircd-0.8.7-pre3[2492]: lircd(devinput) ready, using /var/run/lirc/lircd
Nov 21 15:56:51 voptop lircd-0.8.7-pre3[2497]: lircd(default) ready, using /var/run/lirc/lircd1
Nov 21 15:56:51 voptop lircd-0.8.7-pre3[2497]: connected to localhost
Nov 21 15:56:51 voptop lircd-0.8.7-pre3[2492]: accepted new client from 127.0.0.1
Nov 21 15:56:51 voptop lircd-0.8.7-pre3[2492]: initializing '/dev/input/event4'
[/PHP]when starting irw, */var/log/syslog* says:
[PHP]Nov 21 15:58:02 voptop lircd-0.8.7-pre3[2492]: accepted new client on /var/run/lirc/lircd
[/PHP]And then that's it. I can press whatever button on the remote, nothing is showing up in irw.

Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by pclaren on 2010-11-23
Hi,

I'm facing the exact same issues. Have also tried variuos tips found but to no avail. I have the same type of ir receiver as you but I've got a Harmony One. The latter is setup with both "Windows Media Center" and "Windows Media Center SE" devices. Neither of them works in Ubuntu 10.10. All worked like a charm in Ubuntu 10.04.

Anybody got a clue of what to do in order to get it working?

//Peter

---

### Post by radiohacker on 2010-11-28
it looks like the mceusb remote is being treated like a keyboard.  on my system the only keys that work are the arrow keys and the power key (which i think is a BAD thing, i don't want my mythtv master backend shutdown via the remote control). i have tried configuring HAL to not treat the remote as a keyboard, i have tried using LIRC, turning off LIRC.  nothing works.  this is on a clean install of 10.10.  am eagerly awaiting a solution.

---

### Post by flakpyro on 2010-11-29
Im having the same problem with my remote showing up as a keyboard, only certain keys work in irw and those that do give me double presses. Im at a total loss here.

---

### Post by utbiker on 2010-11-29
I'm having the same issue as everyone else.  USB IR receiver with a /dev/lirc0 device and a /dev/input/event5 device.  If I cat the /dev/lirc0 device I get stuff coming across the screen when I press buttons on the remote but I can't get lirc to reconize either device. Part of the problem is that there are two device drivers loaded for a single device but I've tried configuring hal to ignore one of them and still couldn't get lirc/irw to see anything. Has anyone successfully got this working?  I'm about ready to reinstall with 10.04.

---

### Post by Panda-Monium on 2010-12-26
Vop,

Not sure if you've fixed your problem already, but you have a "similar" setup to mine.

I have a MCE input and using a Harmony remote, I have mine working, I'll show the slight variances below (Actually I am also using the x64 server version as well):

Just ignore the USB Serial driver, that's to control my Onkyo reciever
[PHP][    3.800191] input: Media Center Ed. eHome Infrared Remote Transceiver (1784:0008) as /devices/virtual/rc/rc0/input2
[    3.800227] rc0: Media Center Ed. eHome Infrared Remote Transceiver (1784:0008) as /devices/virtual/rc/rc0
[    3.800244] mceusb 4-3:1.0: Registered Topseed Technology Corp. eHome Infrared Transceiver on usb4:2
[    3.800259] usbcore: registered new interface driver mceusb
[    3.800250] usbcore: registered new interface driver usbserial_generic
[    3.800252] usbserial: USB Serial Driver core
[    3.802191] IR Sony protocol handler initialized
[    3.803309] USB Serial support registered for pl2303
[    3.803324] pl2303 3-1:1.0: pl2303 converter detected
[    3.821655] lirc_dev: IR Remote Control driver registered, major 250 
[    3.824876] usb 3-1: pl2303 converter now attached to ttyUSB0
[    3.824890] usbcore: registered new interface driver pl2303
[    3.824891] pl2303: Prolific PL2303 USB to serial adaptor driver
[    3.828211] rc rc0: lirc_dev: driver ir-lirc-codec (mceusb) registered at minor = 0
[    3.828213] IR LIRC bridge handler initialized
[/PHP]

*cat /proc/bus/input/devices*:

[PHP]I: Bus=0000 Vendor=0000 Product=0000 Version=0000
N: Name="Media Center Ed. eHome Infrared Remote Transceiver (1784:0008)"
P: Phys=usb-0000:00:12.1-3/input0
S: Sysfs=/devices/virtual/rc/rc0/input2
U: Uniq=
H: Handlers=kbd event2 
B: EV=100003
B: KEY=fff 0 108fc326 217604100000000 0 118000 418000100001 9e968000000000 10000000[/PHP]

*cat /etc/lirc/hardware.conf*:

This is where it really differs - When I did the original LIRC setup I chose:
Remote Control Configuration: Windows Media Center Transciever/Remotes (All)
IR transmitter: Microsoft Windows Media Center V2 (usb) - Direct TV Reciever

Now I got the following:
[PHP]# /etc/lirc/hardware.conf
#
#Chosen Remote Control
REMOTE="Windows Media Center Transceivers/Remotes (all)"
REMOTE_MODULES="lirc_dev mceusb"
REMOTE_DRIVER=""
REMOTE_DEVICE="/dev/lirc0"
REMOTE_SOCKET=""
REMOTE_LIRCD_CONF="mceusb/lircd.conf.mceusb"
REMOTE_LIRCD_ARGS=""

#Chosen IR Transmitter
TRANSMITTER="Microsoft Windows Media Center V2 (usb) : Direct TV Receiver"
TRANSMITTER_MODULES="lirc_dev mceusb"
TRANSMITTER_DRIVER=""
TRANSMITTER_DEVICE=""
TRANSMITTER_SOCKET=""
TRANSMITTER_LIRCD_CONF="directtv/general.conf"
TRANSMITTER_LIRCD_ARGS=""

#Enable lircd
START_LIRCD="true"

#Don't start lircmd even if there seems to be a good config file
#START_LIRCMD="false"

#Try to load appropriate kernel modules
LOAD_MODULES="true"

# Default configuration files for your hardware if any
LIRCMD_CONF=""

#Forcing noninteractive reconfiguration
#If lirc is to be reconfigured by an external application
#that doesn't have a debconf frontend available, the noninteractive
#frontend can be invoked and set to parse REMOTE and TRANSMITTER
#It will then populate all other variables without any user input
#If you would like to configure lirc via standard methods, be sure
#to leave this set to "false"
FORCE_NONINTERACTIVE_RECONFIGURATION="false"
START_LIRCMD=""
[/PHP]

Then of course:
*cat /etc/lirc/lircd.conf*:

[PHP]#This configuration has been automatically generated via
#the Ubuntu LIRC package maintainer scripts.
#
#It includes the default configuration for the remote and/or
#transmitter that you have selected during package installation.
#
#Feel free to add any custom remotes to the configuration
#via additional include directives or below the existing
#Ubuntu include directives from your selected remote and/or
#transmitter.

#Configuration for the Windows Media Center Transceivers/Remotes (all) remote:
include "/usr/share/lirc/remotes/mceusb/lircd.conf.mceusb"

#Configuration for the Microsoft Windows Media Center V2 (usb) : Direct TV Receiver transmitter:
include "/usr/share/lirc/extras/transmitters/directtv/general.conf"
[/PHP]

Then if I go into *irw* pressing buttons works just fine.

---

### Post by jpmur on 2010-12-27
Hi,

I have same problem. I tried many methods supposed to solve : still unusable.

I am sticked with old version of ubuntu and XBMC.

When I moved from windows to ubuntu for my media center, the remote was the first thing to work straighfoward whereas it was a pain in windows. How happy I was. But now :(

JP

---

### Post by jaxxed on 2011-04-23
when I use Panda-Monium's method above, I get full irw events, and full keyboard key response.  I'm still not sure how I can get it to work with vlc/banshee/rhytymbox/amarok etc.

I can get the keyboard actions to work with everything.

---

### Post by vop on 2011-05-01
I upgraded to 11.04 yesterday. Without any further action, xbmc suddenly reacted to my remote!! Have not tried anything else yet (since xbmc was always my main concern anyway).

---

### Post by Melraidin on 2011-05-19
> **jaxxed said:**
> when I use Panda-Monium's method above, I get full irw events, and full keyboard key response.  I'm still not sure how I can get it to work with vlc/banshee/rhytymbox/amarok etc.

I can get the keyboard actions to work with everything.

What is it you've done based on Panda-Monium's setup? I don't really see a method in his post, simply his config that seems to work for him. My config matches his exactly and I get no output from irw.

---

### Post by mutant_matt on 2011-12-01
Did anyone ever get to the bottom of this?  I have Mythbuntu 11.10 with the "Windows Vista/Windows 7" new MCE USB remote (the one with the mouse "pad").  It reports itself as 

I: Bus=0003 Vendor=05a4 Product=9881 Version=0110
N: Name="HID 05a4:9881"
P: Phys=usb-0000:00:04.0-4/input0
S: Sysfs=/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:04.0/usb2/2-4/2-4:1.0/input/input4
H: Handlers=sysrq kbd event4

If I (sudo) cat /dev/input/event4, only some buttons produce any output.  Presumably, if this is the case, then it doesn't matter what else you try, the kernel driver isn't passing on any events for those buttons?  If *that* is the case, then the mceusb driver that is loaded by default by the kernel in 11.10 is of no use to me? (and presumably, I should try and load the older driver?)

Any help, greatly appreciated!

Cheers,

Matt :)

---

