---
title: ".MTS Playback Problems...(Choppy A/V)"
date: 2015-03-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by matey3 on 2015-03-31
I have a few .MTS files which were taken with Sony handycam (I know...but was not mine) and I had a lot of problems playing them in Ubuntu. They are instructional/speeches videos so I needed the audio. VLC played the video portion great but the sound was really bad and hard to bear. All other players failed as well (Banshee, Movie Player etc. had no sound at all!?)
I found this old closed thread in which someone said to install the OpenShot so I did but the video would take a long pause every few seconds and so I went back to VLC and tried it again but this time it worked just fine!? :)

Just wanted to let you know if you had problems with .MTS files do the above and enjoy...cuz I heard a lot of argument about the kind of video cards etc. I have a regular nvidia which is not the best but the video I am watching now is crystal clear, you can even read the titles of the books in the background! so I think it has more to do with the decoders than the video cards.

here's the stuff from other thread;

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:openshot.developers/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install openshot blender

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-03-31
*Thread moved to **Multimedia**.*

Both Openshot and Blender are in the regular (and official) Ubuntu repos (Software Centre) so probably best to install from there rather than a third-party, manually installed PPA. Thanks for sharing. ;)

---

