---
title: "8.04 odd startup video problem right after grub"
date: 2008-05-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Beauregard T. Shagnasty on 2008-05-18
A couple days after Ubuntu 8.04 was released, I did a fresh install, removing 6.06 LTS. (I wanted to rearrange LAMP, among other things.) It all went swimmingly well.

The video card in this 3.2 GHz P4 is a Radeon X300 series. During installation, Ubuntu automatically found the card and loaded an ATI accelerated graphics driver. It also knew I have a Samsung 226bw and loaded everything necesary for that. Compiz works perfectly, including the cube. All video, including startup, was also fine with 6.06.

After selecting from the grub menu during bootup of 8.04, it begins with the text "Starting up . . ." However, from that point forward to the initialization of the graphical GNOME interface asking for username and password, the textual display looks like what I can best describe as the waterfall display of a nuclear submarine's sonar screen, or an old-fashioned TV with the vertical hold gone awry. Does the same thing on a shutdown after the GUI is done.

There is very little in xorg.conf. I can post the contents if required. I found a page that recommended adding HorizSync and VertRefresh to xorg.conf. All that did was make the GUI font size incredibly small.

Here is a screenshot taken with a camera:
[http://tekrider.net/usenet/startup.jpg](http://tekrider.net/usenet/startup.jpg)  (30KB)

Thanks for any help.

--bts

---

### Post by Beauregard T. Shagnasty on 2008-05-18
I've solved the problem. In menu.lst, I changed the "quiet splash" to "vga=791 splash=verbose" and the boot sequence no longer looks like a sonar screen. The logo is there, with the scrolling list of boot stats. This will do fine.

---

