---
title: "Nvidia driver crashes Xserver in  Kubuntu 11.04"
date: 2011-10-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by lucasnemeth on 2011-10-03
Hello,
I've read a lot about this problem... But none of the solutions I've tried so far had worked ...
 
I have a Kubutu 11.04 (32  bits) with a Nvidia GT520M. I have installed the Nvidia current driver (also tried the Nvidia 173) but it always says "driver is activated but not currently in use". When I try to use the Xserver Nvidia Settings, I get a message telling me to run nvidia-xconfig , so I tried that, and on the next boot, I can't start Xserver and I am stuck to CLI untill I remove the xorg.conf file generated by the nvidia-xconfig . I can't use graphic programs properly, and I can't run Nexuiz ... The xorg.conf file generated by the nvidia-xconfig is below :
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 280.13  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-05.nvidia.com)  Wed Jul 27 17:18:55 PDT 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-10-03
The "m" suffix would make me think laptop/mobile..

This problem sounds like a typical optimus/hybrid graphics issue.
The machine boots okay when the nVidia X server does not start.

You should search your laptop model & keywords like optimus & bumblebee or ironhide projects.

Apart from HD video decode/playback, the GT520m is likely slower than the intel iCPU graphics, if that is possible !

---

### Post by haw on 2011-10-03
[http://www.kaskus.us/showthread.php?t=9970920](http://www.kaskus.us/showthread.php?t=9970920)

try it :D

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-10-03
First the OP needs to confirm that the h/w has the problem..

Then there are the actual project websites to go to for advice.
One important decision is bumblebee or ironhide.
Both were started by the same developer & forked from earlier bumblebee.

I do not recommend following any random web advice.

---

### Post by lucasnemeth on 2011-10-04
Yes. That was the problem!
I'm using bumblebee now.
And... actually you're right, depending on what sort of thing i'm doing, i get better results on the intel HD graphics than with that 520m !

---

