---
title: "[SOLVED] which graphics driver do I use?"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by tekkenlord on 2008-04-29
Hello friends. I am a Kubuntu Hardy user and I have an intel 945 graphics card. I was wondering how I can find out which video driver my system uses. I remember in Gutsy I could find this in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf under the "Device" section. Now in Hardy the xorg.conf does not list the name of the driver. Any ideas? Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by hermes0710 on 2008-04-29
Can you post your xorg.conf? It MUST have a reference to the driver or else you wouldn't get any GUI

---

### Post by tekkenlord on 2008-04-29
Yes, this is it:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by hermes0710 on 2008-04-29
From what i understand no specific card driver is being used but the default (like running on live cd mode)

---

### Post by tekkenlord on 2008-04-29
I see that you are using 8.04 as well. In your xorg.conf is there a driver listed?

---

### Post by hermes0710 on 2008-04-29
As i remember yes, "nvidia" but let me get back to you in 1 hour when i get home. Sorry if i have misled you...

---

### Post by tekkenlord on 2008-04-29
Thats ok, I will wait. Se euxaristw file.

---

### Post by hermes0710 on 2008-04-30
> **tekkenlord said:**
> Thats ok, I will wait. Se euxaristw file.

File :P argisa ligo. 

There is a reference to the driver but I am using envyng in order to use the latest nvidia driver. 
I saw two entries in there though, one was the same with yours but the other mentioned the specific driver (nvidia).

---

### Post by tekkenlord on 2008-04-30
I see. I have tried to input the driver I want to use in the xorg.conf myself (intel). However, in the system-settings it keeps saying that it uses the i810 driver. It's like it does not care about the xorg.conf. Apparently, things with the xorg.conf have changed quite a lot since the upgrade of the X-server from 7.2 to 7.3. Anyway, thank you very much for your time and your help!

---

### Post by hermes0710 on 2008-04-30
> **tekkenlord said:**
> I see. I have tried to input the driver I want to use in the xorg.conf myself (intel). However, in the system-settings it keeps saying that it uses the i810 driver. It's like it does not care about the xorg.conf. Apparently, things with the xorg.conf have changed quite a lot since the upgrade of the X-server from 7.2 to 7.3. Anyway, thank you very much for your time and your help!


You're welcome.

Check this out:
[http://grumpymole.blogspot.com/2008/03/ubuntu-hardy-intel-945-graphics-driver.html]("http://grumpymole.blogspot.com/2008/03/ubuntu-hardy-intel-945-graphics-driver.html")

---

