---
title: "Dual Monitor, Can't Get Both to Work At Same Time"
date: 2009-04-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by rdevoll84 on 2009-04-08
When I first installed Ubuntu AMD64, my config defaulted to a "twin view" same image on both screens.  After finishing updating (x86_64) to driver version 180.11 for my nvidia 9600gt I can no longer even get both monitors on at the same time.

I've opened up the X Server settings, saved my config file after setting up what I wanted, then hit apply settings, but it will only apply certain things then tells me I have to restart the X Server, which I assume is closing and reopening it.  Only to have the wrong monitor as default and I can't get anything to open on the other to save my life.

I've been reading through threads and forums for about 3 hrs a night for 4 days just to get my freakin sound to work now this.  I'm just about ready to toss this OS out the door.

Any help is very welcomed, let me know what outputs you need to see to help you.. help me.

Oh this is probably a good jumping off point:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:04 UTC 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Envision EN9110"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 87.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 85.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL E171FP"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

This is what I am trying to save as.

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2009-04-08
Try to remove these lines:
> Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
BoardName "GeForce 9600 GT"
[COLOR="Red"]BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
Screen 0[/COLOR]
EndSection
and restart.

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-04-08
same image on both screens is clone mode.  two adjacent parts of one desktop is twinview.  i have a 9600gt and when i added a second monitor, all i needed to do was run gksu nvidia-settings, click the twinview radio button and save the configuration.

---

### Post by TheBuzzSaw on 2009-04-08
> **norwoods said:**
> same image on both screens is clone mode.  two adjacent parts of one desktop is twinview.  i have a 9600gt and when i added a second monitor, all i needed to do was run gksu nvidia-settings, click the twinview radio button and save the configuration.
Yes, this.

If you are using an Nvidia graphics card, Nvidia already provided a program to handle your monitor settings: **nvidia-settings**

Do not mess with Ubuntu's built-in settings. They will actually make things worse.

If for some reason you do not have nvidia-settings (this happened to me once), you should be able to add it using Synaptic Package Manager. Just in case. :P

---

### Post by rdevoll84 on 2009-04-08
Ok maybe just simply rebooting fixed the problem, the settings I was talking about were in the Nvidia settings program.  Now to figure out if it did what I wanted.

For reference, in the nvidia settings, if it says X Server needs a restart to apply changes... is that a reboot?  That seems completely lame to me if so.

---

### Post by rdevoll84 on 2009-04-08
Ok I guess a reboot is required. Now in windows Nvidia lets you add a nice little button that will toggle any window you are working on to the other monitor... Can I do that in Ubuntu and if so how?  Also asked here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=346306](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=346306)

---

### Post by TheBuzzSaw on 2009-04-08
Actually, you can just do an X reboot: CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE

Make sure that, before you close nvidia-settings, you click the Save Xorg.conf button. That is why it is also important that you run it using sudo.

---

