---
title: "8.10 winTV HVR 950q install woes"
date: 2008-12-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2008-12-26
I recently purchased a Hauppauge winTV HVR 950q  USB TV tuner and I have had no end of difficulty installing it. 

After several searches through the forums I found a set of instructions targeted at edgy, these didnt work for me. 

I have tried three different howto's that I have found at various places across the net. All of them have nearly the same instructions, and all of them are (sadly) for outdated versions of ubuntu (with the most common being for hardy). 

The basic instructions:

Download firmware

Download drivers 

compile drivers  (this is where things get icky)


I don't want this to be the only thing left holding me to vista, especialy because tvtime and xawtv are much nicer programs than the included software. 


If anyone can give me help or support, or even point me toward a more current howto (or one that anyone else has had success with, i just need a nudge in the right direction.) 

If you need more information, just ask, I havn't dealt with picky USB devices before, so i don't know what information is actually helpful. 

I'm sorry if this information has been posted here before, but I am simply stuck. Weather my googl-fu is to weak (as i have been told many times before) or i actualy have a Real Problem is yet to be seen. 

Thanks 

:-)

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2008-12-26
quick update

these instructions don't help either. 

although they do lead me to belive that the 950q might be a differnet beast entirely than the 950. 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-990185.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-990185.html)


if anyone figures anything out please help!

in the meantime it is f oclock in the morning so i am off to bed. 

it's too bad nothings worked yet.:guitar:

---

### Post by cmargolin on 2008-12-26
The instructions in this link got my 950Q started:

[http://www.technetra.com/2008/07/01/over-the-air-digital-tv-with-linux/](http://www.technetra.com/2008/07/01/over-the-air-digital-tv-with-linux/)

I use Kaffeine as the viewer.

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2008-12-26
> **cmargolin said:**
> The instructions in this link got my 950Q started:

[http://www.technetra.com/2008/07/01/over-the-air-digital-tv-with-linux/](http://www.technetra.com/2008/07/01/over-the-air-digital-tv-with-linux/)

That was the last page i pulled up before falling asleep last night. Trying the instructions posted there as i type this, will report back with success or failure. 

Much thanks.

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2008-12-26
it looks like everything worked, but neither Xawtv nor tvtime recognizes it. (both spit back the message /dev/video0 not found) 

I'm going to try kaffeine now, reboot and try all three again, and then come back here. 


So close, but still so far.

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2008-12-26
everything apears to be working with kaffiene ... i wonder why tv time and xawtv failed. 

oh well, that is a problem for another day 

Much thanks!

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2008-12-26
I hate to keep replying to my own thread, but everything is not happy in toyland. 


i thought kaffine was working because it didnt spit back any errors (as Xawtv and Tvtime do) but it still doesn't actualy work. 

I don't know what i'm doing wrong, but i'm starting to get rather frustrated.

---

### Post by cdnwolf on 2009-02-24
I'm having the exact same difficulties as you ajroach42. Did you ever get anywhere with this?

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-02-24
No sadly, No such luck. I'm still fiddling with the thing from time to time, but I haven't gotten it to work under ubuntu or vista.

Thankfully, things are working fairly well under XP. 

Baisically from what I have been able to tell, the chipset in the 950q is different from the 850 or the 950, so the instructions that are out there aren't going to work. 

If anyone has any help or advice, I would love to get this thing up and running. I'm a bit of a TV junkie.

---

### Post by backpack09 on 2009-03-11
Linuxtv lists firmware and drivers specific for the 950q.  [http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV-HVR-950Q](http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV-HVR-950Q)

But I still cannot get mythtv to find any channels when searching.

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-05-17
To throw out some more info just incase anyone wants to pop in and be a savior. 


Dmesg outputs:
[HTML][14486.577608] usbcore: registered new interface driver au0828
[14647.296312] usb 7-4: USB disconnect, address 4
[14864.188041] usb 7-3: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 5
[14864.365864] usb 7-3: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[14864.724658] au0828: i2c bus registered
[14864.834485] tveeprom 3-0050: Hauppauge model 72001, rev B3F0, serial# 3389282
[14864.834494] tveeprom 3-0050: MAC address is 00-0D-FE-33-B7-62
[14864.834498] tveeprom 3-0050: tuner model is Xceive XC5000 (idx 150, type 4)
[14864.834502] tveeprom 3-0050: TV standards NTSC(M) ATSC/DVB Digital (eeprom 0x88)
[14864.834505] tveeprom 3-0050: audio processor is AU8522 (idx 44)
[14864.834508] tveeprom 3-0050: decoder processor is AU8522 (idx 42)
[14864.834511] tveeprom 3-0050: has no radio, has IR receiver, has no IR transmitter
[14864.834514] hauppauge_eeprom: hauppauge eeprom: model=72001
[14864.841610] xc5000: Successfully identified at address 0x61
[14864.841617] xc5000: Firmware has not been loaded previously
[14864.841622] DVB: registering new adapter (au0828)
[14864.841626] DVB: registering frontend 0 (Auvitek AU8522 QAM/8VSB Frontend)...
[14864.843692] Registered device AU0828 [Hauppauge HVR950Q]
[/HTML]
Which matches the instructions here to the letter
[http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV-HVR-950Q](http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV-HVR-950Q)


But when I try to start Xawtv I get the following message [HTML]This is xawtv-3.95.dfsg.1, running on Linux/i686 (2.6.27-14-generic)
xinerama 0: 1280x800+0+0
WARNING: No DGA direct video mode for this display.
can't open /dev/video0: No such file or directory
v4l-conf had some trouble, trying to continue anyway
v4l2: open /dev/video0: No such file or directory
v4l2: open /dev/video0: No such file or directory
v4l: open /dev/video0: No such file or directory
no video grabber device available
andrew@andrew-laptop:~$ [/HTML]

No /dev/video0... And I'm at a loss as to how to create /dev/video0 (instinct says "sudo touch /dev/video0 but I know things can't be THAT simple)

---

### Post by onubtoo on 2009-05-26
I share your pain ajroach42. I bought an HVR 950Q last week and have spent the last week trying to get to go. I've nano the conf file to read /dev/dvb/adapter0/drv0 on start up but still no joy. My thinking is that xawtv is expecting a v4l data stream, we're feeding xawtv a dvb stream. xawtv has a version 4 (I think)that will handle dvb data streams. The second gotcha is that the simple tv viewers are written in Europe and handle dvb for DVB-T, not ATSC.

But I think your're half way there... do ls -la /dev/dvb/adater0
to see the device nodes. If you have that, the hardware is good to go.

I'm going to give Kaffeine a go next...

onubtoo

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-05-26
Thanks for the advice, I will gladly try it as soon as I make it to my house.

---

### Post by onubtoo on 2009-05-27
Well, I got a little further ahead. I downloaded the dvb tools and got the 950q to scan for channels. I had the cheesy antenna hooked up and failed to find any channels but that shows that I have communication with the stick. I then got Kaffeine installed. The front end was recognized but I couldn&#8217;t find the source from the dropdown box in the channels window, just blank. I did a dmesg |grep dvb and it showed that xc5000 was looking for the firmware dvb-fe-xc5000 bla-bla.fw which I knew I installed some days ago. On this thread there is a post with a link to a site that mentions the firmware should go in to /lib/firmeware/YourKernelVer. After moving the file the missing ioctl message disappeared but still I was unable to scan using Kaffeine. I&#8217;m getting closer. I&#8217;m not convinced that the firmware is doing its job&#8230; right location???

Later, O

---

### Post by End3r on 2009-05-28
For what it's worth, I just followed the Firmware instructions you mentioned earlier ([http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV-HVR-950Q](http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV-HVR-950Q)) then fired up Kaffeine, scanned for channels and it worked.  I'm now enjoying some HDTV :)

Thanks

---

### Post by onubtoo on 2009-05-28
My woes continue and it's Kaffeine that's doing the woeing. Ran w_scan -k -X -cUS >> channels.dvb and got a list that Kaffeine understands. But still no Kaffeine joy. I'm running -0.8.6... I'll install 0.8.8 next.

O

---

### Post by onubtoo on 2009-05-28
Yep, it was Kaffeine. The version needs to be 0.8.7 and higher for ATSC to work. There is a conversion utility that will convert w_scan to a format that 0.8.6 will recognize and will allow the source drop down box to work. I suppose if I used Jaunty and the latest version of Kaffeine, it would have been a breeze. The funny thing was when I reviewed all of the relevent info on Linuxtv all the info was there. I should start reading with the good eye.

Later, O

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-05-28
Thanks for all the help, I'm testing everything out right now.

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-05-28
alright, What I have so far. 
~$ ls -la /dev/dvb/adapter0
total 0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root     120 2009-05-28 23:07 .
drwxr-xr-x  3 root root      60 2009-05-28 23:07 ..
crw-rw----+ 1 root video 212, 4 2009-05-28 23:07 demux0
crw-rw----+ 1 root video 212, 5 2009-05-28 23:07 dvr0
crw-rw----+ 1 root video 212, 3 2009-05-28 23:07 frontend0
crw-rw----+ 1 root video 212, 7 2009-05-28 23:07 net0




I am running intrepid, can I still upgrade to the newest Kaffine?

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-05-28
ACKKK! I installed Kaffein backports and when its starts it says "DVB Info Can't bind to socket" 


other than that It seems to work fairly well. :-\ still no tv.

---

### Post by xzero1 on 2009-05-28
I don't think tvtime will work with this device. Your device is a usb device which likely sends encoded video over usb. Tvtime controls an analog tv tuner with a frame grabber. As an example, to play my hd-pvr (usb device) I simply do this:  "mplayer /dev/video1". I can also record the data stream like this: "cat /dev/video1 > filename.ts". Now there is more involved to change channels, setup etc. You can probably control that with video4linux commands something like: "v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/video1 -l".

Now I could be all wrong since I don't have your device. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by richrosa on 2009-05-29
I have Jaunty. I performed a w_scan and can confirm that Kaffeine can indeed scan for channels off the DVB. 

What I'm looking for is help to use the S-Video or Composite inputs on this device so that my cable box can feed all its channels to MythTV. Any help?

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-05-29
Ok all is good there,  I can now watch HDTV over the air, which is great. 

This might be asking for a bit much, but I have an old high8 camcorder with a TV out on it, if I plug it into the tv tuner where the antena goes what will I have to do to make <insert program name here> recognize this stream (and eventually I will want to record them for archival purposes) ?

If you've never done it with a camcorder, I would assume that it would be the same thing to connect a video game system or whatever else over a coaxial cable...


Thanks for the help everybody.

---

### Post by xzero1 on 2009-05-29
You should still be able to control the device with video4linux. This works on frame-grabber and at least my usb device. This command should list the controllable aspects of your device if it is supported by video4linux. "v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/video1 -l". Try video0 is video1 doesn't work. You may have to install some v4l2 packages to use this. Then you can control the parameter with something like this: "v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/video1 --set-ctrl=video_bitrate=5000000". Think of it as a high level api for the devices.

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-05-29
just sitting in a world of device not found right now... :-\

I'm off to bed at this point, maybe try some more tommorow.

---

### Post by onubtoo on 2009-05-29
Hooking up the composite video is the next project... But I burned so many brownie points with the wife to get this far. I not pushing my luck any further, but I'll lurk to follow your progress.

Much later, O

---

### Post by xzero1 on 2009-05-29
> **ajroach42 said:**
> just sitting in a world of device not found right now... :-\

I'm off to bed at this point, maybe try some more tommorow.

Lets try to find your devcie. Post the output of "dmesg | grep usb"

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-05-30
> **xzero1 said:**
> Lets try to find your devcie. Post the output of "dmesg | grep usb"

```
dmesg | grep usb
[    2.745019] usbcore: registered new interface driver usbfs
[    2.745052] usbcore: registered new interface driver hub
[    2.746079] usbcore: registered new device driver usb
[    2.761792] usb usb1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    2.867020] usb usb2: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    2.988194] usb usb3: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    3.092692] usb usb4: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    3.300524] usb usb5: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    3.404518] usb usb6: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    3.412062] usb 4-1: new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 2
[    3.536198] usb usb7: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    3.932083] usb 4-1: device not accepting address 2, error -71
[    4.100075] usb 7-1: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 2
[    4.255833] usb 7-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[   18.051993] usbcore: registered new interface driver au0828
[   18.052646] usbcore: registered new interface driver snd-usb-audio
[  457.689193] usb 7-1: USB disconnect, address 2
[  461.380096] usb 7-1: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 3
[  461.535716] usb 7-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[  954.956137] usb 5-1: new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 2
[  955.117078] usb 5-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[  955.286388] usbcore: registered new interface driver cdc_acm
[ 3177.545197] usb 5-1: USB disconnect, address 2
[ 3179.025359] usb 5-1: new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 3
[ 3179.186503] usb 5-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[ 3179.911187] usbcore: registered new interface driver libusual
[ 3179.946038] usbcore: registered new interface driver usb-storage
[ 3179.950445] usb-storage: device found at 3
[ 3179.950456] usb-storage: waiting for device to settle before scanning
[ 3184.949608] usb-storage: device scan complete
[ 5779.312150] usb 5-1: USB disconnect, address 3
[ 5780.564132] usb 5-1: new full speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 4
[ 5780.721485] usb 5-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[ 6322.478348] usb 7-1: USB disconnect, address 3
[14834.289121] usb 5-1: USB disconnect, address 4
[57715.396111] usb 7-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 7
[57715.530563] usb 7-4: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[57715.533519] usb-storage: device found at 7
[57715.533532] usb-storage: waiting for device to settle before scanning
[57720.533366] usb-storage: device scan complete
[60134.629489] usb 7-4: USB disconnect, address 7
[133304.332093] usb 7-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 8
[133304.487820] usb 7-4: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice

```

and this is the tail end of dmesg

```
[133304.332093] usb 7-4: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 8
[133304.487820] usb 7-4: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[133304.852841] au0828: i2c bus registered
[133304.955928] tveeprom 0-0050: Hauppauge model 72001, rev B3F0, serial# 3389282
[133304.955942] tveeprom 0-0050: MAC address is 00-0D-FE-33-B7-62
[133304.955949] tveeprom 0-0050: tuner model is Xceive XC5000 (idx 150, type 4)
[133304.955956] tveeprom 0-0050: TV standards NTSC(M) ATSC/DVB Digital (eeprom 0x88)
[133304.955963] tveeprom 0-0050: audio processor is AU8522 (idx 44)
[133304.955969] tveeprom 0-0050: decoder processor is AU8522 (idx 42)
[133304.955975] tveeprom 0-0050: has no radio, has IR receiver, has no IR transmitter
[133304.955982] hauppauge_eeprom: hauppauge eeprom: model=72001
[133304.966553] xc5000: Successfully identified at address 0x61
[133304.966563] xc5000: Firmware has not been loaded previously
[133304.968892] DVB: registering new adapter (au0828)
[133304.969888] DVB: registering frontend 0 (Auvitek AU8522 QAM/8VSB Frontend)...
[133304.975033] Registered device AU0828 [Hauppauge HVR950Q]

```

I think that the issue is that its not being recognized as a v4l device, caffine works for a digital signal, but the feed from my VCR and my camcorder aren't showing anything.

---

### Post by xzero1 on 2009-05-30
> **ajroach42 said:**
> alright, What I have so far. 
~$ ls -la /dev/dvb/adapter0
total 0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root     120 2009-05-28 23:07 .
drwxr-xr-x  3 root root      60 2009-05-28 23:07 ..
crw-rw----+ 1 root video 212, 4 2009-05-28 23:07 demux0
crw-rw----+ 1 root video 212, 5 2009-05-28 23:07 dvr0
crw-rw----+ 1 root video 212, 3 2009-05-28 23:07 frontend0
crw-rw----+ 1 root video 212, 7 2009-05-28 23:07 net0




I am running intrepid, can I still upgrade to the newest Kaffine?

I'm just not familiar with your device.

Try this (the -n parameter lists the inputs:
```
v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/dvr0 -n
v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/demux0 -n
v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/frontend0 -n
v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/net0 -n
```Maybe one form will work. If it does you can control the device using v4l2-ctl.

This page [http://www.linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Testing_your_DVB_device](http://www.linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Testing_your_DVB_device) has a good deal of useful info.

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-05-30
> **xzero1 said:**
> I'm just not familiar with your device.

Try this (the -n parameter lists the inputs:
```
v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/dvr0 -n
v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/demux0 -n
v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/frontend0 -n
v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/net0 -n
```Maybe one form will work. If it does you can control the device using v4l2-ctl.

This page [http://www.linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Testing_your_DVB_device](http://www.linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Testing_your_DVB_device) has a good deal of useful info.



```
andrew@andrew-laptop:~$ v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/frontend0 -n

ioctl: VIDIOC_ENUMINPUT
andrew@andrew-laptop:~$ 
andrew@andrew-laptop:~$ v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/net0 -n
ioctl: VIDIOC_ENUMINPUT
andrew@andrew-laptop:~$ v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/demux0 -n
ioctl: VIDIOC_ENUMINPUT
andrew@andrew-laptop:~$ v4l2-ctl --device=/dev/dvb/adapter0/dvr0 -n
Failed to open /dev/dvb/adapter0/dvr0: Operation not supported

```


???

---

### Post by KRiODOXiS on 2009-06-03
> **End3r said:**
> For what it's worth, I just followed the Firmware instructions you mentioned earlier ([http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV-HVR-950Q](http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV-HVR-950Q)) then fired up Kaffeine, scanned for channels and it worked.  I'm now enjoying some HDTV :)

Thanks

I've followed the instructions ([http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV-HVR-950Q](http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Hauppauge_WinTV-HVR-950Q)) but when i scan channels with kaffeine i get nothing i wonder if it's a frequencies problem. Any help

---

### Post by kumarm_arun on 2009-06-15
Hi,
  I got the HVR 950q working under hardy. Both analog and atsc digital are working. I am using 2.6.24-23-generic kernel. The procedure I followed is:

1. download and install the cvs version of v4l-dvb ([http://linuxtv.org/hg/v4l-dvb](http://linuxtv.org/hg/v4l-dvb)) .

2. download the firmwaredvb-fe-xc5000-1.6.114.fw from [http://kernellabs.com/firmware/xc5000/](http://kernellabs.com/firmware/xc5000/)  and copy to /lib/firmware/2.6.24-23-generic . 

3. Channel scan works only with the versions of Kaffeine  greater than 0.8.6 .  
  Download the 0.8.8 sources from [http://kaffeine.kde.org/](http://kaffeine.kde.org/). Configure, compile and install. Before compilation it is important to copy the file linux/include/linux/dvb/frontend.h from the v4l-dvb source tree to /usr/include/linux/dvb/frontend.h. (See [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1098016](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1098016) for a list of dependencies needed to compile Kaffeine.)

4. You may need to reboot first. Connect the 950Q stick, fire up Kaffeine, see in dmesg that the firmware is getting loaded. Scan for channels and get ready for the show. 

Best Regards,
Arun

---

### Post by ajroach42 on 2009-06-15
I've never actualy compiled anything from source with anything more complicated than ./configure ./make ./makeinstall... care to give a few more details? :oops:

---

### Post by kumarm_arun on 2009-06-15
Hi, 
  By compile and install, I actually meant ./configure && make && sudo make install. When in doubt you may want to read the README file in the source tree (obtained by running tar jxvf packagename.bz2).  You only need to make sure that you have the dev packages needed for building the kaffeine. That you can see from the link I gave earlier and use sudo apt-get install to install them. 

Arun

---

### Post by jaronron10 on 2009-06-22
Hey all.

     I have recently switched to Ubuntu Jaunty. Haveing a great time poking around. I was thinking of buying a Hauppauge HVR-950Q (they are on sale for 70 bucks), Well I was wondering if someone could give me a step by step on how to install this. I like challenges and was hopeing this would get me acclimated to Linux.

     Also I assume you are all useing the 32bit version would there be any problem useing it on the 64bit version of ubuntu?

Thanks Much
Aaron
[FONT=Arial][SIZE=4][COLOR=#6699cc][/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by plb on 2009-07-14
In jaunty for digital just copy over the firmware and watch tv in kaffeine. I want to know however if this will work with an analog cable box

---

