---
title: "[SOLVED] 8.10 - NVIDIA driver issue - X not strating after upgrade"
date: 2008-11-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Ant68 on 2008-11-24
Hi all,
I was running ubuntu 8.04 and it was working very well with a video card NVIDIA 7300 GS. I have just upgraded my ubuntu from version 8.04 to 8.10 using the upgrade tool in admin section of Gnome. It took some time but seemed to work well except that when I restarted the system, X did not want to start. I have tried several things and I now manage to get a degraded X starting when I boot in recovery mode. 

When I am logged in (in degraded mode) I go in the driver tool in the sys administration section and I chose to enable the recommended driver (177…). There are 3 of them one of which starts with 96… When enabled it ask to restart but the problem remains the same. 

In further investigation I saw this message: 
***“API mismatch: NVIDIA kernel module has version 71.86.04, but this NVIDIA driver component has version 177.80.”***

I tried also to configure the NVIDIA driver from the Sys Admins section but I get a message that says:
“You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.”

I then run:
***root@hema-desktop:/home/hema# sudo nvidia-xconfig***

tried also:
 root@hema-desktop:/home/hema# nvidia-xconfig 

but I get:
[B][I]Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

VALIDATION ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
                  Device section "Configured Video Device" must have a Driver
                  line.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

root@hemona-desktop:/home/hemona# sudo nvidia-xconfig

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".
Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'[/I][/B]


Xorg.conf file:
[B][I]# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed Oct  1 15:09:35 PDT 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection[/I][/B]

What should I do to fix this problem and get my NVIDIA driver working again?

---

### Post by Ant68 on 2008-12-12
something wrong with the upgrade. I install 8.10 from scratch and it work straight away.

---

### Post by Gausian on 2008-12-12
Upgrading can be tricky for graphics.  Its important to remember to reconfigure xorg after updating, then grab available updates for the new distro and then try and install the new drivers.

nice to see you got it working though.

---

