---
title: "Configuring Xorg.conf for NVidia driver"
date: 2009-07-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by TheHorror on 2009-07-11
I'm trying to configure the Xorg.conf for my NVidia driver.  I did the init 3, run NvidiaXXXXX.sh, and init 4.  It said it did n't find the kernel.  I also tried the System->Hardware Drivers thtateing, but the program never states the 180 driver is activated after it finishes (downloading?).  I read "do kdesu /etc/X11/xorg.conf and change vesa to nvidia and save."  But I don't have a line with "vesa" in it.  My file shows this:



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection



So which line should I change?  Thanks in advance to anybody who chooses to help.

---

