---
title: ".MOD files - fix aspect ratio"
date: 2017-10-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by arst06d on 2017-10-26
Hi

I have a Panasonic camcorder which stores it's videos in two files *.MOD and *.MOI

When I copy the files over to the pc I can view the video but the aspect ration is wrong - it displays as 4:3 when in fact it was recorded in 16:9.  From reading around this I understand that the .MOI file has all the gubbins to correct this, but I can't do anything with it directly.

There was a program called modder which I found and, following a vid on youtube, I gtet an error message saying it can't find the command.

There was a Windoze utility called sdcopy which I tried to use, but failed - just nothing happens, can't open it.

I tried ffmpeg in a terminal using some sample code I found, and it throws an error about some corrupt data.

I installed Winff from the repositories but it says it can't find ffmpeg - even though I have it installed!

Help urgently needed please.  Would love to just have the ability to change the header in the .mod file to show the correct aspect ratio without going through any conversion process if possible

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by arst06d on 2017-10-26
Just got Winff to run! - but errored as follows:

> ffmpeg version 3.2.4-1build2 Copyright (c) 2000-2017 the FFmpeg developers
  built with gcc 6.3.0 (Ubuntu 6.3.0-8ubuntu1) 20170221
  configuration: --prefix=/usr --extra-version=1build2 --toolchain=hardened --libdir=/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu --incdir=/usr/include/i386-linux-gnu --enable-gpl --disable-stripping --enable-avresample --enable-avisynth --enable-gnutls --enable-ladspa --enable-libass --enable-libbluray --enable-libbs2b --enable-libcaca --enable-libcdio --enable-libebur128 --enable-libflite --enable-libfontconfig --enable-libfreetype --enable-libfribidi --enable-libgme --enable-libgsm --enable-libmp3lame --enable-libopenjpeg --enable-libopenmpt --enable-libopus --enable-libpulse --enable-librubberband --enable-libshine --enable-libsnappy --enable-libsoxr --enable-libspeex --enable-libssh --enable-libtheora --enable-libtwolame --enable-libvorbis --enable-libvpx --enable-libwavpack --enable-libwebp --enable-libx265 --enable-libxvid --enable-libzmq --enable-libzvbi --enable-omx --enable-openal --enable-opengl --enable-sdl2 --enable-libdc1394 --enable-libiec61883 --enable-chromaprint --enable-frei0r --enable-libopencv --enable-libx264 --enable-shared
  libavutil      55. 34.101 / 55. 34.101
  libavcodec     57. 64.101 / 57. 64.101
  libavformat    57. 56.101 / 57. 56.101
  libavdevice    57.  1.100 / 57.  1.100
  libavfilter     6. 65.100 /  6. 65.100
  libavresample   3.  1.  0 /  3.  1.  0
  libswscale      4.  2.100 /  4.  2.100
  libswresample   2.  3.100 /  2.  3.100
  libpostproc    54.  1.100 / 54.  1.100
[libopenmpt @ 0x81d93840] openmpt_module_create_from_memory: ERROR: error loading file
/home/david/Desktop/Performance Videos/2017-10-25/MOV002.MOD: Invalid data found when processing input
Press Enter to Continue


---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2017-10-30
Can you post one of your problem files online so I can have a look?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-10-30
Possibly relevant: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2367435](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2367435)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-10-30
Considering the reference to libopenmpt, it appears ffmpeg is trying to treat the file as: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Module_file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Module_file)
instead of: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MOD_and_TOD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MOD_and_TOD)

---

### Post by arst06d on 2017-10-30
> **andrew.46 said:**
> Can you post one of your problem files online so I can have a look?

I have taken a quick video and loaded the two files *.MOD and *.MOI to my dropbox [here]("https://www.dropbox.com/sh/xb18da7k6icowy5/AAB9ujsIz8tuKM7qDQJvQnN3a?dl=0")

I have, using kdenlive found a way to change the aspect ratio during processing the file, but it would be good to have a quick way of changing the aspect ratio in isolation, without any lengthy processing or conversion.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2017-10-31
> **arst06d said:**
> I have taken a quick video and loaded the two files *.MOD and *.MOI to my dropbox [here]("https://www.dropbox.com/sh/xb18da7k6icowy5/AAB9ujsIz8tuKM7qDQJvQnN3a?dl=0")

Thanks for that! You can simply alter the Display Aspect Ratio (DAR) with FFmpeg and copy the audio and video codecs over. Catch being that as far as I am aware FFmpeg does not support writing to a mod format (fell free to correct me).

There is a test example from your file here:

```
wget http://www.andrews-corner.org/tmp/MOD_altered_DAR.mp4
```

It is a little ugly doing it this way but certainly convinced SMPlayer and friends to play with your desired aspect ratio:

```
ffmpeg -i MOV001.MOD -aspect 16:9 -c copy MOD_altered_DAR.mp4
```

Bear in mind this does not actually change the video in any way, just adds a little metadata to tell obliging playback applications about the desired aspect ratio. I note that FFmpeg actually *appends *this information rather than replaces the original settings...

---

### Post by arst06d on 2017-10-31
Thanks for that - tried it and still get the error as below.  Have checked in Synaptic that I am up to date with ffmpeg, just in case.

> david@david-SN12E200:~/Desktop/Performance Videos/2017-10-25/AspectRatio$ ffmpeg -i MOV001.MOD -aspect 16:9 -c copy MOD_altered_DAR.mp4
ffmpeg version 3.2.4-1build2 Copyright (c) 2000-2017 the FFmpeg developers
  built with gcc 6.3.0 (Ubuntu 6.3.0-8ubuntu1) 20170221
  configuration: --prefix=/usr --extra-version=1build2 --toolchain=hardened --libdir=/usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu --incdir=/usr/include/i386-linux-gnu --enable-gpl --disable-stripping --enable-avresample --enable-avisynth --enable-gnutls --enable-ladspa --enable-libass --enable-libbluray --enable-libbs2b --enable-libcaca --enable-libcdio --enable-libebur128 --enable-libflite --enable-libfontconfig --enable-libfreetype --enable-libfribidi --enable-libgme --enable-libgsm --enable-libmp3lame --enable-libopenjpeg --enable-libopenmpt --enable-libopus --enable-libpulse --enable-librubberband --enable-libshine --enable-libsnappy --enable-libsoxr --enable-libspeex --enable-libssh --enable-libtheora --enable-libtwolame --enable-libvorbis --enable-libvpx --enable-libwavpack --enable-libwebp --enable-libx265 --enable-libxvid --enable-libzmq --enable-libzvbi --enable-omx --enable-openal --enable-opengl --enable-sdl2 --enable-libdc1394 --enable-libiec61883 --enable-chromaprint --enable-frei0r --enable-libopencv --enable-libx264 --enable-shared
  libavutil      55. 34.101 / 55. 34.101
  libavcodec     57. 64.101 / 57. 64.101
  libavformat    57. 56.101 / 57. 56.101
  libavdevice    57.  1.100 / 57.  1.100
  libavfilter     6. 65.100 /  6. 65.100
  libavresample   3.  1.  0 /  3.  1.  0
  libswscale      4.  2.100 /  4.  2.100
  libswresample   2.  3.100 /  2.  3.100
  libpostproc    54.  1.100 / 54.  1.100
[libopenmpt @ 0x80b226e0] openmpt_module_create_from_memory: ERROR: error loading file
MOV001.MOD: Invalid data found when processing input
david@david-SN12E200:~/Desktop/Performance Videos/2017-10-25/AspectRatio$ 


---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-10-31
I have the same output error with: [http://samples.mplayerhq.hu/camera-dvr/Example_JVC_MOD_VIDEO.MOD](http://samples.mplayerhq.hu/camera-dvr/Example_JVC_MOD_VIDEO.MOD)
ffmpeg and ffprobe keep trying to read it as a modplug file based on .mod extension.
I have to specify the format ("-f mpeg") to get andrew's command to work.

I am using ffmpeg 3.4 from debmultimedia repo.

---

### Post by lisati on 2017-11-01
I've got a Panasonic camcorder that produces .MOD files, with which I've seen a similar problem with 16:9 clips being interpreted as 4:3. I think the files are a variant of mpeg-2 format, but for some reason the aspect ratio flag isn't always set in a useful way.

I don't have a specific Ubuntu-friendly solution, but found on the Windows-based video editing software I normally use (an old version of Pinnacle Studio), setting the the aspect ratio of a new project to 16:9 and telling the software that the clip is 16:9 before adding to the project usually has the desired result.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2017-11-01
> **arst06d said:**
> Thanks for that - tried it and still get the error as below.  Have checked in Synaptic that I am up to date with ffmpeg, just in case.

Using the git FFmpeg here with no problems. Did you try the file I created? This should display in 16:9...

---

### Post by arst06d on 2017-11-01
Your file displays in 4:3 :(

---

### Post by coldraven on 2017-11-01
I'm no video expert but this site says to just rename the MOD file to MPG or use Handbrake to convert it. Handbrake is in the Software Centre, I just used it to convert some 3840 x 2160 MOV files to 1280 x 720 M4V format. 

[https://www.file-extensions.org/article/how-to-convert-mod-video-file](https://www.file-extensions.org/article/how-to-convert-mod-video-file)

---

### Post by arst06d on 2017-11-01
renaming the file to *.MP4 lets Parole play it (VLC can play the *MOD file) but still in 4:3.

As I said earlier, using kdenlive I have a way of changing the aspect ratio during editing/processing, but for thos that do not require the lengthy processing a quick fix would be nice.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-11-01
> but for those that do not require the lengthy processing a quick fix would be nice. 

The ffmpeg command andrew gave you should work, but specify -f mpeg (or rename the file to whatever.mpg as coldraven suggested) to work around the initial error. Please let us know if that works and at least allows ffmpeg to process the file.

> renaming the file to *.MP4 lets Parole play it

Don't rename your .mod file to .mp4. It's not in an mp4 container, unless you put it in one like in the command andrew suggested. Rename it to .mpg

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-11-01
> **andrew.46 said:**
> Using the git FFmpeg here with no problems.

Is your ffmpeg built with --enable-libopenmpt flag? If so, maybe ffmpeg fixed the detection bug.

---

### Post by arst06d on 2017-11-01
> **Temüjin said:**
> The ffmpeg command andrew gave you should work, but specify -f mpeg (or rename the file to whatever.mpg as coldraven suggested) to work around the initial error. Please let us know if that works and at least allows ffmpeg to process the file.


Apologies - total idiot when dealing with anything complex!

Could I prevail upon you for the complete command to use?  Do I use the -f flag in conjunction with Andrew's command?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-11-01
```
ffmpeg -f mpeg -i MOV001.MOD -aspect 16:9 -c copy MOD_altered_DAR.mpg
```

```
ffmpeg -f mpeg -i MOV001.MOD -aspect 16:9 -c copy MOD_altered_DAR.mp4
```

---

### Post by arst06d on 2017-11-02
OK, getting somewhere - thanks!
The files now show in 16:9 (widescreen).

Odd thing - don't know whether there's another setting that needs tweaking but using another camera which records  MP4 in 16:9, played back in Parole It fills the screen (without distortion).  The files produced by your commands are in 16:9 but do not fill the screen in Parole even if I specify FullScreen

---

