---
title: "8.10 and fglrx 8.11"
date: 2008-11-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ~~MAINFRAIME²~~ on 2008-11-14
Just upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10 and now the ati driver does not work anymore.

I have installed fglrx 8.11 like this
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Intrepid_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_restricted_drivers_manually](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Intrepid_Installation_Guide#Installing_the_restricted_drivers_manually)
but at startup I always get a error message if I try to use the fglrx driver.

```

(EE) module ABI major version (0) doesn't match the server's version (1)
(EE) Failed to load module "dri" (module requirement mismatch. 0)
(EE) Failed to load /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/fglrx_drv.so
(EE) Failed to load module "fglrx" (loader failed, 7)
(EE) No drivers available.

```

I'm running the 64 bit version and use a onboard radeon x1250.
Now I use the "radeon" driver which seems to work but I need dri.

How can I fix this problem :confused:

---

### Post by T3h_Dohtem on 2008-11-15
i'm having the same problem, i just did a clean install to 8.10, ati driver was working find in 8.04, now i get that error when i boot up. 
i am on an i386 with a radeon x300 card

---

### Post by MadeR on 2008-11-15
I read somewhere that fglrx drivers are compiled a version of xorg older than the one shipped in intrepid ibex.

You have to wait for the next release.

In the meantime use the vesa or radeon or radeonhd driver.

---

### Post by ~~MAINFRAIME²~~ on 2008-11-15
> 
I read somewhere that fglrx drivers are compiled a version of xorg older than the one shipped in intrepid ibex.

You have to wait for the next release.

In the meantime use the vesa or radeon or radeonhd driver. 

The new 8.11 driver does support xorg 7.4



After unsuccessfully reinstalling a lot of packages (mostly xorg related)
I tried to run the ati installer directly and now the driver loads and "fgl_glxgears -info" reports ati as renderer and has almost 180 fps that should be ok for a IGX :)

Just like this
```
sudo sh ati-driver-installer-8-11-x86.x86_64.run
```


But this driver seems to have a problem with mythfrontend when I start it with "mythfrontend.real" the whole screen is messed up,
but if I run it like this "mythfrontend.real -geometry 1921x1201" (where my screen resolution is 1920x1200) it works in fullscreen.
I tried zsnes, mednafen, mplayer with opengl output and mythfrontends internal player for tv and recordings through xvmc-opengl with chromakey for th OSD, everything seems to work again :)

---

