---
title: "Dual Monitors and Full Screen"
date: 2011-01-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by sgtbirdman2000 on 2011-01-09
Hello!

I'm totally new to Linux and Ubuntu, so please bear with me if there's a simple fix for my problem. I've been lurking around looking for an answer, but I can't quite figure this out.

I finally have my dual monitors set-up properly in Ubuntu 10.10, but the only problem left is when I try to run things in full screen. I have a 1920x1080 monitor on the left, and a 1600x1200 monitor on the right. Every time I full screen a flash video, game, or other application, they full screen to my 1920x1080 monitor. I want them to full screen to my 1600x1200 monitor. I'm pretty sure my 1600x1200 monitor is set to "Make this the primary display for the X screen", and yet I'm still having this problem. Help? 

Here's my xorg.conf file, if that helps. 
[HTML]# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 260.19.06  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Oct  4 16:01:38 UTC 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic VA2323wm"
    HorizSync       24.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTX"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0"
# Removed Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
# Removed Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoTwinViewXineramaInfo" "False"
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1920x1080 +0+0, DFP-1: 1600x1200 +1920+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection[/HTML]

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-01-09
Does changing

Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"

to

Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1, DFP-0"

help?
According to [nvidia]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/1.0-9755/README/appendix-d.html") this is not necessary,but give it a try...

---

### Post by sgtbirdman2000 on 2011-01-09
Sorry, that didn't work. :( Anymore ideas?

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-01-09
...run in terminal :

```
DISPLAY=:0.1 firefox
```

and

```
DISPLAY=:0.0 firefox
```

which should open firefox on screen0/screen1....does this work?

---

### Post by sgtbirdman2000 on 2011-01-09
```
DISPLAY=:0.1 firefox
```

returns "Error: cannot open display :0.1", while

```
DISPLAY=:0.0 firefox
```

opens up firefox in my 1600x1200 screen, which is strange. I would expect the screen that windows full-screen on to work, no? :confused:

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-01-09
open a terminal on each display and run:

```
echo $DISPLAY
```

what is the output?

---

### Post by sgtbirdman2000 on 2011-01-09
Only :0.0

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-01-09
*...opens up firefox in my 1600x1200 screen, which is strange.*

Isn't that what you want?

*(...I want them to full screen to my 1600x1200 monitor...)*


...I am running out of ideas and time;familiar duties.Will be back this evening,maybe someone else has an idea.

On last idea (add to xorg.conf "screen section"):

```
Option "TwinViewOrientation" "LeftOf"
```

---

### Post by sgtbirdman2000 on 2011-01-09
Firefox does open in my 1600x1200 screen, but when I click on the full screen icon on a Youtube video or when I load up a game, it still continues to full screen in my 1920x1080. Also, I think Ubuntu is trying to full screen in my 1600x1200 window (the full screen that does pop up in my 1920x1080 monitor is sometimes 1600x1200 resolution), but for some reason, the window is shifted over to my other monitor. Frustrating. 

I also added that Option to my xorg.conf file, but full screen still refuses to work properly. Thanks for your help though; hopefully someone else can help too :)

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-01-09
The DISPLAY environment variable & most apps work fine with separate X screens & not twinview.

Most apps stay on the display they are launched on etc.
Scripts/launchers with DISPLAY etc work fine.

If you use twinview then there is one X screen so DISPLAY will not work.
There is a way to do the same thing with twinview but requires setting screen co-ordinates.

---

### Post by sgtbirdman2000 on 2011-01-09
OK then, so I tried using separate X screens instead of twinview, and now windows finally full-screen on the screen they are launched on. But for some reason, when I go into NVIDIA X Server Settings, every time I choose "Right of" or "Left of", and save it to my xorg.conf file, and restart X server, when I go back to check if my settings actually changed, the two monitors remain "Absolute". sigh...

But now when I launch full-screen, I'm now having the opposite problem that I had before. Screens are launching in 1920x1080, no matter what monitor I launch them on. So when I'm on my 1600x1200 monitor, there's this annoying white bar at the top of my screen, because the full screen window is in 1920x1080, not 1600x1200. 

Also, when I sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf, an error pops up saying "Xlib: extension "RANDR" mission on display ":0.0". And, when I try the echo $DISPLAY, it still only shows :0.0

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 260.19.06  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Oct  4 16:01:38 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 1920 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" LeftOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "1"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL 2001FP"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic VA2323wm"
    HorizSync       24.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTX"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GTX"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1600x1200 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


```

Edit: Actually, let me give specifics, because now everything seems very random.
Youtube: Full-screens on the monitor it was launched on, but in 1920x1080. Annoying white bar at the top for 1600x1200 monitor
USTREAM.tv: Full-screens on the monitor it was launched on, but in 1920x1080. Same annoying white bar.
Angry Birds (under Wine): Full Screen on the screen it was launched in, but in 1600x1200. Annoying bar when launched in 1920x1080 monitor.
Starcraft II: Only launches in my 1920x1080 monitor, even if I launch in my 1600x1200 monitor. But gaaah, it launches with 1600x1200 resolution, once again causing an annoying bar on my 1920x1080 monitor.

This is ridiculously frustrating :(

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-01-09
Turn off xinerama.

Full screen video players would try to preserve aspect ratio..

So 16:9 HD on a 1600x1200 monitor is letterboxed  (& scaled down).

There are settings in the GPU config for scaling settings.
There are settings in your player for fixed aspect/ 1/2 & full zoom etc.
(There are in MythTV)

---

### Post by sgtbirdman2000 on 2011-01-10
When I choose Xinerama off with separate X screens, I can't seem to login properly. I restart the X server, but then upon login, windows saying "Starting File Manager" pop up, and they endlessly keep appearing. Full screen works when I try a YouTube video though, so I assume I'm heading in the right direction ;-) 

I've since switched back to TwinView, and I guess I'll just have to live with dual monitors never quite like they were in Windows. 

Thanks everyone for all the help!

---

