---
title: "h.264 Playback Problems"
date: 2009-12-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by beav_35 on 2009-12-06
Hi, I am trying to get Ubuntu with mythtv setup on my HTPC.  I have a core 2 duo 3.0Ghz and a nvidia 8500 GT.  It is connected to my tv through DVI.  I have the newest video drivers from the nvidia site.  

When I try to playback h.264 recordings from my Hauppauge HD PVR the video is jumpy when the camera is panning.  The playback quality isnt great either.  Its really noticable on cartoons (see attached screenshot) but other shows look ok.  I have tried playing back through vlc and mythtv with the same results.  On Windows the same videos are not jumpy and the picture quality is a bit better. 

My resolution is 720p but my tv likes 1080i so the video has to be upscaled.  I have tried setting my resolution to 1080i but this didnt help.

Does anyone know what would cause this or have any ideas to fix it?

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2009-12-06
Looks like you need to add a deinterlacing filter?

Don't use mythtv , but there must be a setting somewhere!

Try in VLC, run the video, then go to Video > Deinterlace > Blend and see if that fixes it

---

### Post by beav_35 on 2009-12-06
Thanks for the reply but I tried all the deinterlace settings in vlc and it still looks the same.

---

### Post by beav_35 on 2009-12-07
Bump

I would really appreciate any help!!

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2009-12-08
Does playback stutter or do you just get "jaggies" / venetian blind effect with fast motion / panning, or do you get video tearing with fast motion. From your image post it does look like interlacing?

---

### Post by beav_35 on 2009-12-08
Turning off compiz fixed my stuttering problem, but I still have the "jaggies".  Its probably the source that is causing the problem but I would like to be able to enable a deinterlacing filter to smooth it out a bit.  When ever I change the setting in VLC it doesn't have any affect and just resets to none when I restart the application.  

Thanks
beav_35

---

### Post by onemanclapping on 2009-12-08
if you have a nvidia card, join the club... the new ubuntu has loads of problems whith playing videos :s

see my problem: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309077](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309077)

---

### Post by beav_35 on 2009-12-09
> **onemanclapping said:**
> if you have a nvidia card, join the club... the new ubuntu has loads of problems whith playing videos :s

see my problem: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309077](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309077)

Ok, thanks for the link.

---

