---
title: "10.04 radeonhd vs. radeon for ATI X1300?"
date: 2010-06-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-06-09
Is there any advantage using radeonhd vs. default radeon for ATI X1300 in 64-bit 10.04 (for desktop or Mobility on laptop) in speed or features?

Default radeon works reasonably well and automatically, as long as I disable kernel mode setting (kms) with **nomodeset** or **radeon.modeset=0**.  KMS was sluggish and broke suspend/hibernate on the desktop, or resulted in frequent scrambled graphic hang during boot on the laptop.  With nomodeset, radeon automatically recognizes the default 1080p resolution of HDTV on desktop (DVI to HDMI) and suspend/hibernate works.  On the laptop disabling kms has worked fine booting from USB (WD Passport).

Installing radeonhd using Synaptic initially did nothing (X still used radeon).  After stopping gdm and doing **sudo Xorg -configure** to generate xorg.conf and putting that in place, it used radeonhd.  However, that apparently could not interpret the EDID of the digitally connected display, and just threw out the standard VGA like generic modes (the highest being 1360x768).  So I would have to add modelines to get wanted resolutions.  And for some reason, radeonhd limited itself to half of the card's 512 MB RAM.

With radeonhd, glxinfo threw an error that something was not right with IRQ and suggested setting **vblank_mode**, which would require installing **driconf** and playing around with settings to see what worked.  glxgears threw a similar error before locking up the system entirely (had to hard shutdown with power button).

So I moved the xorg.conf to revert to radeon, until I figure out if there is any advantage to trying to make radeonhd workable.  What does radeonhd do that radeon doesn't?

Just for some comparisons, Extreme Tux Racer and Supertuxkart work fine with default radeon (without kms), but for Alien Arena instead of frames per second, it is more like seconds per frame.  The PC is early Athlon64 3200+ (2 GHz, 1024K cache) from 2004 (missing lahf_lm cpu instruction).  I have not tried radeonhd on the Dell 6400 laptop yet (Intel dual core 1.66 GHz I think).

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-06-10
radeonhd is pretty much dead. The remaining devs still employed with SUSE now work on other projects. Even SUSE (which funded development) is now using radeon as the default driver in the latest OpenSUSE: [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=ODIwOQ](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=ODIwOQ)

---

