---
title: ".wav files have crackling noise/sound/distortion"
date: 2008-07-16
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Duranxl on 2008-07-16
Hi all.

All my .wav files in ubuntu have this crackling distortion in the background.
When i convert the .wav file to mp3 using lame, the distortion disappears completely and all is fine.
Why is this? is the bitrate too high?

What can i do?

thanks!

---

### Post by Duranxl on 2008-07-17
bump

---

### Post by Duranxl on 2008-07-17
:(hlep

---

### Post by Duranxl on 2008-07-22
please this is driving me nuts!!:( I have so many .wav files i can't convert them all (and dont want to!)

---

### Post by Duranxl on 2008-07-24
Last bump..i guess..?

---

### Post by Vivaldi Gloria on 2008-08-01
> **Duranxl said:**
> Why is this? 

Sorry. Don't know.

> **Duranxl said:**
> What can i do? 

Try converting them to flac. Flac is losless (mp3 is lossy) and it's well supported.

---

### Post by bobpaul on 2008-12-18
I'm having the same problem. It also affects some video files that use wav encoding, including streaming media showing in firefox with the totem gstreamer plugin.

My phone company e-mails me my voice mail messages in wav format, so this is really irritating, though manageable if I convert them. For streaming media, this is just unacceptable. :(

---

### Post by bobpaul on 2008-12-18
FIXED!

I had previously followed [these instructions here](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578). It seems intrepid didn't like the configuration I had. I followed his instructions to revert the changes, but also had to remove a ~/.pulse folder that I had configurations in. In full, this is what I did:

```
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get remove --purge nspluginwrapper libflashsupport swh-plugins libasound2-dev
$ sudo dpkg -P --force-depends pulseaudio
  see notes about next command
$ sudo apt-get install pulseaudio libasound2 libasound2-plugins ubuntu-desktop flashplugin-nonfree --reinstall
$ sudo rm /etc/asound.conf
$ rm ~/.pulse -rf
```

NOTE: The line "sudo apt-get install pulseaudio..." had a couple of caveats. First, is that it might not do what you want if you don't first clear out any lines referencing "http://ppa.launchpad.net/psyke83/ubuntu" from your apt/sources.list file. Second is that on my machine it first told me pulseaudio could not be installed and therefore ubuntu-desktop would be removed. I had to do an additional "sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop" to fix the situation. After a reboot, all was working well again.

---

