---
title: "Mesa's Not Going Away From fglrx"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ericf88 on 2008-04-28
It seems that every time I try to update my ATI Radeon 9800 Pro card on 8.04, using any of the installation methods, I cannot get fglrxinfo to mention ATI at all and it's all entirely Mesa. 

The first two inconsistencies I noticed was that [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide) wanted me to access the Restricted Driver Manager which I could not find. So I passed over this step to Method 1. Method 1 went without a hitch until the fglrxinfo command which obviously showed something didn't go right because every line was Mesa. I also made every attempt to remove Mesa by removing everything that mentions fglrx, making sure the Device Driver is fglrx, etc.

The second method on that page went well until

sudo sh ati-driver-installer-8-4-x86.x86_64.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/hardy

where it said I could not run it (yes I downloadeded it). I also could not collect packages "ia32-libs" and " libGL.so.1" before proceeding because I tried googling and searching the ubuntu forums for these but no luck. What's also worth noting is that Hardware Drivers makes no mention of ATI and it's really weird because it did prior to me trying out the plethora of driver install methods for various Ubuntus.

I also tried using Envy but that did not solve the Mesa issue and because of that, I've still yet to get direct rendering on my computer which is my primary goal. That, and I'd like to get WoW running with my ATI card by resolving the rendering issue and the resolution issue I get from switching windows.

Here's my Xorg.conf for additional info:


> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "GLcore"
	Load  "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc104"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection





---

