---
title: ".Avi broken"
date: 2009-12-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-06
Totem and VLC won't play .avi files sound works but video doesn't can't find answer anywhere.

---

### Post by balaknair on 2009-12-06
Did you by any chance install Openshot Video Editor(by adding its PPA repository)? That's what caused the same issue on my system. The Openshot repository uses its own version of video codecs for avi that overwrites those for VLC and Totem and breaks those apps. To fix the issue all I did was uninstall Openshot and remove the PPA from the Sofware sources, and run an update.

Apparently if you install Openshot by downloading the .deb file from the Openshot website, it doesn't cause this problem.

If you haven't installed Openshot, the problem is likely to be messed up codecs. Try using the codecs from Medibuntu.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu)

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-12-07
Hi DJ,

> **DJ . said:**
> Totem and VLC won't play .avi files sound works but video doesn't can't find answer anywhere.

One thing well worth testing is to try you videos with another video out device. In vlc this can be seen:

Tools --> Preferences --> Video --> Output

All the best,

Andrew

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-07
> **balaknair said:**
> Did you by any chance install Openshot Video Editor(by adding its PPA repository)? That's what caused the same issue on my system. The Openshot repository uses its own version of video codecs for avi that overwrites those for VLC and Totem and breaks those apps. To fix the issue all I did was uninstall Openshot and remove the PPA from the Sofware sources, and run an update.

Apparently if you install Openshot by downloading the .deb file from the Openshot website, it doesn't cause this problem.

If you haven't installed Openshot, the problem is likely to be messed up codecs. Try using the codecs from Medibuntu.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu)

I didn't install that software. I will try Medibuntu and see what happens thanks.

> **andrew.46 said:**
> Hi DJ,



One thing well worth testing is to try you videos with another video out device. In vlc this can be seen:

Tools --> Preferences --> Video --> Output

All the best,

Andrew
I'll try that too thanks

Edit: I tried both ways and they didn't work

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-12-07
Is it just avi files and not mpg or other formats?

do you know what codec is used?
Does the video in the example folder play?

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-08
> **lavinog said:**
> Is it just avi files and not mpg or other formats?

do you know what codec is used?
Does the video in the example folder play?

im pretty sure anything with video doesn't work.

no.

i don't have an example folder.

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-12-08
What is the output of ```
ffmpeg -i video.avi
``` where video.avi is a file that won't work. It will error stating that an output is needed but the info is captured anyway

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-08
> **SuperSonic4 said:**
> What is the output of ```
ffmpeg -i video.avi
``` where video.avi is a file that won't work. It will error stating that an output is needed but the info is captured anyway

```
dj@ubuntu:~$ ffmpeg -i /home/dj/Pictures/BotanicGardens/MOV03327.MPG
The program 'ffmpeg' is currently not installed.  You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install ffmpeg
bash: ffmpeg: command not found
dj@ubuntu:~$ 

```

---

### Post by LuisGMarine on 2009-12-08
```
sudo apt-get install ffmpeg

```

Run that command, then try again!

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-08
> **LuisGMarine said:**
> ```
sudo apt-get install ffmpeg

```Run that command, then try again!
```
dj@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install ffmpeg
[sudo] password for dj: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  linux-headers-2.6.27-7 linux-headers-2.6.27-7-generic
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
The following extra packages will be installed:
  libavdevice52 libimlib2
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  ffmpeg libavdevice52 libimlib2
0 upgraded, 3 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 498kB of archives.
After this operation, 1679kB of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? y
Get:1 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com intrepid-updates/main libavdevice52 3:0.svn20080206-12ubuntu3.1 [62.6kB]
Get:2 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com intrepid-updates/main libimlib2 1.4.0-1.1ubuntu1.1 [196kB]
Get:3 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com intrepid-updates/main ffmpeg 3:0.svn20080206-12ubuntu3.1 [239kB]
Fetched 498kB in 1s (456kB/s)
Selecting previously deselected package libavdevice52.
(Reading database ... 155337 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking libavdevice52 (from .../libavdevice52_3%3a0.svn20080206-12ubuntu3.1_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package libimlib2.
Unpacking libimlib2 (from .../libimlib2_1.4.0-1.1ubuntu1.1_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package ffmpeg.
Unpacking ffmpeg (from .../ffmpeg_3%3a0.svn20080206-12ubuntu3.1_i386.deb) ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Setting up libavdevice52 (3:0.svn20080206-12ubuntu3.1) ...

Setting up libimlib2 (1.4.0-1.1ubuntu1.1) ...

Setting up ffmpeg (3:0.svn20080206-12ubuntu3.1) ...
Processing triggers for libc6 ...
ldconfig deferred processing now taking place
dj@ubuntu:~$ ffmpeg -i /home/dj/Pictures/BotanicGardens/MOV03327.MPG
FFmpeg version r11872+debian_3:0.svn20080206-12ubuntu3.1, Copyright (c) 2000-2008 Fabrice Bellard, et al.
  configuration: --enable-gpl --enable-pp --enable-swscaler --enable-x11grab --prefix=/usr --enable-libgsm --enable-libtheora --enable-libvorbis --enable-pthreads --disable-strip --enable-libfaad --enable-libfaadbin --enable-liba52 --enable-liba52bin --enable-libdc1394 --disable-armv5te --disable-armv6 --disable-altivec --disable-vis --enable-shared --disable-static
  libavutil version: 49.6.0
  libavcodec version: 51.50.0
  libavformat version: 52.7.0
  libavdevice version: 52.0.0
  built on Mar 13 2009 17:48:10, gcc: 4.3.2
/home/dj/Pictures/BotanicGardens/MOV03327.MPG: no such file or directory
dj@ubuntu:~$ ffmpeg -i /home/dj/Pictures/BotanicGardens/MOV03327.MPG
FFmpeg version r11872+debian_3:0.svn20080206-12ubuntu3.1, Copyright (c) 2000-2008 Fabrice Bellard, et al.
  configuration: --enable-gpl --enable-pp --enable-swscaler --enable-x11grab --prefix=/usr --enable-libgsm --enable-libtheora --enable-libvorbis --enable-pthreads --disable-strip --enable-libfaad --enable-libfaadbin --enable-liba52 --enable-liba52bin --enable-libdc1394 --disable-armv5te --disable-armv6 --disable-altivec --disable-vis --enable-shared --disable-static
  libavutil version: 49.6.0
  libavcodec version: 51.50.0
  libavformat version: 52.7.0
  libavdevice version: 52.0.0
  built on Mar 13 2009 17:48:10, gcc: 4.3.2
Input #0, mpeg, from '/home/dj/Pictures/BotanicGardens/MOV03327.MPG':
  Duration: 00:00:52.8, start: 0.110000, bitrate: 2915 kb/s
    Stream #0.0[0x1c0]: Audio: mp2, 32000 Hz, mono, 64 kb/s
    Stream #0.1[0x1e0]: Video: mpeg1video, yuv420p, 640x480 [PAR 1:1 DAR 4:3], 104857 kb/s, 25.00 tb(r)
Must supply at least one output file
dj@ubuntu:~$ 

```

---

### Post by LuisGMarine on 2009-12-08
If you go to **Applications > Ubuntu Software Manager** and in the search box type in 'GStreamer ffmpeg' (without quotes), does the one package listed there say it's installed?  If so, remove it and re-install it.  If it's not installed, install that package and try to play the video again with VLC.  

I have a gut feeling the right codecs just aren't installed.  Trying to compare what you have on your system as to what I have on mine.  

[IMG]http://i244.photobucket.com/albums/gg6/luisgmarine/Screenshot-UbuntuSoftwareCenter.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by volamoot on 2009-12-08
I Recently had the same Problem.
After about four and half days:-x of working on this problem is gave up and uninstalled the Gstreamer Codecs, and installed the "Ubuntu Restricted Codecs". So Far I don't have a problem loading .avi, or in fact any type of video or audio format.

(Note:You Don't Have to uninstall the gstreamer codecs, as this will automatically take the main codec status once installed)

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-10
> **LuisGMarine said:**
> If you go to **Applications > Ubuntu Software Manager** and in the search box type in 'GStreamer ffmpeg' (without quotes), does the one package listed there say it's installed?  If so, remove it and re-install it.  If it's not installed, install that package and try to play the video again with VLC.  

I have a gut feeling the right codecs just aren't installed.  Trying to compare what you have on your system as to what I have on mine.  


didn't help

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-11
there's got to be someone who knows how to fix this.

---

### Post by Bo Rosén on 2009-12-12
I had a similar problem. While I'm not sure, I think I had a conflict with ffmpeg and xine-ffmpeg both being installed.

So I uninstalled ffmpeg and ran sudo apt-get autoremove (which I think removed dvdrip and dependencies).
Then I rebooted (just because) and installed ffmpeg again and now it works fine in totem and vlc. Neither played the file earlier.

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-12
OK i'll try that
edit:didn't work

---

### Post by Bo Rosén on 2009-12-12
If I had the same problem and after trying various tips and suggestions without effect, I'd probably uninstall everything I could find related to video playback and editing, including dependencies. Reboot and reinstall what you need.

Only do that if you know what you are doing and/or are completely fed up ;)
Someone brainier than I might have less radical suggestions.

---

### Post by kortak on 2009-12-12
I had the same issue and solve it only for VLC by setting the video output option in tools to "X11 video ouput".  My problem was related to X11 and bad allocation memory.  Nevertheless, the problem persist with the other players and I don't know how to fix it in a general way.

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-13
> **kortak said:**
> I had the same issue and solve it only for VLC by setting the video output option in tools to "X11 video ouput".  My problem was related to X11 and bad allocation memory.  Nevertheless, the problem persist with the other players and I don't know how to fix it in a general way.
tried it. Didn't work.
> **Bo Rosén said:**
> If I had the same problem and after trying various tips and suggestions without effect, I'd probably uninstall everything I could find related to video playback and editing, including dependencies. Reboot and reinstall what you need.

Only do that if you know what you are doing and/or are completely fed up ;)
Someone brainier than I might have less radical suggestions.
I'd rather not because I'm just begining with Ubuntu and I don't want to mess with stuff like that. I'll save that for last if I really need it.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-12-14
you should have an example ogv file (part of the default install) do a search for *.ogv

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-14
> **lavinog said:**
> you should have an example ogv file (part of the default install) do a search for *.ogv
that wont play either.
[IMG]http://img96.imageshack.us/img96/4743/screenshotgh.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-12-14
So what happens when you try and play it?
What happens if you try playing it from the command line?
Try mplayer from the command line.

What video card do you have?

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-15
> **lavinog said:**
> So what happens when you try and play it?
What happens if you try playing it from the command line?
Try mplayer from the command line.

What video card do you have?
Nothing happens. It knows the length of the video but nothing shows up.

Video card:01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-12-16
what does mplayer output to the command line?

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-16
> **lavinog said:**
> what does mplayer output to the command line?
whats that? im still not very into ubuntu i just switched from winxp

---

### Post by Bo Rosén on 2009-12-17
Go to Applications --> Accessories --> Terminal
I forget where the Examples folder is located, but try this. 
Type the following in the terminal:

mplayer /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv
Copy the text that should turn up in the terminal, and post it here.

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-18
> **Bo Rosén said:**
> Go to Applications --> Accessories --> Terminal
I forget where the Examples folder is located, but try this. 
Type the following in the terminal:

mplayer /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv
Copy the text that should turn up in the terminal, and post it here.

dj@ubuntu:~$ mplayer /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv
The program 'mplayer' can be found in the following packages:
 * mplayer-nogui
 * mplayer
Try: sudo apt-get install <selected package>
bash: mplayer: command not found
dj@ubuntu:~$ mplayer /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogvmplayer /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv

---

### Post by chaanakya_chiraag on 2009-12-18
Run ```
sudo aptitude install mplayer
``` and try Bo Rosen's suggestion again.
- Chiraag

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-19
dj@ubuntu:~$ sudo aptitude install mplayer
[sudo] password for dj: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Initializing package states... Done
Writing extended state information... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  libamrnb3{a} libamrwb3{a} libggi-target-x{a} libggi2{a} libgii1{a} 
  libgii1-target-x{a} libglide2{a} liblzo2-2{a} libsvga1{a} mplayer 
  mplayer-skins{a} 
0 packages upgraded, 11 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
Need to get 6419kB of archives. After unpacking 15.8MB will be used.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?] y
Writing extended state information... Done
Get:1 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid/universe libgii1 1:1.0.2-2 [291kB]
Get:2 [http://packages.medibuntu.org](http://packages.medibuntu.org) intrepid/non-free libamrnb3 7.0.0.2-0.0medibuntu1 [138kB]
Get:3 [http://packages.medibuntu.org](http://packages.medibuntu.org) intrepid/non-free libamrwb3 7.0.0.3-0.0medibuntu1 [115kB]
Get:4 [http://packages.medibuntu.org](http://packages.medibuntu.org) intrepid/non-free mplayer 2:1.0~rc2-0ubuntu17+medibuntu1 [4431kB]
Get:5 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid/universe libglide2 2002.04.10-16ubuntu2 [375kB]
Get:6 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid/universe libsvga1 1:1.4.3-27 [314kB]
Get:7 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid/universe libggi2 1:2.2.2-1ubuntu1 [370kB]
Get:8 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid/universe libgii1-target-x 1:1.0.2-2 [85.6kB]
Get:9 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid/universe libggi-target-x 1:2.2.2-1ubuntu1 [164kB]
Get:10 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid/main liblzo2-2 2.03-1 [64.5kB]
Get:11 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com) intrepid/multiverse mplayer-skins 2-7 [70.3kB]
Fetched 6419kB in 6s (1038kB/s)                                                 
Preconfiguring packages ...
Selecting previously deselected package libgii1.
(Reading database ... 146135 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking libgii1 (from .../libgii1_1%3a1.0.2-2_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package libglide2.
Unpacking libglide2 (from .../libglide2_2002.04.10-16ubuntu2_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package libsvga1.
Unpacking libsvga1 (from .../libsvga1_1%3a1.4.3-27_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package libggi2.
Unpacking libggi2 (from .../libggi2_1%3a2.2.2-1ubuntu1_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package libgii1-target-x.
Unpacking libgii1-target-x (from .../libgii1-target-x_1%3a1.0.2-2_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package libggi-target-x.
Unpacking libggi-target-x (from .../libggi-target-x_1%3a2.2.2-1ubuntu1_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package liblzo2-2.
Unpacking liblzo2-2 (from .../liblzo2-2_2.03-1_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package mplayer-skins.
Unpacking mplayer-skins (from .../mplayer-skins_2-7_all.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package libamrnb3.
Unpacking libamrnb3 (from .../libamrnb3_7.0.0.2-0.0medibuntu1_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package libamrwb3.
Unpacking libamrwb3 (from .../libamrwb3_7.0.0.3-0.0medibuntu1_i386.deb) ...
Selecting previously deselected package mplayer.
Unpacking mplayer (from .../mplayer_2%3a1.0~rc2-0ubuntu17+medibuntu1_i386.deb) ...
Processing triggers for man-db ...
Setting up libgii1 (1:1.0.2-2) ...

Setting up libglide2 (2002.04.10-16ubuntu2) ...

Setting up libsvga1 (1:1.4.3-27) ...

Setting up libggi2 (1:2.2.2-1ubuntu1) ...

Setting up libgii1-target-x (1:1.0.2-2) ...
Setting up libggi-target-x (1:2.2.2-1ubuntu1) ...
Setting up liblzo2-2 (2.03-1) ...

Setting up mplayer-skins (2-7) ...
Setting up libamrnb3 (7.0.0.2-0.0medibuntu1) ...

Setting up libamrwb3 (7.0.0.3-0.0medibuntu1) ...

Setting up mplayer (2:1.0~rc2-0ubuntu17+medibuntu1) ...

Processing triggers for libc6 ...
ldconfig deferred processing now taking place
Reading package lists... Done             
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Reading extended state information      
Initializing package states... Done
Writing extended state information... Done

dj@ubuntu:~$ mplayer /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv
MPlayer 1.0rc2-4.3.2 (C) 2000-2007 MPlayer Team
CPU: AMD Turion(tm) 64 Mobile Technology ML-34 (Family: 15, Model: 36, Stepping: 2)
CPUflags:  MMX: 1 MMX2: 1 3DNow: 1 3DNow2: 1 SSE: 1 SSE2: 1
Compiled with runtime CPU detection.
Creating config file: /home/dj/.mplayer/config
mplayer: could not connect to socket
mplayer: No such file or directory
Failed to open LIRC support. You will not be able to use your remote control.

Playing /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv.
File not found: '/usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv'
Failed to open /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv.


Exiting... (End of file)
dj@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-12-19
> **DJ . said:**
> whats that? im still not very into ubuntu i just switched from winxp

You just switched to ubuntu, but you are using intrepid?...why did you not install jaunty or karmic?

> 
```
File not found: '/usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv'
```

this just means that you do not have that file...It might be that intrepid doesn't come with it.

try 
```

find -iname '*.ogv'

```
see if it gives you anything, if so try:
```

mplayer $(find -iname '*.ogv')

```

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-19
> **lavinog said:**
> You just switched to ubuntu, but you are using intrepid?...why did you not install jaunty or karmic?


this just means that you do not have that file...It might be that intrepid doesn't come with it.

try 
```

find -iname '*.ogv'

```see if it gives you anything, if so try:
```

mplayer $(find -iname '*.ogv')

```


dj@ubuntu:~$ find -iname '*.ogv'
dj@ubuntu:~$ mplayer $(find -iname '*.ogv')
MPlayer 1.0rc2-4.3.2 (C) 2000-2007 MPlayer Team
CPU: AMD Turion(tm) 64 Mobile Technology ML-34 (Family: 15, Model: 36, Stepping: 2)
CPUflags:  MMX: 1 MMX2: 1 3DNow: 1 3DNow2: 1 SSE: 1 SSE2: 1
Compiled with runtime CPU detection.
Usage:   mplayer [options] [url|path/]filename

Basic options: (complete list in the man page)
 -vo <drv>        select video output driver ('-vo help' for a list)
 -ao <drv>        select audio output driver ('-ao help' for a list)
 vcd://<trackno>  play (S)VCD (Super Video CD) track (raw device, no mount)
 dvd://<titleno>  play DVD title from device instead of plain file
 -alang/-slang    select DVD audio/subtitle language (by 2-char country code)
 -ss <position>   seek to given (seconds or hh:mm:ss) position
 -nosound         do not play sound
 -fs              fullscreen playback (or -vm, -zoom, details in the man page)
 -x <x> -y <y>    set display resolution (for use with -vm or -zoom)
 -sub <file>      specify subtitle file to use (also see -subfps, -subdelay)
 -playlist <file> specify playlist file
 -vid x -aid y    select video (x) and audio (y) stream to play
 -fps x -srate y  change video (x fps) and audio (y Hz) rate
 -pp <quality>    enable postprocessing filter (details in the man page)
 -framedrop       enable frame dropping (for slow machines)

Basic keys: (complete list in the man page, also check input.conf)
 <-  or  ->       seek backward/forward 10 seconds
 down or up       seek backward/forward  1 minute
 pgdown or pgup   seek backward/forward 10 minutes
 < or >           step backward/forward in playlist
 p or SPACE       pause movie (press any key to continue)
 q or ESC         stop playing and quit program
 + or -           adjust audio delay by +/- 0.1 second
 o                cycle OSD mode:  none / seekbar / seekbar + timer
 * or /           increase or decrease PCM volume
 x or z           adjust subtitle delay by +/- 0.1 second
 r or t           adjust subtitle position up/down, also see -vf expand

 * * * SEE THE MAN PAGE FOR DETAILS, FURTHER (ADVANCED) OPTIONS AND KEYS * * *

dj@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-12-19
That command is only looking in your home directory, where you don't have any .ogv files

While this (playing an ogv) may not resolve your issues playing .avi, it may show one thing for sure - can you play back any video at all. 

Use this if you wish to try the .ogv example
```
mplayer -v /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/StopMotionUbuntu.ogv
```

If it says 'no xv support' then try 
```
mplayer -v -vo x11 /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/StopMotionUbuntu.ogv
```
or
```
mplayer -v -vo gl /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/StopMotionUbuntu.ogv

```
or
```
mplayer -v -vo gl2 /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/StopMotionUbuntu.ogv
```

Edit: may be more useful to try various -vo with your avi or mpeg file ( -vo x11, -vo gl, -vo gl2

---

### Post by qyot27 on 2009-12-19
First, why are you calling it an .AVI file?  It isn't.  Straight from the output you posted:
> dj@ubuntu:~$ ffmpeg -i /home/dj/Pictures/BotanicGardens/MOV03327.**MPG**
  built on Mar 13 2009 17:48:10, gcc: 4.3.2
Input #0, **mpeg**, from '/home/dj/Pictures/BotanicGardens/MOV03327.MPG':
    Stream #0.0[0x1c0]: Audio: **mp2**, 32000 Hz, mono, 64 kb/s
    Stream #0.1[0x1e0]: Video: **mpeg1video**, yuv420p, 640x480 [PAR 1:1 DAR 4:3], 104857 kb/s, 25.00 tb(r)
It's an MPEG-1 video file with MP2 audio.  Standard .mpg file, and it should play by default with any libavcodec installation (gstreamer, VLC, mplayer, or whatever), **unless MPEG-1 as a whole is restricted just like MP3 is (considering that MP3 is a part of MPEG-1)**.



Second, as was asked before, why are you using 8.10, and not 9.04 or 9.10?  Were these problems there on a totally clean, fresh install, or did you grab ***any*** sort of video playback stuff from the repositories before starting this thread?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-12-19
you probably need to address that this is your display adapter, possibly 9.04 or 9.10 offers better support, or maybe not.

I don't believe there are restricted drivers available any more, though I haven't paid any attention to ati use for quite some time. You may be better off searching how to get the most out of a 200m, and what settings are most appropriate.

> ATI Technologies Inc Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)


( actually happen to have one here, though the laptop is not in use, may try to find the power cord and load up a live cd or 2..

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-12-20
The 200M is better supported in 9.10 because ATI dropped support for it, but the open source drivers work great.

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-20
I don't want to upgrade because I've heard it has a lot of problems like loss of internet (took my 4 weeks to get my internet running up in the first place) [and It won't boot up]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1359984"), and I also heard that 9.10 was like Windows vista, released way to soon with a lot of bugs. And I have programs (like wine) that are set up for 8.10 only.
The .ovg file won't play, no error messages, just won't play. Like all other videos.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-12-20
what ogv file?  The messages you posted didn't show that you found any.
Please post the output of mplayer from the terminal instead of saying no error messages...we cannot help you if you don't let us know what it reports.

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-21
> **lavinog said:**
> what ogv file?  The messages you posted didn't show that you found any.
Please post the output of mplayer from the terminal instead of saying no error messages...we cannot help you if you don't let us know what it reports.
dj@ubuntu:~$ mplayer
MPlayer 1.0rc2-4.3.2 (C) 2000-2007 MPlayer Team
CPU: AMD Turion(tm) 64 Mobile Technology ML-34 (Family: 15, Model: 36, Stepping: 2)
CPUflags:  MMX: 1 MMX2: 1 3DNow: 1 3DNow2: 1 SSE: 1 SSE2: 1
Compiled with runtime CPU detection.
Usage:   mplayer [options] [url|path/]filename

Basic options: (complete list in the man page)
 -vo <drv>        select video output driver ('-vo help' for a list)
 -ao <drv>        select audio output driver ('-ao help' for a list)
 vcd://<trackno>  play (S)VCD (Super Video CD) track (raw device, no mount)
 dvd://<titleno>  play DVD title from device instead of plain file
 -alang/-slang    select DVD audio/subtitle language (by 2-char country code)
 -ss <position>   seek to given (seconds or hh:mm:ss) position
 -nosound         do not play sound
 -fs              fullscreen playback (or -vm, -zoom, details in the man page)
 -x <x> -y <y>    set display resolution (for use with -vm or -zoom)
 -sub <file>      specify subtitle file to use (also see -subfps, -subdelay)
 -playlist <file> specify playlist file
 -vid x -aid y    select video (x) and audio (y) stream to play
 -fps x -srate y  change video (x fps) and audio (y Hz) rate
 -pp <quality>    enable postprocessing filter (details in the man page)
 -framedrop       enable frame dropping (for slow machines)

Basic keys: (complete list in the man page, also check input.conf)
 <-  or  ->       seek backward/forward 10 seconds
 down or up       seek backward/forward  1 minute
 pgdown or pgup   seek backward/forward 10 minutes
 < or >           step backward/forward in playlist
 p or SPACE       pause movie (press any key to continue)
 q or ESC         stop playing and quit program
 + or -           adjust audio delay by +/- 0.1 second
 o                cycle OSD mode:  none / seekbar / seekbar + timer
 * or /           increase or decrease PCM volume
 x or z           adjust subtitle delay by +/- 0.1 second
 r or t           adjust subtitle position up/down, also see -vf expand

 * * * SEE THE MAN PAGE FOR DETAILS, FURTHER (ADVANCED) OPTIONS AND KEYS * * *

dj@ubuntu:~$

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-12-21
I think what these fellows had in mind was to show the output of mplayer trying to play the included .ogv example.
Just mplayer from the terminal is worthless.

As an example - this is on Intrepid, with an ati 200m, playing the example file - which it does fine. (using the first com. I previously posted (without the -v (verbose) to limit the output, I'd use the -v in your case 
Do the same and compare
> doug@ubuntu:~$ mplayer  /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/StopMotionUbuntu.ogv 
MPlayer 1.0rc2-4.3.2 (C) 2000-2007 MPlayer Team
CPU: Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 CPU 2.00GHz (Family: 15, Model: 2, Stepping: 4)
CPUflags:  MMX: 1 MMX2: 1 3DNow: 0 3DNow2: 0 SSE: 1 SSE2: 1
Compiled with runtime CPU detection.
mplayer: could not connect to socket
mplayer: No such file or directory
Failed to open LIRC support. You will not be able to use your remote control.

Playing /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/StopMotionUbuntu.ogv.
[Ogg] stream 0: video (Theora v3.2.1), -vid 0
Ogg file format detected.
VIDEO:  [theo]  320x240  24bpp  5.300 fps    0.0 kbps ( 0.0 kbyte/s)
xscreensaver_disable: Could not find XScreenSaver window.
GNOME screensaver disabled
==========================================================================
Opening video decoder: [ffmpeg] FFmpeg's libavcodec codec family
[theora @ 0x896a290]Missing extradata!
Could not open codec.
VDecoder init failed :(
Opening video decoder: [theora] Theora/VP3
VDec: vo config request - 320 x 240 (preferred colorspace: Planar YV12)
VDec: using Planar YV12 as output csp (no 0)
Movie-Aspect is undefined - no prescaling applied.
VO: [xv] 320x240 => 320x240 Planar YV12 
Selected video codec: [theora] vfm: theora (Theora (free, reworked VP3))
==========================================================================
Audio: no sound
Starting playback...
GNOME screensaver enabled 0.0% 0 0 


---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-21
Upgraded to 9.10. Didn't help at all.
Edit: I can't change my login screen now? 9.0 looks great visually but it seems that it took a lot of options away. But it still has a lot less crashes and my monitor problem is gone.
P.S.
```
dj@ubuntu:~$ mplayer /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/StopMotionUbuntu.ogv 
MPlayer SVN-r29237-4.4.1 (C) 2000-2009 MPlayer Team
mplayer: could not connect to socket
mplayer: No such file or directory
Failed to open LIRC support. You will not be able to use your remote control.

Playing /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/StopMotionUbuntu.ogv.
File not found: '/usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/StopMotionUbuntu.ogv'
Failed to open /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/StopMotionUbuntu.ogv.


Exiting... (End of file)
dj@ubuntu:~$
```

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-12-21
Different versions of ubuntu are going to have different example files.

try this:
```

mplayer /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/*.ogv

```

Hopefully there should be a file there.
```

dj@ubuntu:~#

```
why is there a # at the end of that line it should be a $?

---

### Post by carl99fan on 2009-12-22
Do me a favor. Please go to your package manager and type ffmpeg ... 
For some crazy reason this is not installed on my Karmic... Now I may have done something but I am getting this:
Depends: libavcodec52 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavdevice52 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavfilter0 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavformat52 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavutil50 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libpostproc51 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libswscale0 but it is not going to be installed

Why not? Is this for everyone? 
Karmic only? US Only?

---

### Post by carl99fan on 2009-12-22
> **carl99fan said:**
> Do me a favor. Please go to your package manager and type ffmpeg ... 
For some crazy reason this is not installed on my Karmic... Now I may have done something but I am getting this:
Depends: libavcodec52 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavdevice52 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavfilter0 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavformat52 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavutil50 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libpostproc51 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libswscale0 but it is not going to be installed

Why not? Is this for everyone? 
Karmic only? US Only?

I forgot to mention that I am having a similar problem.. I install Ubuntu all day every day my last 4 installs suddenly have all different problems playing all different formats. :(
Looked in the forums and landed here.

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-22
Still can't view videos.
> **carl99fan said:**
> Do me a favor. Please go to your package manager and type ffmpeg ... 
For some crazy reason this is not installed on my Karmic... Now I may have done something but I am getting this:
Depends: libavcodec52 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavdevice52 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavfilter0 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavformat52 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libavutil50 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libpostproc51 but it is not going to be installed
 Depends: libswscale0 but it is not going to be installed

Why not? Is this for everyone? 
Karmic only? US Only?
Install them separately. But libavutil50 won't come show up for me. Maybe that is my problem. Search them all up in package manager.

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-23
Help?

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-12-23
Do you know of a video file on your computer?
please play it using the command line and tell us what it says...if it says anything like video not found, you didn't do it right.

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-23
dj@ubuntu:~$ mplayer /home/dj/Videos/TheSantaClause.avi
MPlayer SVN-r29237-4.4.1 (C) 2000-2009 MPlayer Team
mplayer: could not connect to socket
mplayer: No such file or directory
Failed to open LIRC support. You will not be able to use your remote control.

Playing /home/dj/Videos/TheSantaClause.avi.
AVI file format detected.
[aviheader] Video stream found, -vid 0
[aviheader] Audio stream found, -aid 1
VIDEO:  [DX50]  720x480  24bpp  24.000 fps  875.6 kbps (106.9 kbyte/s)
open: No such file or directory
[MGA] Couldn't open: /dev/mga_vid
open: No such file or directory
[MGA] Couldn't open: /dev/mga_vid
[VO_TDFXFB] Can't open /dev/fb0: No such file or directory.
[VO_3DFX] Unable to open /dev/3dfx.
==========================================================================
Opening video decoder: [ffmpeg] FFmpeg's libavcodec codec family
Selected video codec: [ffodivx] vfm: ffmpeg (FFmpeg MPEG-4)
==========================================================================
==========================================================================
Opening audio decoder: [mp3lib] MPEG layer-2, layer-3
AUDIO: 44100 Hz, 2 ch, s16le, 128.0 kbit/9.07% (ratio: 16000->176400)
Selected audio codec: [mp3] afm: mp3lib (mp3lib MPEG layer-2, layer-3)
==========================================================================
[pulse] working around probably broken pause functionality,
        see [http://www.pulseaudio.org/ticket/440](http://www.pulseaudio.org/ticket/440)
AO: [pulse] 44100Hz 2ch s16le (2 bytes per sample)
Starting playback...
[mpeg4 @ 0x29b7ae0]Invalid and inefficient vfw-avi packed B frames detected
VDec: vo config request - 720 x 480 (preferred colorspace: Planar YV12)
VDec: using Planar YV12 as output csp (no 0)
Movie-Aspect is 1.50:1 - prescaling to correct movie aspect.
VO: [xv] 720x480 => 720x480 Planar YV12 
[mpeg4 @ 0x29b7ae0]frame skip 8t:  0.000   1/  1 ??% ??% ??,?% 0 0 
A:   7.0 V:   7.0 A-V:  0.000 ct: -0.000 170/170 20%  2%  1.8% 4 0 
Exiting... (Quit)
dj@ubuntu:~$





A new window pops up, plays sound only with a black screen.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-12-23
Your output is indicating an issue with the .avi itself. While that warnining usually doesn't prevent playback or playback with some frames skipped, it appears to not be playable atm.

First, if you wish to establish video playback is possible, now that you're on karmic this is the command for the example file

```
mplayer /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv
```
or even 
```
totem /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv
```

As far as your .avi
> mpeg4 @ 0x29b7ae0]Invalid and inefficient vfw-avi packed B frames detected

That may indicate a packed bitstream divx file (vfw = video for windows)

Possible solutions
install avidemux, open the .avi in it, if avidemux offers to 'unpack' let it, then save to a new filename.avi (should only take a few seconds or so to save
Install vlc and try your .avi in it

---

### Post by DJ . on 2009-12-24
> **mc4man said:**
> Your output is indicating an issue with the .avi itself. While that warnining usually doesn't prevent playback or playback with some frames skipped, it appears to not be playable atm.

First, if you wish to establish video playback is possible, now that you're on karmic this is the command for the example file

```
mplayer /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv
```or even 
```
totem /usr/share/example-content/Ubuntu_Free_Culture_Showcase/water-and-wind.ogv
```As far as your .avi

That may indicate a packed bitstream divx file (vfw = video for windows)

Possible solutions
install avidemux, open the .avi in it, if avidemux offers to 'unpack' let it, then save to a new filename.avi (should only take a few seconds or so to save
Install vlc and try your .avi in it
Thank You! I finally got it working after 5 weeks because of you. Thank you very much and it is working fine now. And Happy Holidays!

---

