---
title: "10.04: Sound issue (I think)"
date: 2014-06-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by darkbladepdx on 2014-06-11
Hey, folks, thanks in advance!

Yes, I know I'm running 10.04. 

Problem - Out of nowhere, my system's sound seems to have taken a powder. No mater what it is (playing a video, playing a music file, playing a ame with sound), the program hangs. If it's a video in VLC, I get the first frame and then <hang>. If it's rhythmbox, the title comes up, the progressbar initializes and <hang>. If it's a game, the window opens and <hang>.

I did the Sound troubleshooting protocol ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshootingGuide](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshootingGuide)) and finally got to the "run the alsa-project.org utility" command -  this is the link

[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=d3bc9ea826095d2c89576f35c498221ae90d03bc](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=d3bc9ea826095d2c89576f35c498221ae90d03bc)

I looked it over, and it _seems_ OK.

Now, one other odd symptom - my system has suddenly *stopped* using swap. usually I have Firefox on for long periods, and restart it when the memory leaks begin to bog the system down, but suddenly (with no other use-changes (what pages I'm on, etc, etc)), swap use has gone to zero (literally), and stayed there for days. If there is nothing obvious in the sounds stuff, is it possible that there is something related to memory/swap/filesystem issues? If so, is there a troubleshooting protocol you might suggest (or better yet, if you see something obvious)? 

Many many thanks!

Nate Lee

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-06-12
1. I would strongly suggest that you ***test a supported version*** of the Ubuntu family (standard Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu or Lubuntu) depending on your hardware. ***Test it live without installing before deciding which one to install***. If you tell us about your computer hardware, it is easier to give good advice.

- brand name and model
- CPU
- RAM (size)
- graphics chip/card
- wifi chip/card

2. If you still want to continue with version 10.04, ***please return to an older kernel (and if possible to a complete backup)*** before the last few updates/upgrades. But remember that support (including security updates) ended more than a year ago for the program packages related to the desktop. Only the packages related to the server version of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS are still supported.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-06-12
It's an issue with the last kernel update: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...x/+bug/1327300](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...x/+bug/1327300)

Boot into previous kernel (2.6.32-60) until it's sorted.

---

### Post by darkbladepdx on 2014-06-12
Thank you kindly, Temujin! 

Since I may be on this h/w setup for some time, where should I monitor to see if/when it is safe to move up the kernel ladder? Will that link make the announcement?

Sudodus, I have been steadily looking at upgrading (since 10.10), however I have seen no UI choices in (newer) Ubuntu yet that work for me (Unity is too bloated (for my h/w) and horribly designed (a desktop is not a smartphone); L and X are too (and unnecessarily!) skimpy; If Ubuntu decides to support MATE (since G3 is a bit young in its architecture), I'd consider it). Discouragingly, it's beginning to look like I will have to move upstream to Debian.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-06-12
I think subscribing to the bug report is a good way to keep up to date concerning the bug and possible bug fixes. You might even engage in testing some kernel version before it will be officially released.

I think you will get a positive surprise if you test Xubuntu and Ubuntu Gnome 14.04 LTS

Debian is a good alternative if it can do all what you need :-)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-06-12
> Since I may be on this h/w setup for some time, where should I monitor to see if/when it is safe to move up the kernel ladder? Will that link make the announcement?

The bug that I linked to should be marked Fix **Released** when the -62 kernel that's currently in the proposed repo is available through normal update channels.

As for MATE, it definitely has its fans, and I see some interest in making a MATE flavor: [https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MartinWimpress/posts/4FYXQ8VjRVV](https://plus.google.com/u/0/+MartinWimpress/posts/4FYXQ8VjRVV)
I personally run Debian sid(uction) and installed MATE as an alternative to xfce. While I still use xfce, I think MATE would work just as well if I put effort into it and customized.

---

### Post by darkbladepdx on 2014-06-13
I've dealt with the X and L flavors of Ubuntu before. I'm not fond of a bare-bones UI. I don't need anything as gaudy as KDE, and G2 was just about right. I'm still looking, and meanwhile, absent this kernel issue, I have no problems with the 10.04 install yet. But I am doing the research, so that when I have the h/w in place, the switch can be made as seamlessly as possible.

Thanks again.

---

