---
title: "8.10 - nautilus - no video thumbnails"
date: 2009-04-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by fermulator on 2009-04-21
Here's a weird one that I can't quite figure out.

_The Problem:_
 * Missing ALL video thumbnails in nautilus.  This applies to avi, mpeg, mpg, wmv, etc.

It's not the thumbnailer itself, because if I browse to a directory with mixed content (video, pdf, txt, image, etc.), all thumbnails work except the video ones.

_Configuration Tidbits:_
 * Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex
 * We use VLC to play movies, and mplayer-mozilla for firefox plugin.  Totem is removed.
 * nautilus: edit --> preferences --> preview = "Other previewable files" is set to "Always" and "1GB"
 * gconf-editor: desktop --> gnome --> thumbnailers = all the "video@" entries here have command="*/usr/bin/gnome-video-thumbnailer -s %s %u %o*" and enabled=*true*.

Since we don't use totem, I figured maybe this was an issue that it was uninstalled, so I even tried re-installing it ... but still no workie.

Any idea what might be wrong?

---

### Post by jimbob on 2009-04-28
I am having the same problem but only with a couple of .wmv files that worked fine in Intrepid.

---

### Post by trazart on 2009-05-25
I also lost my video previews and also uninstalled totem :-k
so I have just reinstalled it with its plugins and the previews are back again :D

---

### Post by jimbob on 2009-05-25
I found that what fixed my problem was to delete totem-gstreamer (even though that is the one installed if you follow the comprehensive multi-media guide at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683)) and install totem-xine instead.

---

