---
title: "8400 GS, 8.04, Fails to Initialize GLX"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by nl2br on 2008-04-25
Hello Community, I'm an Ubuntu user since 5.10, and I ever solved my problems with Graphic Cards.

I have this box:

ASUS M2N-X Plus
AMD Athlon 4400+ X2
1x 1GB DDR 800
and.. my video card 8400 GS.

Well, i usually solve this kind of problems by myself, but today i have to ask you guys.

I've tried installing from a fresh install EnvyNG, both manually and automatically, individually the .run from the nvidia website (169.12 and the beta 173...) and i can't get GLX working.

Here's my EE in Xorg log file. *Yes, i have set up nvidia instead of vesa,nv*

```
(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)
```

I don't know if this is a bug or just something i missed up. This is not the first card i install, so thats the reason why i post my problems here.

Sorry if this post has already been posted, i searched google and I didn't find anything.

Thank You very much.

---

### Post by nl2br on 2008-04-26
Someone? I'm tired of trying :(

---

### Post by mtgarden on 2008-05-12
If you haven't solved it yet, here is what I am doing right now....

I installed CLI only.  Then added X, then added ubuntu desktop, then downloaded the nVidia driver in that order.  Then I booted and configured the system.  That seems to have fixed the driver issue.

Maybe deleting xorg.conf and starting with the nVidia driver will do the trick.

---

### Post by mtgarden on 2008-05-12
scratch that.  I rebooted....  My mistake.  Now I have nothing again.  Mind you it worked before....

---

### Post by mtgarden on 2008-05-12
send me an email at mtgarden gmail com .  I have a chat transcript that got me through it.

---

### Post by dweez on 2008-05-13
Please post the chat transcript here.  That way 1) it can be scrutinized by the knowledgeable folks here and 2) it can possibly help others.

---

