---
title: "10.04 Lucid Lynx NVIDIA driver installation problem"
date: 2010-06-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Regnarius on 2010-06-30
Hi,

I was using 9.10 Karmic till last week, then decided to upgrade to Lucid Lynx. Today when I finished the update, I found out that my compiz stopped working. Reading their forums, they recommended to reinstall my video card driver and proceeded to do so by updating to a more up-to-date version of it.

I'm using a GeForce 9400 card with driver version **NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-195.36.15-pkg2.run**
I'm trying to update to driver version **NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-256.35.run** but I get an error message on the middle of the installation stating that the default installation script failed to load and prompting to continue anyway. When I proceed (answer yes), I get another error, stating that the installer failed to load NVIDIA.ko; something kernel-related; and then the installation finishes.

The installation file printed the following log:

[http://pastebin.com/61YNsRph](http://pastebin.com/61YNsRph)

Any help on how to proceed with the driver update is deeply appreciated.
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Sairin_Lote on 2010-07-01
[check this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9313184&postcount=21)

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-07-01
When you build the nvidia driver module, it must match the correct version your installed Linux kernel as the previous poster mentioned.

So, try with a different kernel version and also make sure that the system is using the new kernel which you installed when you reboot the system.

Also, having several versions of different Linux kernel available to boot up is a good idea to prevent boot lockups.

---

