---
title: "10.10 Ati X1250 Games (2D+3D) flicker but run smoothly"
date: 2010-10-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Romans5.8 on 2010-10-29
[B][Reposted after a few days of no answer in another sub-category.  Gonna try it here]
[/B]             
                                                                Hey all!

After having a lot of issues with my card on Ubuntu 9.04, I sadly,  removed it an installed XP over it.  (XP is better than Vista at least,  which is what came with my Laptop, I'm still recovering from THAT  traumatic experience.)  I have an Acer Extensa 4420, which has a Radeon  Xpress 1250 Graphics Card.  I tried it again with Ubuntu 10.10 and am  very pleased, I run Compiz/Desktop Effects just fine, everything is  smooth and fast, and most applications run fine.

As of right now, there are two games which will not run properly.   Tibia, and Frets on Fire.  Both of these (Tibia is 2D Sprite based,  Frets on Fire appears to be 3D but might be some sort of isometric 2D  variant).  They work, but PARTS of the screen flicker.  In tibia, the  "game window" is fine, runs at a constant 30fps (not bad, it's a slow  card after all), but the chat window and inventory windows flicker at a  random rate, but usually once or twice per second.  On Frets on Fire,  it's the colored dots that scroll on the screen, and the stage lights  (though those might intentionally flicker, but they seem to follow the  pattern of the dots so I'm gonna go with the idea that it's a problem.)

I tried FGLRX for grins, Compiz/etc. still worked but then nothing that  used any type of hardware acceleration would even open, so I removed it.   Are there any other drivers for the X1250?  It's a legacy product,  unfortunately.  And as ATi is in this war with nVidia right now, with  their new 6xxx cards coming out, I don't see any support for my old (it  was old when the laptop was new) integrated GPU coming from them.

So, thoughts?  How can I make it work?  Not looking for major 3D gaming here, but I would like those to work!

-John  :popcorn:

---

### Post by Romans5.8 on 2010-10-30
Anyone?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-10-30
You're simply NOT going to be able to get the fglrx drivers to work with your card.  Sorry.

AMD dropped support for your card a long time ago and only the open-source drivers will work with it now.

---

### Post by Decatf on 2010-10-30
More up to date versions of the open drivers can be gotten from the xorg-edgers ppa ([https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)).

These are bleeding edge packages so beware (though many people seem to use it without much problem). You can easily downgrade using ppa-purge.

---

