---
title: "resolution problem"
date: 2009-01-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mimica on 2009-01-28
I just installed ubuntu 8.10 and I'm using the standard window handler for it. When I install the correct gpu drivers and restart it changes the resolution above what my screen can display. The only way I found that I cna access the window handler again is to use xfix but that replaces the new drivers with the old ones and I'm back at square one. Does anyone have any idea what I should do to fix this?


I tried adding a xrandr command to my ~/.xprofile and made it executable but that didn't seem to do anything. Don't know if it's because my monitor gets renamed after the driver change or if it's something else. I tried messing with the xorg.conf to make a monitor there with the same maximum resolution as the one I got but I don't know what half of the things I'm supposed to fill in are so that didn't work out too well.

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2009-01-28
NO options in System >> Preferences >> Screen Resolution either?

Used-to be that you could add screen size to the xorg.conf file, but I think it's changed in 8.10.

You could try adding > Virtual  horizontal verticalin your xorg.conf fig file in the Display section, just before EndSection.  (replace vertical and horizontal with the actual pixel size of your screen.  
Remember to backup the file before making changes though so you can revert.

This is how I use-to get the extended desk-top for dual screens.  each screen was 1024x768, so the added line would read> Virtual 2048 768.  But that was for dual display. for single it would have been > Virtual 1024 768.

Then that resolution size should be available in System>>Preferences>>Screen Resolution.

PS,  I can't recall for sure if Virtual was capitalized or not, -try it either way.

---

### Post by mimica on 2009-01-29
Thanks for the reply but that didn't seem to solve my problem.

I tried editing xorg.conf and editing my .xprofile to change resolution on startup but neither seem to help. I'm starting to think that the resolution isn't the problem even if my screen claims it is.

Have anyone else had problem with their monitor not displaying anything when installing ati drivers?

---

### Post by Arseny92 on 2009-01-29
I have a similar problem, the display displays 800*600 as the highest res possible. But it worked with even 2048*1536 as far as I remember. I can't reproduce steps what caused that.. One day I simply browsed the Internet via firefox, then shutted down the computer. At the next day when I turned it on, it started in the 800*600 res, and the System/Screen Resolution states 960*600 as the highest (but I use 4:3 monitor, so 800*600 is the selected...)... Can someone help please to restore the resolutions so I can use Ubuntu with a normal res?

Some tech info:
Videocard: SiS 661FX onboard on ASUS P4S800MX motherboard.
Distro: Intrepid Ibex , kernel 2.6.27-11

---

### Post by Gauntlet on 2009-01-31
> **mimica said:**
> Thanks for the reply but that didn't seem to solve my problem.

I tried editing xorg.conf and editing my .xprofile to change resolution on startup but neither seem to help. I'm starting to think that the resolution isn't the problem even if my screen claims it is.

Have anyone else had problem with their monitor not displaying anything when installing ati drivers?

I have the exactly the same problem. Except I can't even see the ubuntu desktop nor can I see it in recovery mode so I can't even edit anything. But I have an idea, it might be set higher than your monitors refresh rate. Just an idea.

---

### Post by mimica on 2009-01-31
> **Gauntlet said:**
> I have the exactly the same problem. Except I can't even see the ubuntu desktop nor can I see it in recovery mode so I can't even edit anything. But I have an idea, it might be set higher than your monitors refresh rate. Just an idea.

I used xorg.conf to strictly set the max resolution and refresh rate and I got the same problem so unless the window handler ignores that file when the ati drivers are installed then I don't think that's the problem. I can't see the ubuntu desktop either. I have to reboot in recovery mode and use xfix form the menu to reset the display drivers.


Here is my autogenerated xorg.conf before and after changing the driver if that would help anyone find the problem.

With standard drivers.
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

With ATI drivers installed.
```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"fglrx"
EndSection
```


I tried adding a modestring to the monitor section that have the max resolution and refresh rate of my monitor but it doesn't seem to help.


Edit:
Problem solved and I feel pretty dumb. I added the modeline in the monitor section before updating the drivers and since the xorg.conf was changed when doing that my changes were lost. For some reason My xrandr commands in .xprofile didn't work. Anyway if anyone else have this problem use the gtf command from the terminal to generate a modeline and put "modeline <the modeline you generated>" in the monitor section in your xorg.conf and it should work fine.

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-01-31
This was taken from this how to [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683")
this is an excellent guide by the way

SCREEN RESOLUTION

To enable the correct display resolution in Ubuntu, you have several options. First of all, there is the fairly useless tool in "System > Preferences", the soon-to-be-dead (unavailable for 8.10+) displayconfig-gtk tool, and finally, RandR - the newest method. There will be a graphical front-end (GUI) for RandR soon (keep an eye out for it in "System > Administration"), but for now you will need to use the command line. Let's say you wanted to change your resolution to 1280x800, you would need to execute the following command:

sudo xrandr -s 1280x800

If that fails, bring up a list of "supported" resolutions with this command:

sudo xrandr -q

Use the first command again and set the highest resolution that RandR claims is supported. Once that is set, try setting the resolution you know is correct, as it may now accept that resolution.

If you're still having issues, and you're not running an 8.10+ version of Ubuntu, press Alt+F2 and type "gksudo displayconfig-gtk" (without "gtk" in Kubuntu), type your password and execute, then select the resolution you want from the list. Some of you may have to select a different screen/monitor in the list before you can successfully change the resolution. Reboot or logout if necessary.

Go to Launchpad and report a bug if you've struggled to set your screen resolution, as it should be automatically detected.

hope this helps ..best to you..post back ..one other thing for whatever reason on initial setup by changing my mouse to a usb optical mouse some problems diappeared ???

---

### Post by Arseny92 on 2009-02-02
> **redroad55 said:**
> This was taken from this how to [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766683")
this is an excellent guide by the way

SCREEN RESOLUTION

To enable the correct display resolution in Ubuntu, you have several options. First of all, there is the fairly useless tool in "System > Preferences", the soon-to-be-dead (unavailable for 8.10+) displayconfig-gtk tool, and finally, RandR - the newest method. There will be a graphical front-end (GUI) for RandR soon (keep an eye out for it in "System > Administration"), but for now you will need to use the command line. Let's say you wanted to change your resolution to 1280x800, you would need to execute the following command:

sudo xrandr -s 1280x800

If that fails, bring up a list of "supported" resolutions with this command:

sudo xrandr -q

Use the first command again and set the highest resolution that RandR claims is supported. Once that is set, try setting the resolution you know is correct, as it may now accept that resolution.

If you're still having issues, and you're not running an 8.10+ version of Ubuntu, press Alt+F2 and type "gksudo displayconfig-gtk" (without "gtk" in Kubuntu), type your password and execute, then select the resolution you want from the list. Some of you may have to select a different screen/monitor in the list before you can successfully change the resolution. Reboot or logout if necessary.

Go to Launchpad and report a bug if you've struggled to set your screen resolution, as it should be automatically detected.

hope this helps ..best to you..post back ..one other thing for whatever reason on initial setup by changing my mouse to a usb optical mouse some problems diappeared ???
[redroad55]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=522037"), i tried this tutorial, but it's not working. Here is my output

```

mashikosun@mashikosun-pc:~$ sudo xrandr -q
[sudo] type password for mashikosun:  
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 800 x 600, maximum 960 x 600
default connected 800x600+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   960x600        60.0  
   960x540        60.0  
   800x600        60.0*    56.0  
   768x576        60.0  
   720x576        60.0  
   856x480        60.0  
   800x480        60.0  
   720x480        61.0  
   640x480        60.0  
   400x300        60.0  
   320x240        61.0  
mashikosun@mashikosun-pc:~$ xrandr -s 2048x1536
Size 2048x1536 not found in available modes
mashikosun@mashikosun-pc:~$ 

```
VRAM 32mb, onboard SiS661FX on ASUS P4S800MX systemboard

I sure it can display such big resolutions, because ubuntu is installed with 2048x1536 turned on by default.


/etc/X11/xorg.conf :
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-02
I have not forgotten you still reviewing results from your post..Best to you

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-02
what are your choices here
> gksu displayconfig-gtk 
Post back with results ..Best to you

---

### Post by Arseny92 on 2009-02-02
> **redroad55 said:**
> 
> gksu displayconfig-gtk
what are your choices here

Post back with results ..Best to you
Thank you for your help.

Executed gksu displayconfig-gtk in the teminal
It asked for a password, I confirmed it.
"Starting Administrative Applet" has appeared on the bottom (taskbar) and disappeared in about 2-3 seconds. The screen resolution dialog (or anything else) didn't started, though.
Tried with gksudo too, same problem.

running system->preferences->screen resolution gives dialog with screen resolutions. Options are the same as 'xrandr -q' above, refresh rate is 56 or 60 Hz

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-02
For now try this run> sudo xrandr -q
choose one of the resolutions that it gives by running> sudo xrandr -s  (with one of the suggested resolutions)
then go log out and back in go back to terminal and run again> sudo xrandr -s (with the resolution you want)
Post back with results .. Best to you

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-02
Hi how are doing ? Take a look here if you haven't already ..
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution")
Post back and let me know how you make out..Best to you

---

### Post by Arseny92 on 2009-02-03
tried this.. xrandr saying that there no such mode. when i try to create one it says no such output/displays commands listing.

is there any video drivers for ubuntu available for my sis 661fx on asus p4s800-mx?

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-04
Hey these 2 links are all I got for you tonight .. Hope this helps..Best to you.
[http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsisvga.shtml]("http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsisvga.shtml")
 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video#Sis]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video#Sis")

---

### Post by Arseny92 on 2009-02-05
> **redroad55 said:**
> Hey these 2 links are all I got for you tonight .. Hope this helps..Best to you.
[http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsisvga.shtml]("http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsisvga.shtml")
 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video#Sis]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video#Sis")
downloaded
> 
[X.org 7.1 (gcc 4.x)]("http://www.winischhofer.eu/cgi-bin/downloadpage.cgi?dllink=http://www.winischhofer.net/sis/sis_drv.o_xorg_7.1.0_gcc4_290906-1.tar.gz")

tried to compile sis_drv.so with gcc 4.3.2
output:
```

mashikosun@mashikosun-pc:~/Desktop/untitled folder$ gcc -dumpversion
4.3.2
mashikosun@mashikosun-pc:~/Desktop/untitled folder$ gcc -dumpmachine
i486-linux-gnu
mashikosun@mashikosun-pc:~/Desktop/untitled folder$ gcc sis_drv.so
/usr/lib/gcc/i486-linux-gnu/4.3.2/../../../../lib/crt1.o: In function `_start':
(.text+0x18): undefined reference to `main'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetOperatingState'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetEntityPrivate'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86FreeOffscreenLinear'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `CheckExtension'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86QueryLargestOffscreenLinear'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetVersion'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86IsOptionSet'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `LoaderRefSymLists'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86PrintDepthBpp'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `XAAHelpPatternROP'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `vbeFree'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86ShowUnusedOptions'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `Xrealloc'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DRICreatePCIBusID'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86ChangeGammaRamp'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miDCInitialize'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetPciConfigInfo'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `LookupWindow'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetDpi'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86UnblockSIGIO'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86HandleColormaps'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `serverClient'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `exaDriverFini'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86PurgeUnlockedOffscreenAreas'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmCtlInstHandler'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miRegionEqual'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `VBEGetVBEMode'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `pciReadLong'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `VBESaveRestore'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86LoaderReqSymLists'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `WriteEventsToClient'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetPrimInitDone'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `ErrorF'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmAgpFree'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DRIScreenInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `exaDriverAlloc'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86InitCursor'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `resVgaIoShared'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmAgpRelease'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetGamma'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86PruneDriverModes'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `Xalloc'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SlowBcopy'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetEntityInfo'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `LookupIDByType'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetPciInfoForEntity'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86ConfigPciEntity'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmFreeVersion'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86MatchDevice'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86IsEntityShared'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86MapDomainMemory'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miClearVisualTypes'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `ShadowFBInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86XVScreenInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86MatchPciInstances'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86DrvMsg'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `VBESetDisplayStart'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `noPanoramiXExtension'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86Screens'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miInitializeBackingStore'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `pciReadByte'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `UpdateCurrentTime'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetPointerScreenFuncs'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `monitorResolution'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `exaOffscreenAlloc'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86UnMapVidMem'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmAgpGetMode'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `currentTime'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86NameCmp'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86LoadSubModule'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmAgpBase'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `WriteToClient'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86ValidateModes'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetEntityInstanceForScreen'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `FakeClientID'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetOptValBool'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `exaDriverInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DGAReInitModes'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetDepthBpp'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86ReturnOptValBool'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miSetVisualTypes'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miSetPixmapDepths'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DRICreateInfoRec'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `exaGetVersion'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86DisableRandR'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86TokenToString'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetOptValInteger'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86CollectOptions'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86FreeInt10'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmAgpEnable'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miRegionCopy'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86ProcessOptions'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `LoadSubModule'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `VBEGetModeInfo'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `XAACreateInfoRec'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `FreeResource'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DRIUnlock'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86DestroyCursorInfoRec'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86IsPrimaryPci'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmAddMap'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `XNFcalloc'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86MapPciMem'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miEmptyData'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetBlackWhitePixels'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86PrintChipsets'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `resVgaShared'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86MapVidMem'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miPointerAbsoluteCursor'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86DPMSInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miGetDefaultVisualMask'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `Xcalloc'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86VDrvMsgVerb'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `pciReadWord'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DRILock'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmAgpUnbind'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `Xfree'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `exaGetPixmapPitch'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetGammaRampSize'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetEntitySharable'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetCrtcForModes'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `exaGetPixmapOffset'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86RegisterResources'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `ConfiguredMonitor'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `EXA_MAKE_VERSION'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DRIGetSAREAPrivate'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `CreateNewResourceType'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `XAAInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86AllocateEntityPrivateIndex'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86InitInt10'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetPciVideoInfo'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86DeleteMode'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `VBEExtendedInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `GlxSetVisualConfigs'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86XVRegisterOffscreenImages'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `VBESetVBEMode'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86DrvMsgVerb'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86CreateCursorInfoRec'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `serverGeneration'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86LoaderCheckSymbol'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `pciWriteByte'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `fbPictureInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmAgpAlloc'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetVisualName'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86InterpretEDID'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetSilkenMouse'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DRIQueryVersion'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86AllocateOffscreenLinear'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `pciWriteLong'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86ReadDomainMemory'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `exaOffscreenFree'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `VBEFreeModeInfo'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miCreateDefColormap'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmAgpAcquire'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetBppFromDepth'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `fbScreenInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetDevFromEntity'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetWeight'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86IsPrimInitDone'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xorgGetVersion'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `WalkTree'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `sin'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmAgpBind'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetBackingStore'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmGetVersion'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `XAADestroyInfoRec'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `pow'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86ResizeOffscreenLinear'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86PrintModes'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DRIDestroyInfoRec'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DRICloseScreen'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `VBESetGetLogicalScanlineLength'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `AddExtension'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `AddResource'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86InterceptSigIll'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86SetDefaultVisual'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `VBEFreeVBEInfo'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86ReadPciBIOS'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `VBEGetVBEInfo'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `cos'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmCtlUninstHandler'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `EventSwapVector'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86XVFillKeyHelper'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86StringToToken'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmGetInterruptFromBusID'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `resVgaMemShared'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86PrintEDID'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86BlockSIGIO'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `vbeDoEDID'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86GetOptValString'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DGAInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `screenInfo'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86InitFBManager'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `MakeAtom'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86IsUnblank'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `DRIFinishScreenInit'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `miEmptyBox'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86AddDriver'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `StandardMinorOpcode'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `xf86XVListGenericAdaptors'
sis_drv.so: undefined reference to `drmCommandWrite'
collect2: ld returned 1 exit status
mashikosun@mashikosun-pc:~/Desktop/untitled folder$ 

```
what went wrong?

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-05
I am not entirely sure on this process but in reading this from the link above I found this:

> Sisfb and 2.6 kernels

2.6 and later versions bring a lot of changes not only to the programming internals, but to the handling by the user as well. The most important changes are resulting from a complete separation between the framebuffer driver (sisfb in our case) and the console driver (called fbcon). The framebuffer driver now only handles the low-level hardware programming, while the console layer is taking care of the rest. The intention of this was to unify and simplify framebuffer drivers by moving all console code away from them.

However, whether or not the developers succeeded in their intention is yet to be decided.

A consequence of this approach is that, for a framebuffer console, two parts/modules are needed: sisfb and fbcon.

As for the handling by the user, one very important fact to know is that starting sisfb alone (if compiled as a module), does ... nothing. To be more precise: It has no visible effect. The display mode (which is still given like under 2.4, ie by mode=XxYxD or vesa=xxx) is not changed until you either bind the framebuffer to a console by using a tool named con2fb (if the console driver fbcon is compiled statically into the kernel) or by loading the fbcon driver (if compiled as a module). At this point it might be interesting for you to know that sisfb now no longer accepts mode=none - simply because it is no longer required. You decide for yourself if you want a graphical console by invoking con2fb or modprobing fbcon later. But note: If sisfb as well as the console driver are statically compiled into the kernel, the console driver will start automatically during boot. There is no way around this at the moment.

Sounds complicated?

    * sisfb and fbcon statically in kernel: The kernel will boot into graphics mode. If no mode is specified, 800x600x8 will be used by default (unless CRT2 type is LCD in which case it defaults to the LCD's native resolution).
    * sisfb is a module, fbcon is in the kernel: modprob[e]ing sisfb will not change the display mode until you bind the framebuffer to a console by con2fb.
    * sisfb and fbcon are modules: modprob[e]ing sisfb will not change the display mode until you modprobe fbcon. If no mode was given, 800x600x8 will be used by default (again, unless CRT2 type is LCD).
    * sisfb in kernel, fbcon is a module: During boot, nothing visible happens, display mode is changed upon modprobe fbcon.

Another important difference to the 2.4 series is that fbset (the tool to change the console resolution under 2.4) is not more or less deprecated. I say "more or less" because the console developers have not yet decided on where to go from there they are now, namely the - IMHO - totally inconvenient replacement stty. stty is currently intended to change the console resolution, but the desired display mode is not, as we are all used to, given by x resolution, y resolution, depth and refresh rate, but by rows and cols in the unit of text characters. For instance, if you are using the default console font (8x16), stty rows 48 cols 128 selects 1024x768.

If you execute fbset to change the display mode under 2.6, the console dimension (ie the amount of columns and rows) will not change - resulting in display corruption. Use fbset only to change the refresh rate and/or the depth.

As said, beginning with 2.6.3 or so, sisfb is no longer required for DRI memory management. The SiS DRM driver has a memory manager of its own if sisfb is not part of the kernel (be it statically, be it a module). Please read the documentation of the MaxXFBMem option here.
2. The X driver

Preface statement for newbies: To use the X driver described on this page, you need to change the Driver statement in your /etc/X11/XF86Config or /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 file (if the -4 variant exists, do it there) or /etc/X11/xorg.conf so that it reads Driver "sis".

Hope this helps and I think you should make a new post with reference to the sis driver for your specific chipset ..Post back here with your progress and or thoughts , questions .. Best to you

---

### Post by Arseny92 on 2009-02-05
> or /etc/X11/xorg.conf so that it reads Driver "sis". 			 		
what i need to type there?
(my xorg.conf file is in post #[post=6663308]8[/post] above)

my chipset is also sis 661fx , i have this config.. **[http://asus.com/products.aspx?modelmenu=2&model=199&l1=3&l2=12&l3=42&l4=0](http://asus.com/products.aspx?modelmenu=2&model=199&l1=3&l2=12&l3=42&l4=0)**

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-05
Ok run this first and restart:
> sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Post back .. we should be at the begining with a fresh start

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-05
check this post although it is kubuntu you should get the point:
[http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?action=printpage;topic=3097693.0]("http://kubuntuforums.net/forums/index.php?action=printpage;topic=3097693.0")
Post back ..Best to you

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-05
this is what worked for this guy:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=174631&highlight=SIS+Real+256E]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=174631&highlight=SIS+Real+256E")

---

### Post by Murdoc_of_puts on 2009-02-07
I am having similar problems to you.  I can't get gnome to recognize my monitor, which is capable of up to 1600x1200-meaning I'm stuck in 800x600 res (default monitor).  What I did before(8.04) was to go into the configure program(no longer there in 8.10) and input my monitor manually.  I think that if we manually input the monitor into the xorg.conf that would work for both of us.  At least then we might be able to use one of the editing programs to tweak it to where we want it.  I didn't save that xorg file, and I was wondering if anyone had an old Xorg.conf file with stuff in it(monitor settings, video card settings, etc.).  If you do please post here, as I would like to avoid install an older version just to get that file.  Thanks, and hopefully this will work.

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-07
murdoc of puts try this for help in terminal:
> man xorg.conf
Best to you

---

### Post by Arseny92 on 2009-02-08
> Ok run this first and restart:
[QUOTE]sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg	 	 	 
Post back .. we should be at the begining with a fresh start[/QUOTE]
tried that, rebooted, no changes..
> check this post although it is kubuntu you should get the point:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=174631&highlight=SIS+Real+256E](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=174631&highlight=SIS+Real+256E)
Post back ..Best to you
tried to add
```
Driver          "sis"
```
to xorg.conf to Device section, rebooted, no changes.

when i say no changes, i mean there are the same res options (up to 800x600 (4:3), 960x540 (16:9) and 960x600 (16:10)) both in system-preferences-screen resolution and 'xrandr -q' in terminal.

---

### Post by Yoodle on 2009-02-09
I'm having this same problem too, and after pouring through all these posts for the last couple of hours, I still can't get any resolution higher than 1024x768.  I'm pretty sure I was able to get them when I had a different monitor connected to this computer.

Could someone please tell me what I'm doing wrong?  This monitor is a little older (HP Pavilion mx70), but I'm able to get 1280x1024 in Windows with the same PC and monitor.

```

lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]

sudo lshw -C video
  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]
       vendor: S3 Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 00
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm agp agp-2.0 bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=32 maxlatency=255 mingnt=4

xrandr -q
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 1024 x 768, maximum 1024 x 768
default connected 1024x768+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1024x768       85.0     75.0     70.0     60.0*    87.0  
   800x600        85.0     75.0     72.0     60.0     56.0  
   640x480        85.0     75.0     73.0     67.0     60.0  
   640x400        85.0  
   512x384        85.0     75.0     70.0     60.0     87.0  
   400x300        85.0     75.0     72.0     60.0     56.0  
   320x240        85.0     75.0     73.0     60.0  
   320x200        85.0  


```

My Xorg.conf file:
```

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"HP Pavilion mx70"
	# 1280x1024 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 63.60 kHz; pclk: 108.88 MHz
        Modeline "1280x1024_60.00"  108.88  1280 1360 1496 1712  1024 1025 1028 1060  -HSync +Vsync
	Option          "PreferredMode" "1280x1024_60.00"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"HP Pavilion mx70"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth           24
		Modes   "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

I used the gtf command to create the Modeline under the Monitor section.

Someone please give me a clue!

---

### Post by redroad55 on 2009-02-09
First try opening in a new account(different user)if if this gets your desired result : post back

as a last try run this
Try this :
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
post back with results and or questions

---

### Post by Yoodle on 2009-02-11
> **redroad55 said:**
> First try opening in a new account(different user)if if this gets your desired result : post back

as a last try run this
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

I tried creating a different user account, logged on as that, but there was nothing different.  I also tried running the command you posted.  It asked me a bunch of questions about my keyboard, then replaced my xorg.conf file with a generic one.  Still nothing different, my max resolution is still 1024x768.

This is my xorg.conf now:
```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Arseny92 on 2009-02-15
Well, I reinstalled the OS, the problem solved (for long time?).

---

### Post by Yoodle on 2009-02-21
> **Arseny92 said:**
> Well, I reinstalled the OS, the problem solved (for long time?).

I tried a re-install, but it didn't fix the problem.  I've gone back to just booting into Windows on this machine, and I hate myself for it.

---

### Post by Murdoc_of_puts on 2009-02-24
I have solved my problem, hopefully this can help all of you.  I have a live cd of Xubuntu 8.04(mostly because I have a slower computer and this is a lighter version) which I use to fix things.  This works in All flavors though. I loaded it up, ran the displayconfig-gtk program to set up my monitor.  Load it through a terminal so you can see where it saves the settings file.(it also helps to put in a bad save location= ~/squiggle , which will pop up and error message that will show you were the file is trying to be saved) once you've saved your settings, email them to yourself and there you are a brand new Xorg file for you.  I'm also including My Xorg.conf file in hopes that it will help you. You can just edit it slightly to fit your specific needs, but it's a helpful start.  Good luck, and tell me if I can help more.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"RIVA TNT2"
	Busid		"PCI:1:5:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"RIVA"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Hewlett-Packard"
	Modelname	"HP M900 19-inch Display"
	Horizsync	31-95
	Vertrefresh	50-150
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@72" 31.5 640 664 704 832 480 489 491 520 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@75" 31.5 640 656 720 840 480 481 484 500 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@85" 36.0 640 696 752 832 480 481 484 509 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@72" 50.0 800 856 976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@75" 49.5 800 816 896 1056 600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@85" 56.3 800 832 896 1048 600 601 604 631 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "832x624@75" 57.284 832 864 928 1152 624 625 628 667 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@85" 94.5 1024 1072 1168 1376 768 769 772 808 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@75" 78.8 1024 1040 1136 1312 768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@70" 75.0 1024 1048 1184 1328 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@43" 44.9 1024 1032 1208 1264 768 768 776 817 +hsync interlace +vsync
  modeline  "1152x864@75" 108.0 1152 1216 1344 1600 864 865 868 900 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@75" 135.0 1280 1296 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@85" 148.5 1280 1344 1504 1728 960 961 964 1011 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@85" 157.5 1280 1344 1504 1728 1024 1025 1028 1072 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@75" 129.86 1280 1368 1504 1728 960 961 964 1002 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1400x1050@60" 122.61 1400 1488 1640 1880 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1400x1050@75" 155.85 1400 1496 1648 1896 1050 1051 1054 1096 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1200@65" 175.5 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1200@60" 162.0 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1200@75" 202.5 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1200@70" 189.0 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1792x1344@60" 204.8 1792 1920 2120 2448 1344 1345 1348 1394 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1856x1392@60" 218.3 1856 1952 2176 2528 1392 1393 1396 1439 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1920x1440@60" 234.0 1920 2048 2256 2600 1440 1441 1444 1500 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "2048x1536@60" 266.95 2048 2200 2424 2800 1536 1537 1540 1589 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1024x768@60"	"1024x768@43"	"1024x768@70"	"1152x864@75"	"1024x768@75"	"1280x1024@75"	"1024x768@85"	"1280x960@60"	"832x624@75"	"1280x960@85"	"800x600@60"	"1280x1024@85"	"800x600@85"	"1280x1024@60"	"800x600@75"	"1280x960@75"	"800x600@72"	"1400x1050@60"	"800x600@56"	"1400x1050@75"	"640x480@85"	"1600x1200@65"	"640x480@75"	"1600x1200@60"	"640x480@72"	"1600x1200@75"	"640x480@60"	"1600x1200@70"	"1792x1344@60"	"1856x1392@60"	"1920x1440@60"	"2048x1536@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by Yoodle on 2009-03-01
> **Murdoc_of_puts said:**
> I have solved my problem, hopefully this can help all of you.

Woo Hoo!!!  That worked!  Thanks for the hint, Murdoc!

I just replaced the "Monitor" and "Screen" section of my xorg.conf file, and that did the trick!  I'm now able to get 1280x1024 resolution, which I think is the maximum my monitor can handle.

Thank you, thank you, thank you!  I spent numerous hours trying to get this working previously.

There was one strange side-effect of this though... My logon screen (Gnome) now comes up in a really low resolution, and Options menu is off the visible screen.  Once I log in, everything is fine, so it's not a problem, but I was just curious why it might be doing that?

---

### Post by Murdoc_of_puts on 2009-03-23
> There was one strange side-effect of this though... My logon screen (Gnome) now comes up in a really low resolution, and Options menu is off the visible screen.  Once I log in, everything is fine, so it's not a problem, but I was just curious why it might be doing that?

I don't know, Mine did that too.  However you can go to the login screen and there should be something like "float" or "not fixed"  and that might help to keep it in the middle so you can see everything.

---

