---
title: "h.265 video support ubuntu 16.04"
date: 2016-06-16
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by krishnan t s on 2016-06-16
I have a few hevc/h.265 encoded .mkv files that i want to play. The videos play for approximately 5 minutes before the video player hangs(totem) or quits(smplayer and vlc). I read somewhere that ubuntu 16.04(the release i run) comes with h.265 support built in. Is it true? because the strukturag and trusty-media ppa's dont work in 16.04. I've been looking for a solution the last 3 days and going mad. Any help appreciated. Please reply soon and thanks in advance.

P.S.: Don't know if i'm posting in correct forum so feel free to ask me to change. :)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-06-16
Are you using mplayer as the engine for smplayer, or mpv?  If you're using mplayer, try mpv instead.  Get the version at Doug McMahon's PPA:  [https://launchpad.net/~mc3man/+archive/ubuntu/mpv-tests](https://launchpad.net/~mc3man/+archive/ubuntu/mpv-tests)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2016-06-16
Also, what kind of hardware are we dealing with here?:
```
sudo apt-get install vdpauinfo vainfo
vdpauinfo
vainfo
glxinfo | grep -i string
```

---

### Post by krishnan t s on 2016-06-17
I use mpv as backend but i'm still getting the issues i mentioned above. I shall post the output of the commands a little while later. As for my hardware, i use a lenovo g505s laptop with AMD APU 10, 512mb primary graphics card and 2gb secondary graphics card(which i cant access cuz it runs the open source drivers) and 8gb ram. I dont think its a hardware issue.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-06-17
If you can play the files at all then you have support for h.265. Having them hang after x min. is some local issue, either hardware in use, the files themselves or some other local issue.
Maybe upload a sample problem file [here ]("http://www.datafilehost.com/")or try any of the files [from here]("http://www.libde265.org/downloads-videos/"), the server is a bit slow so may take a while to dl

---

### Post by tareq.mhd on 2016-06-17
I'm using Ubuntu 16.04, after doing some necessary work it can play H.265 videos. Nothing much, only this --

> sudo apt install ubuntu-restricted-extras

---

### Post by krishnan t s on 2016-06-21
I have ubuntu-restricted-extras installed already. And its my fault actually.. The files i had been playing were not 100%downloaded in which case .part should be appended to the file and it was not(and yes i have checked transmission settings to ensure that .part is to be appended to incomplete files). Its not a multimedia issue though it may be a transmission issue. Should i change it to another forum or open a new post? Thanks for all your replies :)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-06-21
I'd start a new thread regarding your transmission problems though you may want to couch your question carefully.

---

### Post by X-RED_Tech on 2016-06-21
> **mc4man said:**
> I'd start a new thread regarding your transmission problems though you may want to couch your question carefully.

In other words, do not disclose what you're actually downloading if you don't own the rights to do so ;)

---

