---
title: "Can't get the system to save my resolution - Nvidia card"
date: 2011-01-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by JimGvo on 2011-01-30
Running Ubuntu 10.04 with an Acer wide monitor, 1600x900.  The graphics card is a Gefoce 6200.  When I run nvidia-settings I can select 1600-900 and it looks fine.  I can "Save to X configuration file" and get no errors.  However if I log out and back in, the resolution changes to 1360x768 which causes the tool bar at the top to be mostly somewhere to the left of and above the monitor.  It makes life rather difficult when you can't get to the Applications and Places menus.  I also tried nvidia-configure but it created essentially the same xorg.conf file.

This is the xorg.conf file generated:
> 
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Sun Nov  8 21:50:38 PST 2009

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Fri Apr  9 10:35:18 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer H203H"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1600x900 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


1600x900 is the native mode of this monitor so the driver shouldn't be getting any errors if it trys to set that resolution.  

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by JimGvo on 2011-01-30
To make a long story short, I removed the .config/monitors.xml file.

---

