---
title: "12.04 smplayer vlc and mplayer all show work intermittently"
date: 2014-04-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Jessfarnsworth on 2014-04-24
I get a black screen most of the time with sound being fine.  Once in a great while I get it to work after a reboot, bu not often.  This is the information dump that I got earlier:
jess@jess-OptiPlex-GX260:~$ lsb_release -a uname -a; apt-cache policy vlc;lspci
Usage: lsb_release [options]

lsb_release: error: No arguments are permitted
vlc:
  Installed: 2.0.8-0ubuntu0.12.04.1
  Candidate: 2.0.8-0ubuntu0.12.04.1
  Version table:
 *** 2.0.8-0ubuntu0.12.04.1 0
        500 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) precise-updates/universe i386 Packages
        500 [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) precise-security/universe i386 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status
     2.0.1-4 0
        500 [http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/](http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/) precise/universe i386 Packages
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE/PE DRAM Controller/Host-Hub Interface (rev 01)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)
00:1d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 01)
00:1d.1 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 01)
00:1d.2 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 01)
00:1d.7 USB controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-M) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 81)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL (ICH4/ICH4-L) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 01)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801DB (ICH4) IDE Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) SMBus Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 01)
01:09.0 Multimedia audio controller: Ensoniq ES1371 [AudioPCI-97] (rev 06)
01:0c.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82540EM Gigabit Ethernet Controller (rev 02)

I can play stuff from utube in the firefox browser, but downloading them they dont seem to want to plqy in these ployrs either.  It does not matter what format I try it all is strange.  Any Ideas? someone plea help me Icannot afford a new machine.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-24
The
> **Jessfarnsworth said:**
> 
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)

is a weak one, and I recommend that you search for a used graphics card to boost it. Should not cost you much.

I also suggest that you install Lubuntu 14.04.

---

### Post by Jessfarnsworth on 2014-04-24
I have a graphics card its an old one.  I can try and see if that helps. I ont realy want to change to lubuntu because I ont want to loose some of the programs I run most notably simutrans.  Would this change effect that?  Thanks for your help.  I did upgrade to two gig vs 1 gig memory that changed nothig.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-24
If you have some free space on the hard disk you could also try Lubuntu 14.04 in a separate install for comparison.

---

### Post by Jessfarnsworth on 2014-04-24
ill try it on a usb disk.  I dont have much hd space its an old machine w/ small disk capicity.  But I have 3 flash drives that have plenty of spade.    more on each one than the whole machine lol. thanks.  Ill check out lbuntu.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-04-24
Your going to have a tough time finding a compatible graphics card I'm afraid.  I looked at the specs for the GX 260, and it has the older AGP video bus.  There [aren't many cards available for AGP]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/ProductList.aspx?Submit=ENE&N=100007709%20600007850&IsNodeId=1&bop=And&Order=PRICE&PageSize=20") any more; looking at NewEgg, [this one](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16814129182) is probably the best bet.

However it uses the ATI Radeon 3450 chipset which is [no longer supported with a proprietary driver from ATI]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2181190").  On 12.04, you might still be able to get the driver to install, but on 13.x and beyond you'll need to use the open-source driver.  I don't know how well this card performs in terms of video.  It's [specs]("http://www.tomshardware.com/answers/id-1878346/specs-card.html") say it supports most video codecs including H.264, which is the most demanding current format in use.  But that may only be true with the proprietary driver, since the driver may need to activate special hardware in the chip to off-load video decoding.

All in all, I'm not sure I'd invest the $70 or so for this card, though you might find a used one somewhere.  If it were me, I'd start thinking about a new computer rather then investing in the hardware you have.  That AGP slot is always going to be a limitation on its video performance, and investing in a card with limited future driver support doesn't make sense to me either.  If you do decide to upgrade the card, stick to 12.04, install the proprietary ATI driver, and see if its video performance is worth the investment.  If not, I'd send it back and put the money toward a new system in the future.

None of the NVIDIA cards that use the AGP bus support that company's VDPAU technology that off-loads the video decoding to special hardware on the video chip.  That innovation only appears in later models.  I had a P4 with an AGP bus and an NVIDIA 6150 card; from the [specs]("http://www.mss.net/Links/DellDocs/OptiGX260/UserGuide/specs.htm") that machine was pretty equivalent to yours.   It couldn't decode H.264 encoded high-def videos smoothly at all.  My CPU was fast enough to watch videos encoded with the less-demanding DivX/XviD or other MPEG4 codecs, but most videos today are encoded in H.264.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-24
On Ebay there's a huge number of AGP cards for sale, both new and used. Many of them are too weak to be useable, though.

Be aware that there are several AGP standards/slots.

---

