---
title: "5.1, no sound in front left and right"
date: 2010-11-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ShatPank on 2010-11-04
Basically as the title suggests.
I'm a linux noob, I've spent a few hour's looking around, but all I seem to be finding is people with problems of no sound, and so I dont know if the solution would be the same.

I have perfect sound from the rear speakers, the front centre, and the sub, but the front left and right are completely silent.

Things I think anyone may need to know
Mobo - GA-880GM-UD2H
Onboard sound - SBx00 Azalia Intel HDA
Ubuntu 10.10 x64

Thanks for any help, all advice in lamens terms please =)

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-11-04
Using what program or programs, playing what source material? Also: what version of Ubuntu?

Does it work with another OS? If not, how are the speakers driven?

Did you install the "restricted extras"?

---

### Post by ShatPank on 2010-11-04
I'm using totem movie player for videos, random AVI's that are 5.1 under windows, and the standard sound manager to sort out preferences, the speaker test function there showss the same problem, everything except the front sides.

After a bit more searching, I realised that the device manager I was using may have given me wrong info about the sound card, which is actually a Realtek ALC892 chip.

All works under windows 7, the speakers are 3 connected via 3 3.5mm headphone style plugs, I'm running Ubuntu 10.10 and installed the restricted extras, hope that heps

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-11-05
By Googling: ALC892 Linux, I found the following:
"clicking on the speaker icon, then sound preferences, then Hardware, then Internal Audio, then Settings for the selected device I get all the expected options up to 5.1 Analog (no 6.1 or 7.1) plus digital stereo out and digital stereo duplex (two way)."

Please let me know if this works for you.

---

### Post by ShatPank on 2010-11-05
All of that works for me, that's actually how I first found the speaker test function, as I was trying to turn HDMI audio off, and first found the speakers to be acting weird.

But basically, Ubuntu seems to see my on-board sound there, but just can't use it properly

---

### Post by ShatPank on 2010-11-05
I found this thread, and now seem to have broken ALSA completely.

I now have no sound, and the sound preferences area shows no hardware.... Bugger

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-11-06
> **ShatPank said:**
> I found this thread, and now seem to have broken ALSA completely.

I now have no sound, and the sound preferences area shows no hardware.... Bugger

You know what they say - "If it ain't broke, don't fix it!" Or is it "Fix it till it's broke"? I can't remember...anyhow use the alsa-info-script to provide detailed information.
Run this command in a terminal:
```
wget http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh 
```
Choose the upload option and provide a link for the output.
[Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"]

---

### Post by ShatPank on 2010-11-20
Sorry about the slow reply, after my sound completely died, I decided just to do a re-install, bounced of a couple of different distro's trying to find one I felt suited me, untill coming back to Ubuntu, poking about with the cables in the back, and finding that my front stereo was just coming out of the wrong jack, so for now, that's all sorted. thanks anyways though everyone.

---

