---
title: "NVIDIA 6600 GT = black screen"
date: 2009-07-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by juelze on 2009-07-17
Ok, so deciding I was going to stick with Linux I decided to swap out my ATI 9800 Pro for a Nvidia 6600 GT as I heard the driver support was better.  Now, when I installed Jaunty, my 9800 Pro worked out of the box.  Compiz ran okay but some flash and other sort of things on the web kind of sucked.  So, I backed up my stuff, installed the 6600 GT, reinstalled Jaunty and it boots up and I get a black screen.  Ugh.  I reboot and go into GRUB and boot into a recovery mode.  I choose "auto fix graphics problems" and here I am.  However, after I reboot, I get the black screen again and have to go through the GRUB recovery mode.  

So...someone said I should try "gksu nvidia-settings" which didn't do anything for me.  Right now I have the Nvidia drivers (180) installed, but my resolution is 640x480 or something along those lines and I can't adjust my resolution.  When I go into System>Display it tells me to use the driver utilities.  When I go into System>Nvidia I get "You do not appear to be using the Nvidia X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run nvidia-xconfig as root) and restart the x server.  I'm assuming I have to go into terminal and type:

su nvidia-xconfig

Is that correct?  And if so, where and how do I reboot the X server?  Please help, I was really banking on this Nvidia card giving me a better experience with Ubuntu, and so far I've had nothing but headaches.  

To all of you Linux gurus, I beg for your help!

-Juelze

---

### Post by juelze on 2009-07-17
Anyone?  Bueller?  I read something about Envy but didn't have luck with that either.  It installed (didn't go thru Synaptic) but the application isn't found anywhere.  Ugh.  I was hoping to get some help on this, I hope I don't have to throw back my 9800 PRO back in my machine.  Please help.

---

### Post by juelze on 2009-07-21
Alright, I found a few things to try when I get home (I'm at work now).  If it still doesn't work I'll post my xconf.org and hopefully someone can help me out.

---

### Post by juelze on 2009-07-21
Ok, so I can't get Envy to work at all.  Supposedly it's supposed to install a GUI but I wasn't able to find one and trying to run it through terminal gave me some errors (sorry didn't write them down).

So, I decide to try and download the newest drivers from Nvidia which are "NVIDIA-Linux-x86-185.18.14-pkg1.run"  I shut down the X-server and run the file as root.  It mentions it couldn't find a kernel so it had to compile one.  Everything is done and it comes up saying it can only run in low graphics mode.  WTF!?  I really like Ubuntu and I was hoping the switch from ATI to Nvidia would mean less problems, but it seems the complete opposite.  I really don't want to give up on Linux, but it seems I'm not getting any help.  I'm really trying to look up how to fix this issue through internet resources, but a lot of it is really confusing.  Could some Linux expert please help me?  I'm not looking to do anything complicated except to get my 6600GT (AGP) working.  I posted my xconf.org file in case it helps.  Please help me!!!



# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Wed May 27 03:15:36 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by KinKiac on 2009-07-21
Hmmmm, not sure here.  I'm kinda a newb so as for fixing this issue I will not be much help, but I can recommend one thing.  Clean install, then restore files from backup.  Ive always found, even with Windows, that when installing new hardware you are sometimes better to do a clean install, that way when your OS installs itself it picks up the hardware and configures accordingly.  I myself use an Nvidia 7600GT and haven't had any issues, well except the DVI to HDMI overscan issue but that's my TV's fault.  

I wonder if that is the root of your issue, that you had originally had an ATI card and maybe your system, not just the video drivers, has settings or configurations which relate to ATI and need to be reconfigured for Nvidia. I don't know enough about Linux to say if this is true or not, but doing a clean install would eliminate the possibility.

---

### Post by juelze on 2009-07-21
> **KinKiac said:**
> Hmmmm, not sure here.  I'm kinda a newb so as for fixing this issue I will not be much help, but I can recommend one thing.  Clean install, then restore files from backup.  Ive always found, even with Windows, that when installing new hardware you are sometimes better to do a clean install, that way when your OS installs itself it picks up the hardware and configures accordingly.  I myself use an Nvidia 7600GT and haven't had any issues, well except the DVI to HDMI overscan issue but that's my TV's fault.  

I wonder if that is the root of your issue, that you had originally had an ATI card and maybe your system, not just the video drivers, has settings or configurations which relate to ATI and need to be reconfigured for Nvidia. I don't know enough about Linux to say if this is true or not, but doing a clean install would eliminate the possibility.

Thanks for the reply.  However, I backed up my stuff after the card was installed, and completely reinstalled the OS to make things that much smoother.  Unfortunately, it didn't make any difference.  Anyway, thanks again for taking the time to respond!

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2009-07-22
I have a 6600 GT myself (AGP also) and haven't had any problems with Jaunty. I have experienced the "You do not appear to be using the Nvidia X driver..." message but I think this was when I was trying to install the driver from their website and that was a while ago.

If I start with a clean install, enable the drivers from System - Administration - Hardware Drivers then restart, I don't have any problems, so I'm not sure I can be much help.

If you enable the drivers and get a blank screen, it could be that the resolution is out of range for your monitor. I used to find that I needed to use the nvidia-settings program to specify my resolution. If you can't get to that because you have a blank screen, you could try using the nvidia-xconfig program. If you run "man nvidia-xconfig" you can see all the options it supports.

You could try adding your resolution with something like:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --mode=1600x1200
```
Or you could edit the xorg.conf file directly.

---

### Post by juelze on 2009-07-22
> **ad_267 said:**
> I have a 6600 GT myself (AGP also) and haven't had any problems with Jaunty. I have experienced the "You do not appear to be using the Nvidia X driver..." message but I think this was when I was trying to install the driver from their website and that was a while ago.

If I start with a clean install, enable the drivers from System - Administration - Hardware Drivers then restart, I don't have any problems, so I'm not sure I can be much help.

If you enable the drivers and get a blank screen, it could be that the resolution is out of range for your monitor. I used to find that I needed to use the nvidia-settings program to specify my resolution. If you can't get to that because you have a blank screen, you could try using the nvidia-xconfig program. If you run "man nvidia-xconfig" you can see all the options it supports.

You could try adding your resolution with something like:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --mode=1600x1200
```
Or you could edit the xorg.conf file directly.


Well, I did try a clean install, went and installed the Nvidia driver (180) from Hardware Drivers thinking everything would be running smooth and beautiful, but alas, it did not.  I'll try adjusting the resolution tonight (gotta go to work) and let you know how it works.  Thanks again for your time to respond!

---

