---
title: "Nvidia woes cont'd"
date: 2009-01-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by sbentjies on 2009-01-05
:confused:

I have an evga GEForce FX 5200 on 8.04 that does not do resolution above 800x600. I have tried multiple nvidia drivers, Envy, and nothing works. The card is not detected. Please help!! ( I can't count the number of times I've changed my xorg.conf)

---

### Post by BrandonBan6 on 2009-01-05
Would you mind posting your xorg.conf, so we can take a looksy?

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-01-05
Did you remove previous drivers before installing the next as they wont operate unless you do this.

---

### Post by sbentjies on 2009-01-05
Not a bit, and to answer Tuxxy's question, I did before I tried the Envy drivers but after that I didn't. I will post my xorg.conf, which is blank from being wiped in recovery mode by bulletproof X.

---

### Post by sbentjies on 2009-01-05
When I try to install the nvidia drivers from the desktop I type the following: [sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86-173.14.12-pkg1.run] and get [sudo: ./NVIDIA-Linux-173.14.12-pkg1.run: command not found]

---

### Post by sbentjies on 2009-01-05
> **BrandonBan6 said:**
> Would you mind posting your xorg.conf, so we can take a looksy?
Here is the xorg.conf

[# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc101"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"US 105"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection]

---

