---
title: "9.10 rhythmbox mp3"
date: 2009-10-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by fields2grand on 2009-10-06
Hey Yall
I've posted here a couple times before and got great support so I thought after my two day quest to get this to work I would ask for your help.

My Rhythmbox won't play my music anymore after upgrading to 9.10. The great part about 9.10 is all my sound features work now without any work. Even the keyboard shortcuts to volume up and down and mute work now! Great news. The problem is that now Rhythmbox won't play any of my music. Let me tell you what I have done so far to try to fix the problem.

I've gone into Synaptic and reenabled a repository called "main restricted universe multiverse". I also followed the script from Medibuntu to reinstall the repository and followed their directions to update. I've sudo apt-get update and everything updated. I've installed the gstreamer plugins including the ones that gave me troubles in the past. I've also done the script to download restricted extras.

SO when I try to play a song in Rhythmbox it says it doesn't have the necessary plugins to play the song and give me a GStreamer element autoaudiosink as the requested plugin but cannot find it. 
I'm not sure if this will help but Flash video as well as VLC player plays audio fine. I've spent quite a lot of time on this and can't get Rhythmbox to play my audio. I'm sure some of you knowledgeable people can help a noob out with this. I installed Jaunty about 2 months ago cold turkey from windows and haven't looked back. This forum is the only reason why I haven't gone back to Windows. It can be tricky sometimes but your help makes it much better. Thanks EVERYONE for responding and helping me with this issue. I will check this post regularly until the problem is fixed

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-10-06
Go to synaptic and completely remove rhythmbox. Then: 
```
sudo apt-get clean && sudo apt-get autoremove
```
Then go back to synaptic and reinstall rhythmbox. To be fair though, you probably should have waited to upgrade.

---

### Post by fields2grand on 2009-10-06
Happyfeet,

I did as you requested.  Uninstalled and reinstalled and when I click on a song the song has a red X next to it and requests the GStreamer element autoaudiosink plugin but can't find it.  I agree about waiting to upgrade but I had so many problems with my sound card and the alsa drivers.  Once I upgraded those problems went away but now I have this problem.  Thanks for the reply!

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-10-06
Do you have the third party repos enabled?

---

### Post by fields2grand on 2009-10-06
I think so, but I've tried so many things that I probably don't.  Can you give me direction on how to do this?

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-10-06
system>administration>software sources

---

### Post by fields2grand on 2009-10-06
Yes I believe I have these repositories enabled.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-10-06
While rhythmbox has some issues, playing mp3's isn't one of them.

Search gstreamer in synaptic and make sure the ugly plugins are installed.

I believe the ugly multiverse is good for mp3, though I'd enable both of them, usually the 1st. and 4th. listed. 
A fairly full set of gst plugins would be 
good
bad and bad multiverse
ugly and ugly multiverse
the ffmpeg plugin
the pitfdll plugin ( more useful on 32 bit with 32codecs installed, though that plug-in may be slightly broken

(( there also is the gstreamer fluendo mp3 plugin, never used myself

If any continued trouble maybe check your sources.list and see if there are any jaunty sources still enabled ( assuming an upgrade from jaunty

```
cat /etc/apt/sources.list
```

---

### Post by mdog1001 on 2009-10-11
[quote=mc4man;8064842]While rhythmbox has some issues, playing mp3's isn't one of them.

Search gstreamer in synaptic and make sure the ugly plugins are installed....

(( there also is the gstreamer fluendo mp3 plugin, never used myself

/quote]

Fwiw, installing gstreamer0.10-fluendo-mp3 alone worked fine for me to allow rhythmbox to play mp3's in karmic beta.

Good luck.

---

### Post by shug33 on 2009-10-20
Running Karmic 9.10 Beta on eeePC 1005HA.
Same problem: did all the above, have all listed plugins; Rhythmbox still won't play mp3's, says plugin missing.

---

### Post by rockstarrem on 2009-10-20
Well, I can only suggest a reinstall of Rhythmbox I suppose. Not sure if that will do anything. I had this exact same problem and after like three reboots it mysteriously went away. FLAC's didn't work, either.

```

sudo apt-get remove rhythmbox --purge
sudo apt-get install rhythmbox

```

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-10-20
Although Karmic comes with more codecs then ever installing the Ubuntu restricted extras should take care of the problems, this will install the gstreamer you need the good bad and the ugly and other things that will make things easier like java6.  And if you want to look at PDF's with something other then the stock Ubuntu set up look for acroread, you have to have the Canonical link ticked on in software sources for this though.

---

### Post by jmate24 on 2009-10-20
i am having a similar problem where nothing will play, not even the ubuntu sound theme. it is because pulsecore9 went obsolete and therefore is no longer able to install to meet necessary dependencies for other pulse packages to be installed so the sound can work. In other words one missing program or unmet dependencies can cause a world of hurt for many who upgrade to alpha or beta versions of ubuntu/kubuntu/xubuntu (etc., etc., etc...).  but if you were to either downgrade to ubuntu 9.04 (which is still fully supported) and wait 8-9 days until the release of the full (stable) version of ubuntu 9.10 that would be your best option. Which I am probably going to do the same tomorrow (Wednesday in the US) or the day after to see if there is a package to replace pulsecore9.

jmate24

---

### Post by shug33 on 2009-10-21
Thank you for your replies!  The bottom line is that Rhythmbox is now working.  The details are more obscure.  As with [rockstarrem], I had uninstalled and re-installed; and then this morning (after several restarts yesterday) when I started ubuntu Rhythmbox is now mysteriously playing mp3's just fine.  Probably pixies were at work in the computer last night.

@wilee-nilee: Yesterday I enabled restricted repos, and added multiverse repos; installed bad & ugly gstreamer plugins.  Maybe some of this entered into being able to play mp3 today.  

@jmate24:  I'm running 9.04 on another laptop, Asus S37S, works great there.  Went with 9.10Beta on the 1005ha because some forum discussions said 9.10 works with the Atheros wifi & Lan, which did install ok and came up running.  This, however, traded off one set of problems for another, most obviously at this time that the internal mike doesn't yet work; which seems to be a known bug.  Other sound stuff works (I think!).

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-10-21
> **shug33 said:**
> Thank you for your replies!  The bottom line is that Rhythmbox is now working.  The details are more obscure.  As with [rockstarrem], I had uninstalled and re-installed; and then this morning (after several restarts yesterday) when I started ubuntu Rhythmbox is now mysteriously playing mp3's just fine.  Probably pixies were at work in the computer last night.

@wilee-nilee: Yesterday I enabled restricted repos, and added multiverse repos; installed bad & ugly gstreamer plugins.  Maybe some of this entered into being able to play mp3 today.  

@jmate24:  I'm running 9.04 on another laptop, Asus S37S, works great there.  Went with 9.10Beta on the 1005ha because some forum discussions said 9.10 works with the Atheros wifi & Lan, which did install ok and came up running.  This, however, traded off one set of problems for another, most obviously at this time that the internal mike doesn't yet work; which seems to be a known bug.  Other sound stuff works (I think!).

 I think the codecs are the key also install the medibuntu stuff to if you want to play dvd's. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu) Some of this I think comes with Koala but the w32 and the free and nonfree sets including libdvdcss2 will be helpful.

---

### Post by Alienhunter2010 on 2009-11-01
I'm using a Karmic Koala's updated from Jaunty. Starting from the update I play music no more from rythmbox. I try mp3 and ogg and they work no more! Totem is working fine, but I like to use rythmbox for my playlists (as I was doing until yesterday, with jaunty :-P).

I receive the same error described previously: missing element autoaudiosink.

I'm not able to find it into apt repository!

I have to go, just now. So I may not make other experiments, for now.

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by .celleken on 2009-11-01
I did a fresh install of 9.10 Karmic Koala and I had no mp3 playback anymore.

- I removed Rhythmbox
- did: sudo apt-get update
- re-installed Rhythmbox
- double clicked on a mp3 listed in Rhythmbox
- asked me to install additional plugins -> installed
- restarted Rhythmbox
- enjoying Muse.

---

### Post by waspbr on 2009-11-01
similar problem here, removing the two directories and rebooting solved the issue.

---

### Post by baloo151 on 2009-11-01
I have a fresh install of Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala, with good, bad and ugly gstreamer plugins from multiverse installed.
Audio playback in Rhythmbox is working well when the file is on the local disk (mp3 and aac tested). But when I try to read a file from my mp3 player (Creative Zen) I got the following message : 
No file name specified for reading.

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by iMerlin on 2009-11-05
Had the same problem after upgrading from 9.04 (with a disabled Pulse Audio).

[LIST]
[*]Went into ~/.gconf/system/gstreamer/ and moved the 0.10 folder out of there (as a test)
[*]killall gconfd
[*]Retarted Rhythmbox
[*]Fixed...
[/LIST]

---

### Post by baloo151 on 2009-11-07
Hi, 

Removing the ~/.gconf/system/gstreamer/0.10 folder didn't work for me. It even freeze rhythmbox when I try to read a mp3. 

When moving back the 0.10 folder or removing completely the gstreamer one leads to the following traceback message :
gio.Error: The specified location is not supported

---

### Post by SerpentHearted on 2009-11-07
removing Totem seems to have fixed this for me.

No idea why, i'm a n00b and it was just a stab in the dark. However i seem to remember removing totem to resolve some other audio problems after upgrading to the previous release.

See how you go?

---

### Post by T4K3Z0U on 2009-11-19
I have the same problem even after following instructions here. But for me, the only time rythmbox won't play, is if I have had some other sound device open and it remains open, such as videos on the net, VLC, and so on. If I close them all, rythmbox works again. Of course then the opposite happens, and you get no sound on the other programs that produce sound. It's a PITA compromise, but works.

---

### Post by litlfrog on 2009-11-21
Same problem here, other programs can play mp3s, but not rhythmbox. Isn't it supposed to be the main music library software in Gnome? Not being able to play mp3s is, um, kind of crippling. Uninstalling, enabling 3rd party repositories, and reinstalling didn't work--it still looks for that Gstreamer element audiosink plugin and can't find it.

---

### Post by lancest on 2009-11-21
Just install Ubuntu restricted extras from the Ubuntu Software center, which includes mp3 support.

---

### Post by flaki on 2010-01-19
I removed pulseaudio in ubuntu 9.10 karmic. And I started using alsa. Surprisingly there were still some sounds heard during ubuntu startum, e.g. skype startup, etc.. But I got no sound when trying to play sound files in Rhytmbox (it was giving me the message ... something with audiosink - basically same as described before in this thread)
Also there was no sound in Totem when playing videos. But VLC was working still fine.

Going through several forums, I figure out the route cause (probably)

If you want fix it, start gconf-editor and go to:

system->gstreamer->0.10->audio->default

And there you can change the settings for:

audiosink 
chataudiosink
musicaudiosink

(When you click on either of those items, down you will see description, what you can set there: e.g. alsasink, esdsink, osssink or pulsesink)

Try to change those e.g. to esdsink and try your Rhytmbox. If id doesn't work try alsasink

Change to esdsink helped in my case anyway

---

### Post by sinbin on 2010-04-11
> **baloo151 said:**
> I have a fresh install of Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala, with good, bad and ugly gstreamer plugins from multiverse installed.
Audio playback in Rhythmbox is working well when the file is on the local disk (mp3 and aac tested). But when I try to read a file from my mp3 player (Creative Zen) I got the following message : 
No file name specified for reading.

Thanks for your help.

I have the same problem as **_baloo151_** and I just started checking which gstreamer plugins I have installed. I have the following:

gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg
gstreamer0.10-gnomevfs
gstreamer0.10-gnonlin
gstreamer0.10-nice
gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad
gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-multiverse
gstreamer0.10-plugins-base
gstreamer0.10-plugins-good
gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly
gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse
gstreamer0.10-plugins-pulseaudio
gstreamer0.10-plugins-x

I just installed the following which **_fixed_** the problem for me:

gstreamer0.10-plugins-sdl

Now I just need to manage to get Rhythmbox to pull the album art from my Samsung YP-P2 and everything will be perfect:guitar:

---

### Post by sinbin on 2010-04-13
> **sinbin said:**
> I have the same problem as **_baloo151_** and I just started checking which gstreamer plugins I have installed. I have the following:

gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg
gstreamer0.10-gnomevfs
gstreamer0.10-gnonlin
gstreamer0.10-nice
gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad
gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-multiverse
gstreamer0.10-plugins-base
gstreamer0.10-plugins-good
gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly
gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse
gstreamer0.10-plugins-pulseaudio
gstreamer0.10-plugins-x

I just installed the following which **_fixed_** the problem for me:

gstreamer0.10-plugins-sdl

Now I just need to manage to get Rhythmbox to pull the album art from my Samsung YP-P2 and everything will be perfect:guitar:



I failed to note in my previous post that I had also played around with preferences in Rhythmbox in order to fix this problem. I have done some more testing and found that uninstalling gstreamer0.10-plugins-sdl and restarting does not reproduce the error.

I have found that the following steps fixes the error:

In Rhythmbox go to "Edit" and then "Preference"s. Choose the "Playback" tab. Under "Player Backend" tick the box for "Use crossfading backend (requires restart)". Then quit Rhythmbox. Launch Rhythmbox and you should then be able to play mp3 files stored on your mp3 device.

To reproduce the error:

If you untick the box for "Use crossfading backend" and quit and restart Rhythmbox then when you try to play an mp3 file from the mp3 player the file will not play and the error "No file name specified for reading" will be received.

---

### Post by irvotheturbo on 2010-04-26
I have been using OSS until the last upgrade to Lucid, because the OSS driver supports the DSP of my nForce2 Soundstorm and alsa doesn't. Changed to Alsa now (can't load module anymore in Lucid).

Thought I changed the settings back to Alsa, but obviously not all.
As sinbin posted, these were the steps to fully go back to Alsa:

[LIST]
[*] start gconf-editor
[*] system - gstreamer - 0.10 - default
[*] change audiosink, audiosrc, chataudiosink and musicaudiosink values to alsasink, alsasrc, alsasink and alsasink
[*] restart Rhythmbox and play your mp3s :)
[/LIST]

---

### Post by baloo151 on 2010-04-26
> **sinbin said:**
> 
I have found that the following steps fixes the error:

In Rhythmbox go to "Edit" and then "Preference"s. Choose the "Playback" tab. Under "Player Backend" tick the box for "Use crossfading backend (requires restart)". Then quit Rhythmbox. Launch Rhythmbox and you should then be able to play mp3 files stored on your mp3 device.

The "Use crossfading backend (requires restart)" solved my problem.

---

