---
title: ".wav files recorded with the Ubuntu sound recorder does not play on Windows."
date: 2009-03-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Calmarius on 2009-03-10
My laptop have a mic and Ubuntu OS installed, I tried to record a wave file with its built in sound recorder tool (after some tweaking and googling I finally managed to make the microphone work). After I finished with the recording I moved the wave file to my desktop PC to edit it (which has Windows.) I tried to open the wave file with various programs, but they says it is corrupted or unreadable or not enough memory to open it and something similar...

(The wav files which are playable on Windows playable on ubuntu too.)

Does Ubuntu creates wave files in its native format instead of the standard? I have found no settings about the format (sample rate bit, depth, etc) too.

Does anybody know how to record wav files which can be playable on Windows?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-03-10
I don't know about recording (never tried) but if you feel like installing sox there would be something simple you could try.
sudo apt-get install sox

If so take your .wav and drop it into your home folder. Then in a terminal go (replace red with actual name
```
sox [COLOR="Red"]name[/COLOR].wav [COLOR="Red"]name[/COLOR]-1.wav
```

If there is something 'wrong' or non-standard sox may fix it. 
Then try the name-1.wav in windows

---

### Post by Calmarius on 2009-03-11
Thanks for the help, it works - partially...

When I "view" the file in the Total Commander, it plays it but I still can't open it in any other program.

---

