---
title: ".w3d -&gt; .geo or any other open source data format"
date: 2009-07-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ilghiz on 2009-07-18
Hi,

please, advise me what program can I use to convert .W3D to any ascii open source format.

I know that in this w3d file there is a 3D geometry information. I guess that it is Shockwave director format, but I am not sure.

Thank you!

Ilghiz
--
Ubuntu user from 2006,
x64 user from 2005,
Linux user from 1996,
Unix user and developer from 1993.

---

### Post by skullmunky on 2009-07-18
I think that's correct, it's the Director Shockwave 3D format.  As far as I can remember it's extremely proprietary, with few plugins that could ever write it much less read it and convert it.  

My advice?  Install a 30 day trial of Director, (I think 8.5 was the first to include 3D), throw that .W3D file in there, write a lingo script to go through the geometry and dump the data into a text file, then munge it into an OBJ or something useful.  (director should run in Wine, btw).

---

### Post by ilghiz on 2009-07-25
Hi, Skullmunky,

thank you for your answer. I tried Director trial, but it seems that my W3D file was not compatible. Header had not only W3D but also H3C abbreviation, so, it looks that it is a customization for autodesk. I retyped all geometry by myself, it was faster solution for me :(

PS: I was unable to run installation of Director on wine, it crashed with the message like "old operating system, please, upgrade it to XP SP1" It was pity to see it on my 2x4 Core Xeon with 9.04 ubuntu 64 bit :)))

Sincerely

Ilgis

---

