---
title: "Question About MPlayer &amp; Compiling Lives"
date: 2009-02-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ram2008 on 2009-02-22
**** I'm preparing to compile the Lives video editor.  One of the requirements is that I have MPlayer with JPEG support.  I checked the current version of MPlayer and nothing is said about JPEG support.  How can I be sure that it has JPEG support?

I found most of the programs that I need in order to compile Lives but I could not find gdk-pixbuf-loader.  However, when I typed this in the search window in the Synaptic Package Manager, it brings up Eye of Gnome which uses the gdk-pixbuf library.  Does that mean that I don't have to find gdk-pixbuf per se?

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-02-22
Hi ram2008,

> **ram2008 said:**
> **** I'm preparing to compile the Lives video editor.  One of the requirements is that I have MPlayer with JPEG support.  I checked the current version of MPlayer and nothing is said about JPEG support.  How can I be sure that it has JPEG support?

You can check for this as follows:

```

andrew@skamandros~$ **[COLOR="Red"]mplayer -vo help[/COLOR]**
MPlayer SVN-r28672-4.2.4 (C) 2000-2009 MPlayer Team
Available video output drivers:
	xv	X11/Xv
	x11	X11 ( XImage/Shm )
	xover	General X11 driver for overlay capable video output drivers
	gl	X11 (OpenGL)
	gl2	X11 (OpenGL) - multiple textures version
	dga	DGA ( Direct Graphic Access V2.0 )
	sdl	SDL YUV/RGB/BGR renderer (SDL v1.1.7+ only!)
	fbdev	Framebuffer Device
	fbdev2	Framebuffer Device
	svga	SVGAlib
	aa	AAlib
	caca	libcaca
	v4l2	V4L2 MPEG Video Decoder Output
	xvidix	X11 (VIDIX)
	cvidix	console VIDIX
	null	Null video output
	mpegpes	MPEG-PES to DVB card
	yuv4mpeg	yuv4mpeg output for mjpegtools
	png	PNG file
	**[COLOR="Red"]jpeg	JPEG file[/COLOR]**
	gif89a	animated GIF output
	tga	Targa output
	pnm	PPM/PGM/PGMYUV file
	md5sum	md5sum of each frame

```

This video driver outputs a jpeg for each frame of a video, there are a bunch of options that can be used with it.

Andrew

---

### Post by ram2008 on 2009-02-22
Andrew,

Thanks for your reply.  Using your info I checked the version of MPlayer on my system and it does have JPEG support.  So I guess tomorrow (actually later today) I'll try my hand at compiling the Lives video editor.  Wish me luck. :).  Thanks again for your help.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-02-22
Scroll down a bit further in synaptic and you'll see "libgtk-pixbuf2", that's probably what you want.

> For compilation from source, you will need:

    * GNU automake 1.7 or higher
    * GNU autoconf 2.57 or higher
    * GNU gettext 0.12.1 or higher
    * GNU libtool 1.5.22 or higher
    * libgtk2.0-dev 2.10 or higher


> software requirements (GNU/Linux)

    * mplayer 0.90rc1+ compiled with jpeg/png support (version 1.0pre8+ recommended)
    * ImageMagick 5+
    * perl 5+
    * gtk+ 2.10+
    * libjpeg62
    * gdk-pixbuf-loaders
    * sox
    * python 2.3.4+ (recommended)
    * SDL (recommended)
    * mencoder 1.0-pre5+ (recommended)
    * libmjpeg-tools (recommended)
    * libtheora (recommended)
    * libjack/jackit (recommended)
    * xmms (optional)
    * cdda2wav (optional)

for python that would be 'python2.4 , the rest are pretty easy to find

---

### Post by ram2008 on 2009-02-23
mc4man,

Thanks for your response but I'm getting just a little confused.  I could not find a file by the name of libgtk-pixbuf2 but I did find one with the name libgdk-pixbuf2.  Is that the right one?  In the listing that I copied from the Lives web site the "lib" prefix was not there.  I suppose most people know that it should be there but for nubies like me I wouldn't know that.

I have all five of the programs needed to compile the Lives source code but the compile failed with the message "error: C compiler can not create executables."  I did look through the config.log but that was really 
Greek to me.  Here's that file.  Perhaps someone can tell me what I did wrong from looking at it.  I would rather not have to get into compiling source code since I know so little about it but the current Ubuntu version of Lives has serious bugs in it so the web site where it's available recommends compiling it from source code rather than using the binaries.


Config.log


This file contains any messages produced by compilers while
running configure, to aid debugging if configure makes a mistake.

It was created by LiVES configure 0.9.9.6, which was
generated by GNU Autoconf 2.61.  Invocation command line was

  $ ./configure 

## --------- ##
## Platform. ##
## --------- ##

hostname = roy-desktop
uname -m = i686
uname -r = 2.6.24-23-generic
uname -s = Linux
uname -v = #1 SMP Mon Jan 26 00:13:11 UTC 2009

/usr/bin/uname -p = unknown
/bin/uname -X     = unknown

/bin/arch              = unknown
/usr/bin/arch -k       = unknown
/usr/convex/getsysinfo = unknown
/usr/bin/hostinfo      = unknown
/bin/machine           = unknown
/usr/bin/oslevel       = unknown
/bin/universe          = unknown

PATH: /usr/local/sbin
PATH: /usr/local/bin
PATH: /usr/sbin
PATH: /usr/bin
PATH: /sbin
PATH: /bin
PATH: /usr/games


## ----------- ##
## Core tests. ##
## ----------- ##

configure:2132: checking build system type
configure:2150: result: i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
configure:2172: checking host system type
configure:2187: result: i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
configure:2209: checking target system type
configure:2224: result: i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
configure:2270: checking for a BSD-compatible install
configure:2326: result: /usr/bin/install -c
configure:2337: checking whether build environment is sane
configure:2380: result: yes
configure:2408: checking for a thread-safe mkdir -p
configure:2447: result: /bin/mkdir -p
configure:2460: checking for gawk
configure:2476: found /usr/bin/gawk
configure:2487: result: gawk
configure:2498: checking whether make sets $(MAKE)
configure:2519: result: yes
configure:2708: checking whether to enable maintainer-specific portions of Makefiles
configure:2717: result: no
configure:2750: checking for style of include used by make
configure:2778: result: GNU
configure:2848: checking for gcc
configure:2864: found /usr/bin/gcc
configure:2875: result: gcc
configure:3113: checking for C compiler version
configure:3120: gcc --version >&5
gcc (GCC) 4.2.4 (Ubuntu 4.2.4-1ubuntu3)
Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

configure:3123: $? = 0
configure:3130: gcc -v >&5
Using built-in specs.
Target: i486-linux-gnu
Configured with: ../src/configure -v --enable-languages=c,c++,fortran,objc,obj-c++,treelang --prefix=/usr --enable-shared --with-system-zlib --libexecdir=/usr/lib --without-included-gettext --enable-threads=posix --enable-nls --with-gxx-include-dir=/usr/include/c++/4.2 --program-suffix=-4.2 --enable-clocale=gnu --enable-libstdcxx-debug --enable-objc-gc --enable-mpfr --enable-targets=all --enable-checking=release --build=i486-linux-gnu --host=i486-linux-gnu --target=i486-linux-gnu
Thread model: posix
gcc version 4.2.4 (Ubuntu 4.2.4-1ubuntu3)
configure:3133: $? = 0
configure:3140: gcc -V >&5
gcc: '-V' option must have argument
configure:3143: $? = 1
configure:3166: checking for C compiler default output file name
configure:3193: gcc    conftest.c  >&5
/usr/bin/ld: crt1.o: No such file: No such file or directory
collect2: ld returned 1 exit status
configure:3196: $? = 1
configure:3234: result: 
configure: failed program was:
| /* confdefs.h.  */
| #define PACKAGE_NAME "LiVES"
| #define PACKAGE_TARNAME "lives"
| #define PACKAGE_VERSION "0.9.9.6"
| #define PACKAGE_STRING "LiVES 0.9.9.6"
| #define PACKAGE_BUGREPORT "http://www.sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=64341&atid=507139"
| #define PACKAGE "lives"
| #define VERSION "0.9.9.6"
| #define _GNU_SOURCE 1
| /* end confdefs.h.  */
| 
| int
| main ()
| {
| 
|   ;
|   return 0;
| }
configure:3241: error: C compiler cannot create executables
See `config.log' for more details.

## ---------------- ##
## Cache variables. ##
## ---------------- ##

ac_cv_build=i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
ac_cv_env_CCASFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_CCASFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_CCAS_set=
ac_cv_env_CCAS_value=
ac_cv_env_CC_set=
ac_cv_env_CC_value=
ac_cv_env_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_CPPFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_CPPFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_CPP_set=
ac_cv_env_CPP_value=
ac_cv_env_GLIB_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_GLIB_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_GLIB_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_GLIB_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_GTK_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_GTK_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_GTK_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_GTK_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_LDFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_LDFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_LIBDV_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_LIBDV_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_LIBDV_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_LIBDV_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_MJPEGTOOLS_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_MJPEGTOOLS_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_MJPEGTOOLS_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_MJPEGTOOLS_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_OGG_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_OGG_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_OGG_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_OGG_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_OIL_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_OIL_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_OIL_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_OIL_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_PKG_CONFIG_set=
ac_cv_env_PKG_CONFIG_value=
ac_cv_env_SDL_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_SDL_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_SDL_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_SDL_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_THEORA_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_THEORA_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_THEORA_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_THEORA_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_VISUAL_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_VISUAL_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_VISUAL_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_VISUAL_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_VORBIS_CFLAGS_set=
ac_cv_env_VORBIS_CFLAGS_value=
ac_cv_env_VORBIS_LIBS_set=
ac_cv_env_VORBIS_LIBS_value=
ac_cv_env_build_alias_set=
ac_cv_env_build_alias_value=
ac_cv_env_host_alias_set=
ac_cv_env_host_alias_value=
ac_cv_env_target_alias_set=
ac_cv_env_target_alias_value=
ac_cv_host=i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
ac_cv_path_install='/usr/bin/install -c'
ac_cv_path_mkdir=/bin/mkdir
ac_cv_prog_AWK=gawk
ac_cv_prog_ac_ct_CC=gcc
ac_cv_prog_make_make_set=yes
ac_cv_target=i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1

## ----------------- ##
## Output variables. ##
## ----------------- ##

ACLOCAL='${SHELL} /usr/lives-0.9.9.6/missing --run aclocal-1.10'
ALLOCA=''
AMDEPBACKSLASH='\'
AMDEP_FALSE='#'
AMDEP_TRUE=''
AMTAR='${SHELL} /usr/lives-0.9.9.6/missing --run tar'
AR=''
AUTOCONF='${SHELL} /usr/lives-0.9.9.6/missing --run autoconf'
AUTOHEADER='${SHELL} /usr/lives-0.9.9.6/missing --run autoheader'
AUTOMAKE='${SHELL} /usr/lives-0.9.9.6/missing --run automake-1.10'
AWK='gawk'
BUILD_INCLUDED_LIBINTL=''
CATOBJEXT=''
CC='gcc'
CCAS=''
CCASDEPMODE=''
CCASFLAGS=''
CCDEPMODE=''
CFLAGS=''
CPP=''
CPPFLAGS=''
CYGPATH_W='echo'
DATADIRNAME=''
DEFS=''
DEPDIR='.deps'
DISABLE_GLSLICE_FALSE=''
DISABLE_GLSLICE_TRUE=''
DSYMUTIL=''
DUMPBIN=''
ECHO_C=''
ECHO_N='-n'
ECHO_T=''
EGREP=''
ENABLE_JACK_FALSE=''
ENABLE_JACK_TRANSPORT_FALSE=''
ENABLE_JACK_TRANSPORT_TRUE=''
ENABLE_JACK_TRUE=''
ENABLE_LDVGRAB_FALSE=''
ENABLE_LDVGRAB_TRUE=''
ENABLE_LIBOIL_FALSE=''
ENABLE_LIBOIL_TRUE=''
ENABLE_OSC_FALSE=''
ENABLE_OSC_TRUE=''
ENABLE_VJACK_FALSE=''
ENABLE_VJACK_TRUE=''
EXEEXT=''
FGREP=''
FORCE_SDL_FALSE=''
FORCE_SDL_TRUE=''
GENCAT=''
GETTEXT_PACKAGE=''
GLIBC21=''
GLIB_CFLAGS=''
GLIB_LIBS=''
GMSGFMT=''
GREP=''
GTK_CFLAGS=''
GTK_LIBS=''
GTK_LIBS_NODYNAMIC=''
HAVE_FREI0R_FALSE=''
HAVE_FREI0R_TRUE=''
HAVE_LIBDV_FALSE=''
HAVE_LIBDV_TRUE=''
HAVE_LIBOIL_FALSE=''
HAVE_LIBOIL_TRUE=''
HAVE_LIBdl_FALSE=''
HAVE_LIBdl_TRUE=''
HAVE_MJPEGTOOLS_FALSE=''
HAVE_MJPEGTOOLS_TRUE=''
HAVE_OGG_FALSE=''
HAVE_OGG_TRUE=''
HAVE_SDL_FALSE=''
HAVE_SDL_TRUE=''
HAVE_THEORA_FALSE=''
HAVE_THEORA_TRUE=''
HAVE_VISUAL_FALSE=''
HAVE_VISUAL_TRUE=''
HAVE_VORBIS_FALSE=''
HAVE_VORBIS_TRUE=''
INSTALL_DATA='${INSTALL} -m 644'
INSTALL_PROGRAM='${INSTALL}'
INSTALL_SCRIPT='${INSTALL}'
INSTALL_STRIP_PROGRAM='$(install_sh) -c -s'
INSTOBJEXT=''
INTLBISON=''
INTLLIBS=''
INTLOBJS=''
INTL_LIBTOOL_SUFFIX_PREFIX=''
IS_DARWIN_FALSE=''
IS_DARWIN_TRUE=''
IS_IRIX_FALSE=''
IS_IRIX_TRUE=''
IS_LINUX_GNU_FALSE=''
IS_LINUX_GNU_TRUE=''
LD=''
LDFLAGS=''
LIBDV_CFLAGS=''
LIBDV_LIBS=''
LIBICONV=''
LIBINTL=''
LIBOBJS=''
LIBS=''
LIBTOOL=''
LIPO=''
LN_S=''
LTLIBICONV=''
LTLIBINTL=''
LTLIBOBJS=''
MAINT='#'
MAINTAINER_MODE_FALSE=''
MAINTAINER_MODE_TRUE='#'
MAKEINFO='${SHELL} /usr/lives-0.9.9.6/missing --run makeinfo'
MJPEGTOOLS_CFLAGS=''
MJPEGTOOLS_LIBS=''
MKINSTALLDIRS=''
MSGFMT=''
MSGMERGE=''
NM=''
NMEDIT=''
OBJEXT=''
OGG_CFLAGS=''
OGG_LIBS=''
OIL_CFLAGS=''
OIL_LIBS=''
OTOOL64=''
OTOOL=''
PACKAGE='lives'
PACKAGE_BUGREPORT='http://www.sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=64341&atid=507139'
PACKAGE_NAME='LiVES'
PACKAGE_STRING='LiVES 0.9.9.6'
PACKAGE_TARNAME='lives'
PACKAGE_VERSION='0.9.9.6'
PATH_SEPARATOR=':'
PERL=''
PKG_CONFIG=''
POSUB=''
RANLIB=''
SDL_CFLAGS=''
SDL_LIBS=''
SDL_PREFIX=''
SED=''
SET_MAKE=''
SHELL='/bin/bash'
STRIP=''
THEORA_CFLAGS=''
THEORA_LIBS=''
USE_INCLUDED_LIBINTL=''
USE_NLS=''
VERSION='0.9.9.6'
VISUAL_CFLAGS=''
VISUAL_LIBS=''
VORBIS_CFLAGS=''
VORBIS_LIBS=''
XGETTEXT=''
ac_ct_CC='gcc'
ac_ct_DUMPBIN=''
am__fastdepCCAS_FALSE=''
am__fastdepCCAS_TRUE=''
am__fastdepCC_FALSE=''
am__fastdepCC_TRUE=''
am__include='include'
am__isrc=''
am__leading_dot='.'
am__quote=''
am__tar='${AMTAR} chof - "$$tardir"'
am__untar='${AMTAR} xf -'
bindir='${exec_prefix}/bin'
build='i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1'
build_alias=''
build_cpu='i686'
build_os='linux-gnulibc1'
build_vendor='pc'
datadir='${datarootdir}'
datarootdir='${prefix}/share'
docdir='${datarootdir}/doc/${PACKAGE_TARNAME}'
dvidir='${docdir}'
exec_prefix='NONE'
host='i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1'
host_alias=''
host_cpu='i686'
host_os='linux-gnulibc1'
host_vendor='pc'
htmldir='${docdir}'
includedir='${prefix}/include'
infodir='${datarootdir}/info'
install_sh='$(SHELL) /usr/lives-0.9.9.6/install-sh'
libdir='${exec_prefix}/lib'
libexecdir='${exec_prefix}/libexec'
localedir='${datarootdir}/locale'
localstatedir='${prefix}/var'
lt_ECHO='echo'
mandir='${datarootdir}/man'
mkdir_p='/bin/mkdir -p'
oldincludedir='/usr/include'
pdfdir='${docdir}'
prefix='NONE'
program_transform_name='s,x,x,'
psdir='${docdir}'
sbindir='${exec_prefix}/sbin'
sharedstatedir='${prefix}/com'
sysconfdir='${prefix}/etc'
target='i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1'
target_alias=''
target_cpu='i686'
target_os='linux-gnulibc1'
target_vendor='pc'

## ----------- ##
## confdefs.h. ##
## ----------- ##

#define PACKAGE_NAME "LiVES"
#define PACKAGE_TARNAME "lives"
#define PACKAGE_VERSION "0.9.9.6"
#define PACKAGE_STRING "LiVES 0.9.9.6"
#define PACKAGE_BUGREPORT "http://www.sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=64341&atid=507139"
#define PACKAGE "lives"
#define VERSION "0.9.9.6"
#define _GNU_SOURCE 1

configure: exit 77

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-02-23
Sorry about the mis typed letter, you got the right one (libgdk...
Run this and try again

```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

---

### Post by ram2008 on 2009-02-23
OK, we got much further along than last night but the compile still stopped with this message: "No package 'gtk+-2' found".  Also "Package gtk+-2.0 was not found in the pkg-config search path."

I checked to see what is installed and I found gtk2.0-engines-murrine, installed version 0.53.1-1ubuntu2.  Is that different from what the compiler is looking for?  If so, how do I get the correct one?

Thanks for helping me with this.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-02-23
Install
libgtk2.0-dev
(many times when you see a dep. listed or an error stick a lib in front of

While not always needed (especially at this point when you haven't got too far along the build), it's not bad practice to run (obviously at the source/build prompt
make distclean


Edit: went ahead and built, installed. - works fine though is a little slow starting up - 7 secs, so wait it out.
If you use sudo make install, don't delete your build folder, you'll need it to do a sudo make uninstall to remove (whether you don't want or to build/install a higher version down the road.

---

### Post by ram2008 on 2009-02-23
Well, I've  hit another roadblock.  I'm beginning to wonder if I'll ever get through this!  Here's what it stopped on this time:

[I]/usr/bin/install: cannot stat `sendOSC': No such file or directory
make[2]: *** [install] Error 1
make[2]: Leaving directory `/usr/lives-0.9.9.6/libOSC/sendOSC'
make[1]: *** [install-recursive] Error 1
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/lives-0.9.9.6/libOSC'
make: *** [install-recursive] Error 1
root@roy-desktop:/usr/lives-0.9.9.6# 

I think someone should warn non-programmers not to attempt to compile from source code! :)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-02-24
well try this,
delete the extracted lives-0.9.9.6 folder and start over. (re extract the source
Also - *Don't do the ./configure and make as root* 

(I saw that error once last year, didn't know what to make of it, started fresh and all went well

---

### Post by ram2008 on 2009-02-24
I followed your suggestions but we got the same error as before (recursive error 1).  Maybe I should just forget compiling this program.  I hate taking up your time and not really getting anywhere.  I'm beginning to wonder if the problem is my installation.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-02-24
Not sure then, I don't have any problems with the build.

If you don't need OSC (or to try lives till a solution) then

> ./configure --disable-OSC 

If you want to install as a .deb then install checkinstall and after the make run

```
sudo checkinstall --fstrans=no --install=yes --pakdir "$HOME/Desktop" --pkgname=LIVES --maintainer "$USER" --backup=no --deldoc=yes --deldesc=yes --delspec=yes --gzman --default

```

Note, it seems to take lives a while to start up, about 7 sec. with 48 weed plugins, and I also built it with frei0r support and then about 20 secs. (with 120 weed plugins

Edit: if you get it installed, (without osc) and want osc I'll upload a deb 
You could also try installing the getdeb version and then try your build again. I think if your persistent it will build for you, I've had it fail twice (just now with the  libfrei0r-dev and then succeed on a re attempt

---

### Post by ram2008 on 2009-02-24
Didn't see your last response at first and typed another message!

---

### Post by ram2008 on 2009-02-24
Thanks for all of your efforts to help me through this but I think I'm going to stop for now.  I've been having a lot of weird things happen with Ubuntu lately and I'm wondering if some of that has affected my ability to compile Lives.  A couple of days ago both panels were missing when I booted the system. I managed to get them back but then the system wouldn't allow me to add certain appletts to the panel, ones that had been there previously.  I finally got that resolved.  Then yesterday I couldn't do a backup with either of the backup programs that I use (sbackup, pybackpack).  When I try to start sbackup the GUI just flashes on the screen for a fraction of a second and goes away.  Tried several times with same results so I tried pybackpack.  That starts up with no problem and creates the backup file and then the CD image but then it won't allow me to burn the image, suggesting I don't have permission to access the CD drive!  I've given myself permission to access all devices on the system but that doesn't seem to make any difference.  I've used the CD drive to burn discs with remastersys and sbackup before.  Those are just two examples of the weird and frustrating things that are going on with 8.04.  I think I'm going to reinstall it with a live CD from my remastersys backup and then try building Lives again.

---

