---
title: "17.10 choppy/stuttering video (not audio)"
date: 2018-05-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by goodstuff9 on 2018-05-30
Ubuntu 17.10 (X.Org 1.19.5), gnome shell 3.26.2, kernel  4.13.0-43-generic, Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-4460 CPU @ 3.20GHz (4 cores),  15.5GB RAM, Intel Xeon E3-1200 v3/4th Gen Core Processor Integrated  Graphics Controller.  

  In the past few days - I don't know why - all videos I play will very  briefly "halt" every couple seconds or so, making the video appear to  be "stuttering" or "choppy".  


  It doesn't seem to matter which application I play the video with,  nor the format of the video file, nor whether it is online/streaming or a  file I have saved.  

  
The audio sounds to be just fine.  

  
I realize that there have been MANY, MANY questions similar to this  posted on this forum (and elsewhere online) - but that only makes  finding the correct solution more difficult:  Practically speaking it is  impossible for me to figure out which questions/threads to follow-up  on, and which will not apply, and which are out of date, etc.   Nevertheless, I have read through very many of the questions and  proposed solutions, but none of them have worked in my case.  

  
My questions:  How do I fix this?  How do I go about diagnosing this problem to figure out what is wrong?

---

### Post by kazakore on 2018-05-31
I'm kinda surprised that Ubuntu doesn't do these steps (or similar) as standard when it recognises integrated Intel graphics but I'm hoping you are referring to video tearing.

Create a xorg configuration file as per this section of this page.
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Intel_graphics#Xorg_configuration](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Intel_graphics#Xorg_configuration)

And also add the video tearing option to it as per this section:
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Intel_graphics#Tear-free_video](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Intel_graphics#Tear-free_video)

So you should end up with something like:
$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d/20-intel.conf
```

Section "Device"
   Identifier  "Intel Graphics"
   Driver      "intel"
   Option      "TearFree"    "true"
EndSection
```


Restart and see if it's any better.

---

### Post by goodstuff9 on 2018-05-31
Thank you!!!!!  

I tried your suggestion.....  and it worked!!!!!!!  

I added the file as you described, and now it appears that the "stuttering" has gone away.  That is good.  

Questions for you:  

What are the instructions in the file you had me create doing?  

Why do I suddenly need this file?  Any ideas on what might have changed in my system?  

For future upgrades, will this file get overwritten?  Will I always have to be on the lookout for updates/upgrades that will delete it?

---

### Post by kazakore on 2018-06-01
> **goodstuff9 said:**
> Thank you!!!!!  

I tried your suggestion.....  and it worked!!!!!!!  

I added the file as you described, and now it appears that the "stuttering" has gone away.  That is good.  

Please mark the thread as Solved.

> Questions for you:  

What are the instructions in the file you had me create doing?  

The links I gave can explain things better than I can. Basically all you're doing is telling the Intel driver to use Tear Free mode.

> Why do I suddenly need this file?  Any ideas on what might have changed in my system?  

For future upgrades, will this file get overwritten?  Will I always have to be on the lookout for updates/upgrades that will delete it?


Pretty sure I've had to do this every version since I started on Ubuntu 14.04. But I always do a fresh install of the LTS versions, not the smaller releases, so afraid can't answer those questions....

---

