---
title: "saving a flash ebook from website"
date: 2009-12-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2009-12-18
on  Ubuntu 8.10- the Intrepid Ibex

I want to save this web page for my chemistry class so I can view it off line. But its written in flash. I've tried flash hunter with winblows and it doesn't save the page right...

The following is the web page but it's password protected. Cause they don't want others doing my chemistry homework.:roll:

[HTML]
http://www.webassign.net/v4cgi/extra/ebookwrapper/index.tpl?ebook_url=http://img.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/toc.html&type=vpage&id=84&UserPass=96d13652d4f9e60a2768a17ac946f04b[/HTML]

Below is a screen shot of the page

[HTML]http://naturesfractal.blogspot.com/[/HTML]

on the 31st my book will expire and the 'evil corporation' will have stopped access to my book

Any help would be appreciated, I have access to both winblows and ubuntu so we can be real creative.

Thank you for your time

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2009-12-18
DownloadHelper is an extension to Firefox, which can save flash videos.

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2009-12-24
I know about the copious tools to save flash videos, thank you still. What I need, I think, would be more like saving the frame, and the flash video. Is there any thing that can do that? (to new posters also see  original post)

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2010-01-04
Apparently I have till the 31st now. If any one can help that would be great.

---

### Post by nanotube on 2010-01-05
well, not being able to view the source of the webpage, we can't really help you. 

the general approach would be to examine the page source to see where stuff is, save the page source, save the swf object, try opening the stuff on the local disk. if it still doesn't work, probably the swf is retrieving the docs from elsewhere on the server - track this down by either viewing the swf source to get at any embedded strings/urls, or by sniffing network traffic to see what http requests are being made while you are leafing through the swf, to see what other data files are being retrieved. 

in short: it's a custom job, and only you, or someone who has access to the page, can do it for you.

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2010-01-05
Nanotube, thank you for the reply. How does one sniff the network traffic? the rest of your post I think I can figure out.

Although I would be willing to give out this information, I would rather learn than be given something.

---

### Post by nanotube on 2010-01-05
> **WaNaBePi said:**
> Nanotube, thank you for the reply. How does one sniff the network traffic? the rest of your post I think I can figure out.


something like wireshark should do it. possibly even the firebug extension for firefox - but not sure if that'll see the network traffic generated by the flash objects. wireshark is a sure bet.

> 
Although I would be willing to give out this information, I would rather learn than be given something.

commendable! :) good luck - ask if you have further questions.

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2010-01-08
I have wire shark installed, it says ready to load or capture. I opened it in root seemed to show more stuff like the capture interfaces, handy...

2847	170.239763	192.168.1.66	128.109.135.22	HTTP	GET /ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/ii.swf HTTP/1.1

The above line is shown in wire shark, I think thats what I need but it is in black how can I save this if it is a "bad"/"lost" packet? 

When I put in 128.109.135.22 in firefox I don't get the ebook flash page only the login screen for webassign.... it's like i need to be in two places at once for this to work, which I can do actually, I have a spare Internet line and computer, but yea i need help.

If I combine "128.109.135.2//ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/ii.swf HTTP/1.1" I get the web page saying "We're sorry, your session access to this eBook has timed out. Please login again to access your materials.

If you continue to experience difficulties, close your browser windowsand clear out your cookies."

So it seems I'm getting pretty warm

Lastly Wireshark is cool!

---

### Post by nanotube on 2010-01-08
cookies are stored with the domain, so when you use the ip your session cookies are not picked up. just use the domain instead of the ip.

so e.g., if you normally log in to the website, and end up somewhere like "http://www.somesite.com/something/somethingelse/page.html"

then after your info from wireshark, you should open a new tab (or even do it in the same window - but i like a new tab :) ), and go to:
"http://www.somesite.com/ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/ii.swf"
and you'll go directly to the swf. then you can 'save page as' and save it to disk.

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2010-01-08
"http://www.webassign.net/v4cgi/extra/ebookwrapper/index.tpl?ebook_url=http://img.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/toc.html&type=vpage&id=84&UserPass=489cbcf67cc40c2814fe2a813bf1c8f4"

The above is what is shown in fire fox.

I have noticed that I can view the entire book from my history so long as i don't log out of ubuntu, or press the log out button on the webassign page...(don't  know if that will help)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"http://www.webassign.net/v4cgi/student.pl?UserPass=489cbcf67cc40c2814fe2a813bf1c8f4/ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/0092.swf HTTP/1.1"

when i input the above firfox takes me to login screen with message that i was timed out etc...

"http://www.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/0092.swf HTTP/1.1"

the above yields the following:

The requested URL /ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/0092.swf HTTP/1.1 was not found on this server.

while cruising around the info in wireshark I did find "Cookie: UserPass=489cbcf67cc40c2814fe2a813bf1c8f4; zumintro6=a9dcd8c9ecbb409e5df475dae400f1d6" in the "hypertext tranfser protocol" section from the packet "5140	1076.175435	192.168.1.66	128.109.135.22	HTTP	GET /ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/0092.swf HTTP/1.1"

If I input "http://www.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/0092.swf"

The tab title changes to "0092.swf (application/w-shockwave-flash object)" seems like I'm getting warmer with that, but the page is just white, if i right click the context menu it is like the one I get when I right click on a flash object...

Thank you for your continued help.

---

### Post by nanotube on 2010-01-08
first: don't enter http/1.1 at the end into the url bar - that's just an indication of the protocol in wireshark. in the browser, that's taken care of by the initial [http://.](http://.) 

second: there are possibly several little flash crapplets floating around in the page, so you have to figure out which one it is.

also, as i mentioned before, as far as hunting for the swf, it may easier to do that by examining the source. select the region of the webpage which contains the swf, right click -> view selection source, and see if you can figure it out. then if any other resources are used by the swf, that's when wireshark comes in handy.

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2010-01-09
Ok no http/1.1

Section appears to be disabled on the page with the flash object so I can't use right click to view the source. When I right click after hitting _control+a or shift and arrow keys or click and drag_ (to select all, or any thing) the right click context menu I get is "settings..." and "about adobe flash player 10...". No view source or anything like it, is there a way to enable this even though the page does not allow this?

There seems to be .xml and .swf working together to make the page. can I make them combine some how to see the page ex:
/ebooks/zumintro6/data/xml/zumdahl/0091.xml
/ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/0091.swf

Both of those above lines(packets) show up.

Once I did manage to get the search feature from the page to show up, but it did not work, and did not look the way is was supposed to. I have not been able to repeat that again though.

```
This XML file does not appear to have any style information associated with it. The document tree is shown below.
      
&#8722;
<page id="">
<map name="Map" id="Map"/>
</page>
```

I get he above if I put in "http://img.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/data/xml/zumdahl/0091.xml" in firefox.

```
1320	726.756744	192.168.1.66	128.109.135.22	HTTP	GET /ebooks/zumintro6/data/xml/zumdahl/0094.xml HTTP/1.1 

1321	726.762204	128.109.135.22	192.168.1.66	TCP	http > 55942 [SYN, ACK] Seq=0 Ack=1 Win=65535 Len=0 MSS=1460 WS=3 TSV=356186225 TSER=1698506

1322	726.762237	192.168.1.66	128.109.135.22	TCP	55942 > http [ACK] Seq=1 Ack=1 Win=5888 Len=0 TSV=1698531 TSER=356186225

1323	726.762307	192.168.1.66	128.109.135.22	HTTP	GET /ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/0094.swf HTTP/1.1 

1324	726.906202	128.109.135.22	192.168.1.66	TCP	[TCP Previous segment lost] http > 55941 [FIN, ACK] Seq=385 Ack=528 Win=66608 Len=0 TSV=2603375534 TSER=1698530

1325	726.906244	192.168.1.66	128.109.135.22	TCP	[TCP Dup ACK 1320#1] 55941 > http [ACK] Seq=528 Ack=1 Win=5888 Len=0 TSV=1698567 TSER=2603375385 SLE=385 SRE=386

1326	726.912099	128.109.135.22	192.168.1.66	HTTP/XML	[TCP Retransmission] HTTP/1.1 200 OK
```

The above is a string mentioning what I think is the useful info maybe you can inform me as to how packets 1326, 1325, 1324, 1322, 1321 are of some use, if at all. Should I look for other things besides flash or .swf? what are some key things to look for in wireshark?

```
1450	1284.589670	192.168.1.66	209.190.164.116	HTTP	POST /ebooksearch/cengage_calsearch HTTP/1.1  (application/x-www-form-urlencoded)
``` The last word in that string is "urlencoded" is there a way to decode? seems like that may be necessary.

Thank you.

---

### Post by nanotube on 2010-01-09
> **WaNaBePi said:**
> 
Section appears to be disabled on the page with the flash object so I can't use right click to view the source. When I right click after hitting _control+a or shift and arrow keys or click and drag_ (to select all, or any thing) the right click context menu I get is "settings..." and "about adobe flash player 10...". No view source or anything like it, is there a way to enable this even though the page does not allow this?

you have to click outside of the flash object to see the usual firefox menu. if the whole page is one big flash object... then you can't get the context menu. you can do page -> view page source from the menu, though... 

> 
There seems to be .xml and .swf working together to make the page. can I make them combine some how to see the page ex:
/ebooks/zumintro6/data/xml/zumdahl/0091.xml
/ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/0091.swf

Both of those above lines(packets) show up.

that's encouraging... 

> 
```
This XML file does not appear to have any style information associated with it. The document tree is shown below.
      
&#8722;
<page id="">
<map name="Map" id="Map"/>
</page>
```

I get he above if I put in "http://img.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/data/xml/zumdahl/0091.xml" in firefox.

hrm, just about empty... 

> 
```
1320	726.756744	192.168.1.66	128.109.135.22	HTTP	GET /ebooks/zumintro6/data/xml/zumdahl/0094.xml HTTP/1.1 

1321	726.762204	128.109.135.22	192.168.1.66	TCP	http > 55942 [SYN, ACK] Seq=0 Ack=1 Win=65535 Len=0 MSS=1460 WS=3 TSV=356186225 TSER=1698506

1322	726.762237	192.168.1.66	128.109.135.22	TCP	55942 > http [ACK] Seq=1 Ack=1 Win=5888 Len=0 TSV=1698531 TSER=356186225

1323	726.762307	192.168.1.66	128.109.135.22	HTTP	GET /ebooks/zumintro6/data/swf/zumdahl_rects/0094.swf HTTP/1.1 

1324	726.906202	128.109.135.22	192.168.1.66	TCP	[TCP Previous segment lost] http > 55941 [FIN, ACK] Seq=385 Ack=528 Win=66608 Len=0 TSV=2603375534 TSER=1698530

1325	726.906244	192.168.1.66	128.109.135.22	TCP	[TCP Dup ACK 1320#1] 55941 > http [ACK] Seq=528 Ack=1 Win=5888 Len=0 TSV=1698567 TSER=2603375385 SLE=385 SRE=386

1326	726.912099	128.109.135.22	192.168.1.66	HTTP/XML	[TCP Retransmission] HTTP/1.1 200 OK
```

The above is a string mentioning what I think is the useful info maybe you can inform me as to how packets 1326, 1325, 1324, 1322, 1321 are of some use, if at all.


no those other packets are useless for your purposes...

> 
 Should I look for other things besides flash or .swf? what are some key things to look for in wireshark?

well the swf object may be getting info from any type of file... so it's hard to say specifically. usually there's an xml, which further specifies the resources like jpgs etc... but it could use them directly as well...

> 
```
1450	1284.589670	192.168.1.66	209.190.164.116	HTTP	POST /ebooksearch/cengage_calsearch HTTP/1.1  (application/x-www-form-urlencoded)
``` The last word in that string is "urlencoded" is there a way to decode? seems like that may be necessary.


that's just the mime type... don't worry about it.

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2010-01-12
Sorry for being a newb.

```
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html dir="ltr">
<head>
<title>Introductory Chemistry: A Foundation</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
<style type="text/css">
    html, body, div, iframe { margin:0; padding:0; height:100%; }
    iframe { display:block; width:100%; border:none; }
</style>
<script type='text/javascript' src='/wastatic/lib/js/mootools-1.2.2.js'></script>
<script type='text/javascript' src='/wastatic/common/js/ebookcontent.js'></script>
</head>
<body>
<iframe src="http://img.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/toc.html?page="></iframe>
</body>

</html>
```

So that is the page source info... It's written in java?

So can I get the java layout some how?...When you said it would be a "custom job"...I'm basically writing(creating) a web page the quick and dirty way... it just hit me...?

Thank you so much for helping, ha well teaching me, thank you.

---

### Post by nanotube on 2010-01-12
> **WaNaBePi said:**
> Sorry for being a newb.

```
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html dir="ltr">
<head>
<title>Introductory Chemistry: A Foundation</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
<style type="text/css">
    html, body, div, iframe { margin:0; padding:0; height:100%; }
    iframe { display:block; width:100%; border:none; }
</style>
<script type='text/javascript' src='/wastatic/lib/js/mootools-1.2.2.js'></script>
<script type='text/javascript' src='/wastatic/common/js/ebookcontent.js'></script>
</head>
<body>
<iframe src="http://img.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/toc.html?page="></iframe>
</body>

</html>
```

So that is the page source info... It's written in java?

So can I get the java layout some how?...When you said it would be a "custom job"...I'm basically writing(creating) a web page the quick and dirty way... it just hit me...?

Thank you so much for helping, ha well teaching me, thank you.

well, a large portion of it is probably written in javascript (not java - different language!). mootools is a javascript toolkit - won't find anything useful there. but ebookcontent.js looks like it could be helpful.

also look at the content of the iframe (by viewing 'view frame source' if you can find a place to right-click, or by going to the frame target directly then viewing source)

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2010-01-15
[http://img.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/toc.html?page=7](http://img.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/toc.html?page=7)


[http://img.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/toc.html?page=7&type=vpage&id=84&UserPass=d35d3ac41177376469a9465d9e643496](http://img.webassign.net/ebooks/zumintro6/toc.html?page=7&type=vpage&id=84&UserPass=d35d3ac41177376469a9465d9e643496)

(with unique cookies included, that seems to genertate a new string like:"..UserPass=d35d3ac41177376469a9465d9e643496" for each login)

Yields me page 7 of my book with full functionality! As long as im logged in :(...logging in and out acts as an on/off switch. I can "save page as" in this form but I get a folder containing ebook_.js, flashobject.js, main_ceng.swf, and the file toc.html..how do i *combine* them?

I have what I need I think, I just need a way to make it think its connected, or do i simply have to navigate to every page, then save cause the pages I go to(in the ebook) stick with even if logged out(which i would take a lot of pleasure in doing at this point)?

So I guess wire shark wasn't needed?

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2010-01-17
nanotube, anybody???

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2010-01-19
Please someone help me. I'm so close I can feel it, I just need some confirmations.

---

### Post by WaNaBePi on 2010-01-24
Can someone help me solve this, please?

---

### Post by nanotube on 2010-01-25
hey, sorry, i'm just leaving this for you to poke around in by yourself.

without having the site and the code in front of me, it's like trying to perform surgery while blindfolded. 

i've given you all the 'generic tips' i had, now it's up to you to see if you can figure it out....

---

