---
title: "Dual Monitors"
date: 2009-02-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by baudday on 2009-02-06
Hi, I was wondering if someone could help me configure my system so that I can run dual monitors. I checked online, but a lot of the guides seemed outdated, and the few I tried didn't work well for me. Currently I have them both plugged in, and they're both working, but they're showing the same thing. I would like them to work together to create a larger workspace. Here's my xorg.conf file.

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Default Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Default Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
	Disable	"dri2"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"fglrx"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-02-06
SInce you are using the ati fglrx driver you need to use the Catalyst Control Center to change your monitors to bigdesktop mode. It should be in your menus somewhere.

---

### Post by baudday on 2009-02-07
I have a problem with the control center. it won't open at all.

---

### Post by baudday on 2009-02-07
Okay, I'm able to open CCC now, but I try to apply a big desktop layout and the whole screen will mess up to where i can't make anything out. I have tried to just restart it messed up like that and it will boot back up to the login screen in big desktop mode. so that the mouse moves accross both screens. then as soon as it actually logs in, it will revert back to the cloned form. i would really appreciate further help on this

---

### Post by baudday on 2009-02-07
I got it to work with different drivers. but I don't think I can run wow like this

---

### Post by pi3r9 on 2009-02-07
What drivers did you use? I did the updates today and rebooted my machine and now I have a REALLY odd screen res and it looks horrible and I cant get it back to normal. I also think by trying to use envy and then the binary drivers I may have taken one step forward 2 steps back. HELP PLEASE

*edit*
So I think I got rid of all the ati drivers, went back to the default ubuntu restircted and installed fglrx-control. I now have dual screens back but its like..the best way I can describe is that it's like  being zoomed in. The wallpaper resolution looks about right but all my programs, icons, folders etc are HUGE compared to how they were earlier today.

---

### Post by baudday on 2009-02-08
yeah that's what happened to me. you have the wrong resolution. you're gonna wanna not use fglrx. I followed this guide [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)

It works great, but unfortunately I am not able to run wow with it.

---

