---
title: "New Nvidia Graphics Card will not display correct resolution"
date: 2010-06-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by AmateurDev on 2010-06-12
Since there was pretty much [no hope]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9378449&postcount=486") for 3D effects with my old SIS card, I upgraded to an Nvidia GeForce 220. I installed the drivers on my Windows partition just fine, and it works well. I have never installed a graphics card driver, or any driver for that matter on Ubuntu. I tried the nvidia-current driver from the Hardware Drivers, and it installed, but it would not activate. I tried uninstalling and reinstalling from the console like [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8696421&postcount=2") post suggests, but that did not work either, when I rebooted, an error message appeared saying the the Nvidia module couldn't load, or something like that. I tried setting the HorizSync and VertRefresh values, but that didn't help either. Here's my xorg.conf file:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Fri Mar 12 01:42:27 PST 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Samsung"
    ModelName      "913T"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Now Hardware Drivers says the driver is active and in use, but it still won't display the correct resolution(I have 1024x768, I want 1280x1024)
I tried setting the resolution in the Nvidia X Server Settings, but and error appears saying:
You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.

I tried restarting X using CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE and running: ```
sudo gdm service restart
```, but all it gives me is:
** (gdm-binary:2453): WARNING **: Failed to acquire org.gnome.DisplayManager

** (gdm-binary:2453): WARNING **: Could not acquire name; bailing out

I am going to try the official driver from Nvidia to see if that will work. I wasn't able to earlier because the server was busy.

---

### Post by AmateurDev on 2010-06-12
I don't know how to install the driver I downloaded from the Nvidia website, so I guess I'm stuck until someone helps me

---

### Post by Dmethoxibit on 2010-06-14
Put the driver onto your dekstop.  Press ctrl+alt+F1 then cd Desktop.  Then sudo sh ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86-***.**.**-pkg*.run.  After 'N' you can press tab and the rest of the file name should be filled in.

---

### Post by AmateurDev on 2010-09-05
Thanks, I figured that out by searching some threads, but I couldn't build the driver because the version of the compiler was different than the one that the driver was written for. I eventually gave the computer away to a friend and deleted Ubuntu because I didn't think he would like Ubuntu very much. He got a virus on it, so I just wiped the hard drive and installed Xubuntu 10.04 and the graphics drivers are working properly now, so I guess a default installation did the trick.

---

