---
title: "10.04 and ipod touch syncing issues"
date: 2010-06-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jbrown101st on 2010-06-05
Okay, so I just recently upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 after learning about the ipod support out of the box (i had previously been using windows). I can connect the ipod but it doesn't show up with an ipod touch icon, instead it has the classic ipod icon. So, I open up Rhythmbox and I can see the songs on the device, when I go to drag in drop a song onto the ipod, in the bottom right corner it says transferring. After that finishes the ipod itself says "Sync in Progress". A few seconds pass and Rhythmbox suddenly crashes, it disappears without a trace, no error messages. But, the song isn't on my ipod. I've also tried GTKpod and it does the EXACT same thing. Sorry if this has been resolved, I've been looking for a fix for the past 2 days. Would it possibly be a problem with the upgrade instead of a fresh install of ubuntu? Any help would be appreciated!

---

### Post by DonL on 2010-06-05
I have a similar problem. I can drag a file to the iPod, everything looks good, but when I look for it with the iPod it doesn't show up. If I look at the device using Nautilus, it shows up. It's like Apple doesn't want to recognize it.

---

### Post by jbrown101st on 2010-06-07
Okay, so I tried doing a clean install of 10.04 instead of an upgrade. But, the issue is still the exact same.

---

### Post by navigator69 on 2010-06-10
Ok I had the same problem, what you have to do is get the latest firmware for the ipod touch. i had to use a computer with itunes on it. the firmware you can get for free if you do some research on how to do it (youtube). 
Hope this helps

---

### Post by PJOS13 on 2010-06-14
I have the same problem, and updating the firmware didn't work.

---

