---
title: "vlc, streamtuner"
date: 2008-08-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by hkd4 on 2008-08-03
I had a system crash and had to rebuild my system from scratch. It had VLC and streamtuner working together to record and play any audio I clicked on in streamtuner. It also copied the title to the file that it saved. I have set up VLC to play anything I click but can't get it to record. I had found the info on how to do the recording with a google search but can not locate it again. (Maybe the post has been removed?) I found a thread on this forum that uses the temporary file generated by streamtuner but VLC can't open it. The temp name also changes each day.
Any suggestion would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-08-03
Open streamtuner and go to Edit-->Preferences change xmms %q to vlc %q beside Listen to .M3u file.

Jim

---

### Post by mrreality13 on 2008-08-03
you can in synaptic get, "streamripper" i use it with vlc, and it will work nicely

---

### Post by hkd4 on 2008-08-04
I have already made the changes in streamtuner which allows me to listen to the stream. My problem is I can't record the steam.
Can Streamripper play and record with song titles? 
I would like to exaust all efforts on VLC,Streamtuner before I try Streamripper. My old setup allowed me to listen and record with titles which is what I am looking for.

Thanks for the reply's. 

I will keep searching and experimenting for the answer.

---

### Post by hkd4 on 2008-08-04
Problem solved!!!

Iam using streamtuner with streamripper from directions from Nano at

 [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-28356.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-28356.html).

This give me some direction to experiment with for getting vlc to function the way I want.

---

