---
title: "[12.10] AMD A6-3420M (6520g)"
date: 2012-11-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by gdea73 on 2012-11-08
I'm having major problems with the A6-3420M APU. It has a Radeon HD 6520G chipset built in. This laptop also has a discrete graphics card but it has been disabled in BIOS, it would only cause further problems.

After a fresh install of 12.10, I got a purple screen. I was able to boot with "nomodeset," but then my screen was locked into a 1024x768 resolution, where its native resolution is 1366x768. And while I intended to install fglrx anyway, this confirmed that this was my only choice. (When using the open source driver with nomodeset, the computer is almost unusuably slow, as well.)

I installed Catalyst 12.10 + fglrx manually using the [http://wiki.cchtml.com/](http://wiki.cchtml.com/) guide. I installed it with the "build distribution-specific package" method (i.e. --buildpkg Ubuntu/quantal). The packages installed successfully and I ran aticonfig --initial. HOWEVER:

1) fglrxinfo outputs: "Error: unable to open display (null)"

2) I cannot login to GNOME. I enter my password and press "Enter," the screen flickers to a terminal (Checking battery state?) for less than half a second, and then goes back to the login screen.

HELP. This is incredibly frustrating.  I have tried 12.04 LTS and 12.10, multiple versions of fglrx, and multiple methods of installation. I have tried the official repositories, I have tried using a beta version of X. TIA.

- gdea73

---

