---
title: "12.04:  Will Ubuntu/Kubuntu leave Xorg as 1.12 throughout the full life cycle (5 yrs)"
date: 2012-11-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by lmyer on 2012-11-28
Just evaluated 12.10 on my PC with AMD HD 3000 integrated graphics, and dropped back/installed 12.04 to get the Catalyst **12.6 Legacy** driver for **Linux** x86/x86_64 to work with my "older display", in the PC that I bought only last Summer. All works fine in 12.04. I understand the problem with 12.10 is because xorg server went from 1.12 to 1.13, this proprietary display driver works with max of xorg server 1.12, and that no accelerated graphics driver is available for xorg server 1.13 and my card.
 
If I stay with 12.04, am I assured of xorg server 1.12 (and resulting compatibility with the display driver/my card) throughout the 5-year life cycle? If so, we have a winner. I don't want to worry about which updates I do, as long as I don't upgrade.......
 
Please advise. Thanks!
 
By the way, this driver gives a beautiful display on my Sony 46" flatscreen in 1280 x 720 (why I wanted the Catalyst driver).  Been using Ubuntu 10.04 for daily Internet use (on a different PC, since this version of Ubuntu was the newest version) and with Windows 8 impending I wanted to see if the newer versions had improved multimedia enough to start thinking about using Linux for my home entertainment PC.  So far - five steps forward for Ubuntu/Kubuntu and seemingly one step back.  Initially video seems quite jerky in comparison to Windows 7.  We will see...  any ideas?

---

### Post by monkeybrain2012 on 2012-11-28
If you are worried you can always pin your version so it won't get upgraded. The easiest way would be to install synpatic and then choose the software you want to pin and click the tab Package and check "Lock Version" in the drop down.

---

