---
title: "(9.10) Installing ATI drivers - vcdk not found?"
date: 2010-03-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by anextx on 2010-03-28
Hello all,
I booted my system yesterday to find that my resolution was set to 800x600, System>Preferences>Display listed my monitor as Unknown, and my ATI graphics driver was listed as uninstalled.

I tried using this thread here (the same one I successfully used to install my initial graphics driver) but am running into an issue. I've gotten the correct driver from AMD's website and built the necessary dependencies, and when I run the installer it does start up a graphical interface. However selecting and trying to install the driver from within the installer's GUI causes an error to occur: "vcdk is missing".

I've also tried the 2nd method listed on that same webpage. Everything is fine until I install the packages.
sudo dpkg -i *.deb

This outputs an error: "Errors were encountered while processing:
xorg-driver-fglrx_8.712-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb"


I have also tried rebooting in safe mode and removing the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, hoping that a new default driver will be installed on next startup.


Nothing so far has worked. 'aticonfig --initial' tells me I have no ATI drivers installed. Can anyone help me get this up and running? 800x600 is KILLING me...

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-03-29
Just to ensure you're not wasting your time, what is the model number of your ATI card/chip?  

Unless it's one of the newer HD 3x/4x/5x ones, the ATI drivers will NOT work with your card.

---

