---
title: "Can I assign Different Keyboards to Diffe rent Screens ?  nvidia . ."
date: 2008-10-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by NewDream on 2008-10-08
Using Ubuntu Hardy 8.04.  Successfully installed nvidia drivers a while ago (and compiz) with no problems.  Just today managed to get nvidia-settings to behave and now have dual monitors, with separate X sessions!  I did have a question I haven't run across, yet, though. . . 

Can I use a different keyboard for each screen?  I have an external usb keyboard I'd like to assign to the second screen so that I don't have to drag the mouse over and click the application I want to input.  I'd assume because of all the InputDevice sections in xorg this is possible. . . 
Here is the existing (nvidia-settings generated) xorg.conf if it helps. . . . Thanks !

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Thu Jun  5 09:26:53 UTC 2008

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" 1440 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"

# Removed Option "Xinerama" "1"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "AUO"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "NEC MultiSync 75"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 120.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400M GS"
    BusID          "PCI:5:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400M GS"
    BusID          "PCI:5:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Videocard1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
EndSection

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-10-08
i dont think what you want is possible and if it is it will be pretty complicated. as i understand it, you want to be able to use the same mouse, and the same user for both screens, but different keyboards? or perhaps not...

you can create a multiseat set up whereby each monitor has its own username, mouse and keyboard though. having both interact with eachother should be possible but probably a massive pain in the ***.

check out:

[http://linuxgazette.net/124/smith.html](http://linuxgazette.net/124/smith.html)
[http://blog.chris.tylers.info/index.php?/archives/14-Multiseat-X-Under-X11R6.97.0.html](http://blog.chris.tylers.info/index.php?/archives/14-Multiseat-X-Under-X11R6.97.0.html)

i know those links are more towards multiseat stuff and perhaps not that useful  :/

---

### Post by NewDream on 2008-10-09
Thanks for reply . . . 
  Yes, all I really want to do is attach an external keyboard to the second screen (only).  The situation is, the screens are in different places.  So if I am at the secondary screen, right now I can't use the keyboard without affecting only the first screen (need to click on the second screen first).  Also can't seem to use alt-tab to find the window I want.  Maybe there is a key combo I could press to switch to the second screen?  Something like that?    

Thanks again !

---

