---
title: "9.04 Bigdesktop, understanding Xorg"
date: 2009-05-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by theparadoxical on 2009-05-05
I have followed the following tutorial to setup big desktop for my Radeon 4850 with latest FGLRX drivers: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174)

This resulted in having a working bigdesktop. However, I still experience problems with my screen resolution. I have 2 1440*900 LCD&#347;, and my main one runs on 1440x900, the other one however does not work on 1140*900, but runs a lower resolution.

[html]my XORG file and some comments and questions I placed within it:

# no serverlayout has been generated. Is it required?

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

# this is the only module which is being loaded, what has happened with the rest of them?

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "L192WS"
HorizSync     30-83
VertRefresh    56-75
Option "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

# my monitor did not have the right resolution until i set the Horisync and VertSynnc values
# with bigdesktop you do not have to set values for your second screen (this is done below?)

Section "Device"
Identifier "aticonfig-Device[0]"
Driver "fglrx"
Option "DesktopSetup"  "horizontal"
Option "DesktopSetup" "LVDS,LVDS"
Option "EnablePrivateBackZ" "yes" 
Option "HSync2" "48.4"  
Option "VRefresh2" "60.0"
Option "Mode2" "1440x900"
EndSection

# here i get res and synbc of second screen, it is not working however.

Section "Screen"
Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
Device "aticonfig-Device[0]"
Monitor "L192WS"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Viewport 0 0
Depth 24
Modes "1440x900_75.00"
EndSubSection
EndSection

#only 1 screen is configured. In the tutorial I saw people putting Modes "1440x900" "1440x900"
#this did not work for me[/html]

---

### Post by theparadoxical on 2009-05-05
I already fixed my issue. I really cannot believe it has to be like this..

I have been searching and searching for a while to find the correct settings for my Packard Bell Meastro 191W. This is what I managed to find on some chinese website (keyword: KT-191W on google:)
[COLOR=black]
[/COLOR][COLOR=black]HorizSync 30-81 
	VertRefresh 56-75 

There is nothing I can find about this in the product specs from PB. I am really amazed by this lack of information, and the fact that this took me over 6 hours to fix. I will write a complaint to Packard bell for this.
[/COLOR]

---

