---
title: "MKV video very choppy in VLC"
date: 2009-11-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Xog on 2009-11-21
This video is even worse in MPlayer, Movie Player, and Kaffeine. 
I downloaded a very render-heavy video called "Byousoku 5 Centimeter", it is an MKV file and it runs these codecs:

File:                    Byousoku 5 Centimeter [anon32][D3949F28].mkv
Analisys Date:           21-11-2009 18:48:07
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
VideoTrack 01            V_MPEG4/ISO/AVC  (1920x1080)
SubtitleTrack 01         [eng] S_TEXT/***

AudioTrack 01            [jpn] A_AAC - 48000 Hz - 2 channels



Report generated by themonospot v0.7.3 --- Gtk# Gui v0.1.4
project web site: [http://www.integrazioneweb.com/themonospot](http://www.integrazioneweb.com/themonospot)

The video is very choppy, but the sound continues once the video stops. After about 5 seconds, it'll show 1 frame, then freeze again, with sound continuing as it should.. Sometimes I can get it to run at some spots that it freezes at. Is there a way I can reduce the file size? The file is very large (2.4GB) and is only an hour long, so I assume requires a lot of processing power.

I've got a Pentium 4 2.4Ghz Duo Processor, with a GeForce 7200 Go. (this is a laptop, i never have problems playing videos, and i've played hundreds)

---

### Post by SR_ELPIRATA on 2009-11-23
Without having seen the file...

That is HD 1080p and having a dual core CPU should be run no problems, but... I'm not really sure the 7200Go can handle it. I'm running a HD3300 and usually 1080p demos I have... run flawless.

I would think that you're graphics hardware is not up to the task (dont have a 7200 around so I can't really say, but far as I remember, nVidia's HD cards were from the 8200 upwards).

ELP

---

