---
title: "[8.04] Resolution ok but vertical &amp; horizontal size slightly off"
date: 2008-05-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Donalb on 2008-05-12
Hi All, I'm trying to move to Ubuntu 100% so extend the life of my 3 yo Dell D600 laptop. Just installed a Dual boot Hardy/XP. And I've only been using Ubuntu occasionally for a few months. I'm trying to love it but I'm a newbie small things screw me up still. Like.....how to adjust the screen?

I have a 19" generic LCD monitor (Medion/Aldi). Resolution looks fine but the horizontal and vertical sizes are slightly off. 
Vertical cuts off the bottom menu while the horizontal is about 0.5 cm too wide cutting off on the right (cuts off scroll bars/ date/time).
I've tried different resolutions (from the Preferences>Screen Resolution> menu) but only the current 1280 x 1024 seems to work at all.
Tried lots of searches but couldn't seem to find anything relevant. 

Any pointers?

Regards
Donal

---

### Post by Virtual_Ron on 2008-05-12
Is it possible that you need to manually adjust this on your monitor?

---

### Post by Donalb on 2008-05-19
I'm afraid not. Obv. the first thing I tried. Any other thoughts?

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-05-19
is 1280x1024 the default resolution for your monitor? what is the highest resolution you can display under windows? what video card do you have?

there is a chance that ubuntu is overscanning (a problem that can be fixed) although that is usually only a problem with HDTVs and the like.

its unusual that just pressing the auto button doesnt fix this. are there gaps on the opposite side of the screen to the overlap (ie, is the screen not central, or is it too big?)

---

### Post by Donalb on 2008-05-20
Hi Aeiah, 
I use 1280 x 1024 in XP.
It's a 3 yo Dell Latitude D 600 laptop with  an integrated ATI Radeon RV225 FireGL 9000 video card (according to Sysinfo).

It's slightly too big and off centre. The left and top alignment seem ok but the bottom menu isn't visible and it's also too wide on the right hand side. No monitor adjustment (Auto or menu) fix it.

Donal

---

