---
title: "10.04 mplayer with dvdnav"
date: 2010-07-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by drumz on 2010-07-10
Does anyone know where I can find a package for mplayer with dvdnav support enabled?

I was disappointed to discover that in 10.04 dvdnav support was disabled in mplayer.  I rely on it for my mythtv front end box to be able to play DVDs.  According to a bug it was disabled because of an upstream email chain where dvdnav was considered 'experimental' and 'not ready for production use'.  Funny as it worked fine for me.

Post #6 here is where I found the above reasoning for it being disabled.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mplayer/+bug/542268]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mplayer/+bug/542268")

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-07-10
I would think most any ppa offering mplayer, here's one 
[https://launchpad.net/~rvm/+archive/mplayer?field.series_filter=lucid](https://launchpad.net/~rvm/+archive/mplayer?field.series_filter=lucid)

---

### Post by drumz on 2010-07-10
Sweet!  Just tried it on my laptop and DVD menu navigation works.  Thanks for the help on this, it's greatly appreciated.

I'll flip this to 'solved' after I get a chance to install/test on my MythTV frontend box.

---

### Post by drumz on 2010-07-11
For my myth frontend box it works (dvd menu is displayed), but the controls from my remote aren't properly navigating around the menu (up/down/left/right/select) even though they work fine everywhere else in myth.  So I'll need to do some tinkering to get that part working but at least I'm a step closer than before.

---

### Post by drumz on 2010-07-11
Got it working.  Copied my ~/.lirc/mplayer file from a backup and remote control is functional again in mplayer.  The default file provided even under 10.04 is almost functional, but my hand built one from before rebuilding the box is functional.

So to recap, using the mplayer at the link provided by mc4man support dvdnav if you need/want that functionality and don't want to go about building mplayer by hand.  Once the PPA is added and you update the available packages, mplayer will show up as needing an 'upgrade' along with a couple of other packages.  In my case they all upgraded fine except for 'menucoder', searching for and flagging it to be upgraded a 2nd time worked cleanly.

Marking thread as 'solved'.

---

### Post by bcg30506 on 2010-08-27
> **mc4man said:**
> I would think most any ppa offering mplayer, here's one 
[https://launchpad.net/~rvm/+archive/mplayer?field.series_filter=lucid](https://launchpad.net/~rvm/+archive/mplayer?field.series_filter=lucid)

Does this version support VDPAU?  I require that for my HD videos and the mythbuntu version does.

---

### Post by Linuxforall on 2010-08-27
> **bcg30506 said:**
> Does this version support VDPAU?  I require that for my HD videos and the mythbuntu version does.

Yes it does as long as you have nvidia with drivers installed.

---

### Post by bcg30506 on 2010-08-28
Thank you!  I installed it and sure enough, it plays DVDs with menu navigation using VPDAU and only about 3% CPU usage.  Awesome!

Does anyone know what the config command in LIRC is for mplayer to return to the menu when watching a DVD?  It's the only thing I haven't got working yet.  I've tried every one I can think of.  I know on the keyboard either Backspace or ESC does it.  I tried key_down_event 8 but that didn't work either.

---

### Post by bcg30506 on 2010-08-29
Got it!  I found after many searches the answer to return to the DVD menu in mplayer via the remote is dvdnav 7.

---

