---
title: "Confused; xorg.conf seems empty?"
date: 2008-10-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by sheaiden on 2008-10-17
I recently tried to troubleshoot something in Wine, and discovered that my xorg.conf file is completely generic, and mostly empty.  I'm confused how this works...

I have a Sony Vaio TX750P/B, the screen has 1366X768, and I'm running Ubuntu 8.04.  

How can I see what driver it's useing?  how does it determine what video modes to use?  how does it determine what depth to use?  how can I see what depth to use?  the system doesn't seem to be running generically, even though it seems to be configured completely generically.

Note: I have DRI turned off on purpose-it was the only way I could get Fallout to install in Wine on my Intel 915GM.  I'm still searching for a way around this...Either way, that's the only line I've added.  

Here's the contents of my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option "DRI" "False"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


Can anyone explain this?

---

### Post by anystupidname on 2008-10-17
I imagine the "/var/log/Xorg.0.log" would tell you what driver is actually being used. I believe if you're running ATI, "fglrxinfo" would be useful. For Nvidia, I'm not sure (sorry). You can try "lshw -C video" too

---

### Post by sheaiden on 2008-10-17
Arg, I forgot the number 1 rule...look in the logs.  

OK, that solved the issue of me knowing what has actually happened-thanks.  

Can anyone explain why my xorg.conf is so empty, when everyone posting on forums (Not to mention Gentoo whenever I've gotten that running) has specific settings in there?  I can see it's doing on-the-fly scanning, but why?  and where is that set?

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-10-17
xorg.conf is being deprecated. Xorg believes that xorg.conf is no longer necessary with imporvements in autodetection and optional configuration moved to the drivers and elsewhere. Future versions of x will have no xorg.conf.

---

### Post by mikeasus on 2008-10-19
If there is no longer going to be a xorg.conf file, how would I adjust the screen resolution in E .16? I also have a generic xorg.conf file. I am trying to use Enlightenment .16 but only have two options for resolutions. 1600x1200, which is too large, I can't read most of the menu text. Or something close to 300x200. Neither of which are listed on xorg.conf.

---

### Post by mooha on 2008-11-01
>  Re: Confused; xorg.conf seems empty?
If there is no longer going to be a xorg.conf file, how would I adjust the screen resolution in E .16? I also have a generic xorg.conf file. I am trying to use Enlightenment .16 but only have two options for resolutions. 1600x1200, which is too large, I can't read most of the menu text. Or something close to 300x200. Neither of which are listed on xorg.conf.

You're right there's not GUI to configure x, in Opensuse you could do that with Yast, even in Yast Text mode.
That what we are missing in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by bizzu on 2008-11-03
I'm joining this thread because I'd like to understand how does it work...
I'm about to install the restricted drivers from the repo, but how would X recognize the new driver? If there's not a config file, how can I switch between different drivers?
Maybe there's some utility that can generate xorg.conf with the settings X is currently using?

---

### Post by krt on 2008-11-03
This thread seems to have been dropped, and I also see no way to add resolution settings because my xorg.conf file is also empty (8.04).

Odd thing happened the other day; I tried to edit it on another computer (which was also empty) and it gave me an error message and told me to enter some other command in the terminal (which I did), and it fixed the resolution listing, but unfortunately I did not write down the command . . . ?

When I try to use aticonfig, it tells me there is no driver line in xorg.conf which is true, but how do I get the driver in there?

Thanks,

krt

---

### Post by yaromir on 2009-08-17
> 
Maybe there's some utility that can generate xorg.conf with the settings X is currently using?

First of all backup your current xorg.conf :
```

cd /etc/X11/
cp xorg.conf xorg.conf~

```
Try 
```
sudo Xorg --configure
```
to write your curently used settings to xorg.conf
Another way is 
```
sudo xorgconfig
```
This will generate new xorg.conf . 
If something goes wrong you can restore your xorg.conf by
```

cd /etc/X11/
cp xorg.conf~ xorg.conf

```

Good Luck!

---

