---
title: ".rm files in Ubuntu"
date: 2011-01-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by dondiego2 on 2011-01-18
I need to play some .rm videos for a class I am taking.  To do this I have been rebooting in XP.  Is there a way to play these in Ubuntu?  I tried movie player and it wouldn't play.  I tried VLC and it played for a few minutes and then got all garbled.  Also I tried pausing it with VLC and it has no effect.  The only way I can play it is in Windows with Real Media player which I absolutely hate - well, dislike a lot.

---

### Post by akand074 on 2011-01-18
Do you have the restricted extras and w32codecs/w64codecs installed? You can also compile svn mplayer that can play just about anything, check out [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1542240") post. I'm sure it's just a matter of installing the right codecs/libraries.

---

### Post by dondiego2 on 2011-01-19
> **akand074 said:**
> Do you have the restricted extras and w32codecs/w64codecs installed? You can also compile svn mplayer that can play just about anything, check out [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1542240") post. I'm sure it's just a matter of installing the right codecs/libraries.


I'm not sure how to install the restricted extras and codecs you mention.  I went through the install of svn mplayer and all those codecs in that post you mentioned.  It took forever!  But it still did not work.  When I try to run the rm stream in that player it doesn't run, it shows it as zero length.

---

### Post by wojox on 2011-01-19
> **dondiego2 said:**
> I'm not sure how to install the restricted extras and codecs you mention.  I went through the install of svn mplayer and all those codecs in that post you mentioned.  It took forever!  But it still did not work.  When I try to run the rm stream in that player it doesn't run, it shows it as zero length.

[Install Medibuntu]("http://wojox.dyndns.org/?q=node/1")

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-01-19
Hi don,

> **dondiego2 said:**
> When I try to run the rm stream in that player it doesn't run, it shows it as zero length.

Can you give the address of the stream that is failing?

Andrew

---

### Post by dondiego2 on 2011-01-19
> **andrew.46 said:**
> Hi don,



Can you give the address of the stream that is failing?

Andrew


I don't think it would work for you.  It is part of a university web site for a masters class that I am taking and I need to be logged in.  I could send you the rm file that it downloads.  It's 91 bytes.  I guess that file has an address in it that goes and gets the stream.  I'm not sure exactly how it is supposed to work with real player.  I'm not sure if that would work for you either but I can send it to you and you can try it.

---

### Post by dondiego2 on 2011-01-27
I did find out that Real Player makes a Linux version so I downloaded the DEB file, installed it and it works flawlessly!  I think it's better than the Windows Real Player.  I'm am so happy :popcorn: now I don't have to boot into Windows.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2011-01-27
I was going to suggest simply installing RealPlayer--the linux version.  But you already found it.

---

### Post by dondiego2 on 2011-02-22
> **tgalati4 said:**
> I was going to suggest simply installing RealPlayer--the linux version.  But you already found it.

Now it won't run!

```
carl@carl:~$ realplay

** (process:3786): WARNING **: Unsupported locale en_US.utf8! Please use
 a locale with .UTF-8 suffix! For example: export LANGUAGE=en_US.UTF-8

```


Sorry - this is a double post but I just realized I had this thread also.

---

