---
title: "Ati hd3300"
date: 2010-07-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by chrisinspace on 2010-07-29
This is driving me crazy.  I have been trying to get the integrated video on my motherboard to work for days now.  This is for my HTPC.  I recently upgraded the rig with a new motherboard, CPU, and RAM (see specs in my sig).  I knew I wanted an AM3 processor so I chose the Asus M4A78T-E MB.  I thought the integrated ATI video would be a nice bonus.  The system is hooked up to my LCD TV via HDMI.

I installed all of the new hardware, wiped my hard drive, and set up Ubuntu 10.04 Netbook Edition (I like the simplicity of NE's interface for controlling my HTPC).  Everything went great until I used Ubuntu's built-in "Hardware Drivers" utility to install the proprietary ATI driver.  I had done this a hundred times for nVidia cards and it was no big deal.  With the proprietary driver in place, the system becomes unusable. I wish I could easily describe it, but it's just a mess. The desktop loads up fine, but any thing I interact with (menus, icons, open windows) fragments into a bunch of small horizontal lines and takes forever to come into focus. So, next I tried to download the .sh file from ATI and install it manually, but got the same result. I launched the Catalyst Control Panel and noticed that it detects that my TV's refresh rate is 120 Hz, but it will only let me set the display to max of 60.  I think this may be the root of the problem because stationary images are clear, but moving graphics don't display properly. 

Finally, I tried to install the driver using the ubuntu-x-swat repository, however, after the installation, it doesn't seem like the driver is actually there.  If I run fglrxinfo or try to start the Catalyst Control Panel I get errors saying an ATI card has not been detected.

As it stands now, I can only run the open source drivers, which aren't delivering the performance I need to watch DVDs and streaming media (Hulu, YouTube, etc) full screen on my 1080i screen.  I'm out of ideas.  I have Googled and searched all of these forums, but I haven't even found anyone experiencing similar problems.  I would greatly appreciate any assistance.

---

### Post by chrisinspace on 2010-08-02
So, no one else has seen this behavior?  I worked on it some more this weekend, but cannot get a driver to install that works and offers me all of the functionality I need.  I'm now pretty sure that the problem is due to the mismatched refresh rates, but I'm at a loss on how to fix it.  ATI states that the 10.5 Windows driver supports 120 Hz, but doesn't say one way or the other about Linux.  

This is my 3rd HTPC over the years, but the first (and probably last) time I attempted to use ATI.  Unless I can resolve it this week, my fix is going to be to disable the integrated video and buy an nVidia card.  They have always worked right out of the box for me and seem to offer more features (like VDPAU).

---

### Post by amin127 on 2010-09-04
Hi, 
I had the same problem as you. what I did is to put the right information about the monitor on the xorg.conf:
```

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
    Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    Option        "VendorName" "Samsung"
    Option        "ModelName" "T240HD"
    Option        "DPMS" "true"
[B]        HorizSync    30.0 - 81.0
        VertRefresh  56.0 - 75.0[/B]
        **Modeline    "1920x1200_60.00"  193.16  1920 2048 2256 2592  1200 1201 1204 1242  -HSync +Vsync**
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Driver      "fglrx"
    BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
    Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    DefaultDepth     24
    **Option     "DPI" "94 x 95"**
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth     24
        **Modes     "1920x1200_60.00"**
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

However, in the GDM I still have this miss behaviour.
may be we should force gdm to run on the 1920x1200 mode?

---

### Post by spencerlewis520 on 2010-12-22
I  just installed 10.10 netbook on my hp pavilion dv6 with ATI and i have the same issue... the menus will fix temselves randomly but not on any particular occasion. its getting annoying... i will try doing the xorg.conf edits mentioned above and report back.

---

