---
title: "14.04 will mount CD but not DVD"
date: 2014-10-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ai555 on 2014-10-11
My system (Ubuntu 14.04) recognizes my CD/DVD drive correctly and the model matches my bios (TSSTcorpCD/DVDW TS-H652L).  However, when I insert a DVD it doesn't mount the drive, doesn't matter if it's a movie or data DVD.  When I insert a music CD it works correctly.  Data CDs seem a bit more finicky, but most seem to work.

DVDs don't give me any error messages, the disk just spins and eventually stops with no response on my system.

[Edit: For some reason turning automatic mount options off and back on again seems to have helped greatly with CDs.  DVDs still don't work at all.]

[Second Edit: I tried a blank DVD and it worked, although it also gave me the following message:

> Error mounting system-managed device /dev/sr0: Command-line `mount "/mnt/ata-TSSTcorpCD_DVDW_TS-H652L"' exited with non-zero exit status 32: mount: block device /dev/sr0 is write-protected, mounting read-only
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sr0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so
  

However, it still mounted the DVD and prompted me to run CD/DVD Creator.  When I tried to create a data DVD it did the preparation fine, but shortly after it began the write process it ejected the DVD and gave the following error:

> SCSI error on write(84896,16): [3 0C 00] Medium error. Write error.

Putting the same DVD back in, it appears to have created the names of all the files, but no content.  Disks detects it as "2.0 KB Unknown".]

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-10-12
I suspect you have a failing laser (different lasers are used for CD and DVD in the same drive).
Have you tried with a live session? Better yet, test it with a different OS...

---

### Post by ai555 on 2014-10-12
> **Vladlenin5000 said:**
> I suspect you have a failing laser (different lasers are used for CD and DVD in the same drive).
Have you tried with a live session? Better yet, test it with a different OS...

Just tried it with Windows 7 and you appear to be right, I'm getting the exact same problems over there which pretty much nails it as a hardware problem.  Thanks for the lead.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2014-10-12
I agree, you're welcome and I'm not happy that I'm right this time.
If you fell like it please use the thread tools to mark this one as solved so other can benefit.

---

