---
title: ".ts video files"
date: 2013-12-16
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Phil Binner on 2013-12-16
I have a Humax Video hard disk player, which enables me to copy downloaded files I want to keep to a memory stick, and hence to a computer.  The files come as .ts files, which windows tells me are MPEG-2 TS Video files.

Ubuntu cannot deal with these files, though Windows can.  This in itself is unusual for video, as Ubuntu is usually much better than Windows in this area.  

When I first tried to play the files Ubuntu recognised them as videos and looked for, but failed to find, video codecs to handle them.  I subsequently loaded VLC player and I can now play them by right clicking and selecting open with.  Since doing this, however, if I try to open them normally Ubuntu tells me that they are executable text files, and asks whether I want to run them or display their contents.  I did try to set VLC player as the default application to open them, but this just made it impossible to play them at all.  Ubuntu recognises that VLC Player is the default, but still thinks they are executable text files and is unable to do anything with them.  Since installing VLC player Ubuntu is unable to recognise them as videos at all.  I had to reset the default application to movie player in order to make VLC player available from the open with menue, so that I can play them at all.

What I would really like to do with these files is convert them to a different, recognisable, format, so that I can edit out adverts and other extraneous information, and then watch them normally like any other video.  I have found an application called Outreel which does convert them, but it seems to think they are MPEG-4 files and puts the audio track out of sinc.  MPEG-2 is not selectable, so this is probably a codec issue again.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2013-12-20
I am surprised to see no one replied back to your post. You should have bumped it yourself after a day or so.

Anyway, not having much idea of either this format or the issue as you described, let's take a look at the details of the file format if possible.

Please install mediainfo -
```
sudo apt-get install mediainfo
```

Then post back the output of -
```
mediainfo *<the .ts file in question>*
```
Hopefully, it should recognize the format and give us enough info about it to be able to suggest an alternate way.

By the way, have you heard about "**[handbrake]("http://handbrake.fr/downloads.php")**"? I have just installed it yesterday (from its ppa) for the first time, and haven't yet found time to use it, but looks like a very useful tool for transcoding videos.

---

### Post by Gnowm on 2014-01-11
Cant recall which thread but it said to just rename them .mpeg. I tried it, it worked for me, but my PVR is a different brand.

I have not tried to play them on my pvr only my xubuntu.

---

