---
title: "12.04 How do I enable Mic without using alsamixer"
date: 2012-05-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2012-05-09
Now xubuntu have dispensed with the xfce-mixer applet in preference to pavucontrol, I have to enable or unmute my microphone/line-in input with alsamixer. There doesn't appear to be any other way of doing it, or have I missed something?

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-05-09
Try using the amixer command. Something like:
```
amixer sset 'Internal Mic',0 mute
```
...and
```
amixer sset 'Internal Mic',0 unmute
```

You need to replace *'Internal Mic',0* with the actual mixer name that can be obtained by running just:
```
amixer
```

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2012-05-09
OK Toz, that's a good cli alternative, 

I have been using:
```
amixer set 'Mic',0 'Playback' <'on'/'off'>
``` to good effect on another little project

but is there no applet that will do it?

---

### Post by Toz on 2012-05-10
You could create a new launcher that runs a microphone mute toggling script something like this:
```
#!/bin/bash

#get mic status
MIC_STATUS=off
amixer get 'Internal Mic',0  | grep "\[off\]" > /dev/null || MIC_STATUS=on

case $MIC_STATUS in
	on) amixer sset 'Internal Mic',0 mute ;;
	off) amixer sset 'Internal Mic',0 unmute ;;
	*) ;;
esac

```

Then by clicking on the launcher it will toggle the state of the microphone.

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2012-05-10
> **Toz said:**
> You could create a new launcher that runs a microphone mute toggling script something like this:
```
#!/bin/bash

#get mic status
MIC_STATUS=off
amixer get 'Internal Mic',0  | grep "\[off\]" > /dev/null || MIC_STATUS=on

case $MIC_STATUS in
	on) amixer sset 'Internal Mic',0 mute ;;
	off) amixer sset 'Internal Mic',0 unmute ;;
	*) ;;
esac

```

Then by clicking on the launcher it will toggle the state of the microphone.

Nice :)  Just expressing my amazement that there is no gui way to do this, how would a newbie cope? Nothing shows up in pavucontrol when the mic is plugged in.

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2012-05-15
OK, had a pour over synaptic and found xfce4-mixer. Installed that, and got the old volume mixer back, by adding the volume plugin from Panel (right click) > Add New Items.

---

