---
title: "where can i get the open scource ati drivers"
date: 2008-07-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by wildman4god on 2008-07-07
hello all, I have a dell latitude d600 with an ati radeon mobility firegl 9000 graphics card and to get the old drivers working I have found a guide in the forums but i can not find out where to download the open source ati drivers for legacy cards. I need these drivers so I can use the guide and get my desktop effects working.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-07-08
Hi, as long as you don't have the restricted drivers installed, you are automatically using the open source "ati" aka "radeon" drivers.
If you need to enable desktop effects, see here - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=764633](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=764633)

---

### Post by wildman4god on 2008-07-08
How do I check to see if restricted drivers are installed, I tried a work around [here]("http://www.ubuntu-unleashed.com/2008/04/howto-setup-compiz-fusion-with-open.html") and desktop effects enabled but half the screen was white and all my clickables disappeared.

---

### Post by wildman4god on 2008-07-08
I just tried the method you suggested and i got the same result, this leads me to believe I don't have the open source drivers, so again my question is where do I get them?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-07-08
> **wildman4god said:**
> I just tried the method you suggested and i got the same result, this leads me to believe I don't have the open source drivers, so again my question is where do I get them?

HI and as Rocket2DMn stated the drivers that are installed with Ubuntu Hardy 8.04 are the drivers you will need. If you have the restricted drivers located under system, administration, hardware drivers enabled then this will cause issues. But is sounds like a resolution issue to me as I had a similar issues with the ati drivers and had to lower the resolution on the laptop and I believe it was the same model. 
How much memory is on the system as it is shared with the graphics?

---

### Post by wildman4god on 2008-07-08
Thanks Lowering the resolution worked, I have a gig of ram in my laptop, also desktop cube will not work.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-07-08
> **wildman4god said:**
> Thanks Lowering the resolution worked, I have a gig of ram in my laptop, also desktop cube will not work.

Ok great look at the link in my signature on desktop effects for the cube. Good luck! :)

---

### Post by wildman4god on 2008-07-08
Thanks for the cube effect help, although I want back to wall, the cube ran but it took alot of my systems resources. One more thing do you know why when i maximize a window its boarder disappers and turns white, any way to fix this?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-07-08
> **wildman4god said:**
> Thanks for the cube effect help, although I want back to wall, the cube ran but it took alot of my systems resources. One more thing do you know why when i maximize a window its boarder disappers and turns white, any way to fix this?

The only thing that comes to mind is you may check is CCSM the advance desktop settings and make sure the window decorations is checked. ALso you may look at using emerald to manage your themes and decorations and it can be installed via synaptic manager or the command line. ```
sudo apt-get install emerald
```

---

### Post by wildman4god on 2008-07-08
emereld is nice but it doesn't fix the problem, if the window gets over a certain size then the boarder disappears. but thanks anyway.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-07-08
> **wildman4god said:**
> emereld is nice but it doesn't fix the problem, if the window gets over a certain size then the boarder disappears. but thanks anyway.

Hi and could you post a screen shot. Under applications, accessories.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-07-08
Can you please post the output of these commands:
```
lspci | grep VGA
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo apt-get remove --purge xorg-driver-fglrx xserver-xgl
```

---

### Post by wildman4god on 2008-07-09
Here is the code, I'll post a screen shot as soon as I remember my photobucket login info.
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by wildman4god on 2008-07-09
Here is a screen shot:

[IMG]http://i138.photobucket.com/albums/q266/wildman4god/Screenshot-1.png[/IMG]

See how under the task bar there is a white bar where the title bar should be.

---

