---
title: "5.1 Audio over hdmi"
date: 2012-03-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by IgnisK on 2012-03-17
Not sure where to post it so im guessing this is the best area ;P

Lets start with what i have:
The mainboard is an ASUS P8H67-M LE
Wich has onboard graphics/audio and a hdmi out.
PCI audio card C-Media CMI8738-MX (wich has a spdif out)
Ubuntu 11.10
XBMC Eden (rc2)

Now what firstly i was running it on a regular monitor/speakers with the onboard audio disabled in the BIOS and using the C-Media card. But as it is intended to be used as mediapc the time came to hoock it up to my tv with hdmi, however nowhere in the settings i could select to use the c-media card with the onboard hdmi out so i went back to the bios and enabled the onboard audio.

Now in ubuntu i have absolutely no problem getting it to send stereo audio over the hdmi but i cant anywhere get it to send out 5.1. Ive read around on the internet and seen that sometimes the hdmi only allows for 2ch audio to be send out however nowhere ive found if this is the case for this board so anyone knows if this is the case?

Secondly when i start XBMC obviously 2 channel audio works without a problem when i set the audio device to "defaults (ALSA)" however when i enable passthrough no 5.1 audio will play it will always fail to load the audio device.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-03-17
open termianl
alsamixer
hit f6
select your card in the list and make sure nothing is mute (press M to toggle)
you may also want to look at this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1940862](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1940862) (i expect this may happen)

---

### Post by IgnisK on 2012-03-17
ive checked alsamixer nothing was muted (wich i expected as i do have sound, 2ch.

The problem is just that with the 5.1 audio in xbmc no matter what passthrough device i select i get that message that it failed to open and in the system>sound tab in the hdmi there is only stereo, the 5.1channel stuff is all analog.

---

### Post by ridetheteapot on 2012-03-17
Hey I had a similar problem, can't say whether xbmc will be fixed but try this anyway (it's probably just easier to test with mplayer)

First off I'm gonna assume that pulse still doesn't do passthru, so defiantly use alsa.

Here is my suggestion - there is a tool called iecset, with that you can set the 'data mode' (audio v digital) of your device.

You can check your alsa info in /proc/asound if you dont already know what device the hdmi audio is (nvidia cards symlink /proc/asound/NVidia for ease)

you will want to use a statement like 'iecset -n1 rate 48000 audio off' to go into digital passthru mode.
I havent figured out how to get this to go automagicly so i made a little script and aliased it for ease

```
#!/bin/bash
case $1 in
-d)
  iecset -n1 rate 48000 audio off
  ;;
-a)
  iecset -n1 rate 44100 audio on
  ;;
*)
  echo -e " Use -d for digital surround sound sources.\n\tRate @ 48000.\n Use -a for 2 channel analog audio, like mp3s.\n\tRate @ 44100."
  ;;
esac

```

anyway hope that helps.

---

