---
title: "14.10 pepperflash blank screen"
date: 2014-11-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Rrory on 2014-11-08
I'm using the chromium browser installed pepperflash but when I try to watch my favorite station; the screen is a blank, no message or anything. What's going on?

---

### Post by carlwsnyder on 2014-11-09
I think we need a little more information.  Is pepperflash working on youtube.com or another flash video site?  Are you sure that 'your favorite station' is indeed a source of flash video, and not HTML5 video?  You say that 'the screen is blank, no message or anything'. Do you still have the Chromium browser window open?

---

### Post by Rrory on 2014-11-09
Okay sorry to be obscure; pepperflash works fine on youtube, acorntv [http://acorn.tv/featured](http://acorn.tv/featured)  is my problem when I clicked on the video, it said I needed to install adobe flash, so I installed pepperflash and now when I click to view a video I get the screen for watching the video with the sound bar, but it's grayed out. The chromium browser window is open and fine, it's just the video window and Acorn page that is greyed out.

---

### Post by carlwsnyder on 2014-11-21
Using Xubuntu 14.10, I have Chrome 39.0.2171.65 (64-bit) and Chromium [COLOR=#303942][FONT=FreeSans]38.0.2125.111 Ubuntu 14.10 (290379) (64-bit) both installed.  While pepperflash is available from a PPA, I find it just as easy and acceptable to have full Google Chrome installed for those sites which insist on using the latest Flash for interacting with their website (and it works!).  [/FONT][/COLOR]https://www.google.com/chrome/browser/ points to a deb file which includes links to Ubuntu's updater for the latest updates automatically through Google's Update process and Ubuntu Update.

---

### Post by Rrory on 2014-11-21
the updates fixed my  Acorn Tv problem with Firefox, I guess I need to update my other Chrominum browser in some way  (btw my dad has a Chromebook and it plays Acorn Tv just fine)

---

