---
title: "Gdm not displaying correct resolution using HDMI"
date: 2009-01-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by vs8 on 2009-01-09
Hi all I have a Gateway HD2200 Display. It's native resolution is 1680 x 1050. When I use the VGA plug everything works great in Ubuntu 8.10, but when I use HDMI everything works except the GDM screen. I've searched a lot but I haven't found anything yet on the subject.

This is my xorg.conf file which is pretty normal I guess.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"fglrx"
EndSection

Thank You!

---

### Post by vs8 on 2009-01-09
I forgot to mention, my PC has AMD 780G chipset. The video card is an ATI Radeon HD3200.

---

### Post by vs8 on 2009-01-09
I had to reconfigure X and now it works!

No! False alarm it doesn't work!
If I deactivate the fglrx driver the GDM goes back to the desired resolution 1680x1050. When I activate the fglrx driver the GDM goes to 1080p. 
All I want to do is change the GDM resolution. Can I do that?

---

