---
title: ".mpg: video, but no sound"
date: 2009-06-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Megrimn on 2009-06-04
I have here a bunch of .mpg files I extracted from a PS2 game's .sfd files.

I thought this was pretty cool, save I can't get any real sound out of them.

I'm using 2 different players here: gxine and totem with the xine backend.  both get excellent video.  the only sound is some fuzz every few seconds.  The good thing (at least I think so) is that the fuzz is consistent, even between the two players.

This may just slap me in the face in the morning, and I'll know what to fix, but I want some sleep, so I'll put it out there for anybody who wants some.  Maybe I'm just missing some accompanying file or something, I could do the extractor again and see what I come up with...

opinions and possible solutions welcome.  let's see what we come up with.

Thanks.



[EDIT]

I ended up finding the solution in a couple of command line .exe's in windows.

Downloaded sfd2mpg.exe and tooLame.exe.  now the mpg's have sound!  

Now I am going to convert them to other formats... mwahahahahaha!

---

### Post by Megrimn on 2009-06-06
Bump

But besides that, I have figured out that they are MPEG1 layer 2.  anyone have a suitable codec for that?

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-06-06
try playing it in vlc, or mplayer.

---

### Post by Megrimn on 2009-06-06
> **x33a said:**
> try playing it in vlc, or mplayer.
It only plays decently in xine, gxine, and Totem with the xine backend.  Yet, just fuzz for sound.

---

