---
title: "9.10 acts slow compared to 9.04"
date: 2009-12-20
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Ganymedes on 2009-12-20
I just recently installed Ubuntu Netbook Remix 9.10 (downloaded last weekend) on this kind of computer:

Asus Eee PC 1101HA 11.6" LED / Atom Z520 / 1GB / 160GB / 1024x768.

Everything works and display looks good and all that. But there were two disappointing matters. I mean disappointing compared to NBR 9.04 on my own, a bit older, 9" Asus mini-laptop with Atom processor and 16 Mb Flash disk and 1Gb RAM, 1024x600.

1.
Videos are slow. All the mpeg2 and Xvid/DivX -videos are slow. Much too slow to be run in fullscreen. I do not have any such problem on my 9" Asus. Of course the resolutions are different, but not much. And to get videos to run even in a small window is a problem - it does not react well, when you try to resize a view.

2.
Moving from a maximized window to desktop, takes a long time. It will diminish the view for seconds and finally it is there - after 10 seconds or so. Again with older Asus, with NBR 9.04 everything happened in predictable time and moving to the full desktop was fast (almost immediate).

So, should I wait for corrections to 9.10 (which might me version 10.04?) or move back to 9.04, which was a perfectly good mini laptop desktop in my opinion? Sorry to be blunt, but 9.10 NBR does not seem - by the first look - very good, or perhaps these problems are elsewhere?

Obviously, for the latest gadgets, functionality and support, you would like to be on the latest version, especially on a new computer.

There might be other explanations to this as well. I have not compared these Atom processors - could the latest one, giving 9.5 hours of battery time, be that much slower?

---

### Post by saltmore on 2009-12-20
My girlfriends MSI Wind is fubar now also in 9.10. I remember reading that 10.04 would be the fix date for her netbook. So back on 9.04 until then. :(

---

### Post by psimonsen on 2009-12-21
I most regrettably must second that.

The 9.10 started out pretty sleek on my Acer Aspire but by every update it just keeps getting slower and slower and slower ... I really hope that Mark S' decision to concentrate on development can change some of this ... 9.10, I am sorry to say, doesn't exactly smack of quality control.

So please furbish good bug reports for the guys - they help us, so go help them!

---

### Post by Ganymedes on 2009-12-29
I got some more information on the slow Asus. Graphics adapter:

Intel Corporation System Controller Hub (SCH Poulsbo) Graphics Controller (rev 07)

This computer gives the following error message, as seen in the JPG. It seems that the X-server is not working correctly - if I can deduct the WEB link correctly. Well, it does occasionally blank out the screen for a moment when trying to use it normally. That doesn't seem right.

I do not know, but would Ubuntu UBR 9.04 be a good solution to the problem?

Here is the translation for the JPG:

[B][COLOR="Blue"]An active session, not blocked, display idle.

If you see this text, your display server is broken and you should contact
your distributor (distro manufacturer?)

See more information in:

[xxxx_http://blogs.gnome.org/hughsie/2009/08/17/gnome-power-manager-and-blanking-removal-of-bodges/](xxxx_http://blogs.gnome.org/hughsie/2009/08/17/gnome-power-manager-and-blanking-removal-of-bodges/)[/COLOR][/B]

(I added xxxx - to the web link to make it non-working - in case direct web links are not encouraged here).

---

