---
title: "GDM hang when HDTV inputs switched"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by thatcooldude on 2009-04-27
Cross-posted from [GDM hang when HDTV inputs switched]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7132888") (I think I should have posted here instead of "Hardware & Laptops")

I'm consolidating all my posts from the other forum into this one...might be a bit long!

I seem to be having an issue with the Gnome display manager (GDM) on my Ubuntu 8.10 box that's connected to a 46" Sharp Aquos HDTV.  Ubuntu boots fine, loads fine, displays in full HD beautifully.

I've noticed that when I switch inputs on the TV, wait a few minutes then switch back to the Ubuntu input, GDM is "hung".  It looks as though the video card has overheated and I'm only able to see artifacts.

I'm using an ATI Radeon 9600XT with the proprietary ATI drivers enabled.  "Visual Effects" under my Appearance Preferences are also set to "None", but this seems to happen regardless of whether the FGLRX proprietary drivers are enabled or disabled.


[IMG]http://stephenpontes.com/misc/permanent/hdtv_scramble.jpg[/IMG]

That's what it looks like if I switch inputs then switch back after just about a minute.  

I can then SSH in from another machine (I can access a terminal window on the Ubuntu machine by pressing control + alt + F1 but it doesn't seem to work every time and the resolution is set to something incredibly low making it impossible to read the text)

And upon issuing the command: 

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```

I'm able to successfully kill GDM.  Then issuing the command:

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

Brings GDM back up and everything works again (until I switch the input!). I've found that a Control+Alt+Delete works the same as the terminal command to restart GDM


I think my xorg.conf file is configured incorrectly, but I've run the following command already:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

To no avail :(  Here's my current (automatically generated) xorg.conf file:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
        Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "Default Screen"
        Device     "Configured Video Device"
        Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     24
                Modes    "1920x1080"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

```

My best guess is that for whatever reason my automatically configured xorg.conf (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) isn't being re-written correctly.  The only other way I know of besides the reconfigure terminal command to get a fresh xorg.conf is to use the live CD or reinstall Ubuntu :/

I specifically added the resolution line to the xorg.conf file hoping it'd make a difference...I'd thought it had worked, but after coming home from work today, this is what I saw:

[IMG]http://stephenpontes.com/misc/permanent/hdtv_scramble2.jpg[/IMG]

I've also tried VNC'in in to change my resolution manually (System > Preferences > Screen Resolution).  If I lower the resolution one "step" to 1776x1000, the display comes back up (just like hitting Control + Alt + Delete or issuing /etc/init.d/gdm stop and then /etc/init.d/gdm start does) at the specified resolution.  

**Of note: ** My icons aren't "Human" themed anymore after doing this.  I don't remember this happening with my method of bringing the display back.

Here's what the icons look before/after bringing the display back:

[IMG]http://stephenpontes.com/misc/permanent/icons.png[/IMG]

Unfortunately, changing the resolution isn't a permanent fix - as soon as I switch inputs back and forth again I'm back to square one.

Thanks in advance for any advice!

---

### Post by thatcooldude on 2009-04-30
Bump? :(

---

### Post by thatcooldude on 2009-05-04
Bump :confused:

---

### Post by thatcooldude on 2009-05-08
Is this the right place to post this?  Does anyone have any ideas as to where else I can post this to possibly get a response?

Thanks!

---

### Post by thatcooldude on 2009-05-11
I think I've resolved the issue.  I switched to the open source drivers via the "System > Administration > Hardware Drivers" menu items.  The issue stopped, but I no longer had 3d acceleration for my ATI Radeon 9600XT.

I found [this blog entry]("http://linuxd.wordpress.com/2009/02/11/ubuntu-810-support-dropped-for-ati-mobility-radeon-9700-rv300-chips/") with instructions on getting the latest fglrx drivers for ATI video cards in Ubuntu 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex).  I'm now running the latest version of the FGLRX driver and I can say the issue has been resolved!

In case the blog goes down / changes - here're the steps I took to resolve my issue:

First, verify you're running an ATI card:

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

My output was:
```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AR [Radeon 9600]
```

Download the [latest version]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx") of the Catalyst driver (9.3 is the version I'm using as of this post). After extracting the executable from the zip file (it'll be a .run file), go to properties and on the Permissions tab check “Allow executing file as a program” or if you'd like to do it via command line:

```
sudo chmod +x filename
```

Now issue the following commands:

```
sudo ./EXTRACTEDFILENAMEHERE.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/intrepid
```

If you're getting errors about build dependencies, make sure to install all the packages it complains about.  Take the name of the file Ubuntu says it doesn't have and do a

```
sudo apt-get install filename
```

Then issue the command: 

```
sudo dpkg -i xorg-driver-fglrx_8.580-0ubuntu1_i386.deb fglrx-kernel-source_8.580-0ubuntu1_i386.deb fglrx-amdcccle_8.580-0ubuntu1_i386.deb
```

Which will create the .deb files for you to install the fglrx files.

Now to create and install the new fglrx driver for your system:

```
sudo aticonfig --initial -f
```

Now just restart your machine or restart gdm to see if it worked!

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

I'm not 100% sure the above command is "good enough" - so restart to be safe :D

Now if you open the Hardware Drivers settings again you should see a message about "A different version of this driver is in use."

Hope this helps someone in the future!

---

