---
title: "h.264 transcoding"
date: 2010-01-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by littlepeon on 2010-01-29
hey...not a fan of h.264, but i've got some videos that were made with that codec and aac sound using 24000Hz  161 kb/s 6 channel sound (according to GSpot).

am trying to dumb it down for an few older systems/set-top players...need to transcode it to mpeg2 and then also to mpeg1 (legacy player...it still works)

have tried using winff in both ubuntu/vista--it craps out with an error code (aac sound related--says update to the latest svn version of ffmpeg--but i've got the latest)

have been able to transcode the video on windows using winavi--but want to be able to do so in linux...

winavi is quick and dirty--it will transcode an hour video in 25 minutes--have tried Arista in Ubuntu to transcode it--states that it will take 16+ hours for the same video

how do i do that?   what can i use?

would try something cli...but i dont know the parameters for h.264/aac to mpeg2 and then also to mpeg1. also need something that will keep the audio in sync.

any suggestions are welcome..
thxs -Peon

---

### Post by chewearn on 2010-01-29
I use avidemux

---

### Post by sebastianabate on 2010-01-29
You can try DeVeDe. It can convert any tipe of video supported by mplayer to DVD (mpeg2) VCD (mpeg1) and DivX/MPEG-4

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-01-29
Make sure you have the up to date unstripped versions of libavcodec, libavformat and libavutils, maybe some of the others as well, from the multiverse repos.  That may help.

---

