---
title: ".mov videos - only some frames display when playing!"
date: 2011-10-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by nit2am on 2011-10-10
I have a Canon EOS 1100D digital SLR camera that also takes video.  

The videos are created in .mov format. When I play them on my Ubuntu Asus EEE PC (using ANY video player including VLC), I am experiencing a very frustrating problem.

Only SOME of the frames display and the video is very jerky and choppy.  The video displays a frame, jerks, and then displays another frame a few seconds later.  The audio plays fine at normal speed, uninterrupted.

When I play the videos on my camera, they are perfect.

A clue as to the nature of the problem: if the video involves little change in colour and image (i.e. if it is a video of a static scene or a scene where there is not much movement/change), then it plays okay.

Help!  I'm guessing this isn't a codec issue, because in that case I wouldn't be able to play the videos at all (no?)

Any help is much appreciated!

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-10
What are the resolution of those videos? Are they HD?

One possibility is that your computer is not fast enough, or doesn't have video hardware acceleration.

BTW, If you play the videos with VLC, you can get their codecs by going to Tools -> Codec Information.

Regards.

---

### Post by nit2am on 2011-10-11
Thanks for your reply.  Yes they're HD - 720p.  Perhaps its the laptop being too slow :(

---

### Post by nit2am on 2011-10-11
On second thoughts - it isn't the laptop as I have the same problem on my high-end Sony VAIO, also running Ubuntu.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-11
Could you post the CODECS from VLC?
Regards.

---

### Post by nit2am on 2011-10-11
Codec info:

Stream 0
Type: Video
Codec: H264-MPEG-4 AVC (part 10) (avc1)
Language: English
Resolution: 1280x720
Frame rate: 25

Stream 1
Type: Audio
Codec: PCM S16 LE (sowt)
Language: English
Channels: Mono
Sample rate: 48000 Hz
Bits per sample: 16

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2011-10-11
How well do they play using mplayer?  If you don't have it installed, install smplayer and mplayer will be installed as well.

Which model EEEpc is this?  Some, like my 1201n, have NVIDIA ION graphics.  If you have an ION card, you can install the proprietary NVIDIA driver using the "Additional Hardware" app and use mplayer's "vdpau" driver.  In smplayer, use Tools > Preferences > General > Video and choose vdpau from the drop-down list.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-11
I almost sure that your Asus EEE won't be able to play that. However, I'm puzzled why your VAIO won't. Does it have an i3, i5?

Have you tried a little decoding (WinFF or ffmpeg)? I would copy the video stream, use mp3 for audio, and either an mp4 or an mkv container

Regards.

---

### Post by nit2am on 2011-10-12
Thanks, Papibe.  I'll look into that.

---

