---
title: "[SOLVED] NVidia Problem after 8.04 Upgrade"
date: 2008-06-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by gus_zernial on 2008-06-22
I have an Kubuntu system with NVidia GeForce 8600 GT graphics card. 
All worked fine under 7.10, then I upgraded to 8.04 and now the system won't boot straight into graphical desktop. Xorg.0.log says

.
.
(EE) NVIDIA(0): Failed to load the NVIDIA kernel module!
(EE) NVIDIA(0):  *** Aborting ***
(II) UnloadModule: "nvidia"
(II) UnloadModule: "wfb"
(II) UnloadModule: "fb"
(EE) Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.

I have recompiled NVIDIA-Linux-x86-173.14.09-pkg1.run for the new 8.04 kernel, and let the NVidia utility generate my xorg.conf. My /etc/modules is below. The system will boot to shell, and if I load nvidia.ko manually, I can then startx into the graphical desktop. But it won't boot straight into the graphical desktop. Appreciate ideas to resolve.


# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

loop
lp
fuse
agpgart
i2c_core
kvm
kvm_intel
nvidia
tun
ip_tables
iptable_nat
ip_nat_ftp
ip_nat_irc

# Generated by sensors-detect on Mon Mar 31 08:52:12 2008
# I2C adapter drivers
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 
# Chip drivers
# no driver for Maxim MAX6648/MAX6692 yet
it87
coretemp

---

### Post by gus_zernial on 2008-06-22
I figured out what the issue was. In the 8.04 upgrade, the ubuntu
installer installs the "nvidia-glx-new" driver, which apparently 
conflicts with NVidia's proprietary driver. In any case, I went into
Adept and removed all ubuntu nvidia drivers, then reran the 
NVidia proprietary installer, and after that everything starts 
fine.

---

### Post by Bram-NL on 2008-06-25
As posted in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=699693") by [mohnkern]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4796619&postcount=3"), it's enough to just reinstall nvidia-glx-new linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r):

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r) --reinstall

That worked for me!

---

