---
title: "12.04.2 LTS Video issues inside VirtualBox 4.2"
date: 2013-04-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mister_lister on 2013-04-13
I searched and could not find a similar message to this issue. Forgive me if this is a repeat message and let me know. 

I downloaded and attempted to install 12.04.2 LTS in Virtual Box 4.2 running in LinuxMint 13. When the install was complete and the system was starting, I recieved a message which read "Swiitching to low res graphics" from Ubuntu (this also happens when trying Ubuntu from the CD). I went in an endless loop with the dialog boxes and could never get to the desktop no matter what I tried, had to exit to the console and shutdown.  

Before you condemn Virtual Box, READ ON...

I found a CD with 12.04.1 lts on it, READ 12.04.1 Not 12.04.2 and I was able to try it on cd and install with no problems. 

It is pretty clear to me there is something up with 12.04.2 LTS. A bug of some sort dealing with video. 

Please let me know where I can report this bug or how to resolve the issue. 

Thanks.

---

### Post by madevil_andy on 2013-04-14
You're not alone, I've encountered similar issue with the latest VirtualBox version 4.2.12, and it appears to be somebody has already reported in the offcial forum [here]("https://forums.virtualbox.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=55101")

I think it's some problem with their 4.2.12 Guest Additions not fit in well with Compiz, what I've done is downgrade to the [4.2.10 Guest Additions]("http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/4.2.10/VBoxGuestAdditions_4.2.10.iso") then everything came back to normal.

If that still not solving the problem, you might need to reset the unity configuration (by running **unity --reset** command)


By the way... I wonder why since the VirtualBox forum has migrated to Oracle's account system, I could not login with my old account, and it's so dame hard to pass their new account registration validation. Otherwised I would post this solution in their support forum as well

---

