---
title: "How do I get full resolution on second (S-Video) Monitor?"
date: 2010-11-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by nalgarryn on 2010-11-29
Hi guys, 

I have two video outs on my AGP video card. One is VGA and the other is S-video. I tried connecting *the second monitor* (Viewsonic) by itself to the VGA port and it works fine and runs at 1280x768 very clearly. I then attached the LG monitor instead to the VGA and attached the Viewsonic to the S-video port. Now it is running at 1024x768 and I have no option to increase the resolution.

Is this a limitation based on S-video being worse than component, which is worse than VGA and it simply cannot handle the data density for larger resolutions? Or would it be my video adapter? I swear I had monitor control working fine through the panel, but now when I click on the monitor button it says, "It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool.  Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?" and that opens an Nvidia X control panel.

Also, using S-video means the computer doesn't recognize the Viewsonic LCD TV properly, it just recognizes it as a TV. Is this because S-video doesn't play nicely with EDID reporting?

It would be nice to get a sharp picture on that TV, the way I had when it was connected like a monitor via VGA. I am not sure what's going on anymore, so any help on clearing up driver issues or getting configuration apps installed or anything like that would be helpful.

Thanks in advance, details to follow:

Ubuntu Lucid 10.04

description: 	Motherboard
product: 	D850GB
vendor: 	Intel Corporation

description: 	VGA compatible controller
product: 	NV18 [GeForce4 MX 4000]
vendor: 	nVidia Corporation
capabilities: 	pm agp agp-3.0 bus_master cap_list rom
configuration:	
driver	=	nvidia

Display 1: LG W1934
Native Res: 1440x900

Display 2: Viewsonic N1750w
Native Res: 1280x768

---

### Post by nalgarryn on 2010-11-29
My xorg.conf file:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Fri Apr  9 10:35:18 UTC 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" 1440 132
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LG W1934"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "TV-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 MX 4000"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 MX 4000"
    Option         "PanelSize" "1280x768"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1440x900 +0+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "TV: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "TV: 1024x768 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-11-30
for all intents and purposes, the max res of an Svid connection is either 720x480 or 1024x768. it's complicated. 
[http://www.highdefforum.com/flat-panel-tvs/36931-s-video-cable-what-maximum-resolution.html](http://www.highdefforum.com/flat-panel-tvs/36931-s-video-cable-what-maximum-resolution.html)
[http://board.iexbeta.com/index.php?/topic/71084-max-resolution-from-s-video-pc-to-tv/](http://board.iexbeta.com/index.php?/topic/71084-max-resolution-from-s-video-pc-to-tv/)
[http://forums.whirlpool.net.au/archive/558082](http://forums.whirlpool.net.au/archive/558082)

reading through these, there is no hard spec max for svid, but the technology was meant to work at 480i (NTSC) or 576i (PAL), so those are definitely in-range, but everything else is up to whim. one guy implied that 1024*768 was just 352*384 scaled to 2x size. 

svid is an analog carrier, so the question of resolution is primarily one of bandwidth; the bandwidth provided by the source, and supported by the carrier, and the bandwidth that the receiver can deal with. 

with digital signals sent over svid, it looks like the specs are definitely limited to 480i/576i based on the associated specs for DVD players that use SVID. 

for analog signals, things are far less sure. if you have a videocard/driver that will send 1366*720 on svid, a cable that provides appropriate bandwidth (svideo cables vary widely in quality), and the receiver is capable of consuming that amount of bandwidth via svid, there is no reason you couldn't extend it to 720i or even 1080i.
this is all theoretical however. I don't think anyone has ever managed to do it. svid is kind of a dead spec now that all the inputs and output devices are digital.

---

### Post by nalgarryn on 2010-11-30
Thanks for the input!

The highest resolution I can get is 1024x768. What I'd like to try is to get it set up for 960x576. That should be within the bandwidth capabilities I am currently running and be proportional to the native resolution of the monitor. (Which looks awesome and sharp at 1280x768 when I connect it to me notebook.)

One issue I am running into is that it is an nvidia card and the RandR applets in gnome refuse to have anything to do with resizing. It demands that I use the nvidia utility instead. Is there anyway for me to insert a custom resolution of 960x576?

The tool is titled "NVIDIA X Server Settings" and might be called "nvidia-settings".

Can't say I really know much. =(

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-11-30
if you are using the nvidia driver, you shoudl use nvidia-settings like so:
Alt + F2, and enter
```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

configure your res and monitor positions, and press "Write to X configuration file". then make whatever other tweaks you want, apply and exit. if everything looks good, reboot, and see if everything sticks. if it doesn't open up alt + f2 again, and enter
```
gksu nvidia-settings -l
```. if that fixes everything, then add that command to your startup applications. if I recall correctly, TV overscan requires the nvidia-settings preferences file to be loaded. settings in the xorg however apply automatically.

---

### Post by nalgarryn on 2010-11-30
Well, that's the utility it wants me to use.

I can't figure how to create a custom resolution of 960x576 (or 800x480) which aren't listed for that TV in the drop-down list. I can use 720x480 which is pretty close to the native resolution. I know how great it can look, and it has ripples and is obviously objecting to the harsh treatment it is receiving! (A little anthropomorphism there. . .)

Anyway I'll mark this as solved and try using more modern technology. I don't really need 5 computers anyway, even if one is just a multimedia server.

---

