---
title: "8.10 - music library, sound issues"
date: 2009-02-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by EuropaCar on 2009-02-08
I installed Ubuntu 8.10 not too long ago and here are my 2 main problems:

1) Every time i restart my computer, my music library screws up.  In any application that I've added my music library to, the songs don't exist any more.  For example, in Rhythmbox I get the message that there was a media playback error.  And in Songbird I get the message: "resource not found."  In order to play my music I must remove all the music from my library and then add it all again.  The music is stored in an NTFS data partition along with all my other files.  I don't really know where I'm going wrong.

2) Every time I go into standby and then come out, my sound stops working.  Restarting or hibernating does not give me this problem.  No sound comes out of the speakers.

Anyone have any suggestions?
Thanks

==edit==
I'm dual booting ubuntu/xp so that's why I have all my data on a separate ntfs partition

---

### Post by EuropaCar on 2009-02-09
OK I don't think I'm gonna get any replies if my topic gets instantly buried a few pages
Any suggestions?

---

### Post by cmmckoy on 2009-02-09
"Every time I go into standby and then come out, my sound stops working. Restarting or hibernating does not give me this problem. No sound comes out of the speakers."

I am having the same problem, oddly enough only after I started using rhythmbox, could this possibly be a cause?

I created a new profile on ubuntu, and use rhythmbox on there, but even when I boot the pc and load my main profile without ever loading rhythmbox (rhythmbox has never ran on this profile) my sound stops working.

---

### Post by EuropaCar on 2009-02-10
All right I solved one problem
The music library wasn't available because I forgot I had to remount the partition every time I restart/standby/hibernate (doh!)
I installed ntfs configuration tool and now it automounts.

But yeah the sound problem that cmmckoy and I experience still exists

---

