---
title: "YAAP (yet another audio problem)"
date: 2009-03-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by BKossmann on 2009-03-30
Hi everyone,

New Linux user here.  I've been following the various "help I can't play my audio CDs" threads in an effort to get my setup to play my music but no luck.  I'm running Hardy (dual-booting with Win XP) and I have two CD/DVD drives (one ROM, one R/RW) and generally, when I pop in an audio CD there'll be a blinking light on the drive but that's all the action I get.

On two happy occasions, the system recognised the CD and I was able to copy the music to the library, from which it plays nicely using Rhythmbox.

Here's /etc/modules:
[INDENT]# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

fuse
lp

# Adding these lines didn't seem to help with my audio CDs at all

# libata
# ata_piix
# piix[/INDENT]

and here's /etc/fstab:
[INDENT]# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0

# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=82415b63-9491-4086-9362-c128211f3f56 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1

# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=a9595955-27a8-46d4-bb2b-ae556a756e6f none swap sw 0 0

# Old configuration
#/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
#/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0

/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,users,utf8 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,users,utf8 0 0

/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
[/INDENT]

I've installed gstreamer (good, bad, ugly) and VLC as per other posts.  Last night I was able to start playing a CD (Naxos label) but it froze after about 20 minutes.  Tonight I tried playing another one (Decca) but I just got the blinking light.  Not only that, I cannot open the other drive to try it.  Hmmm.

Does anything jump out at you that I can take a look at?

Thank you!

Bill

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2009-03-31
Some CD's, if they're scratched or something, won't play nicely... they freeze Rhythmbox and take some work to get ejected.  If you get CD's to work sometimes, that's what I'd guess is going on.

---

### Post by BKossmann on 2009-04-02
Thanks, Sam!

---

