---
title: "11.10 - Disappearing HDMI Audio on Dell Studio Hybrid 140g"
date: 2011-10-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by akashiba on 2011-10-23
For a week now I've been attempting to try out a clean install of Ubuntu 11.10 on my HTPC, a Dell Studio Hybrid 140g which is hooked up to my TV via HDMI. 

The first time Ubuntu starts up after installation I hear the startup sound. Great. If I touch the sound settings GUI at all (change the volume level etc.) I lose all audio and can't get it back.
I noticed that the output device is showing Analog Duplex, so I changed this to HDMI, but still no sound. I've checked alsamixer and everything seems to be there and unmuted.

I only spotted this problem after installation, so I tried running Ubuntu off the live CD yesterday and got the same result.

Don't want to go back to Windows if possible but audio is kind of essential for an HTPC :( 
Any help much appreciated!

---

### Post by nycjeff on 2011-11-08
Hey there,
Any luck with this? Same problem.
Clean install with 11.11.
Disabled my onboard sound through bios, so it doesn't show up in my settings.
Using a EVGA geforce 8400 gs video card for hdmi audio/video.
It seems to work well for the video, and when I did the clean install, the audio worked. I felt really good about myself at work all day, knowing I'd have a working audio connection when I got home. 
Then I get home tonight and its back to no audio at all after a reboot. 
FWIW, my sound/video card is the only thing that's showing up in the audio settings window.

Anyone else?

---

### Post by akashiba on 2011-11-15
Still no luck with this problem. 
I've had the same result with 2 clean installs and several runs off the live CD. I hear the startup sound and nothing after that. Turns out this happens even if I don't touch the sound settings.
Analog sound is working fine. No joy with HDMI, even though I can select it as the output in the sound settings.
Back to using Windows for the time being but I really would like to sort this out and get into using Ubuntu properly.

---

### Post by nycjeff on 2011-11-20
hey there,
I'm not sure exactly what I did, but I was able to get it working. 
I downloaded "Pulse Audio Volume Control" and I think another called "Pulse Audio Settings". Adding those two seemed to get my audio up and running. 
Hope it helps.

---

