---
title: "ATI catalyst 8.5"
date: 2008-05-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Kowalski_GT-R on 2008-05-24
Hi all,


any experiences with them yet?

Can you please post your results here?



One question: are they available through restricted drivers manager yet?


ciao,

Andre

---

### Post by eldragon on 2008-05-24
> **Kowalski_GT-R said:**
> Hi all,


any experiences with them yet?

Can you please post your results here?



One question: are they available through restricted drivers manager yet?


ciao,

Andre

[LIST=1]
[*]download the ati binary installer
[*]generate the package with ---buildpkg Ubuntu/hardy
[*]remove the repositry installed ati drivers
[*]install all debs generated by the ati installer
[*]reboot the system (ala windows reboot). restarting xorg didnt work.
[/LIST]

voila.
had no problems. your mileage may vary. (i would keep a printed how to restore your previous settings through the command line just in case)

---

### Post by bestguy on 2008-05-24
hi 

install with the --buildpkg Ubuntu/hadrdy dont work. Some Error message i forget comes up.

so i install with automatic like the other 4 versions before this release.

First impression. 

1.Dual Head & xinerama are messed up again
2.Monitors are logged in with wrong resolution. 
3.Aticonfig ignores all settings in xorg.conf
4.Again the only Video Fullscreen Mode, OPENGL with the best output, dont work. VLC crashes without Message. 
5.If enable Videooverlay. VLC Crashes with Xvideo extension output. On Standard Settings the Fullscreen mode is unwathable. 

i go back to 8.4

---

### Post by zgornel on 2008-05-24
I had visual artifacts with KDE so I reverted back to 8.4 . Performance is the same as 8.3 and 8.4 from what I saw.

---

### Post by enryfox on 2008-05-27
I had several Xorg crashes with catalyst 8.5 while perfoming "standard" windows operations such as minimising to taskbar or hiding all windows to show desktop. Reverted back to 8.4 which seems more stable on my system (Thinkpad t43p)

cheers

---

### Post by ferdinando_villa on 2008-05-27
I've configured it using this guide - [http://forum.compiz-fusion.org/showthread.php?t=6794](http://forum.compiz-fusion.org/showthread.php?t=6794), it works well for me - it also includes a fix on changes to xorg.conf not being recorded, it is worth a try

---

### Post by stabbyjones on 2008-05-29
i can't get 8.5 to even install correctly. (control centre gives an error.) and there's no 3d no matter what i change or try.

i installed 8.4 again and worked instantly after reboot, compiz, the lot.
tried 8.5 a 2nd time with the same results. no 3d.

i've got a hd3870 and was looking forward to the minimapping but i guess i'll have to wait another month. maybe the hd3870 isn't allowed on these drivers? 
It's on the hardware list for 8.5 though...

---

