---
title: "14.04, banshee music not transferred to ipod touch"
date: 2015-01-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by lintoon on 2015-01-27
I have a fresh install of Ubuntu 14.04 and would like to add some music to an ipod touch which has previously been connected to itunes in XP and has music on it.
The ipod mounts and appears in Banshee.  I can copy music to the ipod and then sync without errors.  Banshee takes a little while to copy and writes the database.
Everything seems to be fine except the music is not on my ipod.

The ipod is running IOS7.
I have copied the photos from it without issue.

Does anyone have any suggestions please?

** Update:  
Before posting this I checked the "Check if already posted " button where someone mentions renaming the music files from mp3 to mp4/m4a.  Now I've read that it makes sense.  
What do you think?  I'm still posting this for other suggestions and also if it works to pass on the fix.

---

### Post by lintoon on 2015-01-28
Well that didn't work (renaming to m4a).  
Banshee sync'ed the same except it took a little longer.  Banshee did say it was converting the tracks (in the bottom left hand corner near the progress bar).  I also lost all track info.

Still nothing on my ipod.

Now I might try renaming to mp4.   Then when that doesn't work :) I'll try to convert them instead of renaming.  I'm not holding my breath though because mp3s should be fine.  
When I copied the music from my ipod into banshee they are all mp3s

Does anyone have an answer?  Please please please don't let me go back to Windows and iTunes.  I'm not windows/apple bashing, I just like the idea of Linux being able to do everything free and open source.
Plus I don't want to feel defeated lol

---

### Post by Rob Sayer on 2015-01-28
In all your searching did you find this?

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/541941/after-synchronizing-my-ipod-nano-6g-with-banshee-or-rhythmbox-it-appears-empty](http://askubuntu.com/questions/541941/after-synchronizing-my-ipod-nano-6g-with-banshee-or-rhythmbox-it-appears-empty)

---

### Post by lintoon on 2015-01-29
Thanks for the link.  

I installed gtkpod too but I didn't give it too much time.  It just didn't look right.  Eg pull down menus which were blank etc.  
Maybe it was a psychological thing where I saw it looked like an old bit of software which wasn't working instead of a newer polished one.
From what I've read though I should go back to it.

I'm at work at the minute but I'll definitely go back to it tonight and give it a good try.

I also swapped the hard drive and installed mint 17 so I'll also give that a try with gtkpod.
It's all good fun and character building :)

I'll post the results for anyone watching this thread.

---

### Post by lintoon on 2015-01-30
Well, it never rains but it pours.

The laptop I am working with is playing up.  Lots of memtest errors and the os wont load so this issues is on the back burner for a little while.
When I get an answer I'll update here.

---

