---
title: "8.04 upgrade. No sound with Audigy"
date: 2008-05-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Les Oeufs on 2008-05-08
Upgraded to 8.04 today from 7.04 (got 7.10 a couple days ago, and then hopped to the new one today). I was having sound problems in 7.10, but I resolved nearly all of them with a series of terminal commands that had something to do with ALSA (found the thread somewhere on this forum), except that there was no sound in firefox still (either youtube, or playing videos from within the browser).
So now I'm at 8.04, and it makes the drumming sound when you first boot into ubuntu, but no other sounds that I can find.
When you double click the volume control thing, it still goes to "audigy 1 es [sb0160] (alsa mixer)" by default.
When you go to preferences> sound, it doesnt play anything back during the tests. If you try to select and then test ALSA, it says "audiotestsrc wave=since freq=512 ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink: could not open audio device for playback."

Can anyone help me out?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2008-05-08
This may not help but anyway I have a similar card in one of my hardy installs ( audigy 1 sb0090 ) which needs to have the analog/digital switch unchecked for sound. D. click on the sound icon and look under switches.
In my other install with an audigy 2 zs it has to be checked or no sound. Try setting it to the opposite of what you find.

---

### Post by Les Oeufs on 2008-05-08
> **mc4man said:**
> This may not help but anyway I have a similar card in one of my hardy installs ( audigy 1 sb0090 ) which needs to have the analog/digital switch unchecked for sound. D. click on the sound icon and look under switches.
In my other install with an audigy 2 zs it has to be checked or no sound. Try setting it to the opposite of what you find.

Lol, had to figure out that little gem the hard way when I first installed ubuntu. Played around with it here, and still nothing

---

### Post by mc4man on 2008-05-08
i'm just finishing a new install on the box with the audigy 1, if I notice anything else I'll post back

---

### Post by Les Oeufs on 2008-05-08
OK, so i was buggering around some more with the sound preferences. All of them give me the same error when I try to test them except for ESD, OSS, and PulseAudio. OSS is the only one that makes sound though

---

### Post by llirium on 2008-05-09
> **mc4man said:**
> This may not help but anyway I have a similar card in one of my hardy installs ( audigy 1 sb0090 ) which needs to have the analog/digital switch unchecked for sound. D. click on the sound icon and look under switches.
In my other install with an audigy 2 zs it has to be checked or no sound. Try setting it to the opposite of what you find.

Gawds, I was almost tearing my hair out to try and figure out why the sound didn't work! I'm running Gutsy (7.10) with an Audigy Platinum Ex and unticking the "Analog/Digital Output Jack" brought the sound back. Thanks for the idea! ^^

---

### Post by cgrenier on 2008-05-09
mc4man: I have been trying for many hours to get my Audigy 2 ZS working on hardy (it worked at one point, then stopped), and your suggestion was the ticket... thanks a lot for posting it.  I had to switch the digital/analog thing on in the mixer.

---

### Post by Les Oeufs on 2008-05-10
bump

tried a bunch of stuff in the terminal (the crazy thing where you download, prepare, yadda yadda. It fixed a bunch of my sound in 7.10, but nothing here)
I've got to say, this is a hell of an annoyance. For an OS thats trying to be user-friendly for everyone, they sure have a hell of a habit of ******* big stuff up

---

### Post by Les Oeufs on 2008-05-10
OK, so I switched the speakers from the jacks on my audigy to the jacks on my onboard sound card, and I'm getting sound from the onboard. I guess for whichever reason, its using the other card as the default. Anyone know how I switch the audigy to default?

edit: I've got sound in Totem, Rhythmbox, and VLC, but not firefox

---

### Post by childofGod on 2008-05-13
> **llirium said:**
> Gawds, I was almost tearing my hair out to try and figure out why the sound didn't work! I'm running Gutsy (7.10) with an Audigy Platinum Ex and unticking the "Analog/Digital Output Jack" brought the sound back. Thanks for the idea! ^^

This is exactly what I need but I can't find the button you used to untick the "Analog/Digital Output Jack".  I'm using Hardy and have the exact sound card you are speaking of here.  Please help!!!

---

### Post by nubbe on 2008-05-13
Type alsamixer in terminal.
Then go with arrow keys almost all the way to the right, There is 
Audigy Analog/Digital Output Jack 

Then press 'm' to toggle mute.
I've had this problem on all ubuntu versions but on hardy, nothing happened on the graphical volumecontrol.

---

### Post by nubbe on 2008-05-13
Anyone else have trouble with 2nd line-out? I can only get sound from 1st.

---

### Post by childofGod on 2008-05-13
Nubbe,

I was very excited to find you had solution to my problem.  As soon as I got home from work I got right into a terminal screen and typed in alsamixer as you said.  I was thrilled to see a graphical interface open up inside terminal.  Then frustration returned when the heading on the screen turned out to be for the onboard VIA 8235 card.  When this was a Windows PC I could simply slide the installation disk into the cdrom to get the Audigy to take over.  What is the equivalent in Ubuntu now that I have made this a Linux box?  I feel so close, yet so far.

---

### Post by nubbe on 2008-05-16
I did a little checking and found this, u could try (in terminal):

 sudo asoundconf list 

Hopefully u get Audigy or something similar along with VIA-something.
I get Audigy returned so I would type Audigy

 sudo asoundconf set-default-card Audigy

Hope this works

---

### Post by kenden on 2008-05-18
Thanks Nubbe, 

using alsamixer to turn off the "Audigy Analog/Digital Ouput Jack" solved the problem for me too.

It is not enough to have the option unchecked in gnome-volume-control > Swiches.

---

### Post by yakkob on 2008-05-25
i found that if i ran in the realtime kernel audigy didn't work. but if I booted in the generic kernel it was fine. Also disable the input/output digital analog option under alsamixer switches tab.

---

### Post by steve_steve on 2008-05-25
In 'hearty heron' (8.04) with an Audigy (1, Platinum) I installed the ALSA mixer gui (System > Administration > Synaptic Package Manager - search for alsamixergui). Probably the same as the terminal, but easier to get to.

---

### Post by sAmiZZle on 2008-06-12
I'm on 8.04 Hardy with kernel 2.6.24-18 and had this problem since I upgraded yesterday. Man I tell you what - this almost made me give up on Ubuntu altogether... After all the time I had spent configuring all my software I wasn't going to do a fresh install to see if that worked so it was either all or nothing. 

Anyway I have my Audio Analogue/Digital Output Jack set to true (ticked). But it still didn't work. Make sure you have got the **PCM Front** slider all the way up (Double click on volume icon. If you can't see it there, go to Edit > Preferences and add it first). I suggest you play a track in the background while you adjust the settings as they are applied in real time. Now to make sure my rear speakers r working.... :|

All the best everyone! :D

---

### Post by mghambunan on 2008-06-12
i have upgraded my kernel to 2.6.24-18 and experiences problem with audio players. everytime i play an audio file, the player freezes. i have installed and tried a lot of audio players but still experiences the same problem. the weird thing is that the audio file can be played using VLC.

thanks for the soundtroubleshooting documentation of ubuntu. it fixed my problem.

for those who experiences the same problem you may visit this site:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshooting)

---

### Post by opaessens on 2008-08-22
> **nubbe said:**
> I did a little checking and found this, u could try (in terminal):

 sudo asoundconf list 

Hopefully u get Audigy or something similar along with VIA-something.
I get Audigy returned so I would type Audigy

 sudo asoundconf set-default-card Audigy

Hope this works

Thanks a lot.
Got a Audigy NX and asoundconf list returned 'NX'.
So, 
sudo asoundconf set-default-card NX
fixed that problem!

Thanks a lot!!

---

