---
title: "Boot up video stuck in 1440x900"
date: 2009-12-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by loughkb on 2009-12-18
Hello all,

    I'm not a linux novice, more of an intermediate user.  I've played with linux for years, but only recently committed to ubuntu 9.10 as my primary desktop OS, switching from OSX.   I've solved many of my own issues in the past, including many with video and editing xorg.conf, so I'm not new to this.  I'm just completely stuck on a really odd inconvenience.

   When I initially installed 9.10 on this new box I'd built, I was using the embedded intel graphics and a V7 19" wide screen monitor with a native resolution of 1440x900, using a VGA cable.

   I have since then upgraded to an nVidea 8400gs based card from asus, and a sceptre HD monitor with a native res of 1920x1200, using a DVI-D cable.   I generated the current xorg.conf file using the nVidea utility after setting the proper resolution.  It looks fine and is correct after setting it in the utility.

   The problem is, that if I restart the computer, it will always boot up in 1440x900.  I've tried different monitors, and switching to a VGA cable, but no difference.  I even removed the xorg.conf file and booted once using default detection, which did come up at the full HD res.  But once I put the xorg.conf file back in, it booted with the nVidea driver at 1440x900 and I had to manually set it again.

  I've dug all around the file system looking for some remaining file somewhere that's forcing that res on boot, but no luck.  I have to manually set it back to 1920x1200 after boot using the nVidea utility.

  There's no remaining references to 1440x900 in the conf file anywhere, so I'm completely confused by this.  I'm hoping some video expert here will know just what to do!  Pasted below is my current xorg.conf file, but I doubt that will be of any help.   

Kevin.


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Sceptre X24WG"
    HorizSync       31.5 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1920x1200 +0+0; 1600x1200 +0+0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    # Removed Option "metamodes" "1600x1200 +0+0"
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
#    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
    # generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"
    Option         "RandRRotation" "True"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

---

### Post by loughkb on 2010-01-30
In doing a fresh install of the OS to a new hard disk, with the HD monitor and nVidia card by default, the nvidea driver still defaults to 1440x900.  It seems like that may be the default 16:9 resolution for the nvidea driver.

Seems like a pain though, you'd figure they would look for the xorg.conf file and follow it.

---

