---
title: "11.10 on board sound distorted"
date: 2011-10-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by veromarybr on 2011-10-23
I had trouble upgrading from 11.04 so did a clean install of mythbuntu 11.10.

First there was no sound.  No errors.  

aplay -l gives a good list of devices
alsamixer looks all healthy

I tried the usual thing of uninstalling alsa and pulseaudio and reinstalling, which didn't seem to do anything.

Tried pavucontrol.  Under Configuration, setting Internal Audio to Digital Output IEC958 or Analog Surround 5.anything and start getting sound through the headphones, but not the internal speakers. Very distorted buzzy sound.  Rebooted and found no sound until I plug in the headphones again and this time the sound comes out the internal speakers.:confused:

Now trying again and getting only a high pitched whine through internal speakers with headphones plugged in.

Sound works with the mythbuntu 11.10 liveCD.

It's an AC97 codec, intel ICH5 sound card.

Does this make sense to anyone out there?

Next trying [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshootingProcedure](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshootingProcedure)

---

### Post by veromarybr on 2011-10-23
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshootingProcedure](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SoundTroubleshootingProcedure) 

I did the first part of Step 1 okay, no change.

Second part of Step 1 fails to compile:

fatal error: linux/smp_lock.h: No such file or directory
compilation terminated.

looks like smp_lock.h is not used in kernels 2.6something onwards.  The include linux/smp_lock.h was in the patch files, so went deleting those parts of the patch files and make clean, make and still errors and frustration and wondering if anyone actually has successfully followed these instructions or do I just skip to the next bit?

Booting the liveCD to see the sound working I copied all the settings from alsamixer and applied them and still no joy.  Using pavucontrol to set the output to Digital changes the S/PDIF settings - is that a clue???

Veronica

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-10-23
Compiling alsa kernel modules ends badly for most people & is totally unnecessary except for maybe 0.01% of users.
Next kernel update & it will be broken.

MythTV 0.24 & later has an audio scanner tool.

You are recommended to rescan audio device at each upgrade & re-install.

MythTV can drive the audio h/w directly & correctly including S/DPIF digital pass-thru'.
The 0.24+fixes branch has AC3 encoder option.

I recommend using the scanner & picking the direct alsa device & then use the built-in audio tester.. 

Post your
aplay -l


pavucontrol (pulse audio) will set the system wide default output device..IEC958 is S/PDIF digital output..that sounds truly awful plugged into analogue inputs..

MythTV can use you system wide default or go direct to any device.

---

### Post by veromarybr on 2011-10-23
Thanks Bicycler,

It wasn't just mythtv without sound, but any application.

But the good news is, I went and attempted to install linHES instead, which just hung, and so reinstalled mythbuntu 11.10 and sound is working Fine now. :D

I haven't installed the proprietary NVIDIA drivers and I'm not inclined to risk it.

Just for the record, here is my aplay -l

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: ICH5 [Intel ICH5], device 0: Intel ICH [Intel ICH5]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: ICH5 [Intel ICH5], device 4: Intel ICH - IEC958 [Intel ICH5 - IEC958]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

Now should be all set to tape Top Gear tonight for my long suffering husband.

From someone's sig:

[SIZE=3]**If it ain't broke, you haven't tweaked it enough**[/SIZE].

Don't know what broke it, but sometimes starting again is the most straightforward fix.

---

### Post by veromarybr on 2011-10-24
Of course I keep tweaking and broke the sound again.

I noticed it just after installing gmusicbrowser and a gstreamer plugin to play mp3s.

So I purged them and rebooted.

Still no sound (except when fiddling with pavucontrol as above) so I purged denemo and timidity and a bunch of stuff they depended on.

Reinstalled mpg321 and am now listening to a very nice mp3 from Biber's Rosary Sonata. 8)

I guess I'm going to have to figure out what exactly causes the problem.  I like timidty and denemo.

---

### Post by veromarybr on 2011-10-24
The mystery continues.  I've reinstalled timidity, denemo and gmusicbrowser using apt-get and set gmusicbrowser to use mpg123 for mp3s rather than gstreamer and the sound is still working.

I installed the other gstreamer plugin with the ritzy new Ubuntu Software Center.  Who knows what stuff it pulled in.  I think I'll stick with aptitude now and see how I go.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2011-10-24
The ubuntu std programs all use pulse audio & gstreamer in the main.

MythTV (not from ubuntu repos) is stand-alone & is able to drive the audio devices directly using alsa.
That's why you should use the audio scanner & tester..

To test audio (alsa) analogue 
speaker-test -c 2 -r 48000 -D hw:0,0

If you are using digital link to your HT amp then
speaker-test -c 2 -r 48000 -D hw:0,4

Note: speaker-test **can not** test your IEC958 - digital pass thru'
vlc --aout alsa --alsa-audio-device iec958
and play a DVD with AC3/DTS or some AC3/DTS music (could enable the VLC AC3 encoder)

If you have to use mp3 music then install the gstreamer plugin mp3 partner (Frauhofer decoder) if it is available.

You should end up with gstreamer: base good bad ugly set (2 are multiverse suffix).

---

### Post by veromarybr on 2011-10-24
I have set mythtv to play sound through alsa.  Also vlc and audacity.  I set /etc/asound.conf so it has a working default now.

But denemo and timidity seem to get stuck in pulseaudio, even setting alsa in the options.  I can see the output in pavucontrol.

I don't understand how to get pulseaudio working so that I can hear rather than just watching the little bar in pavucontrol.  I'll have to experiment with paplay. tomorrow.

---

### Post by veromarybr on 2011-10-27
Further clues.

Playing mp3s through mpg123 usually works, but just now has stopped working with the error message:

ALSA lib dlmisc.c:254: (snd1_dlobj_cache_get) Cannot open shared library /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/alsa-lib/libasound_module_pcm_plughw.so

Opening up pavucontrol I can see the sound is shown in the Playback tab under "libao output : (null)".

There is no file /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/alsa-lib/libasound_module_pcm_plughw.so

And looks like this must have been what was stopping the sound earlier as the symptoms look the same - no sound unless I plug in the headphones when the static comes out the internal speakers.

Here's an alsa-info output:
[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=6b3c011de4e614e59ce453a5ad34b7048a604381](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=6b3c011de4e614e59ce453a5ad34b7048a604381)

---

