---
title: "0.01 sec video editing software"
date: 2009-03-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by prout1357 on 2009-03-07
Hello,
I m working on a project that requires me to be able to make video with a 0.01 sec or lower time frame. (i actually need to have a white background with an image flashing very quickly...yes i know it's a subliminal image^^) would anybody know a program that would do that (i tried kdenlive but it doesn't go below 0.1 sec and i couldn't find how to do it in cindelerra). or maybe someone knows of a way to have the same result without using a specific program?? (i m working under ubuntu 8.10 but i could also use windows if necessary)
thanks a lot for the help

---

### Post by roberto.eiberle on 2009-03-07
I think there is something wrong with your idea, less than 0.04 Pal or 0.033 NTSC would be less than one image. The shortest you can get is produce a white background of the desired length and overlay just one frame in the middle. Even if you playback faster it won't show a full picture on any TV.

---

### Post by prout1357 on 2009-03-08
Hi,
thanks for the answer. the thing is that i won't be playing the movie on a tv but i'll be playing on a computer. and from what i could see, there's a way to increase the screen refreshing rate. so if a got it right (i m really not so familiar with all these things so stop me if i m wrong) it means i'll be able to display more pictures per second. so is there still hope for me you think ^^?

---

### Post by cotcot on 2009-03-08
You might try blender VSE. I see that it is possible to render at 120 fps. You ask a resolution of 100 fps. 
But even when it is possible I doubt that you will see the 0.O1 frame on the computer. The human eye is not that fast. I recently put an effect in a film that had to simulate a flash from a photo camera. I used a pale yellow clip of 2 frames for that (25 fps PAL video).

---

### Post by prout1357 on 2009-03-08
Cool !! thank you cotcot for suggesting blender. my whole point actually is that the human eye should not see it (i read that 0.01 is under the limit of the human eye).
i tried blender vse and googled a bit to check about the feature you told me about but since i m a total newbie with blender i couldn't really get it working the way i wanted...i figured out how to add an image and amplify the timeline to a maximum so that i can reduce the time it is displayed to a minimum but even with that i can still see the image flashing quite clearly (i think the length of the display is about 0.02 sec but i m not sure because, to get this i clicked "show seconds" in the view pannel but the numbers go for exemple : 3.23 3.23 3.24 3.24 3.25 4.00 4.00 4.01....so it changes second after 3.25 wich looks a bit weird..) and you told me that it is possible to render at 120 fps for exemple does it mean that my final "movie" will be faster than what i see in the preview when i play my clip in blender ??? if so how do i do that ?? 
(sorry for the super-newbie questions but i m really new to video editing etc..^^)

---

### Post by tadcan on 2009-03-08
A standard tv in the Europe, ie PAL refreshes at 25 fps or frames per second.

So one frame lasts for 1/25th of a second. 

If Blender can render at 120 fps so one frame is 1/120th of a second. 

So some one who can do maths can answer if that is faster then 0.01 sec

---

### Post by cotcot on 2009-03-08
> **prout1357 said:**
>  and you told me that it is possible to render at 120 fps for exemple does it mean that my final "movie" will be faster than what i see in the preview when i play my clip in blender ??? if so how do i do that ?? 

You will not be able to see your 0.01 second in the preview as in the rendered movie. It will be slower in the preview. You need to render it and play the rendered video in order to evaluate the effect.
Go to the render panel (it shows a format, stamp, video and audio tab. Select the format tab and set fps to 120 and the save as image on ffmpeg. Then import the image and add your 0.01 second thing. Render. 
You can toggle with T between framerate and time view. I you have 1 frame for your 0.01 s thing you will see it (supposing you eye is fast enough) during 1/120 of a second. This is way shorter than you see it in the preview.

---

### Post by prout1357 on 2009-03-08
...yeah that i know thank you, i m a newbie but i m not THAT thick.....i guess my question wasn't clear, what i meant is that when you're in blender you can play the sequence you are editing (since i didn't connect my computer to a tv monitor, my refresh rate can be adjusted to be faster than 25 fps..if i got that right) but the minimum length i can give an image is about 0.02 sec wich is above 120 fps. so let's say that i can render a 120fps, obviously there must be a way of still minimizing the time the image is displayed to fit 1 frame in a 120fps movie, so maybe there's still something wrong with my understanding of fps,render etc... but if not i m dying to know how to diplay an image wich would take only 1 frame in a 120 fps movie...;)

---

### Post by cotcot on 2009-03-08
Zoom the timeline until you have the clip on half the width of the window. Right click on the image on the arrow at the right (or the left) side of the image strip. Click G and move the mouse without clicking. This is the blender way to change the image length. So move the mouse until you have a length of 1 frame. Left mouse click to fix it. I tried it here and it works.
I hope I understood you well now.

---

### Post by prout1357 on 2009-03-08
ooops sorry cotcot the ummm.."mean" post wasn't intended for you i forgot to refresh my page and didn't see your latest post....sorry again. and thanks for the great help i m gonna try what you just said.

---

### Post by prout1357 on 2009-03-08
Thanks a lot it seems like it's going to work ^^ i just have one last newbie question....how do i render my work; if i go under the render menu there's 2 option : render animation or render current frame but if i do the first i get a black window and if i do the second i get a 3d cube (i guess the default 3d project) but i don't know how to render my video....

---

### Post by cotcot on 2009-03-09
Click on 'do sequence' (this toggle button must be dark). Click on 'do composite' if it is dark (must be pale grey). Then click on 'anim'.

'sequence' is what you see in the sequence editor;  so the timeline where you have put your 1 frame.

---

