---
title: "10.10 - Speakers and headphones output sound simultaneously!"
date: 2010-11-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by dt_ on 2010-11-01
Hi all,

I just installed 10.10 and I'm having an issue where sound outputs from the headphones and my speakers simultaneously, and the volume control controls both outputs rather than one of them individually.

This has been asked about before at [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1366524&highlight=speakers+headphones+simultaneously&page=8"), but none of the solutions I've tried from there have worked. I tried installing linuxant, but it just killed my sound altogether despite uninstalling it afterward. I tried updating the Linux audio modules as per [this page](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/InstallingLinuxAlsaDriverModules) but to no avail.

Can anyone else please help me? 
I'm running Ubuntu 10.10 (64-bit) on my own custom built desktop, which for what it's worth, contains [this motherboard]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16813128431").

Any help would be much appreciated. :) 

Thanks,
dt

---

### Post by kwamaking on 2010-11-02
I'm having the same problem, Running on an Asus laptop.  I've tried a lot of solutions. 

Previously on lucid lynx i was able to get it to work by first muting, and then playing music back (it would play in the headphones rather than both simultaneously)

I realize a lot of jacks have some sort of hardware that should prevent playing from the speakers while the headphones are plugged in, but i've got a windows dual boot and it works fine there. I've tirelessly searched google for a fix, have tried just about everything including a complete reinstall and i'm still running into the same problem..

---

### Post by akbozo on 2010-11-02
i had a problem similar to this found this on google worked for me

open a terminal and type in:

sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf

---

### Post by kwamaking on 2010-11-02
Interesting note:

When i run alsamixer (in terminal) and go to the independent part, and toggle it to on/off, it actually kills audio on the headphones, but not the speakers.

---

### Post by dt_ on 2010-11-02
> **akbozo said:**
> i had a problem similar to this found this on google worked for me

open a terminal and type in:

sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf


Umm.... okay.... and then what? That just opens the text editor. :P

---

### Post by kwamaking on 2010-11-02
Bump ^_^

---

### Post by dt_ on 2010-11-03
> **kwamaking said:**
> Bump ^_^

Glad to see I'm not the only one who is looking to get this fixed :p

Have you tried the stuff suggested here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1366524](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1366524)
?

---

### Post by kwamaking on 2010-11-03
> **dt_ said:**
> Glad to see I'm not the only one who is looking to get this fixed :p

Have you tried the stuff suggested here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1366524](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1366524)
?

Yeah i've been up and down the forums.  I've been keeping track of this buck report because the guy that opened it has the same laptop model as I:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/669224](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/669224)

I'm surprised this hasn't been resolved with as many people over the years having this problem.  It's not like a one fix for all though, it seems pretty device specific. 

Interesting thing is, it worked flawlessly in previous versions of linux (all the way back to gutsy gibbon) but for some reason, I update to Meerkat and i have this problem. 

I've done a full reinstallation, checked for alsa updates, pulseaudio hasn't had an update for almost a year... I can't think of anything it could possibly be.  A lot of people are suggesting changes to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf but I've added everything, including my model (aplay -l) and still running into the same crap. 

I actually completely broke my computer last night using the alsaupdater that is here on the forums, I had to use it's revert function to fix it. 

Also stay away from linuxant, it's a disaster waiting to happen.

---

### Post by dt_ on 2010-11-04
Haha, yeah, I tried installing the linuxant thing and found that my sound was completely broken. After several attempts to fix it, I just said screw it and reinstalled Ubuntu (since I hadn't really set up too much stuff yet anyway, this was a viable "solution" ...) :/

By the way, a fine individual named lidex is trying to help me out with this problem at [this thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1366524&page=10); you might find it useful to keep your eye on that one as well :) Best of luck to you!

---

