---
title: ".dat on Ubuntu"
date: 2012-06-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by inashdeen on 2012-06-02
Hi, how do you play a .dat file on Ubuntu?

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-06-03
That depends on what sort of file it is, Linux doesn't use file extensions to dictate the type of file in the same way that Windows does. For more information about a file type you use the file command, for example:
```
rob@quantal:~/ISOs$ file mini.iso
mini.iso: # ISO 9660 CD-ROM filesystem data 'CDROM                           ' (bootable)
```

If you can post the result of the file command on your .dat file we can help with how to play it.

---

### Post by codemaniac on 2012-06-03
> **inashdeen said:**
> Hi, how do you play a .dat file on Ubuntu?

As Chessemill suggested Linux does not care about file extensions .
Still if you use meaningful extensions in filenames , it would aid fellow users to know what type of file actually it is .Like .sh means generally a shell scipt , .py for python script and so on .
However if you are referring to media files that you used to play using any media player in Windows , Ubuntu have its own mediaplayers like mplayer or VLC for getting the job done .

---

### Post by shantiq on 2012-06-03
really easy Inashdeen

```
sudo apt-get install sox

```


```
play   filename.dat
```


if you wish to record to dat


> rec   filename.dat

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-06-03
> **shantiq said:**
> really easy Inashdeen

```
sudo apt-get install sox

``````
play   filename.dat
```
How do you know this is going to work? We have no idea what type of file it is.
.dat files can contain **any** sort of data.

---

### Post by shantiq on 2012-06-03
i do not know anything.   will it hurt him  to try?  best i can offer


will only work with audio data in any case as sox only plays audio    ;   if it has video data it will not

---

### Post by inashdeen on 2012-06-03
have installed. but havent try with the dat file. the cd is at my home. will give a response once it is tried. thanks in advance

---

### Post by inashdeen on 2012-06-03
not sure why, but it give me response


play FAIL formats: bad input format for file `haha.dat': sampling rate was not specified


however, i successfully run it on totem now.

---

