---
title: "h.264 malfunctions"
date: 2010-01-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Tiiba on 2010-01-29
I have no problems with MPEG 2 video. But whenever I try to play a MPEG 4 file in any player, it works crappily. One file stops playing around the middle. Another, if I play it in Xine, starts at the last minute, and won't show anything before that. If I play it in MPlayer, the subtitles gradually become more and more mistimed. What to do?

This has started since I downgraded from Hardy to Karmic.

---

### Post by littlepeon on 2010-01-29
yep..thats why i'm not a fanboy of h.264--its VERY cpu intensive. the trade-off is that u can get a great (720p) video result in a small file size. outside of upgrading your cpu/gpu/memory (go dual/quad core with a nvidia 8500+ or better) the only option that u have is to transcode from h.264 to something ur rig can handle (ur 300mb file is gonna balloon up to 1.5gb+ in a mpeg2 container..but your matrox 300 video card will be able to handle it)

hope that helps
-Peon

---

### Post by Tiiba on 2010-01-29
Well, maybe it's not the computer after all. The file's just broken. I'll keep testing.

---

### Post by Tiiba on 2010-01-29
No, it's the computer. I tried another file on Windows, and it played without a hitch. On Linux, video keeps stalling. But this only happens in the second half, the first is fine.

Edit: I actually did convert the video to Mpeg-2, and it helped. Thanks for the advice. But it took HOURS. So you think it's just a speed issue?

---

### Post by littlepeon on 2010-01-30
yep.....
just like in the past,you could play mpeg2 files on a pentium 90, if u installed an additional decoder-card to offset the processing overhead...

have seen 'mplayer' play files better than vlc (bug in the version of h.264 codec they use...will prob. be fixed in vlc version 1.2+ they say.....file just 'hicups' randomly)

so if u want to save $$$, i would say just transcode the files... 

don't know what videocard u are pumping...but nvidia 8500+ or greater seems to be the GPU of choice among the myth-tv/htpc crowd.

you can NEVER (almost never--they always say "never say 'never'") go wrong getting a faster cpu...i remember when DVD transcodes used to take 24 hours plus on my old pentium 500. now the same transcode takes 1 hour or less on a dual-core. (still have a 2.4ghz system set up w/Windows just to do that--its maxed out @ 100% cpu constantly). trancoding/gaming is all u really need anything over 2.4ghz to do...thats why netbooks are now so popular...people realize that mostly all they do-read email & youtube and you DON'T need a quad-core beast to do that!

good luck and PLEASE report back/PM me on your future success/failure

-Peon

---

