---
title: "8.10: Skype doesn't work anymore"
date: 2008-11-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by blacknile on 2008-11-09
Hi,

I previously had 8.04 and Skype worked just fine. Now with 8.10 I can't make phone calls and I get a "problem with audio capture" message.

I've tried fiddling around in options-> sound devices but no luck so far.

Any ideas?


Just in case this is my audio controller:

00:1f.5 Multimedia audio controller: Intel Corporation 82801DB/DBL/DBM (ICH4/ICH4-L/ICH4-M) AC'97 Audio Controller (rev 01)
	Subsystem: Dell Device 0191
	Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 0, IRQ 7
	I/O ports at b800 [size=256]
	I/O ports at bc40 [size=64]
	Memory at f4fff800 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=512]
	Memory at f4fff400 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=256]
	Capabilities: <access denied>
	Kernel driver in use: Intel ICH
	Kernel modules: snd-intel8x0


Thanks

G.

---

### Post by greenpython on 2008-11-09
i noticed a similar behaviour, might not be much help but i found that it seems to fail the first time, then just dial again (or double click from your address book again) and skype then works.

it's a messy workaround, but good enough for me for the time being ;)

---

### Post by dzenanr on 2008-11-09
I have the same problem, but only if I listen to any music first. Try to use Skype immediately after you restart.

---

### Post by lmalaquias on 2008-11-20
Open skype, press ctrl+o in audio configuration select pulse for everything. You will be able to listen but people are not going to be able to hear you very well or in some cases at all. this really sux. I've even downloaded the new version (3) of skype but the problem persists...

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2008-11-20
You must follow this guide: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578)

After you have configured PulseAudio, look at Appendix C for instructions to configure Skype.

---

### Post by lmalaquias on 2008-11-20
Got it working in the audio configuration is not "pulse" but: Intel ICH6 (hw:ICH6,0)

Cheers

---

### Post by lebonstemps on 2008-11-21
Hi, 

I had similar problems with a new installation of Intrepid. I was able to fix them the following way:

goto skype sound devices, put Sound In, Sound Out, Ringing all to pulse
(so far the same settings as from lmalaquias)

important: untick the box "Allow Skype to automatically adjust mixer levels"

then you can use the regular Ubuntu volume control (right click the speakers at the task bar, Open Volume Control)

the settings which worked for me when using the mic of a simple headset: HDA Intel (Alsa Mixer) goto Options, 
choose Front Mic for both Input sources, capture can be controlled at the Recording option

Good luck!

---

### Post by vmalep on 2009-02-09
You can have a look at this page. It solved the problem for me:
[http://anojrs.blogspot.com/2008/12/ubuntu-810-resolving-skype-sound-issues.html](http://anojrs.blogspot.com/2008/12/ubuntu-810-resolving-skype-sound-issues.html)

Solution:
$ killall pulseaudio
$ sudo apt-get remove pulseaudio
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install pulseaudio ubuntu-desktop

---

