---
title: "12.04 HDMI Problem"
date: 2012-04-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Nessto on 2012-04-18
Currently running 12.04 (aware its beta)

HDMI output for video is perfect
Sound doesn't recognize every time,
Looking for a command to search for audio outputs or possible solutions.

Hope theres a solution and if not this helps to find one.

Nessto

---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-04-18
Did you tinker with the sound settings at all? I noticed if I do HDMI I have to change which "audio card" it comes out of, as I'll see HDMI Output + my sound card as an option. Once I select HDMI Output it comes up fine.

I believe it's under Sound Pereferences... then through one of the tabs. Play a song or something and click through each option. I kind of forget which one mine is offhand, but that's where I fixed mine, at least.

---

### Post by Nessto on 2012-04-18
> **Roasted said:**
> Did you tinker with the sound settings at all? I noticed if I do HDMI I have to change which "audio card" it comes out of, as I'll see HDMI Output + my sound card as an option. Once I select HDMI Output it comes up fine.

I believe it's under Sound Pereferences... then through one of the tabs. Play a song or something and click through each option. I kind of forget which one mine is offhand, but that's where I fixed mine, at least.
Yes i am with that part my problem is its not showing up in the sound settings every time. Its inconsistence. Like if i reboot with it plugged in it will work fine, But i am on the go a lot and i would enjoy it to auto recognize when i plug it in. Video has no problems every time i plug in just the sound is inconsistence 

Thanks

Nessto

---

### Post by pbrane on 2012-04-18
You might try
```

killall pulseaudio

```
in a terminal. pulseaudio will restart on its own. That has been known to fix some sound issues.

---

### Post by Nessto on 2012-04-18
> **pbrane said:**
> You might try
```

killall pulseaudio

```
in a terminal. pulseaudio will restart on its own. That has been known to fix some sound issues.
Exactly what i was looking for. Worked perfect

Appreciate all the help

Nessto

---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-04-18
> **Nessto said:**
> Exactly what i was looking for. Worked perfect


Good call, pbrane! I wasn't aware of that fix.

Nessto - It would help if you could tag the thread as solved. ;)

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2012-04-19
*Thread moved to **Multimedia & Video**.*

---

### Post by SushiAddiction on 2012-05-01
> **pbrane said:**
> You might try
```

killall pulseaudio

```in a terminal. pulseaudio will restart on its own. That has been known to fix some sound issues.
On 12.04
Does not make HDMI audio available for me.

HDMI Audio works on boot but for some reason it disappears sometimes and I have to log out > login to get it back

It may have something to do with screen power management(System Settings> Brightness & Lock).
When HDMI Audio dies I checked System Settings>Sound and HDMI Audio is no longer listed.

---

### Post by brooney on 2012-05-01
> **SushiAddiction said:**
> On 12.04
Does not make HDMI audio available for me.

HDMI Audio works on boot but for some reason it disappears sometimes and I have to log out > login to get it back

It may have something to do with screen power management(System Settings> Brightness & Lock).
When HDMI Audio dies I checked System Settings>Sound and HDMI Audio is no longer listed.

I have this exact same problem. If I reboot the HDMI card is available but after sometime it becomes unavailable and I have to reboot (logging out and back in doesn't work for me)

@SushiAddiction, did you find a solution?

---

### Post by The Rnegade on 2012-05-02
> **Nessto said:**
> Currently running 12.04 (aware its beta)

HDMI output for video is perfect
Sound doesn't recognize every time,
Looking for a command to search for audio outputs or possible solutions.

Hope theres a solution and if not this helps to find one.

Nessto

a quick way to solve it is to run a program that uses sdl sound and then close it and sound will be restored. however this is just a temporary fix

---

### Post by SushiAddiction on 2012-05-03
Thanks for the tip.
What programs use sdl sound ? VLC?

---

### Post by Grigorius on 2012-05-04
> **brooney said:**
> I have this exact same problem. If I reboot the HDMI card is available but after sometime it becomes unavailable and I have to reboot (logging out and back in doesn't work for me)
I have the same problem.

[FONT="Courier New"]killall pulesaudio[/FONT] does not bring the card back.

I tried tinkering with BIOS - as the AMD site suggested (I have a Radeon HD6670) it is recognized as Turks HDMI audio [Radeon HD 6000 series] in System settings > Sound, but that did not work.

Anybody got it to work?

---

### Post by SushiAddiction on 2012-05-05
I've got the HIS Radeon HD6570.
I tried setting sound output to SDL on SMPlayer and restarted. It did not work.
I'm still looking for a solution... but the chances are you will have to live with it for 6months, maybe a year :mad:

---

### Post by brooney on 2012-05-05
@SushiAddiction..why do you say it will take 6 to 12 months?

---

### Post by SushiAddiction on 2012-05-06
It's just my personal opinion> bugs like this seem to hang around till the next > next distro update.
I've still got modal dialogues & other apps appearing on wrong screen with dual monitor setup. It started in 11.10. Was not fixed in 12.04. May be fixed in 12.10. Every release there is some little annoying bug. You just have to hope there is a work around. 

Don't get me wrong. I like using Ubuntu. It's just how it is although it will scare off inexperienced users.

I'm still a noob and do not know what app redetects hardware for sound. Next time it happens, I try 
```
alsa force-reload
```I doubt it will work [it did not work]

It seems
```
aplay -l
```still detects the card when it disappears from System Settings>Sound

Restarted and used
```
lspci -v | grep -A7 -i "audio"
```
and got
```
00:14.2 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA) (rev 40)
    Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device a102
    Flags: bus master, slow devsel, latency 32, IRQ 16
    Memory at fe024000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intel
    Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

--
01:00.1 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series]
    Subsystem: Hightech Information System Ltd. Device aa90
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 48
    Memory at fddfc000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intel
    Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

```
seems they are both using the same driver.

---

### Post by jaycee23 on 2012-05-08
> **brooney said:**
> I have this exact same problem. If I reboot the HDMI card is available but after sometime it becomes unavailable and I have to reboot (logging out and back in doesn't work for me)

@SushiAddiction, did you find a solution?
Exact same issue here - would be grateful for any workaround - if there is one!

---

### Post by SushiAddiction on 2012-05-09
I wouldn't call it a fix but....

Most of the time it's not a huge problem to logout, login. Still annoying.

What can you do if you are in the middle of uploading or doing something complicated and logout, login is not an option.
[B]
Unplug your HDMI cable and plug it in again. HDMI audio will be restored.[/B]

I have easy access to the cable so this is o.k. for me.

>> I don't like the idea of reinserting an active cable often. In my mind it can/may cause damage if done too often.

I'm also testing under System Setting>Brightness & Lock; Turn screen off when inactive for - Never
Will update if this solves the problem.

I believe the   System Setting>Sound ~ output list ~ has recently been changed to only show active hardware. How ever they are doing it now, it has an error and drops HDMI audio. 

Please list your HDMI audio from your video card.
Open ternminal and paste this
```
sudo lspci -v | grep -A7 -i "audio"
```and add it to the thread. It may be an ATI problem only :/ or Maybe Power management and how it is managed by ubuntu 12.04

```
00:14.2 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA) (rev 40)
    Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device a102
    Flags: bus master, slow devsel, latency 32, IRQ 16
    Memory at fe024000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
    Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intel
    Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

--
01:00.1 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series]
    Subsystem: Hightech Information System Ltd. Device aa90
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 48
    Memory at fddfc000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
    Capabilities: [58] Express Legacy Endpoint, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [a0] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
    Capabilities: [100] Vendor Specific Information: ID=0001 Rev=1 Len=010 <?>

```

---

### Post by Grigorius on 2012-05-10
```
00:14.2 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA)
	Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. M4A785TD Motherboard
	Flags: bus master, slow devsel, latency 64, IRQ 16
	Memory at fe9f4000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
	Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intel
	Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

--
01:00.1 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series]
	Subsystem: PC Partner Limited Device aa90
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 51
	Memory at feabc000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
	Capabilities: [58] Express Legacy Endpoint, MSI 00
	Capabilities: [a0] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
	Capabilities: [100] Vendor Specific Information: ID=0001 Rev=1 Len=010 <?>
```

I don't think it is only an ATI issue, however I do have an ATI card. I tried setting hte monitor to be always on but that didn't help.

---

### Post by brooney on 2012-05-10
Here is my sound card details:
```

00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 05)
	Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8469
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 61
	Memory at fe720000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
	Capabilities: [60] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
	Capabilities: [70] Express Root Complex Integrated Endpoint, MSI 00
	Capabilities: [100] Virtual Channel
--
01:00.1 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series]
	Subsystem: PC Partner Limited Device aa90
	Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 62
	Memory at fe640000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
	Capabilities: [58] Express Legacy Endpoint, MSI 00
	Capabilities: [a0] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
	Capabilities: [100] Vendor Specific Information: ID=0001 Rev=1 Len=010 <?>

```

Looks like the 3 of us are using the ATI Turks HDMI Audio card.

@SushiAddiction : regarding brightness & lock. I have already had it set to 'never' but I was still seeing the issue.

I did find something interesting though. when I went to play some music on my media server today the HDMI card was still available. I had gone to bed pausing the video playing on xbmc so maybe that kept the card active? Maybe that is my work around...just keep a movie paused before I stop using it :)

---

### Post by jaycee23 on 2012-05-10
Here's mine

```
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801JI (ICH10 Family) HD Audio Controller
    Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology GA-EP45-DS5 Motherboard
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 54
    Memory at fbff8000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
    Capabilities: [60] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
    Capabilities: [70] Express Root Complex Integrated Endpoint, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [100] Virtual Channel
--
03:00.1 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Cypress HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 5800 Series]
    Subsystem: PC Partner Limited Device aa50
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 55
    Memory at fbefc000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 3
    Capabilities: [58] Express Legacy Endpoint, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [a0] MSI: Enable+ Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
    Capabilities: [100] Vendor Specific Information: ID=0001 Rev=1 Len=010 <
```I have an ATI card too (see specs below). Looks like I'm the odd one out. I have an Cypress card (something I never knew). 

Hope someone can figure this out. Logging in / out is a pain.

---

### Post by u2nTu on 2012-05-11
> **SushiAddiction said:**
> It's just my personal opinion> bugs like this seem to hang around till the next > next distro update. I've still got **modal dialogues & other apps appearing on wrong screen with dual monitor setup**. It started in 11.10. Was not fixed in 12.04. May be fixed in 12.10. Every release there is some little annoying bug. You just have to hope there is a work around....
Don't have this thread's problem (my hardware is different), but the above-quoted post is the first I've seen with reference to the bolded behavior being a bug.

When these windows open on the other monitor, a TV in the next room, the wireless mouse must be carried there, the TV turned on (and the AVR through which it connects, if not already on), the window dragged over to the other monitor, then returning to the first monitor, the window dragged fully onto that screen (where it should have opened in the first place).

[LEFT]Searching, I find _[this]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/930660")_ bug report, _[post 10]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/930660/comments/10")_ of which gives a partial solution. Hopefully useful to you, SushiAddiction, and to others who find this thread as I did, looking for answers to this troublesome problem.


PS  Currently looking for a guide on dual-seat as a permanent fix. (And apologies for any highjacking effect.)
[/LEFT]

---

### Post by icniagara on 2012-05-11
I think it might be worth mentioning that I was actually watching and listening to the HDMI output and the audio just dropped in the middle of a stream, when I checked the sound settings, HDMI was gone.  I wish that Ubuntu would just be finished some day... :'(

---

### Post by SushiAddiction on 2012-05-15
@brooney > regarding brightness & lock. I have already had it set to 'never' but I was still seeing the issue.Yeh Thanks for confirming this. It did not work for me either.
Have not tried xmbc, it may work. I've tried keeping SMPlayer paused.  It did not work.

Seems we all have ATI . I'm not surprised.
Some extra info. I'm using [http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu)
I've also previously added acpi=force to grub

@icniagara It dropped while you were watching something. Damn I was hoping that it had something to do with power management from PC or Plasma TV.  Looks like what is happening is, it just crashes.

Unfortunately, maybe this means we need a linux geek to tell us how to re-detect HDMI audio.... I'll keep searching.

@u2nTu Thanks for the info and bug link. Because of how I use my monitor & plasma tv, this works best for me.
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/66069/how-to-prevent-launcher-from-influencing-window-placement](http://askubuntu.com/questions/66069/how-to-prevent-launcher-from-influencing-window-placement)
> If you want all your windows to be initially placed in the top left corner, the follow settings in *ccsm > Place Windows* makes it work for me: in the *fixed window placement* tab, add an entry for *Windows with fixed positions* and set the type to any, x to -1, y to 48 and untick *keep in workarea*. It's quite a hack and the window is 1px off screen (which you'll hardly notice).EDIT> 

I'm guessing it has something to do with snd_hda_intel . I found 
> 
 pulseaudio -k 
 sudo service alsa-utils stop 
 sudo modprobe -r snd_hda_intel 
 sudo modprobe snd-hda-intel 
 sudo service alsa-utils start 
 pulseaudio -D
here
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5017453&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5017453&postcount=2)
I'm not sure if this needs to be modified. I'll test it next time. None of these commands should change anything. It will just restart them. If it does strange things, reboot and everything will be back to the way it was before.

It seems
sudo modprobe -r snd_hda_intel
does not work. I get
ERROR: Module snd_hda_intel is in use
and alsa-utils does not exist.

Trying next
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/71863/how-to-change-pulseaudio-sink-with-pacmd-set-default-sink-during-playback](http://askubuntu.com/questions/71863/how-to-change-pulseaudio-sink-with-pacmd-set-default-sink-during-playback)
pacmd list-sinks




A nice chart that helped me a lot with understanding audio in ubuntu
[http://voices.canonical.com/david.henningsson/2011/12/08/audio-debugging-techniques/](http://voices.canonical.com/david.henningsson/2011/12/08/audio-debugging-techniques/)

---

### Post by u2nTu on 2012-05-16
> **SushiAddiction said:**
> ...@u2nTu Thanks for the info and bug link. Because of how I use my monitor & plasma tv, this works best for me.
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/66069/how-to-prevent-launcher-from-influencing-window-placement](http://askubuntu.com/questions/66069/how-to-prevent-launcher-from-influencing-window-placement)...
[/]("http://voices.canonical.com/david.henningsson/2011/12/08/audio-debugging-techniques/")
Thank you for the tip. Tried this and it does work, but without Smart placement, it's more of a pain.

In the process, though, I did find a workaround that's quite satisfactory:
**When a window is suspected of having opened on the second monitor ****(which may not even be on)****,  just hit Alt-F7.** Viola! The pointer snaps to it and you can drag it  over to the screen you were working on.

Strangely, once a window has been manually repositioned like this and then closed, any subsequent re-openings of it will happen on the correct monitor. (Aaiii! Why couldn't it open there to begin with?)

Hopefully CCSM's Place Windows plugin will eventually get fixed so that configuring to keep all windows on the current monitor actually works. Until then, this can do. (And still looking for *current* dual-seat setup instructions.)

---

### Post by uc50_ic4more on 2012-05-17
I just want to throw my hat in the ring. I have an ASUS K53E-1BSX (Intel graphics) and often, when I plug in the HDMI cable (the other end being connected to a TV) the external monitor itself is recognized and becomes active immediately; but the audio output is *not* present in Sound Settings.

I've not yet tried "killall pulseaudio" (would I need to restart pulse again?) nor logging out & back in (I normally, out of frustration, reboot) but will report back shortly with a brief report :)

EDIT: "pulseaudio -k" seemed to work. It is also, apparently, dependent on *when* I plug the HDMI cable in: If my TV is set to the HMDI input prior to plugging the cable in, the HDMI output will appear in Sound Settings; but if I plug the cable in, then switch the TV to the HDMI input, despite the fact that the video works just fine, the HDMI output does not appear in Sound Settings.

---

### Post by brooney on 2012-05-18
> **uc50_ic4more said:**
> I just want to throw my hat in the ring. I have an ASUS K53E-1BSX (Intel graphics) and often, when I plug in the HDMI cable (the other end being connected to a TV) the external monitor itself is recognized and becomes active immediately; but the audio output is *not* present in Sound Settings.

I've not yet tried "killall pulseaudio" (would I need to restart pulse again?) nor logging out & back in (I normally, out of frustration, reboot) but will report back shortly with a brief report :)

EDIT: "pulseaudio -k" seemed to work. It is also, apparently, dependent on *when* I plug the HDMI cable in: If my TV is set to the HMDI input prior to plugging the cable in, the HDMI output will appear in Sound Settings; but if I plug the cable in, then switch the TV to the HDMI input, despite the fact that the video works just fine, the HDMI output does not appear in Sound Settings.

I've come to something of a similar conclusion. I have a media server that is hooked up to a Bose system. When I turn off my Bose system and then turn it back on the sound is gone. It looks like Ubuntu is not recognizing the fact that it has become available again.

---

### Post by ubiquitin.jf on 2012-05-18
HDMI out works flawlessly on ATI cards with the fglrx driver installed rather than the open source one.

---

### Post by SushiAddiction on 2012-05-18
> **uc50_ic4more said:**
> 

EDIT: "pulseaudio -k" seemed to work. It is also, apparently, dependent on *when* I plug the HDMI cable in: If my TV is set to the HMDI input prior to plugging the cable in, the HDMI output will appear in Sound Settings; but if I plug the cable in, then switch the TV to the HDMI input, despite the fact that the video works just fine, the HDMI output does not appear in Sound Settings.

I had a feeling it was something like this. Power management/sink detection. At least it's starting to become clearer. 

> **ubiquitin.jf said:**
> HDMI out works flawlessly on ATI cards with  the fglrx driver installed rather than the open source one.

Yeh thanks.......
I'm glad you don't have this problem. Ubuntu is funny sometimes. I did a  fresh install at 11.10 and problems came up that were not there before.

I have the latest fglrx from x-swat ppa.

Also testing if hdmi port with audio return keeps it alive. Will also test pulseaudio -k again EDIT>  pulseaudio -k did not work :( 

> pactl listWill post before & after HDMI drops
Partial copy from  pactl output

BEFORE - WORKING
```
Sink #0
    State: SUSPENDED
    Name: alsa_output.pci-0000_01_00.1.hdmi-stereo
    Description: Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series] Digital Stereo (HDMI)
    Driver: module-alsa-card.c
    Sample Specification: s16le 2ch 44100Hz
    Channel Map: front-left,front-right
    Owner Module: 4
    Mute: no
    Volume: 0: 100% 1: 100%
            0: 0.00 dB 1: 0.00 dB
            balance 0.00
    Base Volume: 100%
                 0.00 dB
    Monitor Source: alsa_output.pci-0000_01_00.1.hdmi-stereo.monitor
    Latency: 0 usec, configured 0 usec
    Flags: HARDWARE DECIBEL_VOLUME LATENCY SET_FORMATS 
    Properties:
        alsa.resolution_bits = "16"
        device.api = "alsa"
        device.class = "sound"
        alsa.class = "generic"
        alsa.subclass = "generic-mix"
        alsa.name = "HDMI 0"
        alsa.id = "HDMI 0"
        alsa.subdevice = "0"
        alsa.subdevice_name = "subdevice #0"
        alsa.device = "3"
        alsa.card = "1"
        alsa.card_name = "HD-Audio Generic"
        alsa.long_card_name = "HD-Audio Generic at 0xfddfc000 irq 48"
        alsa.driver_name = "snd_hda_intel"
        device.bus_path = "pci-0000:01:00.1"
        sysfs.path = "/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0/0000:01:00.1/sound/card1"
        device.bus = "pci"
        device.vendor.id = "1002"
        device.vendor.name = "Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI"
        device.product.name = "Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series]"
        device.string = "hdmi:1"
        device.buffering.buffer_size = "65536"
        device.buffering.fragment_size = "32768"
        device.access_mode = "mmap+timer"
        device.profile.name = "hdmi-stereo"
        device.profile.description = "Digital Stereo (HDMI)"
        device.description = "Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series] Digital Stereo (HDMI)"
        alsa.mixer_name = "ATI R6xx HDMI"
        alsa.components = "HDA:1002aa01,00aa0100,00100200"
        module-udev-detect.discovered = "1"
        device.icon_name = "audio-card-pci"
    Ports:
        hdmi-output-0: HDMI / DisplayPort (priority: 5900, available)
    Active Port: hdmi-output-0
    Formats:
        pcm
```AFTER - NOT WORKING

```
Sink #0
    State: SUSPENDED
    Name: alsa_output.pci-0000_01_00.1.hdmi-stereo
    Description: Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series] Digital Stereo (HDMI)
    Driver: module-alsa-card.c
    Sample Specification: s16le 2ch 44100Hz
    Channel Map: front-left,front-right
    Owner Module: 4
    Mute: no
    Volume: 0: 100% 1: 100%
            0: 0.00 dB 1: 0.00 dB
            balance 0.00
    Base Volume: 100%
                 0.00 dB
    Monitor Source: alsa_output.pci-0000_01_00.1.hdmi-stereo.monitor
    Latency: 0 usec, configured 0 usec
    Flags: HARDWARE DECIBEL_VOLUME LATENCY SET_FORMATS 
    Properties:
        alsa.resolution_bits = "16"
        device.api = "alsa"
        device.class = "sound"
        alsa.class = "generic"
        alsa.subclass = "generic-mix"
        alsa.name = "HDMI 0"
        alsa.id = "HDMI 0"
        alsa.subdevice = "0"
        alsa.subdevice_name = "subdevice #0"
        alsa.device = "3"
        alsa.card = "1"
        alsa.card_name = "HD-Audio Generic"
        alsa.long_card_name = "HD-Audio Generic at 0xfddfc000 irq 48"
        alsa.driver_name = "snd_hda_intel"
        device.bus_path = "pci-0000:01:00.1"
        sysfs.path = "/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0/0000:01:00.1/sound/card1"
        device.bus = "pci"
        device.vendor.id = "1002"
        device.vendor.name = "Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI"
        device.product.name = "Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series]"
        device.string = "hdmi:1"
        device.buffering.buffer_size = "65536"
        device.buffering.fragment_size = "32768"
        device.access_mode = "mmap+timer"
        device.profile.name = "hdmi-stereo"
        device.profile.description = "Digital Stereo (HDMI)"
        device.description = "Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series] Digital Stereo (HDMI)"
        alsa.mixer_name = "ATI R6xx HDMI"
        alsa.components = "HDA:1002aa01,00aa0100,00100200"
        module-udev-detect.discovered = "1"
        device.icon_name = "audio-card-pci"
    Ports:
        hdmi-output-0: HDMI / DisplayPort (priority: 5900, not available)
    Active Port: hdmi-output-0
    Formats:
        pcm
```As you can see
> Ports:
        hdmi-output-0: HDMI / DisplayPort (priority: 5900, not available)shows as not available.

It seems sink is dropped and not re-detected. Any know what command to use to re-detect sinks ?

[COLOR=Red][B]I filled a dodgey bug report
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1001842](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1001842)
Click that it affects you.

Possible workaround here
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/133575/hdmi-audio-stops-after-tv-turned-off]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/133575/hdmi-audio-stops-after-tv-turned-off/139265#139265")
[/B][/COLOR]

---

### Post by Grigorius on 2012-05-22
Quick update, I read that the new kernel 3.4 addresses some issues with ati cards (I will try it out and post if it resolves the issue). Has anybody already tried it?

*Ok I don't recommend installing the 3.4 kernel :) (couldn't install fglrx)

---

### Post by samion on 2012-05-23
This same HDMI audio problem affects me also after updating from 11.10 to 12.04. My experience is exactly the same as SushiAddiction is experiencing: HDMI works after boot, but if the TV/monitor is switched off, audio is not working anymore, until I logout/login again.

I too have ATI hardware and Catalyst driver:

```
00:01.1 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Wrestler HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6250/6310]
        Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 84b1
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 44
        Memory at feb44000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intel
        Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel
```When the problem occurs, I also have this:

```
 hdmi-output-0: HDMI / DisplayPort (priority: 5900, not available)
```This is extremely annoying bug.

---

### Post by Grigorius on 2012-05-28
There is a thread with a hack/fix for this problem, however if you have used amdcccle it might reset your settings: [askubuntu]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/133575/hdmi-audio-stops-after-tv-turned-off")

---

### Post by SushiAddiction on 2012-05-28
I posted a link to there before but I've had problems with xrandr. Well I'm the probably the problem.

```
xrandr -display :0 --output DFP1 --off; xrandr -display :0 --output DFP1 --auto
```I'm still trying to work out how to stop the displays mirroring.
[Here]("http://maketecheasier.com/how-to-setup-dual-monitors-with-xrandr/2009/06/01") is a link for noobs, like me.


For me it should be.
```
xrandr --auto --output CRT1 --mode 3200x1080 --left-of DFP1
```EDIT> [COLOR=Red]**Another workaround is go to System Settings>Display.  Then click apply without changing anything.**[/COLOR]

---

### Post by salemboot on 2012-08-12
Anyone submitted a bug report for the sound issue?

I don't think I ever noticed the issue until I started using HDMI audio.  But it's diffently a problem in Ubuntu 10.04 as well.

Switch the video input and audio is gone.

Update for those that haven't seen this.

It's a Radeon Propriatary issue:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/1001842](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/1001842)

I think this is a major issue ATI / AMD needs to release a driver for legacy series cards since it was a big deal back in 10.04 as well.

---

### Post by johnsky on 2012-08-27
I found a quick way to re-sync my HDMI.
NOT A FIX, just a "pain killer"

CTRL+ALT+F1
(pulls you out of the GUI into a TTY prompt)
CTRL+ALT+F8 (some might need to use F7 instead of F8)
(brings you back to your GUI session)

for some reason, this is tricking my HDMI to re-sync.

... and it's ALOT faster than logging out and back in or running any commands.

Again. It's not a cure, just a pain killer.

**CTRL+ALT+F1** then **CTRL+ALT+F8**
;)

[EDIT : You might need to use F7 instead of F8. Just a heads up. On my end my session is on F8.]

---

### Post by KristySEK on 2012-08-27
00:14.2 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] Hudson Azalia Controller (rev 01)
	Subsystem: Samsung Electronics Co Ltd Device c608
	Flags: bus master, slow devsel, latency 32, IRQ 16
	Memory at feb40000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
	Capabilities: [50] Power Management version 2
	Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intel
	Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

this is mine. It work the first day installed ubuntu and then while watching movie it disappeared

---

