---
title: "Low screen resolution after installing nvidia drivers"
date: 2008-10-19
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by sofaking on 2008-10-19
After installing the nvidia drivers, my screen resolution dropped from 1152x864 to 1024x768, and it won´t let me set it any higher.

I´ve tried a bunch of things so far, but it´s only made things worse. Going to Applications->Other->Screens and Graphics and selecting my monitor (Dell E773c) only made things worse (put me in low graphics mode). nvidia-settings says I´m not using the nvidia X drivers, and tells me to run nvidia-xconfig, but after I do, nvidia-settings tells me the same thing.

Luckily I backed up my xorg.conf file, and so I should be back at the point where I installed the nvidia drivers, but before screwing everything up.

Here´s my xorg.conf file:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"intl"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


I have no idea what to do now. How do I fix this?

EDIT: Solved it. I wasn´t running nvidia-settings with sudo. That opened up a lot of options, including the ones to change screen resolution.

---

