---
title: "[SOLVED] Nvidia: Poor font quality display"
date: 2008-08-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by GuiGuy on 2008-08-11
I have just built a new hardware box around  an ASUS M2N-VM DH mobo. It has onboard NVIDIA 6150 graphics. The hardware replaced an older Gigabyte/ ATI RADEON setup. 

I am having all sorts of trouble getting the nvidia driver to give me a display quality that is half decent. I am running a Benq 22" 16:9 LCD monitor.  

Fonts are "washed out" and blurry on BENQ's recommended 1440 X 900 resolution. Any other resolution has the display running so far out of screen that no amount of manual twiddling will re-align it. 

I should also mention that the only way I have managed to successfully install the nvidia driver has been with envyng. 

> 
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Feb 14 18:13:41 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection


I have no idea what else I should do so any help is greatly appreciated. 

TIA

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-08-11
Hi and have you tried to use the nvidia settings to adjust your resolution? 
Use the alt, F2 keys and the command ```
gkdu nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by GuiGuy on 2008-08-11
> **overdrank said:**
> Hi and have you tried to use the nvidia settings to adjust your resolution? 
Use the alt, F2 keys and the command ```
gkdu nvidia-settings
```

Yea, been there, done that. I'm at my wits end on this unless there is something I am missing. 

Essentially, I install the nvidia drivers using envygn -t then option 1

It gets me to reboot. 

I reboot and I get a screen resolution of 320 X 180 !!!! :confused:

I muddle through to start nvidia settings and manage to set the monitor (have tried plug & play, auto-detect, LCD nnnn X nnn etc). and set the resolution. The only resolution that works reasonably is 1440 X 900. Anything else is half off screen. However, the font rendering on screen is awful. 

Given that my previous ATI based hardware displayed things flawlessly I am beginning to question the collected linux wisdom that nvidia is somehow better. 

Cheers

---

### Post by GuiGuy on 2008-08-11
> **GuiGuy said:**
> 

I muddle through to start nvidia settings and manage to set the monitor (have tried plug & play, auto-detect, LCD nnnn X nnn etc). and set the resolution. The only resolution that works reasonably is 1440 X 900. Anything else is half off screen. However, the font rendering on screen is awful. 

I should mentioned that benchmarking on WinXp the display is fine. In other words, it must be a driver or configuration  issue that's causing this on the Ubuntu setup.

---

### Post by GuiGuy on 2008-08-11
> **GuiGuy said:**
> 
I am having all sorts of trouble getting the nvidia driver to give me a display quality that is half decent. I am running a Benq 22" 16:9 LCD monitor.  
I should also mention that the only way I have managed to successfully install the nvidia driver has been with envyng. 


OK, here's what I did -

[LIST]
[*]I started envyng and removed the nvidia driver
[*]envyng prompted a reboot
[*]After the reboot I did a manual install from envyng (option 5)
[*]Option 2 - nvidia
[*]I opted for "2 - 96.43.05 (new legacy)"
[/LIST]

Another driver install, another reboot, but this time all looks good. Good display and Tux races down the slopes in one smooth motion.

Cheers

---

