---
title: "Earphones White Noise caused by my netbook charger cable."
date: 2014-02-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Durabys on 2014-02-23
I found out that when my netbook charges itself it causes extremely annoying white noise in my earphones. Is there a solution how to get rid of it? I want to charge my netbook and use my earphones without the white noise. Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-02-23
A few ideas.

Is this an issue with every laptop of that make/model?
Does the sound happen on every OS?
What is the audio chip used?
Could an equalizer be used to minimize the sound or does that not make any difference at all?
Could a set of airplane noise-canceling headphones work?  I saw some like I have for 50% off a few days ago here, just $25.

I'd guess that only an external solution will work .... or take the netbook back and get a replacement.

BTW, if you are still running 13.04, support for that release ended last month.

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-02-23
Hello!

It is almost certainly RF radiation from the "brick" in your charger.  RF shielding adds to the cost of electronic equipment (your charger and your earphones) and you can pretty much bet that if local regulations are lax, manufacturers who sell there will take advantage of the opportunity to increase profits by reducing shielding.  

Your charger radiates RF as it converts the AC from your power grid to DC to charge your netbook.  That signal is probably being propigated in your earphone cable or actually interfering at the magnets that cause the diaphrams to vibrate.

A cheap *test *for what you could do would be to place your brick as far away as possible and put a metallic object (like an empty food can or even a sheet of aluminum foil) between the brick and your earphones -- try to create a "shadow" along the entire route of your ear phone cable and your earphones.  See if that lessens the effect.  It will be very hard to eliminate it entirely.

Let us know if that helps any.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2014-02-23
A ferrite bead (similar to what's on the end of a monitor cable) on the charger cable *might* help.

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-02-23
Or what's known as a "ground loop isolator" in the earphone cable if it's electrical noise being generated by the powersupply.

---

### Post by Durabys on 2014-03-05
Okay. When I put the cable out of the netbook, and it starts to run on battery, the noise ceases. The continous energy consumption-charging causes it. Not just the energy consumption.

> **TheFu said:**
> ..snippet..

 BTW, if you are still running 13.04, support for that release ended last month.

How do you identify the OS version?

---

### Post by Iowan on 2014-03-05
> **Durabys said:**
> How do you identify the OS version?

System Settings>System>Details works on my 12.04

---

### Post by ssam on 2014-03-06
Does it make a difference where you charger is plugged in? Could it be some other device in your home that's adding noise to the mains?

Have checked that your mic is muted? Maybe its monitoring back to the headphones.

You could try getting a USB sound card. It might give a bit more isolation, then again it might make no difference.

Another option is bluetooth headphones.

---

### Post by Durabys on 2014-03-07
I unplugged the still netbook-plugged charger from the electrictiy network in the wall and it ceases to make the white noise.

---

### Post by Durabys on 2014-03-19
Can someone help please?

---

