---
title: "10.10 lost Mic :("
date: 2010-10-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by paolol61 on 2010-10-11
Hi,
after many Ubuntu release I try to set kubuntu to work for me , but I'm stack with the Mic not working, any one know how to ste it under this new kubuntu ?

Thanks a lot
:)

---

### Post by Zorael on 2010-10-12
As of 10.10 Kubuntu uses PulseAudio for sound management, which makes handling of volume channels a bit more abstract but hopefully easier overall.

Make sure that you enable the correct input source in KMix, by going to the Capture Devices tab and unmute your soundcard's channel. In my case it's named Internal Audio Analog Stereo. The icon below the slider mutes and unmutes the channel.

If that's not enough, try installing the GTK PulseAudio tool **pavucontrol**, which allows for some more fine-grained control over sinks and sources. In the Input Devices tab, make sure that your soundcard's channel is unmuted, and select the correct *port* from which it should listen for sound input. For my soundcard, I have Mic 1, Mic 2 and Line-In. Yours may be set to the incorrect one. See the attached screenshot.

The "Monitor of Internal Audio Analog Stereo" source, which only shows up if you select All Input Devices in the dropdown list at the bottom, inputs the sound that the soundcard outputs. Meaning, if you want to capture sound from a game or other programs, you can enable it there and then record while sound is being played elsewhere. This allows for playing music over Ventrilo, for instance.

---

### Post by paolol61 on 2010-10-12
Perfect Thanks a lot .
in pavucontrol I found the setting I was looking for :KS
Now all work fine thanks.

---

