---
title: "K3B 1.66 from source issues"
date: 2009-08-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by billdotson on 2009-08-12
I don't remember where I saw how to install it from source (it was different from make, it used cmake) but I got it installed from source only to have it tell me that I couldn't add files bigger than 4GB because mkisofs and geniso or whatever weren't a high enough version. I looked in the repos, not there. Cdrtools doesn't have them, nothing. I tried using this k3b because the other one has a bug where it won't verify and it says that the blanking of a dvd+rw failed even though it really didn't. 

I am fairly certain I need to use UDF to burn these large files to DVDs but all the burns I have now are ISO9660 version 3 I think (I think ver. 3 comes with a UDF extension). I need them to be recognized under Linux primarily and maybe Windows. They are just images files split into smaller pieces to act as a Windows XP backup.

I guess it is in conjunction with me trying to set up my Dad's new PC, but it just seems like something goes wrong or doesn't work like it should way too often for Ubuntu to be called "productive." I understand a whole of it has to do with the program developers, but I am still having a problem with such and such way too often.

Here is the exact error I get: 
"
To burn files bigger than 4.0 GiB please use mkisofs >= 2.01.01a33 / genisoimage >= 1.1.4:
"
I have tried looking around the internet for the source of those packages but haven't had any luck yet.

Thanks.

---

### Post by billdotson on 2009-08-12
Ok, I found cdrtools which has mkisofs in it apparently. I found the latest version of that here: [http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/cdrtools-Download-191.html]("http://linux.softpedia.com/progDownload/cdrtools-Download-191.html")

However, if my genisoimage was out of date how in the world would I find it? [Go to packages.ubuntu.com although if for some reason they didn't have the latest it wouldn't be very helpful). You would think the source for these type of programs would pop up everywhere like other OSS apps. Maybe because it is BASH?

K3B seems where it just stops and spins at 0% at the closing session part of the burn. I am going to try and see if I can get K3B 1.0.5 to reference the newest version of cdrtools so I can burn UDF. Too bad K3B 1.66 has (on my box at least) a pretty bad bug. K3B 1.0.5 won't do verification half the time and says it fails to format a DVD+RW initially even though it didn't. Just seems UDF burning support isn't coming easily in Linux. Brasero and nautilus burner work great for everything else but their UIs are just so ugly and you can't/it is harder to change their options (at least for me).

---

