---
title: "9.10 (Karmic) paplay hangs on some sound files"
date: 2010-03-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by rifter on 2010-03-11
I'm trying to use paplay to preview sound files before using them in applications, and I have also tried using it in xchat as an external sound program.  What I am finding is that it is not suitable for either, because it hangs on some files.  It doesn't play anything when it hangs, and will hang forever until you ctrl-c break or kill the process.  In the case of using it as an external sound application the process hangs until killed, and if the program using paplay to play sounds invokes it multiple times you get several hung paplay processes.

     Sounds work fine on my system, and the same sound files, when played in a media player like vlc or rhythmbox, or used as alert sounds in a program which, like pidgin, can natively handle sound files without using an external program, work fine.

    I have tried a variety of sound files, but I am narrowing this down to the ones everyone should have on their system.  These are my results:

Out of all the ogg files in 

/usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo 

The following hang

/usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo/desktop-login.ogg
/usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo/desktop-logout.ogg
/usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo/message-new-instant.ogg
/usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo/phone-incoming-call.ogg

the following do not hang but are completely silent

/usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo/service-login.ogg
/usr/share/sounds/ubuntu/stereo/service-logout.ogg

The rest work fine, and all of them work perfectly programs other than paplay.  I'm not aware of a correlation that makes sense that would explain this behaviour of paplay.  Unfortunately esdplay for some reason doesn't support ogg files (I get "unrecognized audio file format " errors) and in any case it is a compatability wrapper for the pulseaudio stuff on my system.  I tried the alsa player (aplay) but it just makes white noise out of any ogg file I try to play in it.

I'm sticking to ogg files as opposed to other formats in this test because that is a well-supported format in linux (as opposed to mp3, for which I do have the right support, but still) and it is also the format of the files a lot of programs in Ubuntu seem to be using for their sounds.  If I can get things working with ogg files, maybe I can try other ones later.  But if even ogg vorbis files aren't working, who knows what other stuff like mp3s will do?

Any suggestions are appreciated.

---

