---
title: ".mp3 question"
date: 2010-06-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by hatridge on 2010-06-02
Burned onto CD, some mp3 music...used windows.... Now when copying from the CD to computer using Ubuntu 9.1, ...althouth there is no problem with the sound  and they play great. I noticed that the file format is now .wav, furthermore the file size is about 13 times the size. I burned a file no larger than 3-5 MB and now the same file is 60 - 70 MB. Is there an easy way to shrink these files to a more manageable size?

---

### Post by goinglinux on 2010-06-02
You could try this website: [http://www.convertfiles.com/]("http://www.convertfiles.com/")

---

### Post by sxmaxchine on 2010-06-02
the program you burnt them with would have converted the files when it burnt the disk

---

### Post by Ozymandias_117 on 2010-06-02
You could try WinFF (It's in the repos) it's a good graphical front-end for ffmpeg

The reason the size is so different is that you burned them as an audio CD. When you do that, the audio files are completely uncompressed into raw audio. This is because a lot of car stereos don't have the ability to decompress audio files, so, to make them work anywhere, they are saved as raw audio.

---

### Post by hatridge on 2010-06-03
I figured it was something like that.... Is there a way to re-size the "Raw Data" back to a size that is closer to 5 MB. Audicity or any other software?

---

### Post by Ozymandias_117 on 2010-06-03
Like I said, try WinFF

---

### Post by hatridge on 2010-06-03
Thanks however Winff not working so good on my machine...seems to lock up in the process. What's your second choice, if you have one?

---

### Post by hatridge on 2010-06-03
Solved. I was able to do what I wanted with Audacity by exporting the .wav file to a different folder in a .mp3 format. That shrunk it also. Thanks for your effort.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-06-03
Probably to late, since you've already fixed it (or semi-fixed anyway), but converting MP3-> WAV-> MP3 will just make the file sound worse. 

It would be much better, if possible, to just copy the files over to your ubuntu installation without any conversion.

---

### Post by hatridge on 2010-06-03
yes ,well I did not mention that I had to do that in order to work with the file. Audacity would not let me edit a file located on a disk. And the file sounds great after I did what I did. The problem was not the way it sounded but rather the size of the file that was the issue. Again SOLVED ...thanks again

---

### Post by Boondoklife on 2010-06-03
I know this is marked as resolved, but there are two pieces of software that work great for both steps.

Ripping from cd to mp3 can be done with "sound-juicer".
Converting files from one format to another can be done with "soundconverter".

Both are located in the repos and very easy to use. Again not saying for you to do it since I see it is resolved, but more so to let others know of ways to do it.

---

