---
title: "Problem with the nvidia driver in *buntu"
date: 2009-02-15
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ohbuntu on 2009-02-15
I just activated the latest recommended nvidia graphics drivers (via the hardware drivers panel) and there's a problem right out of the bat.

Upon restart, the xlogin prompt appears with massive black bars. Upon logging in, the mouse and keyboard usually hang and there are weird stripes/lines and stuff (like a video gone bad). The only way to access the system is via console recovery mode. Here's my current xorg.conf file:

***
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder57) Mon Oct 27 14:37:20 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Layout0"
Screen 0 "Screen0"
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "dbe"
Load "extmod"
Load "type1"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "Unknown"
HorizSync 30.0 - 110.0
VertRefresh 50.0 - 150.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection
***

I did manage to log in under xfce DE once and clicked on nvidia xserver settings to find out that the monitor was running at a resolution of 1600x1200 which seems too high to handle for my old(er) graphics card (a GeForce2) and this probably hangs the entire system. I even tried removing the two resolutions higher than XGA from the conf file without success.

Using xfix in recovery mode only gets me this xorg.conf and the screen goes back to 800x600 which I'm using right now to create this thread.  Reconfiguring the xserver through console doesn't really do anything except ask about keyboard settings.
***
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
***
I tried manually editing this file to use the nvidia driver but to no avail. sudo nvidia-xconfig recreates the first xorg conf file above.

Could anyone please help me out? I'm trying to get the monitor to use any decent resolution like XGA and above without letting the mouse and keyboard hang. Am I doomed to a Win 3.11 resolution of 800x600?

---

