---
title: "14.04, XBMC, Intel, screen tearing."
date: 2014-04-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Roasted on 2014-04-22
Hello friends. I have a 14.04 system with an Intel i5 running with integrated graphics. When I fire up XBMC I can notice horizontal screen tearing at times. Within XBMC I enabled the vsync option in the settings, but no change.

Is there anything else to try? Most of the research I've done resulted in Nvidia cards, not Intel. :(

EDIT - It almost has to be an XBMC specific thing... Streaming the same videos over samba through VLC work fine. Some sources indicate that I need to enable vsync on the driver AND XBMC. I have it enabled on XBMC already, but I'm not sure how to add that to the Intel driver?

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-04-22
Hi Roasted.

A few ideas:
[LIST]
[*]Make sure 'libvdpau1' is installed.
[*]Make sure VDPAU is selected as a hardware acceleration method on XBMC.
[*]You may try disabling VAAPI too.
[/LIST]
Also, have you tried setting the XBMC options?
[LIST]
[*]'Adjust display refresh rate to match video', or
[*]'Sync playback to display'[/LIST]
Regarding the driver itself and its behavior with the desktop:
[LIST]
[*]do you have ccsm installed? If so, try checing the options 'Don&#8217;t wait for video sync' and 'Force full screen redraws (buffer swap) on repaint' (that used to made a difference on 12.04).
[/LIST]
Let us know if any of that made an improvement on tearing.
Regards.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2014-04-22
Hi there.

libvdpau1 is already installed and on the latest version. I tried both VDPAU and VAAPI enabled at once as well as VDPAU enabled and VAAPI disabled. No dice. Adjust display refresh rate to match video is set to always, and sync playback to display is selected as well. No change at all.

I do not have ccsm installed.

What about Render Method? It's set to Auto Detect right now, but I'm wondering if that matters. Available options are:

Auto Detect
Software
Advanced shaders (GLSL)
Basic shaders (ARB)

Thanks for the quick response!

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-04-22
:(

I've always use 'Auto detect'.

Another idea: 
```
System -> Video Output -> Vertical blank sync
```
I usually set it to 'Let the driver choose', but I make sure that nvidia-settings is set to 'Sync to VBlank' on 'OpenGL settings'.

Regards.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2014-04-22
Thanks again for your reply. I changed 'always enabled' (in vertical blank sync) to let the driver choose. But no dice.

Interesting bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libsdl1.2/+bug/1280665](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libsdl1.2/+bug/1280665)

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-04-22
Ohh..

Back in the day, I used to select 'Unredirect Fullscreen Windows' on ccsm to avoid composite on Unity (and Gnome).

(also, I made sure that the refresh rate on that screen matched the drivers').

Regrads.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2014-04-23
> **papibe said:**
> Ohh..

Back in the day, I used to select 'Unredirect Fullscreen Windows' on ccsm to avoid composite on Unity (and Gnome).

(also, I made sure that the refresh rate on that screen matched the drivers').

Regrads.

This might be a dumb remark, but I do have to question something. Is ccsm even relevant anymore? I kind of feel like ccsm is expiring itself based on the direction of compiz for the future, etc. I haven't used it in years...

I too used to go into the driver settings to make certain parameter changes, such as refresh rate, etc. But thing is, I have *no* idea how to do that in Intel since Intel chips almost always magically work out of the box. With Nvidia (and AMD/ATI when I last used them 100 years ago) I always went into their specific driver manager for that. Does Intel have a driver manager that I'm missing?

---

### Post by lz-wouter on 2014-04-28
Same problem, different setup. I do use a Nvidia GTX 760 and I use PlexHT instead of XBMC, but because Plex is based upon XBMC I guess it's the same thing. Just like Roasted, the tearing is limited to just the one app. It's not just with video, it's the whole app. Whenever there is horizontal movement there is tearing. When I open the same video in VLC, no problem whatsoever.

I also tried pretty much every setting and reinstalling drivers, including the newer ones through a PPA. I even tried doing a fresh install of ubuntu and plex, as my system was updated from 13.10. No change, same problem.

I also [posted]("https://forums.plex.tv/index.php/topic/107788-plexht-tearing-in-ubuntu-1404/") this in the Plex forums

---

### Post by Roasted on 2014-04-28
> **lz-wouter said:**
> Same problem, different setup. I do use a Nvidia GTX 760 and I use PlexHT instead of XBMC, but because Plex is based upon XBMC I guess it's the same thing. Just like Roasted, the tearing is limited to just the one app. It's not just with video, it's the whole app. Whenever there is horizontal movement there is tearing. When I open the same video in VLC, no problem whatsoever.

I also tried pretty much every setting and reinstalling drivers, including the newer ones through a PPA. I even tried doing a fresh install of ubuntu and plex, as my system was updated from 13.10. No change, same problem.

I also [posted]("https://forums.plex.tv/index.php/topic/107788-plexht-tearing-in-ubuntu-1404/") this in the Plex forums

Sorry to hear that you too are having issues, though I am selfishly happy to know it's not just me. :P You mention Plex... Do you know which version of XBMC your Plex install is based on? I'm on XBMC 12.3. Maybe I'll try to track down a 13.X testing PPA and see if the in development version for next rev does the same thing as 12.3.

For the time being I am just mounting the video share from my server through Samba in Nautilus, and then browsing through the file manager. Given that I can beef up Nautilus's default zoom it makes it much more HTPC friendly, even if it's not as shiny and movie theatre esque as XBMC. It at least gets the job done problem free with very minimal overhead.

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-04-28
I made a mistake on post #2. Intel graphics have nothing to do with VDPAU, which is Nvidia only.

Then this is the library you should have installed:
```
sudo apt-get install i965-va-driver
```
Although this one is also referenced on the XBMC forums:
```
sudo apt-get install libva-intel-vaapi-driver
```
(in my understanding the last one was a transitional package. In any case, both should be included on the Intel driver, but considering the libvdpau was not included on Nvidia's on one release...)

Then in XBMC, VDPAU should be disabled, and VAAPI enabled.

This command tells you if VAAPI is properly working:
```
vainfo
```

Another idea: it seems Intel has 2 different hardware acceleration methods, one is called SNA and the other UXA. XBMC recommend using SNA by including a definition like this on your xorg.conf:
```
Section "Device"
    Identifier "Intel Graphics"
    Driver "intel"
    Option "AccelMethod" "sna"
EndSection
```

Let us know if any of that improves the tearing.
Regards.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-28
> **papibe said:**
> I made a mistake on post #2. Intel graphics have nothing to do with VDPAU, which is Nvidia only.

.

You can use vdpau in intel via vaapi. It is useful for players that don't work with vaapi directly (mplayer and mplayer2, also flash), need to install the package libvdpau-va-gl (it is in 14.04 repo), after installing it edit the file /etc/X11/Xsession.d/20vdpau-va-gl and uncomment the last two lines.

Reboot then run vdpauinfo, it should show that vdpau is working.

---

### Post by mattjor on 2014-04-30
> **Roasted said:**
> Sorry to hear that you too are having issues, though I am selfishly happy to know it's not just me.

Seems I am also in the same boat - Updated from 13.10 to 14.04 and it has started tearing now.
Mines running on an i3 integrated graphics.

---

### Post by hashok on 2014-05-02
> **Roasted said:**
> Thanks again for your reply. I changed 'always enabled' (in vertical blank sync) to let the driver choose. But no dice.

Interesting bug report:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libsdl1.2/+bug/1280665](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libsdl1.2/+bug/1280665)

Hi, I have the same tearing problem as you on Intel Haswell graphics card. This "interesting bug report" addresses this problem. I have installed the libsdl1.2 from PPA as suggested, and the tearing problem is gone! Fix is released on 26 of April, but I suppose we still need to wait for some time until the package is actually updated in the Ubuntu.

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-05-02
Hi hashok.

Great! Could you give us a little more details?

Which ppa? The one suggested on the bug report (jyrinki's)?

Regards.

---

### Post by hashok on 2014-05-03
Yes, I did just this:

> sudo apt-add-repository ppa:timo-jyrinki/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install libsdl1.2debian

And my Xbmc is back to flawless quality again!

---

### Post by mrv on 2014-05-03
> **hashok said:**
> Fix is released on 26 of April, but I suppose we still need to wait for some time until the package is actually updated in the Ubuntu.

Hi. The fix is in the development version (14.10), which is always a pre-requirement for landing the same fix to the released version.

The bug is currently nominated to be also fixed in 14.04 LTS, and there's a branch waiting for Stable Release Update team's attention, so hopefully the fix will land soon also to 14.04 LTS.

---

### Post by smuggly on 2014-05-09
Same thing here I'm using A AMD APU 6700 Richland. Even with the new amd 14.4 linux driver it's tearing. I guess will wait for 14.10 or backport!
Thanks

---

### Post by smuggly on 2014-05-11
I checked My libsdl1.2 In Synaptic it is there. Do I Need To Do It Trough The ppa? Is It A Updated Version on The ppa? Thanks Smuggly

---

### Post by Roasted on 2014-05-12
That ppa fixed my issue. I wonder if it will get merged into the regular 14.04 install... In my opinion it's a must...

---

### Post by KillEmAllx on 2014-05-14
hashok's instructions worked for me:
```
[COLOR=#000000]*sudo apt-add-repository ppa:timo-jyrinki/ppa*[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]*sudo apt-get update*[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]*sudo apt-get install libsdl1.2debian*[/COLOR]
```
Thanks!

---

### Post by Roasted on 2014-05-14
Not sure if anybody is following the bug report but it sounds like the package from the PPA that fixed the issue is being reviewed in an effort to patch it in the main repo. 

^5 everyone!

---

### Post by mrv on 2014-05-20
The update is now available for everyone via 14.04 LTS updates.

---

### Post by runejustesen on 2014-06-12
According to my synaptic, I have libsdl1.2debian installed. But I am still experiencing the tearing in both VLC and smplayer (mplayer).  I hope someone can help? Thanks.

---

### Post by tedpixie on 2014-12-27
Hi,

I am not sure if this thread is alive anymore, but I suddenly started to get problems with tearing in xbmc (after updating to Kodi Helix) on my i3 (IvyBridge) setup running ubuntu 14.04 LTS. And started probing around on the net to see if anyone else had the same problem. Non of the solutions I found worked so I started to probe a bit in some of the log files and where surprised to find this in Xorg.0.log:

```

[    10.534] (--) intel(0): Integrated Graphics Chipset: Intel(R) HD Graphics 4000
[    10.534] (--) intel(0): CPU: x86-64, sse2, sse3, ssse3, sse4.1, sse4.2, avx
[    10.534] (II) intel(0): Creating default Display subsection in Screen section
        "Default Screen Section" for depth/fbbpp 24/32
[    10.534] (==) intel(0): Depth 24, (--) framebuffer bpp 32
[    10.534] (==) intel(0): RGB weight 888
[    10.534] (==) intel(0): Default visual is TrueColor
[    10.534] (**) intel(0): Framebuffer tiled
[    10.534] (**) intel(0): Pixmaps tiled
[    10.534] (**) intel(0): "Tear free" disabled

```

"Tear free" disabled? First of all, strange setting, and very strang that this is disabled by default (I assume disabling this feature gives better performanse in some use-cases). Anyway I enabled it and it fixed the tearing issue for my setup . This setting is enabled in xorg.conf.

```

Section "Device"
    Identifier "Intel Graphics"
    Driver "intel"
    Option "AccelMethod" "sna"
    Option      "TearFree" "true"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by dan-g2 on 2015-04-26
Yes, tedpixie!

I just noticed tearing again on my Intel HD 3000 and I started despairing as I went to great pains to get smooth video before. In vain I tried ccsm options, fluxbox rather than Unity, even uninstalling all the nvidia-* stuff I had installed for a NVidia GTX 750 Ti I had just bought to run Flightgear....

I didn't even think of looking in the XOrg log, having never really found anything useful in there over the years....

But yes, I had the same thing...

[   406.202] (**) intel(0): "Tear free" disabled

I created the config file:
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/20-intel.conf
and added the same config as you in there (since the system doesn't ship with a /etc/X11/xorg.conf any more)

Notes here on Arch wiki:
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Intel_graphics#Tear-free_video](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Intel_graphics#Tear-free_video)

---

### Post by AFriendlyNerd on 2015-05-24
^This is the fix I'm currently using, but they say it's not ideal for a couple of reasons, one mentioned in that archlinux link, the other being that it creates "triple buffering". I have 14.04 and recently updated. I'm wondering if I should try any of the other fixes in this thread, even though the thread reports the drivers and changes are now incorporated into 14.04. Thoughts?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-05-24
> **AFriendlyNerd said:**
> ^This is the fix I'm currently using, but they say it's not ideal for a couple of reasons, one mentioned in that archlinux link, the other being that it creates "triple buffering". I have 14.04 and recently updated. I'm wondering if I should try any of the other fixes in this thread, even though the thread reports the drivers and changes are now incorporated into 14.04. Thoughts?
Note - never used Kodi before, don't intend to either
So on an Intel 4600 Ubuntu 14.04/unity/compiz gave Kodi a try.  Normally there is no tearing anywhere, anytime as compiz takes care of that.
In Kodi however tearing is quite obvious when playing back videos in the default fullscreen. If vids are played in Kodi in window mode then there is no tearing thanks to compiz. (makes some of those Kodi dev comments in Kodi forum about don't use unity/compiz quite suspect.

So normally there would be no reason to enable the tear free deal but if Kodi can't provide vsync that works & one wanted to use Kodi then I guess i'd do it.

---

### Post by AFriendlyNerd on 2015-05-24
Very interesting. I initially thought that there was no tearing in VLC, only Kodi, but then I thought detected it, almost imperceptibly, but noticeable. Perhaps I was mistaken.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-05-25
> **AFriendlyNerd said:**
> Very interesting. I initially thought that there was no tearing in VLC, only Kodi, but then I thought detected it, almost imperceptibly, but noticeable. Perhaps I was mistaken.

You may have, there certainly can be a combo of content, player, video out, ect. that can show some tearing.
For example here using libvdpau-va-gl1 to provide vdpau on Intel gpu  in mpv can show tearing in fullscreen. However I've no reason to use vdpau as vaapi works fine & in general don't need hw accel anyway for anything under 50 Mbps or so.

Here I use several different vids to check as just one or another isn't quite enough to say tearing isn't present. Two  I can legally share are the attached simple teartest & link
For attached the bar should never show any breaks in sides,  for the link during the fight scene starting about 25 sec in tearing is likely if vsync isn't happening..
Both should be tested in window & fullscreen
[http://www.datafilehost.com/d/5942d3d3](http://www.datafilehost.com/d/5942d3d3)

---

