---
title: ".k3b file opens but is empty, why?"
date: 2024-10-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by goemonburo on 2024-10-27
I have several .k3b files that when I view the properties in my file manager, they are not empty, one is 1.5KB, another 1.7KB, and yet when I open them with K3B, it seems they're empty.  No files are in the project.  

I'm trying to reburn a CD that's become scratched and thought that this would mean I don't have to painstakingly recreate it again.  Is there a simple setting that I'm missing?  Something I'm doing wrong?

This CD was created in 2018, so it's been a while, has something in the .k3b file extension changed?  

If there's no easy way, is there some way to open and view the raw data so that I can see what was originally there?

I'm on Lubuntu 22.04LTS, if that matters, running a K3B 21.12.3.  

Thank you!

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2024-10-27
Will your old scratched CD still play, and can it still be read by the CD drive?

If it does you might be able to copy it using your k3b burning application.  I haven't used CDs for a long time now and don't have a CD writer so I can not remember exactly how to do this but I'm fairly certain I used to do it 20 years ago, probably then using an application in Windows-XP but I know I did it with k3b when I still used CDs but after I moved away from Windows to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by goemonburo on 2024-10-28
@ajgreeny, thanks for the suggestion, but no, the CD no longer plays which is why (I thought!) all I'd need to do to make another is pull up the .k3b file...which I'd saved for that purpose.  It just doesn't seem to work, though.  I'm hoping I'm doing something incorrectly or need to toggle a setting or something.  It's possible the path to the files has changed, but if I could even see the old files that would be enough for me to know what was on the CD.

---

