---
title: "8.04, 8.10, 9.04, 64bit, NVIDIA 8600 GTS, green checkerboard problem"
date: 2009-06-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by brian.m on 2009-06-29
Please see the attached screenshot - this clearly explains the issue. My video is rendered with a green "checkerboard" overlay.

I had a NVIDIA 8600 GT that died (3 short beeps) on me, so I replaced with it a NVIDIA 8600 GTS card. The card worked fine for about a day, I installed some updates, rebooted and it has not worked right since. My install began as 8.04 64bit with Compiz - when I disabled Compiz, the issue got better, but did not completely resolve itself. I then decided to upgrade to 9.04 and upgrade the NVIDIA driver to the latest, but the issue is now worse (visible in screenshot).

The video card is new, so I doubt the issue lies there. Also, if this was a video card output issue, I feel like this would not be visible in a screenshot - could I be wrong? If I boot the 9.04 64bit live cd, I don't have this problem. The system is setup with dual monitors.

Any ideas where to go from here? I'm tempted to backup everything and do a fresh install, but I'd like to avoid that if possible.

---

### Post by brian.m on 2009-06-30
I hate to bump this but my desktop is unusable. Anyone have any comments outside of a fresh reinstall?

---

### Post by jirah on 2009-06-30
Do any of the settings regarding the dual monitor setup or the glx setting via the nvidia-settings command have any effect? I am asking because I have successfully used that card in an old 7.10, 8.? and now a 9.04 release and not had the same issue that you are experiencing.

---

### Post by brian.m on 2009-07-01
> **jirah said:**
> Do any of the settings regarding the dual monitor setup or the glx setting via the nvidia-settings command have any effect? I am asking because I have successfully used that card in an old 7.10, 8.? and now a 9.04 release and not had the same issue that you are experiencing.

They have an effect, but they do not correct the problem.

---

### Post by brian.m on 2009-07-07
Sorry to bump it again, but I'm hoping for some ideas.. :(

---

### Post by CabanaBoi on 2009-07-07
Does your mobo have an integrated video chip? Perhaps you could use that for the time being and completely remove and reinstall the proprietary drivers for the 8600.

---

### Post by brian.m on 2009-07-07
> **CabanaBoi said:**
> Does your mobo have an integrated video chip? Perhaps you could use that for the time being and completely remove and reinstall the proprietary drivers for the 8600.

No, good suggestion though.

---

### Post by brian.m on 2009-07-10
I just did a fresh install of 9.04. Without the NVIDIA drivers my dual monitors work fine (cloned image on each, but no video rendering issues). As soon as I install the NVIDIA drivers, the "green checkerboard" problem returns.

I don't know what to do at this point, other than ship the card back and get a 8600 GT (which I know works). :mad:

---

