---
title: "12.04 LTS desktop displays as a laptop nvida quadro 660"
date: 2014-02-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ebagdonas on 2014-02-09
12.04 LTS desktop displays as a laptop. The levono D-20 has nvidia 660 display with two monitors (one display port).   I confirm that I was able to run dual screen with updated drivers as of a week ago, but I made some update that broke this.  Following - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2057563 ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2057563")- does not work.  Data from that post  follows.

**xrandr**
xrandr: Failed to get size of gamma for output default
Screen 0: minimum 640 x 480, current 1600 x 1200, maximum 1600 x 1200
default connected 1600x1200+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1600x1200       0.0* 
   1280x1024       0.0  
   1024x768        0.0  
   800x600         0.0  
   640x480         0.0  

** lspci | grep -i vga**
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GF108GL [Quadro 600] (rev a1)

[B]sudo lshw -C video
[/B]  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: GF108GL [Quadro 600]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vga_controller bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:f2000000-f2ffffff memory:e8000000-efffffff memory:f0000000-f1ffffff ioport:2000(size=128) memory:f3000000-f307ffff



**Updated nvida drivers**
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-settings
sudo nvidia-xconfig[COLOR=#000000][I]
**nvidia-xconfig creates the following **
[/I][/COLOR]cat xorg.conf


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Default Device"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

[B]NVIDIA X Server Settings  
[/B]
Changing settings has no effect. There is no "save to Xfile" option

What am I missing? 


[COLOR=#000000][I]

[/I][/COLOR]

---

### Post by vermontbear on 2014-02-10
I don't have a quick answer here, but I figure it's good to leave a reply so that folks might understand there is some interest.  Used to be in the Dapper -- Hardy days, you could override mistakes in the monitor auto detect process and make things work.  Now, it's not that easy.  For my various experiments, fortunately, I have a duplicate hard drive that I can mess with and screw up when I'm so inclined and then go back to a working configuration.  I had picked up an LG 32" TV for a song (or less than a song) which item had a sound problem. Discovered that LG wanted more for a replacement circuit board than they charged for the TV.  I cut a hole in the back of the case and mounted a 2" fan to blow on the cooler.  That fixed the sound.  However, my test drive of Ubuntu 12.04 detects the monitor as a Goldstar 7" display. You might imagine that the font sizes spring up somewhat larger than would be acceptable.

The nVidia 331 settings manager shows the display as an LG device, but alas, Ubuntu knows better.

If you get your glitch fixed, same thing probably will work for my 7" tablet... oh, sorry, 32" TV.

Cheers,
J

---

