---
title: "10.10 Maverick Meerkat potential bug, disabling login screen sound"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by bmillare on 2010-10-12
Hello,

Just recently did a fresh install of Maverick Meerkat on my laptop. I have disabled system sounds successfully via System->Preferences->Sound, and then select no sounds for the theme.

However, disabling the login screen sound, via System->Administration->Login Screen, Clicking Unlock, then unchecking "Play login sound" (which by default is already unchecked), does not disable the login sound as expected.

I would like to confirm this problem for others before submitting a bug.

Best,
Brent

---

### Post by seattle vic on 2010-10-12
I have 6 instances of 10.10 running, on 3 computers and then on 3 virtualbox VM's.  Every one obey'd the system-administration-login screen box when unchecked except for one running under win7.  I had to also cut off all sounds in the system-preferences-sound menu, and that worked.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-10-12
I always shutdown the startup sound with startup applications in preference, just untick it.

---

### Post by zeus77 on 2010-10-15
FYI, OP is talking about GDM login screen which appears before login, not per-user login sound which is heard after login.

In any case, I, too, have this problem with Maverick.  I have also turned off all sounds in Prefs-->Sound--> No Sound theme (as suggested by 2nd poster), but this had no effect on the GDM login sound.

-------------

EDIT: Just found a fix.  

1. First, *enable* login sound via Sys-->Admin-->Login-->Unlock-->Enable "Play Login Sound"-->Close
2. Then, go back in and disable it.

Make sure to close the Login settings window (and therefore save changes) at the end of step 1.

---

### Post by eMxyzptlk on 2010-10-21
> **zeus77 said:**
> 
EDIT: Just found a fix.  

1. First, *enable* login sound via Sys-->Admin-->Login-->Unlock-->Enable "Play Login Sound"-->Close
2. Then, go back in and disable it.

Make sure to close the Login settings window (and therefore save changes) at the end of step 1.

I confirm this fix to be working.. Thx zeus

---

### Post by thalia on 2010-10-27
Thanks for that workaround, I wouldn't have guessed it.

But a workaround is what it is, not a fix.  It still needs a bug report submitting.  Or is there one already?

---

