---
title: "5.1 channel audio output"
date: 2010-01-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by poonforce on 2010-01-18
[]("http://forums.linuxmint.com/posting.php?mode=quote&f=48&p=228974") 			  			 			i have just installed mint 8 with dual boot windows 7. i have got 5.1 channel audio output in windows whereas in mint only front two speakers are plying rest everything is silent, my system configuration is given below. please help, thanks in advance.

AMD athlon 64X2 dual core processor 4600+
MB: ASUS M@N MX SE PLUS
inbuilt sound card: Realtek ALC662 rev1

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-01-18
> **poonforce said:**
> []("http://forums.linuxmint.com/posting.php?mode=quote&f=48&p=228974") 			  			 			i have just installed mint 8 with dual boot windows 7. i have got 5.1 channel audio output in windows whereas in mint only front two speakers are plying rest everything is silent, my system configuration is given below. please help, thanks in advance.

AMD athlon 64X2 dual core processor 4600+
MB: ASUS M@N MX SE PLUS
inbuilt sound card: Realtek ALC662 rev1


Same problem here.  No 5.1 sound on either of my Karmic 9.10 boxes - only get sound from front 2 speakers.

Card: NVidia CK8S       
Chip: Realtek ALC850 rev 0

Have tried various fixes on the forums, but no joy so far...

---

### Post by sports.car.guy on 2010-01-19
Google is a wonderful thing. I bet you if you were to type in enabling 5.1 and mint 8, or pulseaudio, you would have it working right now. Anyone want to take this action? I am giving 500 to 1 odds.

That is how confident I am that you will find out what is causing it....

Am I going to help you now is the question I bet you are asking. I am just trying to make a point. So many people out here are too nice about this. Any other forum would flame you in a second for this.

Before coming out here and asking a question google or bing it. We are not tech support. We will help you. There is a difference. You need to try to help yourself first though.

Here is what you need to do below. Next time hit a search engine first and save us all some time, along with repeating things like this over and over.

Not trying to be a jerk. I am just sick of no one taking the time to google it seems, well except for me to answer questions.

Ubuntu and mint both use pulseaudio.

Edit:  /etc/pulse/daemon.conf

Find: 
;default-sample-channels = 2

Uncomment it and change the 2 to a 6.

Now reboot and you have it up and working perfectly, well in a pulseaudio world.

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-01-19
> **poonforce said:**
> []("http://forums.linuxmint.com/posting.php?mode=quote&f=48&p=228974") 			  			 			i have just installed mint 8 with dual boot windows 7. i have got 5.1 channel audio output in windows whereas in mint only front two speakers are plying rest everything is silent, my system configuration is given below. please help, thanks in advance.

AMD athlon 64X2 dual core processor 4600+
MB: ASUS M@N MX SE PLUS
inbuilt sound card: Realtek ALC662 rev1


@poonforce - hello! - did sports.car.guy's suggested fix work for you?

---

### Post by VertexPusher on 2010-01-19
> **sports.car.guy said:**
> Not trying to be a jerk. I am just sick of no one taking the time to google it seems, well except for me to answer questions.

Ubuntu and mint both use pulseaudio.

Edit:  /etc/pulse/daemon.conf

Find: 
;default-sample-channels = 2

Uncomment it and change the 2 to a 6.

Now reboot and you have it up and working perfectly, well in a pulseaudio world.
Great idea, Einstein. Unfortunately the problem is a little more complicated than you expect. Some onboard sound cards such as the Realtek model mentioned above use shared jacks for surround/center/LFE and line-in/mic-in. This means you can either record audio or play back 5.1, but not both. And you have to make the decision at the driver (read: ALSA) level.

Now put your money where your mouth is and use Google to look up the solution. Hint: There is none, because your shiny PulseAudio world prefers to leave these questions unanswered. That's why people come here to ask for help. If you can't help them because you don't know what they are talking about, it's best to just shut up. They don't need clueless PulseAudio fanboys to patronize them.

---

### Post by sports.car.guy on 2010-01-19
> **VertexPusher said:**
> Great idea, Einstein. Unfortunately the problem is a little more complicated than you expect. Some onboard sound cards such as the Realtek model mentioned above use shared jacks for surround/center/LFE and line-in/mic-in. This means you can either record audio or play back 5.1, but not both. And you have to make the decision at the driver (read: ALSA) level.

Now put your money where your mouth is and use Google to look up the solution. Hint: There is none, because your shiny PulseAudio world prefers to leave these questions unanswered. That's why people come here to ask for help. If you can't help them because you don't know what they are talking about, it's best to just shut up. They don't need clueless PulseAudio fanboys to patronize them.

THEY OBVIOUSLY DIDN'T GOOGLE THEN, NEITHER DID YOU!

I am no PulseAudio fanboy for starters. I hate PulseAudio and chucked it off my systems a long time ago, because of problems like this. And if you had read the one who made the post is getting sound out of his speakers you tool! Don't jump on me because they don't want to google something and try to find the solution themselves before expecting me, you, and others to help them!

That problem is no sound whatsoever, which the other guy does not have either! I don't see you helping them! I tried to help, giving the PulseAudio configuration, while you didn't prove me wrong and started to get on me.


So why don't you take the bet and prove me wrong. PulseAudio calls Alsa libraries and the fix would be for Alsa. Instead of getting on my butt why don't you help them instead. Probably because you don't know how to google either.

I googled it according to the other problem of no sound whatsoever and found links to possible solutions. I found several solutions and it took me all of 5 minutes or less, as long as it took you to get on me. So why didn't you prove me wrong. Wait you can't because there is a lot on these sound cards and getting them working. It is something you do with Alsa, even if running PulseAudio.

I need to say again I am not a PulseAudio fanboy and before you make assumptions like that and try to make me sound like the tool, look at yourself in the mirror.

Here are the links to prove this tool how much of one he is to himself!

Wait this one is on this forum:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-217833.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-217833.html)

Here is another:

[http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?t=233049](http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?t=233049)

And Another:

[http://linux.derkeiler.com/Mailing-Lists/Debian/2008-02/msg00368.html](http://linux.derkeiler.com/Mailing-Lists/Debian/2008-02/msg00368.html)

Oh and Another:

[http://newbiedoc.berlios.de/wiki/Sound_in_Debian_GNU/Linux#Some_applications_.28OSS_applications.29_produce_no_sound_in_ALSA](http://newbiedoc.berlios.de/wiki/Sound_in_Debian_GNU/Linux#Some_applications_.28OSS_applications.29_produce_no_sound_in_ALSA)

And Finally One Last One:

[http://www.techspot.com/vb/all/windows/t-57431-Cant-get-audio-to-work-on-ubuntu.html](http://www.techspot.com/vb/all/windows/t-57431-Cant-get-audio-to-work-on-ubuntu.html)


PS Vertex this problem has been fixed upstream with Alsa for a bit now. So if you are going to get on me make sure your information is current.

---

### Post by poonforce on 2010-01-20
i have tried changing /etc/pulse/daemon.conf
as per instruction below but no joy
";default-sample-channels = 2

Uncomment it and change the 2 to a 6.

Now reboot and you have it up and working perfectly, well in a pulseaudio world."

when i run "speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -l1 -twav" in terminal only front two speaker are playing sound rest all are silent.
apart of that i tried by adding "options snd-hda-intel model=3stack-6ch" at the end of /etc/modprobe.d/asla-base.conf file and restarted but still nothing seems to work

---

### Post by poonforce on 2010-01-20
no i have already tried it but no joy

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-01-20
> **VertexPusher said:**
> Great idea, Einstein. Unfortunately the problem is a little more complicated than you expect. Some onboard sound cards such as the Realtek model mentioned above use shared jacks for surround/center/LFE and line-in/mic-in. This means you can either record audio or play back 5.1, but not both. And you have to make the decision at the driver (read: ALSA) level.

Now put your money where your mouth is and use Google to look up the solution. Hint: There is none, because your shiny PulseAudio world prefers to leave these questions unanswered. That's why people come here to ask for help. If you can't help them because you don't know what they are talking about, it's best to just shut up. They don't need clueless PulseAudio fanboys to patronize them.

Bravo!  I was going to post up a very similiar comment myself, but was just waiting to see if poonforce got his problem fixed first...  :)

And for what its worth, I've tried changing the config file value to "6" (and also to "5" which is what some posters elsewhere have suggested), and I've also run alsamixer in terminal to check that volumes weren't muted)...

I've also tried at least a couple of more complicated solutions both here on the forums and via Google, but still looking for a fix that works...

---

### Post by VertexPusher on 2010-01-20
> **sports.car.guy said:**
> THEY OBVIOUSLY DIDN'T GOOGLE THEN, NEITHER DID YOU!
Your suggested workaround failed. The ball is in your court, Einstein.

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-01-21
> **poonforce said:**
> when i run "speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -l1 -twav" in terminal only front two speaker are playing sound rest all are silent

Hey poonforce, thats an interesting command I didn't know about.  I tried it and like you only "front left" and "front right" produce sound.

I've tried all the suggested fixes I can find and still can't get anything to work, so I'm feeling rather confused now...  ](*,)

EDIT:  One thing I have noticed is that in Pulseaudio "Sound Preferences", if I go into "Hardware" and select "Analog Stereo Duplex", even though the sound only comes out the front two speakers, at least it is good quality sound.  But if I select "Analog Surround 5.1 Output + Analog Stereo Input", not only does the sound only come out the front two speakers but its also poorer quality as I get crackling, "popping" noises and "clipping".  I'm starting to wonder if this might be a driver issue... does anybody else have any wisdom to add?

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-01-21
FWIW, I've just installed PulseAudio Volume Meter ("sudo apt-get install pavumeter", then run "pavumeter" in terminal).  

Put on some tunes, and the meter shows a normal output signal on all 5 channels - so something is working right.  Still only getting sound through the front speakers though...

---

### Post by VertexPusher on 2010-01-22
> **itsjustarumour said:**
> the meter shows a normal output signal on all 5 channels - so something is working right.  Still only getting sound through the front speakers though...
That is exactly the problem. PulseAudio does produce surround sound, but it's not going anywhere due to the soundcard jack misconfiguration.

This command
```
amixer -c 0 controls
```
will print a complete list of mixer controls available for card 0. There should be one to control the number of channels of the soundcard. If you can't find it, post the entire list here.

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-01-22
> **VertexPusher said:**
> That is exactly the problem. PulseAudio does produce surround sound, but it's not going anywhere due to the soundcard jack misconfiguration

Ah, OK... thanks for the clarification VertexPusher.  As you can tell, I'm still trying to get my head round the maze that is sound config in Ubuntu  :)

> 
This command
```
amixer -c 0 controls
```
will print a complete list of mixer controls available for card 0. There should be one to control the number of channels of the soundcard. If you can't find it, post the entire list here.

Hmmm, I'm not sure which bit controls the number of channels - so heres the output:

> ian@COOLERMASTER:~$ amixer -c 0 controls
numid=9,iface=MIXER,name='Master Mono Playback Switch'
numid=10,iface=MIXER,name='Master Mono Playback Volume'
numid=1,iface=MIXER,name='Master Playback Switch'
numid=2,iface=MIXER,name='Master Playback Volume'
numid=24,iface=MIXER,name='PCM Playback Switch'
numid=25,iface=MIXER,name='PCM Playback Volume'
numid=38,iface=MIXER,name='Surround Jack Mode'
numid=7,iface=MIXER,name='Surround Playback Switch'
numid=8,iface=MIXER,name='Surround Playback Volume'
numid=3,iface=MIXER,name='Center Playback Switch'
numid=4,iface=MIXER,name='Center Playback Volume'
numid=5,iface=MIXER,name='LFE Playback Switch'
numid=6,iface=MIXER,name='LFE Playback Volume'
numid=18,iface=MIXER,name='Line Playback Switch'
numid=19,iface=MIXER,name='Line Playback Volume'
numid=20,iface=MIXER,name='CD Playback Switch'
numid=21,iface=MIXER,name='CD Playback Volume'
numid=17,iface=MIXER,name='Mic Boost (+20dB)'
numid=37,iface=MIXER,name='Mic Front Input Switch'
numid=30,iface=MIXER,name='Mic Select'
numid=15,iface=MIXER,name='Mic Playback Switch'
numid=16,iface=MIXER,name='Mic Playback Volume'
numid=13,iface=MIXER,name='Phone Playback Switch'
numid=14,iface=MIXER,name='Phone Playback Volume'
numid=11,iface=MIXER,name='PC Speaker Playback Switch'
numid=12,iface=MIXER,name='PC Speaker Playback Volume'
numid=22,iface=MIXER,name='Aux Playback Switch'
numid=23,iface=MIXER,name='Aux Playback Volume'
numid=29,iface=MIXER,name='Mono Output Select'
numid=26,iface=MIXER,name='Capture Source'
numid=27,iface=MIXER,name='Capture Switch'
numid=28,iface=MIXER,name='Capture Volume'
numid=31,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Con Mask'
numid=32,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Pro Mask'
numid=35,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback AC97-SPSA'
numid=33,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Default'
numid=41,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Source'
numid=34,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Playback Switch'
numid=40,iface=MIXER,name='IEC958 Capture Switch'
numid=39,iface=MIXER,name='Channel Mode'
numid=36,iface=MIXER,name='Duplicate Front'
numid=42,iface=MIXER,name='External Amplifier'
ian@COOLERMASTER:~$

And for what its worth, heres the contents of my Pulseaudio daemon.conf file:

> # This file is part of PulseAudio.
#
# PulseAudio is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
# (at your option) any later version.
#
# PulseAudio is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
# WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
# General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
# along with PulseAudio; if not, write to the Free Software
# Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307
# USA.

## Configuration file for the PulseAudio daemon. See pulse-daemon.conf(5) for
## more information. Default values a commented out.  Use either ; or # for
## commenting.

; daemonize = no
; fail = yes
; allow-module-loading = yes
; allow-exit = yes
; use-pid-file = yes
; system-instance = no
; enable-shm = yes
; shm-size-bytes = 0 # setting this 0 will use the system-default, usually 64 MiB
; lock-memory = no
; cpu-limit = no

; high-priority = yes
; nice-level = -11

; realtime-scheduling = yes
; realtime-priority = 5

; exit-idle-time = 20
; scache-idle-time = 20

; dl-search-path = (depends on architecture)

; load-default-script-file = yes
; default-script-file = 

; log-target = auto
; log-level = notice
; log-meta = no
; log-time = no
; log-backtrace = 0

resample-method = speex-float-1
; enable-remixing = yes
; enable-lfe-remixing = no

flat-volumes = no

; rlimit-fsize = -1
; rlimit-data = -1
; rlimit-stack = -1
; rlimit-core = -1
; rlimit-as = -1
; rlimit-rss = -1
; rlimit-nproc = -1
; rlimit-nofile = 256
; rlimit-memlock = -1
; rlimit-locks = -1
; rlimit-sigpending = -1
; rlimit-msgqueue = -1
; rlimit-nice = 31
; rlimit-rtprio = 9
; rlimit-rttime = 1000000

; default-sample-format = s16le
; default-sample-rate = 44100
  default-sample-channels = 6
; default-channel-map = front-left,front-right

default-fragments = 8
default-fragment-size-msec = 10


Where am I going wrong?

---

### Post by VertexPusher on 2010-01-22
> **itsjustarumour said:**
> numid=38,iface=MIXER,name='Surround Jack Mode'
I think this is what we are looking for.

Launch
```
alsamixer -c 0
```
and look for the surround jack mode control. It should appear there.

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-01-22
> **VertexPusher said:**
> I think this is what we are looking for.

Launch
```
alsamixer -c 0
```
and look for the surround jack mode control. It should appear there.

OK, I found it - "Surround Jack Mode".  The level is set to zero, but I can't increase it.  All it allows me to do is toggle between "Shared" and "Independent".

I've attached a screenshot so you can see what I'm seeing..

---

### Post by VertexPusher on 2010-01-22
> **itsjustarumour said:**
> All it allows me to do is toggle between "Shared" and "Independent".
Does it affect the output in any way?

If not, try switching the "Channels" control as well. It is set to "6ch", which is correct, but maybe it needs to be reset for the surround jack mode change to take effect. Maybe it even requires a system restart.

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-01-22
> **VertexPusher said:**
> Does it affect the output in any way?

Nope, makes no difference (rebooted after each change just to make sure).

> **VertexPusher said:**
> If not, try switching the "Channels" control as well. It is set to "6ch", which is correct, but maybe it needs to be reset for the surround jack mode change to take effect. Maybe it even requires a system restart.

It won't let me change the Channels control, this setting appears to be locked down...

I've also tried all the other sliders and options... still no joy I'm afraid!

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-01-25
@VertexPusher - Well, still no joy in getting this to work.  Thanks for taking the time to try and help anyway! :)

Cheers,

itsjustarumour


@Poonforce - hows it going - did any of the above help you get your problem sorted?

---

### Post by Yfrwlf on 2010-02-09
I don't know if any of this will help any of you, but since you're at a dead end I just thought I'd share random knowledge. :P  Sorry if this is spammish, and if you've done everything right here (doesn't hurt to double check sometimes) then I can help no further.

Here's my quick and general Pulseaudio sound troubleshooting:

First check sound preferences in the hardware tab and make sure you're using the right sound profile on the right hardware device.  I have "HD Audio" which is my HDMI audio, as well as an "Internal Audio" which is my normal motherboard audio output.  Under each one, changing the "profile" will change the output.  If I want to, say, use the optical digital output from my motherboard, I have to select the "digital stereo duplex" (no surround yet apparently, which I have a bug report in for) from the profiles for the "Internal Audio" card to get it to output through that.  Make sure everything is unmuted and set correctly.

If you are using digital output and have it set to stereo, obviously you won't get surround output until they or you add a digital surround output profile.

If you are using analogue output, and stereo works fine, but switching to a surround profile doesn't give you all the speakers you should, of course check to make sure other things output sound in your rear speakers to make sure volumes are correct.  Otherwise my help ends here, though if you do have a digital or HDMI output you may want to try that instead, but as I said above good luck because Pulseaudio doesn't seem to have any digital surround profiles and I don't know how to add them.

If that fails to give you any sound at all, check alsamixer via the command line.  I've run into lots of problems with the master volume control being muted and hitting "M" will unmute it and make everything suddenly start to work.  Otherwise, make sure the IEC958 is switched on in there, if you're using digital out.

If it is a default sound card issue, if you have two cards, you might want to make the one you wish to use the default card by doing a aplay -L and then a sudo asoundconf set-default-card CardNameFromList.

If Alsa seems to be working but PA doesn't, you could remove PA completely, but then you will have to tell programs to use Alsa, and some programs cannot be configured in that way.  Like VLC and MPlayer for instance have lots of things to configure them to use whatever audio devices you want, but games and other things will be a problem for you.  Just know that removing PA completely is probably going to break things, so expect it not to work and to reinstall your system.

If PA is showing sound coming out of all the channels via the volume output status meter thingy, I can't see it being anything but a hardware issue, but if it all really does work normally (say through Windows perhaps?) then of course it has to be PulseAudio being poop or a configuration issue.

My 2 cents, good luck.

---

