---
title: "9.10 Can't play videos at all"
date: 2010-01-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Penguinsunite on 2010-01-24
Hey all, I have recently switched one of my laptops from a windows machine to xubuntu 9.10 and i am having a problem playing videos. I have tried to install the flash player plug-in and have failed horribly. do i run the sudo apt-get command or go through the synaptic package manager or download it from the internet and run some command? Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by tgeer43 on 2010-01-24
So you are referring specifically to flash (.flv or .swf) files like YouTube, etc. as opposed to all videos like .avi, .mpg, etc., right?

If so then there are a number of ways to install flash support, as you mentioned. Perhaps the easiest is through Synaptic Package Manager. Make sure you have the following four packages installed:

[LIST]
[*]flashplugin-installer
[*]flashplugin-nonfree
[*]libswfdec-0.8-0
[*]ubuntu-restricted-extras
[/LIST]
If some of these packages do not appear in Synaptic then you don't have the proper repositories enabled. A quick Google on "Ubuntu enable repositories" should get you going.

Once everything is installed you should be good to go unless your previous attempts have left something botched up.

tgeer

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-01-24
If you are using 32bit see **Solution** [*[COLOR="Red"]**FOT004**[/COLOR]*] from the Troubleshooting section of the [**[COLOR="DarkRed"]Firefox optimization and troubleshooting thread[/COLOR]**](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1193567&highlight=FOT004).

If you are using 64bit, remove the flash plugin and follow [this tutorial](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1358591).

---

### Post by Penguinsunite on 2010-01-28
Thanks. Installing the packages from the synaptic package manager worked. Thanks all.

---

