---
title: "xrandr - laptop's screen as main display?"
date: 2009-03-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Sava on 2009-03-29
howdy,

i'm using xrandr to get dual display on my ubuntu 8.10 system. The setup is: Dell XPS (LVDS, 1280x800) and an external Acer monitor (VGA, 1280x1024)

the command i use is: xrandr --output LVDS --auto --left-of VGA 

for now, they are displaying just fine (desktop icons' on the laptop's screen, conky on the Acer's and what not), however **the taskbar's displayed on the external monitor**

since i prefer the taskbar's on the laptop's screen (similarly if it was dual monitoring on my XP system), is there a way to do this on Ubuntu?

I've looked through man xrandr and xrandr --help, but have yet found anything useful.

Please advise,

Thank you,

---

### Post by dro0g on 2009-03-31
This is a Gnome issue - it wants to put the panels on screen 0 which is ends up being the external monitor. You can drag the panels to the other screen, I'm not sure if it's persistent between reboots. It's very annoying.

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-03-31
Unfortunately, on intel cards, VGA is the primary monitor.

You can try adding/moving panels...?

---

### Post by Sava on 2009-03-31
I see. Thanks alot guys,

---

### Post by fermulator on 2009-04-20
Interesting.

What about icons?
I have a similar setup to the original poster.
```

------------------------------
|         |                  |
| 2ndary  |                  |
|   TV    |                  |
-----------      primary     |
          |        CRT       |
          |                  |
          |                  |
          --------------------
```

Icons (for example the "Computer" icon or an icon generated by automount, USB key, etc.) by default appear at the "top left" corner of the desktop.  Unfortunately in my case, on the TV, my secondary monitor.  The TV might not always be on, so not seeing USB key mount icons isn't as expected.

How can we force gnome-desktop to 'ignore' that area when auto-placing icons?

---

### Post by fermulator on 2009-05-16
bump

---

