---
title: "9.04 and pchdtv 5500 - installed the card, hit a brick wall"
date: 2009-05-19
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by cpufreak2589 on 2009-05-19
Getting it out of the way, I am a linux noob who is learning, but I still suck. Flamethrowers off.

I've installed Jaunty on my much-needed HTPC, installed nvidia drivers, and it works fine. I put in my PCHDTV 5500 card and installed the newest drivers from the support page. The PCHDTV support site sucks, terribly, and their forums aren't letting me login, so I am working with the limited info I can find. (on that note, if anyone can point me to a comprehensive support site, I am in dire need). I tested (I think) the driver install by running dmesg | grep DVB and dmesg | grep 5500 and got the following:
```
mobo@mythbox:~$ sudo dmesg | grep dvb
[sudo] password for mobo: 
[    9.638723] cx88/2: cx2388x dvb driver version 0.0.6 loaded
[    9.638725] cx88/2: registering cx8802 driver, type: dvb access: shared
mobo@mythbox:~$ sudo dmesg | grep 5500
[    9.414202] cx88[0]: subsystem: 7063:5500, board: pcHDTV HD5500 HDTV [card=47,autodetected], frontend(s): 1
[    9.638727] cx88[0]/2: subsystem: 7063:5500, board: pcHDTV HD5500 HDTV [card=47]

```
I am not 100% sure how to test this further, the only thing coming close to a manual that the site has is a guide for suse 10.1 installation. I tried running dtvsignal <all numbers 1-20> and got nothing back (it displayed a little chart but it was obvious that there was no signal). The adapter(s?) used were called /dev/dvb/adapter0/frontend0 AND /dev/dvb/adapter0/demux0. If I specify the adapter of /dev/dvb/adapter0/frontend0 it seems to go nuts and outputs```

Signal 205365 > 100$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
```
until I manually break it. 

At this point, I am completely and utterly lost, I know that the guys at mythtv say to make sure my devices work before I even touch installing mythtv, and I am trying my best to do that, but the lack of readily-available linux documentation seems to be my downfall. Can someone throw me a bone and at least point me in any direction?

---

### Post by medicis on 2009-06-07
Don't know if this will help or not .. but

I could install the older Nvidia drivers (e.g., 180.44) with the 5500 installed. But could not do so with 180.51. Tried and tried. Finally, I removed the 5500 and voila. 

Unfortunately, after a few days the Nvidia hung up and would only allow the lowest resolution. Had to  remove the 5500 again and reload 180.51. Again, that worked ... don't know how long it will continue to work. 

Am looking for a better TV tuner card option currently.

m.

---

