---
title: "9.10 Karmic and ATI X1270 (RS695m) anyone get 3d support yet?"
date: 2009-12-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by waynefoutz on 2009-12-13
I've been running 8.10 Intrepid for a while now on my Dell Latitude D531 latop. It runs beautiful with a 2 year old Catalyst driver that doesn't work with Jaunty or Karmic. Upgrading to 9.04 6 months ago, broke my video, so I had to go back to Intrepid. Been having some bad sector issues, so I thought I'd give Karmic and the new 2.6.32 kernel a shot. Frome everything I've read the new kernel is supposed to give the RadeonHD drivers 3d support. 

After installing Karmic I followed this guide 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonHD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonHD)
with one exception: I used the latest 2.6.32 kernel instead of the release candidate linked to in the guide.  No 3d. Google Earth is unusable, Urban Terror won't even launch. They run great on Intrepid with Catalyst 9.3. (I'll never buy another ATI product again.) 


Anyone have any exceptions other than the guide I linked? I can find all kinds of sites saying the new kernel gived the radeonhd drivers 3d support on that graphics chip, but that's about the only site that tells you how, but I can't seem to get it going. 

I'm about to just download the Intrepid repositories and just live with Intrepid for the life of the laptop.

---

### Post by Melcar on 2009-12-13
Try the radeon drivers.  Those work much better for me when it comes to 3D.

---

### Post by waynefoutz on 2009-12-18
> **Melcar said:**
> Try the radeon drivers.  Those work much better for me when it comes to 3D.

Still no luck. The radeon drivers work, but 3d is still spotty. I'm still running Intrepid as my primary OS. The clock is ticking, Intrepid hits it's end of life in April. After doing some researching, I think I'm going to move off of ubuntu and install it's parent, Debian. Version 5 (Lenny) is still running a version of Xorg that is older than Intrepid's so I should have no problem getting ATI's grlx driver running. Support for Lenny ends one year after version 6 (Squeeze) gets released as stable, and a date for that has yet to be set. So moving to Debian will buy me at least one year of peace. Maybe by then they'll get the open source drivers ready. I had high hopes for the latest kernel, big disappointment.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-12-20
> From everything I've read the new kernel is supposed to give the RadeonHD drivers 3d support. 
On Karmic, with the use of the xorg-edgers PPA, a 2.6.32 kernel can give RadeonHD cards 3D functionality. (I actually had 3D on my HD4550 in Jaunty, but it required more hacking).

Your GPU is old enough (consider it an R500 class) where the 3D should work out of the box with the stock kernel in Karmic. Of course, full OpenGL 2.x for all ATI cards is under heavy development right now and not end-user ready (that's why UT doesn't run yet).

---

