---
title: "NVIDIA 180.44 w/ SLI"
date: 2009-04-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by natetheskate on 2009-04-01
Ok, so I finally was to get Ubuntu put back onto my desktop today and decided to give the 180.44 Driver from NVIDIA a try. I installed the driver just fine but I didn't have my SLI bridge in so I install Ubuntu and the Driver. All was working fine so I put my bridge back in and re-configured my BIOS settings.

Hybrid SLI: Disabled
SLI Support: Enabled
Primary Grpahics: PCI-Express First
iGPU: Both Exist
iGPU Buffering: Disabled
iGPU Buffer Size: Disabled

When fired Ubuntu up, I got an error saying the X-Org could not start up is most likely not set up right. So I set nvidia-xconfig --sli=on and hit Ctrl+Alt+F7. Then it says that X server is now disabled. Restart GDM. So I typed /etc/init.x/gdm start and it says that started OK. So I hit Ctrl+alt+F7 again and get the same error. If do lspci | grep VGA, I can see both of my 9600 GSOs. If I uninstall the driver or remove my bridge, I can get back into the GUI. I want to leave SLI enabled permantly so I can get into Windows to play my games with having do anything. What do I need to do?

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2009-04-01
[this]("http://vinaybalamuru.wordpress.com/2008/11/27/dang-ubuntu-intrepid-ibex-nvidia-sli-settings/") may help.

---

### Post by natetheskate on 2009-04-03
Thanks! All I had to do is put in the BusIds and restart gdm.

---

### Post by natetheskate on 2009-05-06
I am now using the 180.51 release and fresh intall of Jaunty.
Here is my Xorg file (I hope this helps someone)

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Fri Apr 17 00:40:10 PDT 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BusID          "PCI:02:00:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BusID          "PCI:03:00:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

