---
title: "9.04 - ATi proprietary driver installation problem"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by its.gir on 2009-05-03
Hi there,

Not sure if this is the correct forum for this question. I'm new to linux but not new to computers, so I can sort of find my way around. 

I've managed to download and install Ubuntu 9.04 (Jaunty) and was advised after installation that there was a proprietary ATi driver available to enable accelerated 3D support.

After getting some sort of weird error message after clicking "Activate" I decided to download the driver directly from the ATi driver downloads section and I followed the installation instructions as per the documentation.

I couldnt install the "ati-driver-installer-9-4-x86.x86_64.run" package by double clicking it from the desktop because I didn't have "Super User" privelages. I opened a terminal window and ran it using the following command:

sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-9-4-x86.x86_64.run

It began the installation and as per the instructions in the PDF from the ATi site I selected the "Automatic" installation. It completed successfully and after which I had to run a terminal window again and enter the following command:

aticonfig --initial -f

It didn't work, refused to write the configuration. So I tried the command again with "sudo" infront of it and then it worked. It said it wrote the configuration successfully.

The last instruction was to then reboot the system which I did. I got the "Ubuntu loader" with the progress bar and once that completed the screen just went blank. It didnt bring up the login window and it just stayed blank. I had to hard-reset my machine. It resulted in me having to reinstall Ubuntu from scratch again (fortunately I hadn't customised the system or had any saved files etc.).

I have (after my 4th attempt, thinking I'd done something wrong or missed a step) decided not to install the proprietary driver and seek help here on the forum. My hardware specs are as follows:

AMD Athlon X2 5200+ CPU
4 GB DDR2-800 RAM (4 x 1 GB DIMMS)
MSI K9N Neo-F Motherboard
MSI ATi Radeon 3870 OC Edition (PCI-E naturally)
Onboard HD Audio via NVIDIA NFORCE 550 MCP
Acer AL1916W 16:10 Apect Ratio LCD Panel (Native Res is 1440x900)
Maxtor 40 GB IDE Hard Drive (My SATA drives were disconnected at the time which was to not interfere with my Windows installation on the other drives. I've been switching between the boot drives using the BIOS).

Any help would be appreciated. I'm not sure if I did something wrong or if the driver is incompatible with my hardware (although on selection through ATi's site I selected the Radeon -> 3xxx Series and came to the driver which I downloaded).

I am running the 64-bit version of Ubuntu 9.04.

Thanks

---

### Post by Sashamaru on 2009-05-03
i had the same problem today... i tried everything and the only thing that worked is to shutdown your computer.... just type in the command line :
"sudo shutdown -h now"

see if that works....

---

### Post by Extol11 on 2009-05-03
Isn't this because of the new X.org.server manager still doesn't have drivers compatible with it? I have a Radeon 4870 and was wondering if I install 9.04 on this PC, will the drivers work fine?

---

### Post by VastOne on 2009-05-04
> **Extol11 said:**
> Isn't this because of the new X.org.server manager still doesn't have drivers compatible with it? I have a Radeon 4870 and was wondering if I install 9.04 on this PC, will the drivers work fine?

I was able to load the 9.4 ATI Catalyst drivers with my Radeon HD3300 and get it to cooperate with X by following the install instructions at the ATI site without any issues there...

....however, I disabled the onboard ATI 3300 and installed a nVidia 9400 when the performance of the 9.4 ATI Catalyst drivers was so pathetic that it made my newly built quad 64 bit AMD 8 gig ram screamer look like a circa 1994 IBM tank...

...Am very happy with the nVidia and will never look at another ATI.

VastOne

---

### Post by Extol11 on 2009-05-04
> **VastOne said:**
> I was able to load the 9.4 ATI Catalyst drivers with my Radeon HD3300 and get it to cooperate with X by following the install instructions at the ATI site without any issues there...

....however, I disabled the onboard ATI 3300 and installed a nVidia 9400 when the performance of the 9.4 ATI Catalyst drivers was so pathetic that it made my newly built quad 64 bit AMD 8 gig ram screamer look like a circa 1994 IBM tank...

...Am very happy with the nVidia and will never look at another ATI.

VastOne

Onboard graphics vs. a real card? Anyways, I think I'll find out when I delete vista from my second hard drive and install Ubuntu on it. I had been troubleshooting something. Now I only need to get that music collection out of there. I read on another thread that it was not compatible with older chipsets only. So I'm guessing this one should work fine.

---

### Post by VastOne on 2009-05-04
> **Extol11 said:**
> Onboard graphics vs. a real card? Anyways, I think I'll find out when I delete vista from my second hard drive and install Ubuntu on it. I had been troubleshooting something. Now I only need to get that music collection out of there. I read on another thread that it was not compatible with older chipsets only. So I'm guessing this one should work fine.

A chip is a chip, is it not?:P I hear ya.... But, it's looking like no matter what ATI card anyone has, the Catalyst 9.4 has the same issues I experienced.

Sometimes a risk pays off, this time it did not...One also learns from mistakes a lot quicker than most as well...Just glad I had nVidia experience and card beforehand...

---

### Post by khmr33 on 2009-05-04
Try the manual install instructions [here]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Main_Page") there are alot of steps missing otherwise... preparations needed before installing. It's really easy to mess up, and it might not work even if you do it right.

That's just the way it is right now... it's easy to say they might have everything resolved by 9.10, but that's what I said after the last two releases. 

The situation is improving... but it's like noticing that a tree has grown. The time scale makes it seem worse than it actually is.

---

