---
title: "no external display"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by inoh on 2010-05-13
i have recently upgrade to lucid from karmic.  the external display no  longer works in ubuntu.  the laptop does not respond to the display mode  hot key in lucid.  i tried to install the latest nvidia driver  195.36.24 but it has kernel issues with nvidia.ko.  195.36.15 would not  work with lucid, failed to load at startup and had to restart xserver or  run in low graphics.

graphics card is NVIDIA GeForce 8200M G

installer log error:
ERROR: Unable to load the kernel module 'nvidia.ko'.  This happens most
       frequently when this kernel module was built against the wrong or
       improperly configured kernel sources, with a version of gcc that  differs
       from the one used to build the target kernel, or if a driver such  as
       rivafb/nvidiafb is present and prevents the NVIDIA kernel module  from
       obtaining ownership of the NVIDIA graphics device(s), or NVIDIA  GPU
       installed in this system is not supported by this NVIDIA Linux  graphics
       driver release.
       
       Please see the log entries 'Kernel module load error' and 'Kernel
       messages' at the end of the file '/var/log/nvidia-installer.log'  for
       more information.
-> Kernel module load error: insmod: error inserting  './usr/src/nv/nvidia.ko':
   -1 No such device
-> Kernel messages:
   [   30.587247] [drm] nouveau 0000:02:00.0: nouveau_channel_alloc:
   initialised FIFO 2
   [   33.588079] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 2(2) BSS returned,  data->length = 239
   [   34.244968] DRS: unkown mode,default use 11N 1S AP 
   [   34.244973] DRS: unkown mode (SupRateLen=0, ExtRateLen=0,  MCSSet[0]=0x0,
   MCSSet[1]=0x0)
   [   36.977016] wlan0: no IPv6 routers present
   [   59.032060] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 2(2) BSS returned,  data->length = 239
   [   59.032290] ==>rt_ioctl_siwfreq::SIOCSIWFREQ[cmd=0x8b04]  (Channel=1)
   [   84.112059] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 2(2) BSS returned,  data->length = 239
   [  124.114814] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 1(1) BSS returned,  data->length = 134
   [  184.114374] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 2(2) BSS returned,  data->length = 239
   [  264.114231] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 1(1) BSS returned,  data->length = 134
   [  302.170774] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 1(1) BSS returned,  data->length = 134
   [  346.991503] [drm] nouveau 0000:02:00.0: nouveau_channel_free:  freeing
   fifo 2
   [  364.112068] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 1(1) BSS returned,  data->length = 134
   [  484.114585] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 2(2) BSS returned,  data->length = 239
   [  547.276726] NVRM: The NVIDIA probe routine was not called for 1
   device(s).
   [  547.276735] NVRM: This can occur when a driver such as rivafb,  nvidiafb
   or
   [  547.276739] NVRM: rivatv was loaded and obtained ownership of the  NVIDIA
   [  547.276742] NVRM: device(s).
   [  547.276748] NVRM: Try unloading the rivafb, nvidiafb or rivatv  kernel
   module
   [  547.276751] NVRM: (and/or reconfigure your kernel without  rivafb/nvidiafb
   [  547.276754] NVRM: support), then try loading the NVIDIA kernel  module
   again.
   [  547.276759] NVRM: No NVIDIA graphics adapter probed!
   [  604.113965] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 2(2) BSS returned,  data->length = 239
   [  724.114010] ===>rt_ioctl_giwscan. 2(2) BSS returned,  data->length = 239
ERROR: Installation has failed.

i would just use the recommended hardware drivers, but i still get no  external display

when i tried to adjust the screens via system>preferences>monitors  it told me gpu1 was unplugged.  unable to get that message to display  again, i know there is gpu0 and gpu1.

any ideas are greatly appreciated as i am lost.

please help!

---

### Post by inoh on 2010-05-14
so i started getting an error at startup again that i thought i had  solved and starting doing some more research

managed to get the 185 drivers working.  still only one gpu with no  external display available.

what ive done so far:
sudo apt-get purge linux-headers-`uname -r`
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-`uname -r`
made sure all available hardware drivers where deactivated
sudo nvidia-installer  --uninstall
sudo apt-get purge nvidia*
sudo apt-get purge NVIDIA-Linux*(just to be sure)
restart
Synaptic Package Manager > install every nvidia package from source  195.36.15
restart > smooth errorless startup
restart again to be sure

but i only have one gpu listed still in nvidia settings

from other recent post it may be something wrong with xorg.conf so here  it is:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Fri Mar 12  01:42:27 PST 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

seems so odd because works fine in Vista and and ubunt no longer detects  the external vga display

---

### Post by inoh on 2010-05-17
ok, lucid was released premature.  but at least its no where near as bad  as vista was.

got everything working correctly except the hot key display mode  switching and nvidia-settings wont switch like it did in karmic.

what ive done so far:
sudo nvidia-installer --uninstall
sudo apt-get purge remove nvidia*
sudo apt-get purge nvidia*  (think it does the same thing, might be  pointless)
-system->administration->synaptic package manager: search nvidia  and remove everything but, jokey-common, jockey-gtk, smartdimmer

this part was risky but I was willing to just go back to karmic if I  screwed something up
-from cmd line run: "lspci -k", take note of all modules listed under  vga
-Applications->Accessories->Search for file:  located every module  and kernel module that was listed under vga
sudo rm -R *every filename just located*
sudo apt-get purge remove linux-headers-`uname -r`
sudo apt-get purge linux-headers-`uname -r` (may be pointless)
sudo apt-get install linux headers-`uname -r`

i used nvidia 195.36.15 from nvidia.com, found it through google
enter run level three
cd to driver location
sudo gdm-stop
sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-195.36.15-pkg1.run
sudo service sudo start

so far everything is good except switching the extenal display.  is  something being done wrong or is there a bug in lucid.  read a couple of  articles saying lucid does not support hot key display for nvidia.   anyone know if this is true or fixable?

---

