---
title: "Resolution 800 *600 help !!!!"
date: 2008-05-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by darrenj on 2008-05-29
Hi

I have just installed 8.04 and i have probelms with screen resolution.

I have a nvidia 8600GTS installed and Asus P5B and can only get a max resolution of 800*600. I have a Chimei cmv223d 22" lcd which can display a max res of 1,680 x 1,050

I have used envy to install the nvidia driver as i could not get it loaded before but still cannot increase the resolution using the screen resolution menu. I have tried sudo dpkg- reconfigure xerver-xorg and it gets to questions about keyboard options "postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration file; backup in /etc/x11/xorg.conf.20080529024242


he is the xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "vesa"
    Option        "UseFBDev"        "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
EndSection



what do i need to do :confused::confused::confused::confused:???

---

### Post by darrenj on 2008-05-30
Hi any advice this my first attempt at linux sice i tried suse about 4yrs ago ?

---

### Post by petzworld999 on 2008-05-30
Run 

```


sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf


```


Change this:

```


Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "vesa"
Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection


``` 

to this.

```


Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "nvidia"
Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection


```

If that does not work, try changing the option to "nv".

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-05-30
Are you sure the driver installed correctly? As the previous poster mentioned, your driver should be "nvidia" and not "vesa". Also, try this command to set your resolution:
 
**sudo xrandr -s 1680x1050**
 
If that doesn't work, enter this command:
 
**sudo xrandr -q** 
 
Then try the highest available resolution there, after that it may let you set the 1680x1050 resolution.
 
Nathan

---

### Post by darrenj on 2008-06-02
Ok

I reinstalled driver again and this time xorg showed nvidia as the driver, but my resolution is now 640*480 max

jackd@ubu:~$ sudo xrandr -q 
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 640 x 480, maximum 640 x 480
default connected 640x480+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   640x480        50.0* 
   320x240        51.0  



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"nv"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


The vga card is a Nvidia 8600gs and i have a 22" monitor.
jackd@ubu:~$ lspci | grep vga -i
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 8600 GTS (rev a1)

---

### Post by darrenj on 2008-06-02
I have now tried

sudo displayconfig-gtk

and selected a generic lcd supporting

1680 * 1050 

Screen resolution in preferences then offered me up to 1400 * 1050 max or 640 * 480 but setting the higher res just made the screen scroll around a larger desktop space rather than fitting it on the screen .


Any new ideas ???

---

### Post by ubuntu-freak on 2008-06-02
Did you try my xrandr command?

Nathan

---

### Post by miguelssm on 2008-07-14
An idea is trying to reinstall the nvidia driver, to do that you need to stop the xserver. From a text session

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

then execute the installer with the uname -r parameter

sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-173.14.05-pkg1.run -k $(uname -r)

But unfortunately, this GPU is not supported by the original drivers. I'm waiting for a solution from nVidia developers, but there are no news about it.

Furthermore, when the system restarts you can access to the manual configuration of the card and the screen, this is the point:

You don't need to change anything of the GPU configuration, but you MUST change the monitor to "Generic LCD" then you can choose the desired resolution.

The GPU is not working properly, but the resolution in acceptable.

Cheers!

---

### Post by miguelssm on 2008-08-11
Hi everyone:

NVidia has released the driver version 173.14.12 which includes support for 8600 GS.

[Follow this link.]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_173.14.12.html")

I've not tested it yet, but...

Good luck!

---

