---
title: "How to read a 1997 homebrew VCD?"
date: 2009-12-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by bliffle on 2009-12-27
This one VCD may be the only visual record of my marriage 12 years ago! I shot the footage on an old analog VidCam, onto those little tape cassettes, then transfered it to some old desktop computer and burned Video CDs (which sometimes play in a DVD player). After all the moves, new computers, etc., this one old VCD may be my only record. I thought sure an old backup or stored HDD would have it, but so far I haven't found anything. I'd like to recover the video and maybe burn new DVDs.

So I chucked it up in the CD/DVD drive on my Thinkpad T60 and gave it a try. But, while ubuntu will display the 5 directories on the CD, it will not read or copy the important files in the directory that contains the multimedia data. I can't even copy the data (in files named "...01.dat", etc.) to the HDD for preservation.

However, I fired up an old Thinkpad 570 (in storage, and it worked perfectly after 4 years of inactivity) with an old Win2K system that I used to use for DVD copying and dubbing, and fired up good old VirtualDub and it worked perfectly! VirtualDub (good old VirtualDub!) even converted the first video (of 22) segment to AVI before it ran out of space on the old HDD.

So it looks like I can recover the VCD just by running (good old) VirtualDub and outputing to a USB HDD.

Maybe. But the sound is very choppy on the output AVI file and it doesn't always run smoothly, either. I'd rather have a modern solution. I'd rather convert this in a controlled environment (like ubuntu) so that I don't lose resolution, etc.

The first problem is that I have no idea what codec I used for the original VCD, although I seem to remember "tsunami" and "Nero" for rendering, and I know I had some old codecs (like INDEO) laying around from MM stuff I did in the early 90s. Maybe "WinVideo".

First I need to determine the codec, but if ubuntu won't read the files, I've got a problem. I'm sure that some of the pgms on the old 570 will reveal the codec.

I'd like to be able to use ffmpeg or something to do this, but I don't even know if the file system on ubuntu will read the CD.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-12-28
Hi bliffle,

> **bliffle said:**
> So I chucked it up in the CD/DVD drive on my Thinkpad T60 and gave it a try. But, while ubuntu will display the 5 directories on the CD, it will not read or copy the important files in the directory that contains the multimedia data. I can't even copy the data (in files named "...01.dat", etc.) to the HDD for preservation.

I wonder if MPlayer could play this disk, from the commandline this would be simply:

```
mplayer vcd://
```

Might be worth a try?

Andrew

---

### Post by bliffle on 2009-12-28
I'll try that on the ubuntu partition.

Meanwhile I started up XP and the newest VirtualDub, and virtualdub plays it piece-by-piece, that is, each of the 22 segments.

So i tried to convert a segment to a new format by doing an <F7> but I got a huge file that VLC (for example) couldn't play. 

Looking at the "Video" "compression" options for VirtualDub, the only options I had were those old video formats from the past! Like Indeo, cinepak, I263, etc.

I don't remember installing any of those old codecs on this computer (a 3 year old T60).

But basically what I need is access to modern codecs from XP VirtualDub. Unless I compress to some intermediate format with VirtualDub then do something on the Ubuntu side with, say, ffmpeg.

---

### Post by bliffle on 2009-12-29
The mplayer didn't work, but the kaffeine gui did! 

I made a copy of the original AVSEQ01.dat from the vcd as AVSEQ01.avi (it is more than 10x as big) using "IYUV" for portability. Here's the detail:

```

File:                    AVSEQ01.avi
Analisys Date:           28-12-2009 20:48:46
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Video codec:             IYUV
Codec descr:             iyuv
Frame Size:              320 x 240
Average Video Bitrate:   26728 Kb/Sec
Avi file size:           416,909 KB
Total Time:              00:02:00.00 seconds
Frame Rate:              29.97 Frames/Sec
Total Frames:            3612
Video Data Rate:         29.00 frames/Sec
Video Quality:           921
Packet Bitstream:        Off
Info Data[0]:            VirtualDub build 32706/release

Audio 1:                 0x0001 (PCM) 705.60 Kb/Sec - 44100 Hz (1 Channels)



Report generated by themonospot v0.7.3 --- Gtk# Gui v0.1.4
project web site: http://www.integrazioneweb.com/themonospot

```

It plays with programs like VLC, but when I set about to convert it with 'avidemux' it shows as just a green screen while the audio plays.

I'm sure there's some way to convert this to a modern format and compressor.

I remember vaguely that I used to reformat videos with VLC using some unusual options, but now I can't find that with my modern VLC.

---

### Post by bliffle on 2009-12-29
Well, so far the best I've been able to do is install a new DivX on the XP side, then use VirtualDub to batch convert the 23 individual segments into 23 divx segments. Then I took that over to the ubuntu side and appended the files together with avidemux and output that as a single DVD/MPEG2 file, and right now I'm burning a movie DVD.

Too bad there are two extra steps, combining the 23 files and converting to divx thence to DVD/MPEG, but that's the benefit of digital, I suppose, because the final DVD looks good.

Multimedia always seems to be like this.

---

### Post by bliffle on 2009-12-29
The DVD I burned with GnomeBaker, from the "iso" created by DeVeDe doesn't play. If I go to the VIDEO_TS directory (which has a typical-looking assortment of IFO, BUP, etc., files)  I can play the video file directly with something like VLC, but it doesn't play in a DVD player.

Looks like I need a tutorial that takes a DivX file all the way to a playable DVD.

---

### Post by bliffle on 2009-12-31
But the DVD I created works in an old Windows DVD player.

---

