---
title: "8.10 problems running on TV"
date: 2009-02-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Smapdy on 2009-02-10
I am trying to set up a media center computer on my standard definition television (lo-fi revolution baby!) through an S-Video cable.  I have a BFG - NVIDIA GeForce 8400 GS 512MB DDR2 PCI Express Graphics Card Model: BFGR84512GS64E that works just fine on a monitor through VGA.  When connected to my TV, I see the BIOS, the Kubuntu start up screen, then it flashes a few times and I see a checklist of a bunch of things that say OK (I can post that if it is helpful when I get home).  Can it be done?

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2009-02-10
Have you installed an NVidia driver and the nvidia-settings utility (listed as NVIDIA X Server Settings utility in Applications > Add/Remove... ).

With the right driver you should be able to use this utility to setup both the VGA and other video output (to TV).

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-02-10
I have a pc running Hardy connected to my 32" LCD HDTV, at first boot I see grub starting up, but I don't see anything else until It gets to the desktop. I use autologin so it goes directly to the desktop.

There was an update about a week ago, that on restart all I got was a blue screen, I have remote desktop enable on the computer and all I had to do was go in and set the proper resolution (in my case 1360X768) and things were good again.

Jim

---

### Post by Smapdy on 2009-02-11
Thanks SteveDee.  I should have looked there first.  I'm a little rusty on computers in general and still very novice in linux.  This community makes it possible for people like me to be able to get into linux without jumping into the deep end first.

I have a new problem now though.  The sides are cut off.  I looked for overscan correction within the nvidia x settings, but they were absent in the TV(o) section.  when I run screen resize and rotate, it pops up on the bottom, then just goes away.  I downloaded something called Monitor Settings which claims to be able to do the job, but I can't find it in settings or system applications.

I've started to look at some of the posts on overscan correction, but haven't had the time to try the modeline method or I haven't found my TV's service menu.  I will try them soon and repost my results.  

If anyone has any other suggestions for me, please let me know.

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2009-02-11
> **Smapdy said:**
> Thanks SteveDee.  I should have looked there first.  I'm a little rusty on computers in general and still very novice in linux.  This community makes it possible for people like me to be able to get into linux without jumping into the deep end first.

I have a new problem now though.  The sides are cut off.  I looked for overscan correction within the nvidia x settings, but they were absent in the TV(o) section.  when I run screen resize and rotate, it pops up on the bottom, then just goes away.  I downloaded something called Monitor Settings which claims to be able to do the job, but I can't find it in settings or system applications.

I've started to look at some of the posts on overscan correction, but haven't had the time to try the modeline method or I haven't found my TV's service menu.  I will try them soon and repost my results.  

If anyone has any other suggestions for me, please let me know.

When you say over-scan, do you mean the picture is cropped or do you mean the picture folds back on its self?

There are also some important points here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1023565](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1023565)   regarding how to use the nvidia-settings application.

---

### Post by Smapdy on 2009-02-11
It is cropped, not folded over.

Thanks for the input on more threads SteveDee, I will check them out as soon as I get my hands back on the computer.  And thank you cariboo907 for your reply.  While your input didn't help me fix my particular case, it may help others in the future.

---

