---
title: "3.9 GB detected only 3.6 gb formatted where are the other 300 MB"
date: 2010-01-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Geweten on 2010-01-06
Hey guys,

Ubuntu Karmic sees a 3.9 GB usb but shows 3.61 GB available ?!
Where are my about 300 mb ? 

I formatted the stick several times using fdisk and gparted but something "sticks" in there...:confused:

Also when I paste/ copy mp3's they often get scrambled...

I surfed around the net and till now nothing did the trick.

When I bought the EMTECs the package said only for windows. I thought I could arrange this whit Ubuntu / Linux...

Is this a partially fix-chip-architecture maybe ?
I checked the possibility of a .trash file, but nothing... 
Why does Ubuntu pass over it ?

Thanks in advance !

---

### Post by x33a on 2010-01-06
5% space is reserved in case of ext3 or ext4.

you can reclaim the space if you want.

take a look here:

[http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Ext3_Filesystem_Tips#Reclaim_Reserved_Filesystem_Space](http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Ext3_Filesystem_Tips#Reclaim_Reserved_Filesystem_Space)

---

### Post by Geweten on 2010-01-07
Thanks for the quick rply "x33a" ! :KS

Aha... and also for FAT32 ?

Well I tried the tune-thing and it gave me:

"tune2fs: Bad magic number in super-block tijdens openen van /dev/sdc
Kan geen geldig bestandssysteem-superblok vinden."

Sorry for my sys. is in Double Dutch ! ;)

In eng: cannot find valid filesystemblock.

Disk /dev/sdc: 3875 MB, 3875536896 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 471 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00003253

---

### Post by x33a on 2010-01-07
This thing doesn't apply to fat32.

assuming sdc is the partition you want to perform this operation on, try:
```
sudo umount /dev/sdc
sudo tune2fs -m 1 /dev/sdc
```

---

### Post by Geweten on 2010-01-08
Thx for the sugestion "x33a" !

But nope... same message...

---

### Post by x33a on 2010-01-08
Try formatting sdc again, and repeat the above steps.

---

### Post by Geweten on 2010-01-10
Hi x33a thanks for your patience !

Used gparted to format to fat 32 again.
Then applied your code, but still same message...

Well if it doesn't harm that about 275 MB are not useable I can always use the stick as it is...

I'm just interested in the why's and like understanding and learning...

Cheers !

---

### Post by x33a on 2010-01-10
This command won't work on the fat32 partition. i thought you were using ext3 for that partition. that explains why you were getting that error.

---

