---
title: "Fail to query the GLX server vendor"
date: 2009-05-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by andrea27 on 2009-05-04
Hello everybody.

I am a new ubuntu 9.04 user. I'm currently running it on a HP Pavilion dv6000 with an NVIDIA GEFORCE GO 7400. I have a problem I cannot solve. I installed the NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.51-pkg1.run providing me the right drivers for my graphic card. All seems to be fine but I can neither activate the "norma" or "extra" visual effects nor make compiz-fusion working. Apparently when I go into the NVIDIA Xserver settings, under the OPEN GL/GLX Information I have "Fail to query the GLX server vendor". 

Does anybody know what I should do to fix this trouble.

Thank you so much in advance for your help.

---

### Post by Walter Melon on 2009-05-13
i got the same problem. Here is the output of compiz in terminal```
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 

```
I have an nVIDIA GeForce 9300M GS graphics card.

---

### Post by irotsoma on 2009-05-25
I had a similar problem.  I was getting lots of errors including both of the above issues since installing the latest NVidia drivers 180.51.  I had to uninstall them and go back to the 180.44 drivers.  Use this in the directory where you have the driver file downloaded: 

sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.51-pkg1.run --uninstall

That totally fixed the problem for me.  Nothing else seemed to work.  I searched everywhere.  There must be a problem with the 180.51 drivers and Ubuntu.

---

### Post by abcborges on 2009-05-29
Any good? I have the same problem..However my driver is the 180.44.

---

### Post by tluisrs on 2009-05-29
Hi everyone,

I'm running Ubuntu 9.04 with a NVIDIA GTX 295. I've got this message in the NVIDIA X Server Settings 

```

Fail to query the GLX server vendor.

```I've installed driver 180.44. There's some incompatibility with 9.04?

If this gonna help, there is my xorg.conf file.

From now, thanks

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Thu Apr 30 16:21:56 PDT 2009

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
    # generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection


```-- 
Anyday, anytime
TLuisRS

---

### Post by Libra289 on 2009-06-10
Hey, got exactly the same problem.
I'm running Ubuntu 9.04 with Nvidia GeForce GO 7300 and currently installed Nvidia driver 180.44 with EnvyNG.
Everything was running fine until when I tried to upgrade the driver to 180.60 and everything went wrong.
In addition to the GLX message from the Nvidia X Server Settings cannot enable the Desktop Visual Effects and compiz-check fails.
Have been spending the last few days looking around for solutions but nothing yet.
Just saw on Nvidia website that they posted on 5th June a driver version 185.18.14 but I'm now scared to try..:confused:

---

### Post by Xic0 on 2009-06-12
Same problem.

Card: GeForce 7600 GT
OS: Ubuntu 9.04
NVIDIA Driver: 180.44

---

### Post by Libra289 on 2009-06-14
Hey guys, managed to fix my problem! :D
Here is what I did:
1) Run nvidia-bug-report.sh to generate nvidia-bug-report.log.
(this log file will be placed in the current working directory that in my case was the home directory).

2) Opened the nvidia-bug-report.log and scrollin down (it's quite a long file) I found 
[   28.487014] NVRM: API mismatch: the client has the version 180.60, but
[   28.487017] NVRM: this kernel module has the version 180.44.  Please
[   28.487018] NVRM: make sure that this kernel module and all NVIDIA driver
[   28.487019] NVRM: components have the same version.
This problem appeared to be  similar to the one I found in this thread [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=132346](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=132346) and the suggestion was to remove all the nvidia stuff and re-install.

3) Removed everything about nvidia following instructions fund in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=481887](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=481887)
sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx* nvidia-kernel-common nvidia-settings
sudo rm /etc/init.d/nvidia-*
sudo update-rc.d nvidia-kernel remove
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new linux-restricted-modules-`uname -r`
(some of this instruction may be reduntant as they were referred to Ubuntu Feisty).
I then rebooted. X crashed but I let Ubuntu fix it through the various options it was throwing at me and managed to get it  running at low resolution.

4) Re-installed driver 180.44 with EnvyNG ([http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html), thanks Alberto!) and now everything works like a charm. 
Compiz-check gives all positive and same for the GLX drivers and glxinfo.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by XanGabriel on 2009-06-17
Yeah...
I'm not too sure if I'm just missing something, but this doesn't seem to be working for me...  I'm running on a GTS250, so I'm not sure if there's a bit of discrepancy in detail here, but after three tries of this procedure, I'm still getting this "Fail to query the GLX server vendor" in my Nvidia X Settings... :/  Any other suggestions?  I can't seem to find anything other than what has already been suggested.........:(

---

### Post by Libra289 on 2009-06-17
Hi XanGabriel,
have you tried run the  nvidia-bug-report.sh and do you have the API mismatch in the  nvidia-bug-report.log?

---

### Post by XanGabriel on 2009-06-18
> **Libra289 said:**
> Hi XanGabriel,
have you tried run the  nvidia-bug-report.sh and do you have the API mismatch in the  nvidia-bug-report.log?

Yessir... :(

> 
NVRM: API mismatch: the client has the version 185.18.14, but
NVRM: this kernel module has the version 180.44.  Please
NVRM: make sure that this kernel module and all NVIDIA driver
NVRM: components have the same version


I made sure I downloaded the 180.44 version...  I used EnvyNG and it downloaded/installed 180.44-0ubuntu1...  This was after already doing the wipe of nvidia files...  I did have one error that said something about a /?/tsl/ having contents, and that it wouldn't do anything (this was during the uninstall process), but as it is blatantly clear that I am still fresh meat to ubuntu, I wasn't sure how to handle that, and google turned up some confusing things...  

Sorry I'm turning a fixed thread back into a hassle :/

---

### Post by austonst on 2009-06-23
I have had a very similar problem to this after failing to upgrade my nvidia drivers manually to 185.18.14. After realizing my mistake, I went back into the restricted drivers manager and installed 180.44 (after struggling to get back into a working desktop). However, this left me unable to use desktop effects. glxinfo gave the exact same results as seen earlier in this thread. Here's how I fixed it, after much google searching:

I started off by purging pretty much every single package that would be nvidia related. This did not completely purge my 185.18.14 installation though, since it's not really installed via the package system.

In /usr/lib/, there are many symbolic links to various glx-related files also located in the same folder. I noticed for each symbolic link, there were two files it could refer to, one which ended in 185.18.14, and the other ending in 180.44. Some of these pointed to the 185 file, and others pointed to the 180 file.

I used the following command to find all the symbolic links that pointed to 185 files (and find the 185 files themselves)
```
ls -lah | grep 185
```
Change around the 185 if you have a different version of driver that you don't want to use. If anything pops up, they're going to need to get changed.

For each symbolic link pointing to a 185 file, I changed the link to instead point to the 180 version using the following:
```
sudo ln -sf [file-ending-in-180.44] [symbolic-link-currently-pointing-to-185-file]
```
Try the above ls command again to ensure that it no longer points to a 185 file. Once all the symbolic links have been changed, you'll be left over with a whole bunch of unused files ending in 185.18.14. It's probably best to move these somewhere else so they don't get in the way again.

```
sudo mv `ls | grep 185` [destination-directory]
```
should do the trick.

After this, I rebooted and enabled compiz again, and everything seemed to work. Good luck to everyone else, it's quite a problem.

---

### Post by fpeixoto on 2009-06-24
> **austonst said:**
> I have had a very similar problem to this after failing to upgrade my nvidia drivers manually to 185.18.14. After realizing my mistake, I went back into the restricted drivers manager and installed 180.44 (after struggling to get back into a working desktop). However, this left me unable to use desktop effects. glxinfo gave the exact same results as seen earlier in this thread. Here's how I fixed it, after much google searching:

I started off by purging pretty much every single package that would be nvidia related. This did not completely purge my 185.18.14 installation though, since it's not really installed via the package system.

In /usr/lib/, there are many symbolic links to various glx-related files also located in the same folder. I noticed for each symbolic link, there were two files it could refer to, one which ended in 185.18.14, and the other ending in 180.44. Some of these pointed to the 185 file, and others pointed to the 180 file.

I used the following command to find all the symbolic links that pointed to 185 files (and find the 185 files themselves)
```
ls -lah | grep 185
```
Change around the 185 if you have a different version of driver that you don't want to use. If anything pops up, they're going to need to get changed.

For each symbolic link pointing to a 185 file, I changed the link to instead point to the 180 version using the following:
```
sudo ln -sf [file-ending-in-180.44] [symbolic-link-currently-pointing-to-185-file]
```
Try the above ls command again to ensure that it no longer points to a 185 file. Once all the symbolic links have been changed, you'll be left over with a whole bunch of unused files ending in 185.18.14. It's probably best to move these somewhere else so they don't get in the way again.

```
sudo mv `ls | grep 185` [destination-directory]
```
should do the trick.

After this, I rebooted and enabled compiz again, and everything seemed to work. Good luck to everyone else, it's quite a problem.

Holy carp, thank you so much.  I followed your info to the letter, and my settings are all back.

I was going nuts trying to scrounge around for that info.  I did the same thing you did (tried to upgrade to 185).  Lesson learned: dont fix the non-broken.

Again, thank you.

---

### Post by jefkin on 2009-07-02
Just to put it all in one place.


[LIST=1]
[*]**From a shell, make a directory**

 I did this:

```
$ mkdir nvidia
```

[*]**Download the latest drivers from nvidia**

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/unix.html")

in my case it was: "NVIDIA-Linux-x86-185.18.14-pkg1.run"

[*]**Set up file permissions**:

```
$ chmod 777 NVIDIA-Linux-x86-185.18.14-pkg1.run
```

you will need to put the name of the file you download here, if it isn't the same.

[*]***Optional*:  open a non-Gui Terminal**

If you are running your shell so far from the gui X interface, then Open up a non-Gui Terminal:

[Control]+[Alt]+[F2] (or [F3] etc ...)

[*]***Optional*: Login to your non-Gui Terminal**

 -- you don't need to do this if you're not running x.

[*]**Clean up all the old apt based packages**:

```
$ sudo apt-get remove 'nvidia*'
```

[*]***Optional*: Turn off the X server**

-- don't worry about this if you're not running x.

```
$ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```

[*]**Install the nvidia driver**

-- this will start a text-based colorful interface that should walk you through the install process, and then offer to rebuild your xorg.conf file, I suggest letting the installer handler this.

```
$ sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-185.18.14-pkg1.run
```

* Note you will use the name of your downloaded package here

-- If you have any errors, fix them then run this command again.  

(I had a few problems in this step, until I cleaned everything out with step 6 above)

When everything is ok the last message should be something like:

```
Your X configuration file has been successfully updated.  Installation of
   the NVIDIA Accelerated Graphics Driver for Linux-x86 (version: 185.18.14) is
   now complete.
```

Though obviously with the version that you used.

[*]**Restart your X server**

```
$ sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
```

This should show you your regular login screen. 

[*]**Log in and test your driver.**

```
$ glxgears
```  

Should show a nice mini window display with three interlocking gears rotating.

Or if you care to:

```
$ glxinfo
```

[*]**Welcome to your video card**

Everything should be ok at this point.

[/LIST]

:guitar:

Jefkin

---

### Post by Gemba on 2009-07-29
Thanks Gefkin. 

I did a system update which caused this error. After hours of searching and failing your tip has fixed this!

---

### Post by la54 on 2009-08-13
Confusing!

The post starts with a how to rollback from 185 to 180 and ends with steps on how to install 185.

I have the following problem:
>  Failed to load /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libglx.so'

Googling I found this thread that may solve my problem. 
But I am confused. Should I install 185 then rollback to 180 or in my case 173.14.12

Thanks.

---

### Post by surkesd on 2009-08-18
Thanks Jefkin! I had a same problem with my NVIDIA Driver. I did exactly that you wrote. It works!!!

---

### Post by Jonas thomas on 2009-08-21
Hi... All I've been ](*,)](*,)](*,) for a few weeks now trying to get my card working and I've gotten to the point where I get the "Fail to query the GLX server vendor"
I have a GeForce4 MX 420 and have tried both the 96.43.05 and 71.86.04 drivers.  

After much trying on my own without success, I emailed Nvidia and here is there reponse to the error report I embedded below.

> Here is the error:

 dlopen: /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions//libglx.so: undefined symbol: _nv001254gl

This generally indicates that there is a version mismatch between two
driver components, usually because the driver was installed
incorrectly.  I would recommend uninstalling any Ubuntu or Envy driver
packages that might be installed and trying the .run installer from
nvidia.com instead.

I ran thru Jefkins July 2 instructions with the driver I needed and everything when like a charm.
Thanks....

---

### Post by jdennardl on 2009-09-05
> **irotsoma said:**
> I had a similar problem.  I was getting lots of errors including both of the above issues since installing the latest NVidia drivers 180.51.  I had to uninstall them and go back to the 180.44 drivers.  Use this in the directory where you have the driver file downloaded: 

sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.51-pkg1.run --uninstall

That totally fixed the problem for me.  Nothing else seemed to work.  I searched everywhere.  There must be a problem with the 180.51 drivers and Ubuntu.




worked for me..THANKS! I have a 9800M

---

### Post by m.mannes on 2009-09-17
I had exactly the same problem of #1 post, witch was completly solved by jefkin's July 2nd, 2009 04:48 PM post.

My hardware is HP Pavilion dv2000 Nvidia Geforce 8400M GS, tried to install drivers with "system > administration > Hardware drivers", Envyng, synaptics and with the nvidia.com's driver. The difference between others attemps was:
```
sudo apt-get remove 'nvidia*'
```

Thanks Jefkin!

---

### Post by Calabresi on 2009-11-21
> **Libra289 said:**
> Hey guys, managed to fix my problem! :D
Here is what I did:
1) Run nvidia-bug-report.sh to generate nvidia-bug-report.log.
(this log file will be placed in the current working directory that in my case was the home directory).

2) Opened the nvidia-bug-report.log and scrollin down (it's quite a long file) I found 
[   28.487014] NVRM: API mismatch: the client has the version 180.60, but
[   28.487017] NVRM: this kernel module has the version 180.44.  Please
[   28.487018] NVRM: make sure that this kernel module and all NVIDIA driver
[   28.487019] NVRM: components have the same version.
This problem appeared to be  similar to the one I found in this thread [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=132346](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=132346) and the suggestion was to remove all the nvidia stuff and re-install.

3) Removed everything about nvidia following instructions fund in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=481887](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=481887)
sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx* nvidia-kernel-common nvidia-settings
sudo rm /etc/init.d/nvidia-*
sudo update-rc.d nvidia-kernel remove
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new linux-restricted-modules-`uname -r`
(some of this instruction may be reduntant as they were referred to Ubuntu Feisty).
I then rebooted. X crashed but I let Ubuntu fix it through the various options it was throwing at me and managed to get it  running at low resolution.

4) Re-installed driver 180.44 with EnvyNG ([http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html), thanks Alberto!) and now everything works like a charm. 
Compiz-check gives all positive and same for the GLX drivers and glxinfo.

Hope this helps.

Yea, it work for me in Debian, thanks.

---

### Post by HellionDarkLord on 2009-12-21
I have had the same problem in 9.10 but only because I want the cuda driver.

I tried installing the cuda driver and it worked wonderfully, but then I let Ubuntu upgrade.  OH no! No more driver!

So this is what I had to do and I could use GUI to do it!!! woohoo!

(this only brought me back to normal nvidia driver. not CUDA)

open synaptic

completely removed everything that comes up under nvidia search but leaving the xserver stuff alone.

Rebooted into safe graphics mode and left everything alone from those options.  no reconfiguring or anything...

opened up synaptic again and this time installed everything that comes up under nvidia 185, making sure that I had the nvidia 185 glx stuff

and also making sure that I was only installing things from that version (185)

and rebooted to a nice wonderful working system.

Hope that helps

HD

---

### Post by juillarr on 2010-01-25
FYI:  Some how I got into this same problem.  Using the system driver GUI that switched between a number of drivers did not help. Deleted the 'nvidia*' and installed version 195 from Nvidia.  Everything works now. :D

---

### Post by oliMilo on 2010-02-13
Same problem. Same fix confirmed as working. Said yes to everything in the nvidia installer.

HP Pavillion p6140f
Ubuntu 9.10 amd64
NVIDIA GeForce GT240

Thank you very much jefkin!

> **m.mannes said:**
> I had exactly the same problem of #1 post, witch was completly solved by jefkin's July 2nd, 2009 04:48 PM post.

My hardware is HP Pavilion dv2000 Nvidia Geforce 8400M GS, tried to install drivers with "system > administration > Hardware drivers", Envyng, synaptics and with the nvidia.com's driver. The difference between others attemps was:
```
sudo apt-get remove 'nvidia*'
```Thanks Jefkin!

---

### Post by Achronon on 2010-07-21
I found a fix for the same problem with my Lucid 10.04 set-up.  It might work for other GeForce cards as well.
Since I bumbled around a bit this is not a well-organized solution, but maybe some nix gurus will straighten it out.

System: 
Nvidia GeForce 6150.  
kubuntu 10.04, kernel 2.6.32-22-generic

PROBLEM:
1. Installed nvidia hardware driver GLX dialog page displays "fail to query the GLX server vendor"
2. glxgears responds: "Error: couldn't get an RGB, Double-buffered visual."
3. glxinfo responds: "Error: couldn't find rgb glx visual or fbconfig"

"SOLUTION":
This was entirely hit&imiss, trial&error, ad hoc supremo.  But in the end it worked, go figure!  I think the reason it worked was a combination of removing old software drivers then restoring xorg.conf then reinstalling the proprietary drivers afresh.

Here's what I did.

(a). Went to System > Hardware Drivers and removed all the proprietary nvidia drivers.

(b). tried to get rid of some other old nvidia and glx stuff that I thought might need reinstalling or just purging:

$ sudo apt-get remove --purge fglrx*
$ sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx* nvidia-kernel-common nvidia-settings
$ sudo apt-get autoremove

(c). Found that did not fix things, still no glxgears.  So I went and rashly installed the nVidia drivers for the GeForce 6 series from 
[http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us)
(used their menu system to ge the GeForce 6 drivers appropriate for my system.)
The file they sent was "NVIDIA-Linux-x86-256.35.run"
I killed /usr/bin/X then went to command shell,
ran the script:

$ chmod +x NVIDIA-Linux-x86-256.35.run && sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86-256.35.run

Responded appropriately to all the prompts.
(Forgot to backup my xorg.conf, but the script does this for us anyway.)
Reboot.

CRAP! No X server, it fails. Cannot find kernel module 'nvidia.ko'
I tried to install a few deb packages that might install the kernel module, but fail.  

$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-kernel-common
$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-current nvidia-glx-185

Meanwhile my xorg.conf is wiped again and so I revert to a backup.

Reboot.

(d) Better now.  X does at least start. X display has wrong settings, screen resolution is lower and the monitor display is wonky (shift-translated).  So I say, "BUGGER THIS" and I go and try to reinstall the proprietary nVidia drivers using the kubuntu,
System > Hardware Settings
applet/dialog again.  

(e) Reboot.  Wonderful.  GLX is now found by the nVidia Settings manager and glxgears works and desktop effects are go.
Most importantly, OpenGL accelerated games now play ok.  Phew!

I'll leave you to figure out which steps in this particular fix are valid and which were bone-headed but irrelevant.


Caveat:
Something like this drriver uninstall -> reinstall process might be needed each time the kernel is updated I guess.

---

