---
title: "8.04: Out-of-Sync Video"
date: 2008-11-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by IMAGinES on 2008-11-08
Hi, everyone,

I'm running 8.04 Hardy Heron with an NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GTS and an BenQ FP91G+ LCD monitor. I've installed the NVIDIA drivers and am running at 1280 x 1024 resolution but video playback isn't smooth; it tends to jerk and the top half of the video seems to refresh slightly quicker than the bottom.

I've tried going into System > Preferences > Screen Resolution, which shows my monitor as "Unknown" and the maximum refresh rate as 53 Hertz. I get 75Hz when I boot the same PC under Windows.

What should I do?

---

### Post by Afkpuz on 2008-11-09
Are you using the default video player?  Totem is not a good player.  Trying using VLC.


```
sudo apt-get install vlc
```

---

### Post by IMAGinES on 2008-11-09
I don't think I've used Totem once since I installed Ubuntu. Most of my video viewing has been streams via embedded players; for example. the videos on the Major League Gaming website ([http://www.mlgpro.com/](http://www.mlgpro.com/)).

---

### Post by Afkpuz on 2008-11-12
Try turning off compiz desktop effects.

---

### Post by psyke83 on 2008-11-12
> **IMAGinES said:**
> Hi, everyone,

I'm running 8.04 Hardy Heron with an NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GTS and an BenQ FP91G+ LCD monitor. I've installed the NVIDIA drivers and am running at 1280 x 1024 resolution but video playback isn't smooth; it tends to jerk and the top half of the video seems to refresh slightly quicker than the bottom.

I've tried going into System > Preferences > Screen Resolution, which shows my monitor as "Unknown" and the maximum refresh rate as 53 Hertz. I get 75Hz when I boot the same PC under Windows.

What should I do?

Some NVIDIA cards report a false refresh rate if "DynamicTwinView" is enabled (such as my GeForce 6200 and FX 5200).

Edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf, and in the "Device" section, add the following line and save:

```
Option "DynamicTwinView" "false"
```

Now, open gconf-editor, then navigate to the key:

/apps/compiz/general/screen0/options/sync_to_vblank

Make sure this setting is enabled.

After logging out and back in, hopefully your monitor resolution will be reported correctly (and combined with vsync, video tearing will stop occuring).

---

### Post by IMAGinES on 2008-11-13
Thanks for the response, psyke. This'll probably indicate how new I am to Ubuntu and Linux, but when I try to save xorg.conf after pasting the line you gave, I'm told I don't have permission to make changes to it. Do I have to open it from the command prompt using a "sudo" command of some sort?

---

### Post by pumy on 2008-11-13
In order to edit xorg.conf you need super-user rights. So press Alt+F2 (or open a terminal) and type ```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Then make your changes and save.

---

