---
title: "8.04 Flash player: can't type text"
date: 2008-05-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Dan334477 on 2008-05-06
My apologies if this has been addressed in this forum already.  I did my best to search through the threads I could find but I didn't see this issue.

I did a non-upgrade install of 8.04.  I can't type text into a text box on a flash swf file.  It's not just text boxes either....I can't type anything.  On games I can't use any of the hot keys.  It's like the keys don't even register or something.

I've tried it with Flash player 9 revisions 124, 115, and 48?(I think, forgot the number) on both FF 2 and FF3 Beta.  I also tried opening a swf file in the Gnash standalone player.  Same problem.

I made sure that I only had 1 flash plugin installed at a time to avoid any conflicts or anything.

I've also noticed that occasionally the same problem happens in FF2.  I won't be able to type into a search box, or gchat, or ctrl-f to search through a page.  Clicking on a different window and clicking back solves the problem, but it *always* happens with a swf loaded (whether in FF or in Gnash).

I'm running 8.04 on a 32-bit AMD sempron.

Any help on a solution or diagnosing the problem with be greatly appreciated.  If this happens to be the wrong forum for this kind of inquiry, let me know the right one and I'll move it pronto.

Thanks,

Dan

---

### Post by Dan334477 on 2008-05-07
Anyone have any ideas or seen this kind of problem mentioned else where?  On a hope and a prayer I tried using this command from a similar and newer thread:

sudo apt-get purge flashplugin-nonfree gnash gnash-common swfdec-mozilla && sudo apt-get install flashplugin-nonfree libflashsupport

But, like I expected, this didn't solve the issue.

---

### Post by Dan334477 on 2008-05-07
Here's an update:

I've managed to be able to enter text using FF2 and Flash Player 9 r48 installed with the Adobe installer on their site.  You can get it in a big pack of archived installers.  When the installers says you should contact your administrator to remove xpti.dat or whatever from your components directory, don't do it.  I did it and was unable to type after that.

However, Flash Player r48 is having trouble with its socket.  It will say "Connecting to XXX" for something like 2.5 minutes.  During this time, I can still type.  Eventually the socket times out and the connecting message changes to "Done."  I know that the connection was never made because I tried connecting to a program I wrote myself on my own comp and I log new connections.  After the socket times out, I cannot type anymore.

---

### Post by Dougie187 on 2008-05-07
I did actually have this same issue a while ago. I don't know how it became resolved but it did. I did install Flash from adobe's site, but i dont know if that fixed it. I would be interested in seeing what the actual problem ends up being, sorry I can't help i just thought I would tell you that I had the same problem before.

---

### Post by Dan334477 on 2008-05-07
Ok.  Everything has been resolved now as far as I can tell.

For some reason, my Flash 9 r48 cannot connect to a socket server by simply opening the swf file.  I was able to do this before (open a swf with Firefox's Open File and have it successfully connect to my socket server) but I don't know what revision it was.  I now have to host the swf file with Apache, but once I load it up using 127.0.0.1/whatever.swf, I connect successfully and I can type with no problems.

On the other revisions I tried (r115 and r124), I could connect by using the Open File feature, but I was not able to type at all.

So, my functionality has not been completely restored (in that I can't use Open File, connect successfully, and also use the keys), but I've managed to find an acceptable solution by using Apache to host the swf file.

---

### Post by arm-c on 2008-09-28
This problem just started recently for me in Flash.  I can no longer type into flash text boxes __ UNLESS__ I hold the ALT or CTRL key down as I press a letter key... and in some cases, that has mixed results -- such as not being able to type an "a" because that + CTRL = Select All.

I am using Scim for Korean (Note, I did that before it broke and all was fine... so SCIM is not the problem)

I added the Netscape wrapper, which fixed my frequent FLASH crashes, but now I have other problems... which could be related to the FLASH / Netscape wrapper.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

