---
title: "Graphics fail after Jaunty update: Xlib: extension &quot;GLX&quot; missing on display &quot;:0.0&quot;"
date: 2009-07-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by AeroGT3 on 2009-07-14
Hey all,

I had Jaunty running brilliantly on my machine with an Nvidia FX380. I use it for engineering applications, so everything needs openGL . . . trouble is after installing updates everything is broken :-( 

When launching applications I get the following:
 Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0

I've reinstalled the Nvidia driver manually and through the GUI within ubuntu. Neither have worked. I have graphics, and they run well, but no 3D! I have searched and so far nothing has worked, most of the threads on this subject just go empty ::help::

---

### Post by AeroGT3 on 2009-07-14
BTW, here is my xorg.conf:

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Wed May 27 01:58:49 PDT 2009

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "Unknown"
	HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
	VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
	Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Mouse0"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "Protocol" "auto"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Keyboard0"
	Driver         "kbd"
	# generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0"
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Device0"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	"DontZap"	"False"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by cozmicharlie on 2009-07-14
This message appears because a package is calling for GL support.  When the xserver connection is made, the visuals are queried to find GL support.  For some reason, your xserver has lost GL support.  

You probably need to load a newer driver version.  I have the nvidia-glx-180-dev installed on my system and it works fine.  I believe the nvidia driver in synaptic is version 173 (an older version - nvidia is up to 185 now).  To get a newer version, go to synaptic Settings>repository and click on the "update" tab.  Mark "Pre-released updates" and the "backports" - close everything.  The update manager should appear and you can update the drivers.  If you do not want any other packages updated from the "proposed or backports" then make sure you uncheck them in the update manager.  Once done you can uncheck the proposed and backports repository.  Or alternatively, install the drivers manually from nvidia's web site [http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_185.18.14.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_185.18.14.html).

I have attached a screenshot of all the nvidia packages installed on my system so you can check and make sure nothing is missing on your system.
I hope this helps.

---

### Post by AeroGT3 on 2009-07-22
Well, I appreciate the reply and I tried all that. I did get that driver to work, but with the same GLX errors as before. I do engineering work on this thing, and downtime isn't acceptable, so I just reinstalled the OS. I haven't installed any of the updates (original -11 kernel is running currently).  It all works, openGL programs run great.

I guess the software updates are what break it all :(

---

### Post by cozmicharlie on 2009-07-22
That happens sometimes with updates.  You could set up your updates so all you get are the security updates. At least then you can get the most critical updates and they hopefully won't break your system.

Glad to here you got it working.

---

### Post by dal on 2009-09-08
Just had the same problem moving from nvidia's 180.60 drivers to the 185 series (from the repository at avenard.org) on my 9.04 machine, it appears that the upgrade neglected to change the file that the symbolic link /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libglx.so pointed to. Removing it and putting a new one in with 'ln -s /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so.185.18.14 /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so' did the trick for me.

Had similar problems when moving to the 180 driver series, although more files were affected. The basic steps to fixing problems like this are:

run 'dpkg -c /var/cache/apt/archives/nvidia-glx-185_185.18.14-0ubuntu3_i386.deb | grep so' - this will give you a list of the main components of the driver. Xorg and anything running under it won't try to access these components directly - they do it through symbolic links, which makes it easier to have multiple driver versions installed at the same time (although of course only one is active). Sometimes the driver upgrading process misses updating some of these links, so to fix that:

for every file in the output of the dpkg command above, run 'ls -l <filename>' and see if the output of that command mentions the 185.18.14 driver or the old one

replace any links that point to components of the old driver with links pointing to the new version (usually the same name (apart from the driver version) in the same location, but if not (major driver versions might use different directories to store files, for instance) use locate to find the new location.

Annoying, yes, but not unfixable (at least in some cases :) )

---

