---
title: "Persistent and annoying problem"
date: 2008-09-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by KevMaverick on 2008-09-18
Using:  Ubuntu 8.04 LTS x64

Hi,  I'm quite new to Linux, but I'm finding my way around it better than I thought I ever would, but there's a problem that is proving to be a real annoyance.

I sincerely hope that someone might be able to help me.

On quite a regular basis my CD/DVD writer effectively disappears from my system, forcing me to do a complete reboot.  Sometimes this works, but on other occasions I have to resort to:

sudo rm /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-cd.rules

However, even if either method resolves the problem, it can re-occur, seemingly at random, and at any time during the session.

As I write, the drive is unrecognised; right clicking and selecting 'Mount Volume' has no effect, and I get the message 'Unable to mount location - No media in the drive' when I try to access it.

In this state, the file /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-cd.rules reads as below, but I cannot fathom it out!

> # This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_cd_rules
# program, probably run by the cd-aliases-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single line
# and set the $GENERATED variable.

# IDE_H16X (pci-0000:00:0f.1-scsi-0:0:0:0)
ENV{ID_CDROM}=="?*", ENV{ID_PATH}=="pci-0000:00:0f.1-scsi-0:0:0:0", SYMLINK+="cdrom", ENV{GENERATED}="1"
ENV{ID_CDROM}=="?*", ENV{ID_PATH}=="pci-0000:00:0f.1-scsi-0:0:0:0", SYMLINK+="cdrw", ENV{GENERATED}="1"
ENV{ID_CDROM}=="?*", ENV{ID_PATH}=="pci-0000:00:0f.1-scsi-0:0:0:0", SYMLINK+="dvd", ENV{GENERATED}="1"
ENV{ID_CDROM}=="?*", ENV{ID_PATH}=="pci-0000:00:0f.1-scsi-0:0:0:0", SYMLINK+="dvdrw", ENV{GENERATED}="1"

I would be so pleased if anyone could help me with this problem.

Thank You.

---

### Post by jmate24 on 2008-09-18
What Brand of drive is it? (i.e. Sony, Lite-On, Panasonic, ASUS, etc.)

---

### Post by KevMaverick on 2008-09-18
It's an unknown brand unfortunately.  Quite an unusual device as it has a built-in card reader.  Any way of identifying it without opening the case up?  Software perhaps?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2008-09-19
you can get some decent hardware info in a readable format by running 
```
sudo lshw -html > hardware.html
```

Look in home folder for hardware.html

---

### Post by KevMaverick on 2008-09-29
Thanks for the advice.  The problem has been solved when I did a clean reinstall.

I'm pretty sure that the problem was caused when I was ripping cds.  I've been running Hardy for about 5 days now without a hitch, and am being rather more careful which programs I install this time.

Just for reference, I was using Banshee at the time.

---

