---
title: "[SOLVED] TwinView with 2 screens - How do I fullscreen on ONE screen when using VLC?"
date: 2008-08-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by standingOnMyTipToes on 2008-08-17
Hey all,

I have set up my Desktop such that the graphics card is connected to an LCD monitor (VGA connection) and a CRT TV screen(SVideo connection). I have also installed VLC and can play DVDs fine on it.

I want to be able to fullscreen VLC on the TV *only*

Right now I am using TwinView since my graphics card is - GeForce 6600

I want the TwinVideo option so I can drag between screens. I know I can have 2 separate screens (one for TV and other for LCD monitor) using the Separate X Screen option, but then it makes moving between screens a horrible experience - but it is true the fullscreen problem is no longer there.

Right now when I fullscreen it fullscreens across both tv and monitor which is useless.

Any ideas? 
Is there another unknown way to deal with multiple screens? 
Does mplayer(or another player) magically deal with these problems?
Is there an option somewhere I need to change for VLC?
Or....is Ubuntu terrible for this and I should switch flavors -- which I don't mind doing too much...

Thanks, 
input much appreciated!

P.S. The TV will be connected and disconnected every so often since other people must connect to TV. I *think* another issue with Separate X Screen is that unhooking a screen will make Ubuntu have a fit...

---

### Post by doas777 on 2008-08-17
I end up using dual x screens rather than twinview for exactly this reason (and because with twinview, my VNC sessions are almost unusable), but you are right, the fact that you can;t drag apps is a real pain. I just open a media player whilee on my TV screen, and then drag a vid file into it (because you can appearently drag-and-drop accross screens....)


the only answer I can think of (and I've never been able to get it working) is an overlay in mplayer or totem or mythTV. it's not a desktop though.

if you get a good answer, I'm very interested, and if you have any knowledge of overscan problems, feel free to chime in on [my thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=851626").

good luck,
franklin

---

### Post by MrHippocampus on 2008-08-17
If you run "gksudo nvidia-settings" in a terminal, set up your dual screens as desired with twinview and then press "Save to X Configuration File", when you restart you should have the screens working as you want.

Make sure you make a backup of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file first though (and know how to restore it from the command line) before you do this as sometimes the changes nvidia-settings makes will make X not start.

---

### Post by standingOnMyTipToes on 2008-08-17
I am way past that stage already. I have backed up /etc/X11/xorg.conf before I started messing with anything.

TwinView has already been setup.

I want to have the ability to drag between two screens AND I also want to be able to fullscreen on only on of them at any given point in time.

Right now I can't get the fullscreen-ing on one monitor under TwinView.

---

### Post by MrHippocampus on 2008-08-17
If the twinview configuration has been saved to /etc/X11/xorg.conf then it should be working how you want it to. Normally the situation you describe only occurs when the twinview configuration hasn't been saved. Can you post your current /etc/X11/xorg.conf?

---

### Post by standingOnMyTipToes on 2008-08-17
Hey, this is the xorg.conf file,

#nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Thu Jun  5 09:26:53 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "hp f1703"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6600"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, TV: 720x480 +1280+0"
EndSection

---

### Post by standingOnMyTipToes on 2008-08-17
I had to restart!?!?!?!

What is this windows?

Either way it is working. 

Although it is important about what MrHippocampus said to backup xorg-conf file and then don't just apply changes but also save the changes -- and you must be in root mode when you open up nvidia-settings or else it wont save properly!

Thanks!

---

### Post by MrHippocampus on 2008-08-17
> I had to restart!?!?!?!

What is this windows?
This is the fault of the nvidia closed source driver, the open source drivers such as intel don't have this problem. Although a quick way to restart X without restarting the whole machine is to press Crtl+Alt+Baskspace, that will pick up any changes in the xorg.conf.

---

