---
title: "Nvidia 560 ti card, resolution limited to 640x480"
date: 2011-02-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Morichalion on 2011-02-21
I built my computer yesterday. Since the newly released graphics card wasn't supported by the current drivers, I went ahead and tried adding the driver from the following repository. 

[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates)

It works. At least, I'm able to activate the visual effects, I haven't tried it with anything else. The problem is it will do no higher resolution than 640*480. I've banged my head against the keyboard for a bit, looked at forums and stuff, and am still clueless.

---

### Post by tjones00 on 2011-02-21
Typically nvidia resolution issues are related to not being able to get an EDID from the display.

Did you check your /var/log/Xorg.0.log to make sure the driver is grabbing an EDID from the display?

If it isn't grabbing a proper EDID try searching this forum for EDID also metamodes for nvidia.

---

### Post by Morichalion on 2011-02-21
I just went ahead and deleted the xorg.conf file. That allowed me to set my resolution a bit higher in the default monitors settings. I don't have access to anything relating to 3d graphics, blender doesn't run, I'm sad. :(

Reading the log files leads me to believe that you're correct in suggesting the EDID just isn't being grabbed by the driver. The system seems to get it when xorg.conf is gone, though.

I've attached a few files. 

xorg.txt is the file generated by nvidia-xconfig

withxorg.txt is the log file when xorg.conf exists.

withoutxorg.txt is the log file when xorg.conf does not exist. I cut it down to the area where "edid" got a hit when I searched.

---

### Post by tjones00 on 2011-02-22
Yeah this appears to be a common issue with the recent drivers from nvidia.

If you have an alternate os you can try grabbing a working edid.bin from there.

Or if you're using a 32b kernel you can try using the get-edid program from the read-edid package to create an edid.bin. 

Then use the CustomEDID option in your xorg.conf file with the edid.bin

Or if you know a safe resolution that is possible for your card/monitor you could always try something like.

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --no-use-edid --mode=1600x1200
```

from nvidia-xconfig --help

> --mode=MODE
Add the specified mode to the mode list.

--use-edid, --no-use-edid
Enable or disable use of the EDID (Extended Display Identification Data) from your display device(s). The EDID will be used for driver operations such as building lists of available modes, determining valid frequency ranges, and computing the DPI (Dots Per Inch). This option defaults to TRUE (the NVIDIA X driver will use the EDID, when available). It is NOT recommended that you use this option to globally disable use of the EDID; instead, use '--no-use-edid-freqs' or '--no-use-edid-dpi' to disable specific uses of the EDID.

---

