---
title: "Dual Widescreen Monitors on 08.10"
date: 2009-03-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by camthewebguy on 2009-03-08
Alright, I'm new to Ubuntu and haven't touched Linux in a couple years, but I'd like to think I know what I'm doing. Whether I actually do is a different story.

Anyway, I have two LG 22" widescreen monitors, and an hour-old install of Ubuntu 8.10. My problem is two fold.

1.) The resolution is 1280x1024, which stretches out to look awkward at best.

2.) The two displays show up cloned.

I found and attempted the solutions here: [www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174](www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=221174)

None of them seemed to solve the issue. Given that I haven't had Ubuntu long enough for all 260 updates to download, it's possible one or more of them will solve my problem... but I'm at a loss. 

I've tried a couple different xorg.conf setups, given the advice in the thread linked above... this is what I have right now:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Screen		0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device 2"
	Screen		1
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor 2"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen 2"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor 2"
	Device		"Configured Video Device 2"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    	Identifier   	"Default Layout"
	Screen       	0   "Default Screen"
	Screen     	1   "Default Screen 2" RightOf "Default Screen"
	Option 		"Xinerama"	 "true"
EndSection
```

Two notes about that:
1.) I tried XineRama but had to add the ServerLayout section myself. That seems odd to me.

2.) When I grabbed the contents of the file, I saw a "Xlib:  extension "RANDR" missing on display ":0.0"." error.

I'm thinking that I have one or more things missing from the config file, and that's where my issue lies, but I'm stuck as to how to fix it. 

Your assistance is appreciated.

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-03-08
What model of graphic card are you running ?

---

### Post by camthewebguy on 2009-03-08
Just when I thought I remembered all the details.

NVidia eGeForce 7100 GS.

---

### Post by norwoods on 2009-03-08
i update to the latest nvidia proprietary releases, 180.37 currently, from [www.avenard.org](www.avenard.org) (third party software source "deb [http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos](http://www.avenard.org/files/ubuntu-repos) release/")using synaptic package manager.  i am not sure which programs are needed so i install all six provided:
nvidia-180-libvdpau
nvidia-180-libvdpau-dev
nvidia-180-modaliases
nvidia-180-kernel-source
nvidia-glx-180
nvidia-glx-180-dev
for a fresh install, you might also want or need:
jockey-common
jockey-gtk or jockey-kde
nvidia-settings
nvidia-xconfig

open System--Administration--Hardware Drivers.
click on the NVIDIA 180 driver
click Activate.
clock Close.

reboot

get a command line by starting Applications--Accessories--Terminal
type gksu nvidia-settings.
enter password.
when the nvidia gui interface is running, click X Server Display Configuration. click Configure... . click the TwinView radio button. click OK. set up anything you want. click Save to X Configuration File. click Quit.

---

### Post by Leetbumble on 2009-03-08
I have dual 22inch acer monitors with 8.10 Ubuntu running Compiz fusion,avant and some other fun extras which do more to waste time than help but the key I found is to use EnvyNG to install your drivers.

The Nvidia drivers it gets for you will allow you to access the "Nvidia X server Settings" found in System>>Administration. You need to run this as root or save the xorg.config to your desktop and then move it to your /etc/x11/ folder later. 

If you need more detail let me know.

---

### Post by camthewebguy on 2009-03-09
> **Leetbumble said:**
> I have dual 22inch acer monitors with 8.10 Ubuntu running Compiz fusion,avant and some other fun extras which do more to waste time than help but the key I found is to use EnvyNG to install your drivers.

The Nvidia drivers it gets for you will allow you to access the "Nvidia X server Settings" found in System>>Administration. You need to run this as root or save the xorg.config to your desktop and then move it to your /etc/x11/ folder later. 

If you need more detail let me know.

This fixed my problem perfectly. Thanks a lot, I really appreciate the help.

---

