---
title: "12.04 Capture Firewire DV"
date: 2012-08-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by monsieurdozier on 2012-08-27
I'm trying to get my Canon HV20 to connect to Kino so that I can get my videos off of it.  I'm having all sorts of problems.

I finally have Kino recognizing the fw0 device, but then it can't seem to recognize my camera.

```
grep 1394 /var/log/kern.log
Aug 26 21:45:46 james-G50VT kernel: [    0.301394] system 00:08: Plug and Play ACPI device, IDs PNP0c02 (active)
Aug 26 21:50:30 james-G50VT kernel: [    0.301394] system 00:08: [mem 0xfed45000-0xfed89fff] has been reserved

```

Does this mean that the kernel doesn't recognize the firewire port?

```
lspci
07:01.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Ricoh Co Ltd R5C832 IEEE 1394 Controller (rev 05)

```

From what I can tell here, it sees the device.

To get Kino to recognize fw0, I had to link it to /dev/raw1394.

Doing so fixed my ```
WARNING: raw1394 kernel module not loaded or failure to read/write /dev/raw1394!
``` error.  But now I get ```
No AV/C compliant cam connected or not switched on?
```

I'm running out of ideas and all the solutions online are either dated from 2008 or still go unsolved.

I'm running Ubuntu 12.04 LTS 64 bit on an Asus G50V, with a Canon HV20 Camcorder.  I've tried Kino and dvGrab, neither seem to be able to recognize my camera.

Any help would be tremendously appreciated.

---

### Post by rhk on 2012-09-02
I'm trying to solve more or less similar problem myself: Ubuntu recognizes the Firewire adapter but nothing happens when I connect the camera, only disconnecting is shown in dmesg.

Does you dmesg show something when you connect the camera? It will help solve the problem and show if the camera is correctly recognized.

r

---

### Post by deepblue436 on 2012-10-02
I am also struggling with exactly the same problem..

~$ lspci | grep 1394
02:01.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6306/7/8 [Fire II(M)] IEEE 1394 OHCI Controller (rev 80)

$ lsmod | grep -e 1394 -e firewire
firewire_ohci          40180  0 
firewire_core          56906  7 firewire_ohci
crc_itu_t              12627  1 firewire_core

Quite evidently, Linux has identified and registered the device, and loaded the drivers, but Kino still says "No AV/C compliant cam connected or switched on?"

---

### Post by gioachin on 2012-10-26
I had the same problem, and nothing seemed to work. Finally, my cable got unplugged, and when I plugged it back it all suddenly worked...

For as silly as it may seem, try unplugging the Firewire cable, and plug it back again WITH kino running. Kino displays a message at the bottom and suddenly all starts working correctly (including camera controlling and capturing).

---

### Post by herteljt on 2013-06-11
The same thing happened to me and following gioachin's advice worked!

---

