---
title: "10.04 - Flash 11 Standalone Authentication?"
date: 2011-10-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by TC_Halogen on 2011-10-27
Hello everyone! This is my first post in the forums; I've been meaning to make an account here for quite some time, but between you and me, these forums look incredibly intimidating. However, I come here with a question involving Flash that (from what I can see searching about Flash and authenticating) hasn't been answered. I assume this is the proper place considering the fact that there was a troubleshooting area for it in this sub-forum, but if it isn't, please move it. I know how it is to have something placed incorrectly in a forum, as I'm a prolific poster on the site I'm about to mention a bit further down in this post.

I was a long time Windows user, until my most recent hard drive decided to suddenly fail on me. Someone recommended me to install Ubuntu, so I took them up on that offer, and I have to say - it has been an interesting experience. Not a bad one, though - in fact, the moment I get myself a new hard drive for my next laptop, I'll be dual-booting Ubuntu 10.04 on it. I definitely feel like I obtained a better understanding of terminal usage/repositories in the four months I've been using it.

Anyway, enough with the chatter/my life story. I'm an avid player of a rhythm game known as **[FlashFlashRevolution]("http://flashflashrevolution.com")**, and as of recently, I've been playing considerably more than normal. 

However, being a Linux user has brought me a minor problem.

Windows users can authenticate themselves in the game's legacy engine (older, and less demanding on CPU) by making sure they've been logged in on Internet Explorer with "Protected Mode" turned off in their security settings. There's no log-in screen for this engine - if the information has stored properly via Internet Explorer, then it will automatically load through the Flash Player, no issues. If it hasn't, then your user name will be listed as Anonymous, and scores will not be stored into the database, etc.

The newer engine, named the "Velocity" engine (a bit heavier on CPU usage), does have a log-in screen - however, if your settings are stored via Internet Explorer, it will bypass the log-in screen. If your settings are not stored, then the log-in screen will prompt you for a user name/password combination or let you play as a guest.

The site members have separated usergroups - Veterans and Members. Veterans get access to certain song releases two weeks earlier than regular members. However, if a Veteran has to log into the Velocity engine through the log-in screened mentioned previously, they will not be able to see these songs, regardless of their usergroup.

I've used the Legacy engine on a standalone; the performance difference between the game running in Firefox and the game running in the standalone Flash player is drastic, with the more favorable result obviously being the standalone. The Velocity engine runs very poorly on my computer, regardless of what I do.

I've been trying to figure out some sort of way for Flash to communicate with either Firefox or Epiphany to use the needed .php files to authenticate me, but it doesn't seem to work. I've run out of ideas. Is there anything that can be done to alleviate this?

I'm currently running Ubuntu 10.04, on a Lenovo 3000 C200 (or 8922-2FU), and I'm trying to get this running on Flash 11,0,1,152's standalone player. If anyone willing to help me needs more details, feel free to toss me any questions/commands whenever needed. Greatly appreciated! :D

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-10-28
Not sure what the solution to this problem is, but you could try looking through this link for more help:
[http://blogs.adobe.com/penguinswf/](http://blogs.adobe.com/penguinswf/)

Have you tried Chrome?

---

### Post by TC_Halogen on 2011-10-28
Thanks for the response, Rubi.

I hadn't tried Chromium yet, but after installing it, and setting the browser to remember my information, loading the .swf in the standalone brought me to the log-in screen of the newer game engine.

On another note: from what I've been reading, it doesn't seem like Adobe cares that much about support for Linux. What a shame.

---

