---
title: "10.04 Not Seeing my Sony Walkman mp3 player"
date: 2010-05-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jbocean on 2010-05-31
Just recently installed 10.04, I plugged in my Sony Walkman mp3 player and it doesn't show up anywhere. Is there an easy fix for this? 

Thanks

---

### Post by arrange on 2010-05-31
Unplug the player, then plug it back in, and after a few seconds type in these commands (in [Terminal](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/GnomeTerminal))```
mount
gvfs-mount -l
dmesg | tail -20

```The output of these commands may help us find out why the player doesn't show up.

---

### Post by jbocean on 2010-05-31
I am including a screenshot of the output of the terminal commands you suggested. I hope this goes through ok and can lead to a solution. I'll have to check back after work tomorrow. Thanks

---

### Post by arrange on 2010-06-01
I don't think there's going to be an easy fix :( The player doesn't show up at all. I would try plugging it into a different USB port/hub or computer, or testing it in a LiveCD/other distribution/OS.

You can always look at the output of *dmesg* BEFORE you plug it in, and then check if the output changed AFTER you plug it in.

---

### Post by a z on 2010-06-01
maddening, i know.

i've been having the same sort of issue with my sansa clip+ mp3 player. here's arecent thread about that: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1485448](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1485448)

so possibly:
1. log out, then plug it in - log back in, see if it shows up (not a very good solution, i know)

2. if you can change its usb-mode to msc, try that

3. install mtp-utils and mtpfs

---

### Post by byline on 2010-06-10
I'm having the same problem.  Oddly enough, the **lsusb** command shows the Sony MP3 player  plugged in. However, it won't open on my desktop the way it did (and  still does) in 9.10. Hubby has tried different suggestions he found online, to no avail. Very strange.

Hubby's entry follows: attempt to fix this #37? :
- noted that rhythmbox was in the panel, which it hadn't been previously (in Ubuntu 9.10), as I recall.
- right click on the rhythmbox box icon, at the top right of the screen, and delete.
- plugged the Sony NWZ-E436F into a USB port and, voila, a Nautilus file manager window opened up with the Walkman files listed.
- have since done a cold reboot and this seems to be working.

Why this upgrade had to reset the user's default panel settings I cannot fathom.  Just creates a lot of work for everyone to get things back to working as they had been before.

---

### Post by kouhinn on 2011-06-07
I have the same problem.
There is absolutely no information about my device either by dmesg, lsusb,mount or fdisk -l, gvfs-mount -l,cat /var/log/messages 

I have tried following:
1.logout and re-plug my device then login again; plugin my device and reboot;
2.modprobe uhci_hcd ehci_hcd usb-storage and re-plug my device
3.add uhci_hcd ehci_hcd usb-storage lines to /etc/modules .
4.install mtpfs mtp-tools packages and use it in rhythmbox.
5.remove any other USB devices and re-plug my device.

The strange thing is, my kindle reader is worked fine with 10.04, but either my MP3 players or my old Blackberry phone is not recognized by 10.04. Maybe All of the un-recognized devices is USB1.X, but I'm not sure, or if there is some problem with old USB support.

For details information,please see the attachment.

---

### Post by Tootler on 2011-06-20
> **byline said:**
> I'm having the same problem.  Oddly enough, the **lsusb** command shows the Sony MP3 player  plugged in. However, it won't open on my desktop the way it did (and  still does) in 9.10. Hubby has tried different suggestions he found online, to no avail. Very strange.

Hubby's entry follows: attempt to fix this #37? :
- noted that rhythmbox was in the panel, which it hadn't been previously (in Ubuntu 9.10), as I recall.
- right click on the rhythmbox box icon, at the top right of the screen, and delete.
- plugged the Sony NWZ-E436F into a USB port and, voila, a Nautilus file manager window opened up with the Walkman files listed.
- have since done a cold reboot and this seems to be working.

Why this upgrade had to reset the user's default panel settings I cannot fathom.  Just creates a lot of work for everyone to get things back to working as they had been before.

I have just found the same problem with my Sony Walkman NWZ-A816.

Your solution worked for me. Only one point, though. The rhythmbox icon in the panel did not respond to a right click, but left clicking and selecting "Quit" closed rhythmbox. Your solution then worked as described.

---

