---
title: "Epson Emp-X5"
date: 2011-02-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jonbohlmark on 2011-02-25
I must have wrote something wrong or my question is too stupid to be answered. 45 people have seen it but no replies. The only thread like this...

Hmm.......I wonder

And so my cousin convinced me to move to the promised land Ubuntu. Beautiful, as long is he was around at least. Now, my latest challenge is to make the picture stable with my projector, beamer Epson emp-X5. Another thread gave instruction but didn't fit my  xorg.conf. So the picture is flickering and this was not the case before switching OS. New to this world. Grateful for help!

my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
#    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
#    Driver        "kbd"
#    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
#    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
#    Option        "XkbLayout"    "se"
#    Option        "XkbVariant"    "nodeadkeys"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
#    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
#    Driver        "mouse"
#    Option        "CorePointer"
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#Section "InputDevice"
#    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
#    Driver        "synaptics"
#    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
#    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
#    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
#    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
#EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used and auto-detects devices
# Keyboard settings are now read from /etc/default/console-setup
#    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

