---
title: "10.10 nvidia proprietary driver no GUI"
date: 2010-11-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by DanBender on 2010-11-23
Hi, I've just been monkeying around (long, annoying process, but anyway...) installing Mythbuntu 10.10, which I *finally* got installed properly. At first I installed the open-source video drivers just to make sure the installation worked, then I installed the "version current" proprietary drivers using the graphics drivers manager...tool...thing. However, when I restarted the computer, it has a text-mode splash screen and I stay in the first virtual terminal.

If I try to go to the GUI "terminal" [Ctrl-Alt-F7], it *appears* to be partway through some kind of check:

```
fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2
/dev/sda2: clean, 107798/473280 files, 591246/1890049 blocks
 * Starting AppArmor profiles
Skipping profile in /etc/apparmor.d/disable: usr.bin.firefox
                                                                               [ OK ]
Loading the saved-state of the serial devices...
 * Loading LIRC modules                                        [ OK ]
 * Startinig remote control daemon(s) : LIRC     [OK ]
 * Exporting directories for NFS kernel daemon...          [ OK ] 
 * Startin NFS kernel daemon              [ OK ]
 * Saved ALSA mixer settings detected; aumix will not touch mixer.
 * Starting NTP server ntpd         [ OK ]
 * Starting web server apache2          [ OK ]
 * Checking battery state...
```Blinking cursor on that last line.

I ran sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg to try to get back to the open-source drivers, but it didn't give any text output and went straight to the next line of command prompt, when I restarted it did the exact same thing. Any tips for at least getting back to the open drivers? I'd like to not have to reinstall again (I'm dual-booting WinXP, so it's been a real pain in the neck).

The card in question is a GeForce 6200 AGP.

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by skewbie on 2010-11-25
I have exactly the same issue.

Ubuntu 10.10 64-bit  - installed the 'up-to-date' Nvidia Graphics driver (260.19.21 Certified) last night and now get the "Checking Battery State" on Ctrl-Alt-F7. Can login to other terminals but not X Windows.

How can I unistall this? It is a .bin file.

Help! and thanks...

---

### Post by doomedforever on 2010-11-25
i've had this issue some months ago.
have you disabled the nvidia nouveau driver? stopped gdm, started gdm via shell?
i figured out that installing the nvidia manually causes sometimes various issues...i've
found a ppa for this, added the repository and crossed my fingers at reboot - it worked
with flying colors! :) i'm using 10.10 64bit - with Gnome Desktop.

check this:

[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates]("https://launchpad.net/%7Eubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates")

currently running 260.21 nvidia driver, couldn't thought about maverick shipped with a
beta nvidia driver... ;)

---

### Post by skewbie on 2010-11-25
@doomedforever: thanks for this. How does one "disable the nvidia nouveau driver"?

---

### Post by DanBender on 2010-12-02
All right, I was able to get Nouveau working nominally by following the instructions in this thread: [COLOR=Blue][http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1589130.]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia/Nouveau")[/COLOR] Unfortunately, when it starts up it has the same low-resolution-text-looking splash screen (rather than the nice-looking one it used after the installation with the "open source driver" option) and the highest resolution I can select is 1280x1024, rather than the 1920x1080 it had automatically on install.

Does anyone know of a good way to get those higher resolutions back, hopefully a tool-driven method rather than manually writing in text files?

I'm starting to think I'm going to have to stick with the open-source driver once I figure out how to get the proper resolution back and hope I can get along without OpenGL acceleration in MythTV. Although, seeing as I now know how to get the GUI back* at all,* I may consider attempting to manually install the Nvidia drivers following these instructions: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia/Nouveau](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia/Nouveau). Maybe it's an issue of the updater-driven installer not properly installing or configuring the drivers and display where a terminal-driven method would.

It's still unclear to me why installing the proprietary drivers is losing me access to the GUI. The only thing I can think of that makes any sense to me is it's a 512 MB card, but all the web pages talking about the proprietary drivers talk about the 128 and 256 MB versions of the GeForce 6200. Which doesn't actually make that much sense to me, but I'm not terribly knowledgeable about the world of hardware and drivers. If anyone has any information regarding this, I'd appreciate it.

EDIT 12/4: My mistake. the link in the third paragraph above should be [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual).

---

### Post by DanBender on 2010-12-04
I've installed the proprietary drivers by following (as closely as I could) the instructions in: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual) (for instance, there was no linux-restricted-modules-common on my system), but have new problems from it. When I got the step "Configure..." and used```
gksudo nvidia-settings
``` it gave me some error about not being able to access...something. I wish I had written it down now. But anyway, I rebooted the machine from the terminal. 

Now I get as far as the splash screen, which is a nice graphical splash screen (so obviously, something about the process worked, just not all of it), but it hangs there. No splash animation (the orange/white dots that would indicate it's actually doing something), no virtual terminals, nothing.

I *am* able to hard-reboot and load into recovery mode, which allows me to select "low-graphics mode" ...which is the correct 1920x1080 resolution and looks suspiciously like the graphics settings it loaded when I originally installed Mythbuntu.

...Not really sure what to do at this point.

---

### Post by DanBender on 2011-04-12
Fixed the problem. Applied the solution discussed on [this wiki page]("http://www.mythtv.org/wiki/Common_Problem:_vmalloc_too_small"), modified based on using GRUB2 now. Had to add the following line to /etc/default/grub:
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="vmalloc=512M"
```Unfortunately, it gives me verbose terminal output on login and logout (rather than the splash screen on startup and quiet shutdown), but I can deal with that.

---

