---
title: ".TRP/.TS Video Files won't Play!"
date: 2009-09-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by rob86 on 2009-09-12
I have a whole bunch of .trp files (movies) recorded from a PVR. I think .trp is another name for .ts, or MPEG2 but I'm not sure. They worked fine in Windows,  using Media Player Classic and VLC. I can't get them to play in Ubuntu. I've tried VLC - nothing happens. I've tried Media Player Classic + Wine, I got some sound, but no video and no progress bar movement. I tried Totem, but it didn't work either. I tried opening them in G-Spot (in wine) to get some more information, but it just says N/A for everything, but I know there's nothing wrong with the files as I can open them in like 4 different programs in Windows.

Any suggestions? I can play other video files, like Divx and Xvid, but not these .trp ones.

---

### Post by rob86 on 2009-09-12
I tried opening one of these files in Dr Divx Converter (in Wine), and it worked. Ofcourse, it's a converter with a tiny screen, not a player, which makes it pretty clunky for watching a movie on, but it is proof that it's possible to view these files!

I need to get these things playing! :popcorn:

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-09-13
```
wget -c http://packages.medibuntu.org/pool/free/libd/libdvdcss/libdvdcss2_1.2.9-2medibuntu4_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i libdvdcss2_1.2.9-2medibuntu4_i386.deb
```

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-09-13
> **rob86 said:**
> I have a whole bunch of .trp files (movies) recorded from a PVR. I think .trp is another name for .ts, or MPEG2 but I'm not sure. They worked fine in Windows,  using Media Player Classic and VLC. I can't get them to play in Ubuntu. I've tried VLC - nothing happens. I've tried Media Player Classic + Wine, I got some sound, but no video and no progress bar movement. I tried Totem, but it didn't work either. I tried opening them in G-Spot (in wine) to get some more information, but it just says N/A for everything, but I know there's nothing wrong with the files as I can open them in like 4 different programs in Windows.

Any suggestions? I can play other video files, like Divx and Xvid, but not these .trp ones.

Those files are MPEG Transport Stream. Most programs (and DVD players) require you to convert them into normal MPEG files (MPEG Program Stream) before they can be played.

Luckily, the conversion is just a change in the file container format, and doesn't require actually re-encoding the video so it's pretty quick process and won't affect the video quality.

Sadly, I can't name a program to do that in Linux as I do my video editing on a Mac. Still, I've understood that Gstreamer itself should have a TS/PS demuxers included.. Perhaps PiTiVi would be able to use that to convert the files for you?

---

### Post by rob86 on 2009-09-13
> **HappyFeet said:**
> ```
wget -c http://packages.medibuntu.org/pool/free/libd/libdvdcss/libdvdcss2_1.2.9-2medibuntu4_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i libdvdcss2_1.2.9-2medibuntu4_i386.deb
```

That didn't seem to work, both Totem and VLC still didn't play it.

You think there'd be some way to get it to play without converting it though, as they play on Windows and also in Dr Divx + wine. Surely WinXP couldn't be more convenient than Linux? :O I guess I'll keep looking for a solution.. I don't really like the idea of converting all the files, because they wouldn't play on the PVR I recorded them on I don' think.

---

### Post by rob86 on 2009-09-16
Oddly enough, I found only one video player that works. Xfmedia. It plays the files fine, when VLC and Totem still won't. Very weird. I noticed it came with libxine1-ffmpeg.  I wonder if that's what made it work?

---

### Post by stoian on 2009-10-28
I am running Ubuntu Hardy.
TRP files can be opened with both MPlayer and Totem (xine).
Make sure you have all the "ugly" packages.
Then right-click on the TRP file and select "open with...", then you can select MPlayer and then repeat the same with Totem (xine).

Voila! It works!

---

### Post by pdbq on 2010-04-28
Win FF can play the ts files

---

### Post by stoian on 2010-04-28
> **pdbq said:**
> Win FF can play the ts files

What's the  point you're trying to make, pdbq?
This is not about "Win FF"... and not about wind0ze anyway.

---

### Post by J@n on 2010-08-21
> **stoian said:**
> What's the  point you're trying to make, pdbq?
This is not about "Win FF"... and not about wind0ze anyway.

WinFF is in the repositories. So pdbq was not promoting Windhoze;)

Greetz,

J@n

---

