---
title: "10.4: Catalyst 10.5 released today, how to uninstall old drivers?"
date: 2010-05-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by rmjohnson144 on 2010-05-26
I was wondering how I can uninstall my old driver (10.4) so I can update my drivers to 10.5?  I have a lot of issues with 120.4 and want to make sure all config files are wiped clean.

-=Mark=-

---

### Post by AKADAP on 2010-05-26
(the search on this forum does not work very well. I searched specifically for "10.5" and it did not find anything at all. I go to directly from the search page to "Multimedia & Video" and on the first page I find this thread)

There are instructions for installation you can download from the same page where you download the install file. The instructions for uninstalling are included with the installation instructions.

---

### Post by rmjohnson144 on 2010-05-27
Thanks for replying.

I double checked the instruction to make sure I didn't overlook something, but it only shows how to remove the Ubunu ATI Proprietary driver from Linux.  Unless it's the same method?  But I remember some time ago about removing it differently.  it was for nvidia, so maybe it was just for nvidia only and ATI just uses the std fglrx method? 

Thanks again
-=Mark=-

---

### Post by Dimarchi on 2010-05-27
Are you referring to

1. cd /usr/share/ati
2. sudo sh ./fglrx-uninstall.sh
3. restore xorg.conf, *usually* the following two parter unless you have done something more with aticonfig, for example...
    3a. cd /etc/X11
    3b. sudo cp xorg.conf.original-<highest number> xorg.conf
4. reboot

bit that you do with ATI's drivers from ATI's site (this is what AKADAP is referring to, I believe)? Or Ubuntu repo's ATI drivers uninstall method - which, considering it is ATI, should not differ from the above?

---

### Post by B00R4dL3y on 2010-05-30
I can't get compiz working with 10.5 drivers from the ATI site.  Compiz worked fine with 10.4.

---

### Post by rmjohnson144 on 2010-05-30
@BOOR3dL3y
   You may want to start you own thread as no one will be looking in this thread for helping with compiz.
also, search ati compiz and you should find your answer quickly.

Sorry I didn't post my results, but I found this link:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver)

and got it taken care of. Unfortuneately, it didn't fix any of the 1080p/HDMI issues.  I still have the black border unles I switch different mode (1680x1050 (6:10)) it just doesn't like 6:9 modes at all.

Thanks for the help
-=Mark=-

---

### Post by B00R4dL3y on 2010-05-30
It's okay - I got it going now.  I was using the 10.4, but I installed the 10.5 over it without uninstalling the 10.4 drivers.  Compiz didn't work after that.  I thought it would be more intuitive where you would be able to install a new version over the older and it would work.

---

### Post by OdinOrion on 2010-05-31
> **B00R4dL3y said:**
> It's okay - I got it going now.  I was using the 10.4, but I installed the 10.5 over it without uninstalling the 10.4 drivers.  Compiz didn't work after that.  I thought it would be more intuitive where you would be able to install a new version over the older and it would work.

I tried the same thing with the 10.4 drivers over the proprietary drivers that System > Administration > Hardware Drivers find automatically. I did this for one reason.  The instructions given by ATI list the following packages are needed.

XFree86-Mesa-libGL
libstdc++
libgcc
XFree86-libs
fontconfig
freetype
zlib
gcc

I tried looking for all those packages, and couldn't find them.  Since the driver which was automatically found worked well, I figured that the packages listed above must have been installed too.  

In short, installing over the top did not seem to work and in fact I ended up with two versions of catalyst installed.  I am now starting over with a fresh Lucid 10.04 install :(.

---

