---
title: "10.04 Gave up waiting for root device"
date: 2010-07-23
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jbdhere on 2010-07-23
I just installed Ubuntu 10.04 and booted to the desktop 2 times. Both times the desktop was so big I could not see any of the icons.
The third time and every time I tried to boot again I am getting the following Text Screen warning. "Gave up waiting for root device".

I expect I have two different problems, but I can not work on the desktop being to big until I can get this system to boot again.

---

### Post by dv3500ea on 2010-07-24
This may work:
[LIST=1]
[*]Boot from the live CD/USB and choose the try Ubuntu option.
[*]Find the disk partition that you are using for the install in the places menu.
[*]Navigate to /etc/default and open the 'grub' file with a text editor. It should look something like this:
```
# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT=10
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

# Uncomment to disable graphical terminal (grub-pc only)
#GRUB_TERMINAL=console

# The resolution used on graphical terminal
# note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE
# you can see them in real GRUB with the command `vbeinfo'
#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=1280x800

# Uncomment if you don't want GRUB to pass "root=UUID=xxx" parameter to Linux
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID=true

# Uncomment to disable generation of recovery mode menu entries
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_RECOVERY="true"

# Uncomment to get a beep at grub start
#GRUB_INIT_TUNE="480 440 1"

```
[*]Remove the '#' from the beginning of the line '#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID=true' and save the file.
[*]Launch Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal and type
'sudo update-grub' without the quotes.
[*]Press Enter.
[*]Once it has finished (it should display 'done') reboot and see if that fixes anything.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by TMinski on 2010-07-26
Hi,
 

It seems a bunch of folks are running into this problem. My personal config is:
[LIST]
[*]10.04 LTS clean install after doing a DBAN autonuke on a 2002 Dell Precision 350 with LSILogic RAID controller & 1 SCSI disk (don't ask me, that's just what's in there.)
[/LIST]I've spent a good deal of time today searching for a resolution, but none yet. I've tried the procedure provided by dv3500ea with the following results:
 
1) success
2) listed as "35 GB Filesystem", opens in File Browser. success?
3) right-click, select "Open with gedit" > opens in gedit. no save capability. only save as. success? probably not.
4) removed suggested #, could not save file > tried Save As... /etc/default/grub > message "The file "/media/3281008f-a606-406...28a4c3da/etc/default/grub" is read-only. Replace it? > Replace > Could not save the file, no permissions, you're a dork, etc.
4a) alternate plan. in File Browser, right-click grub > Properties > Permissions > you're not the owner, no permissions, you're a dork, etc.
4b) alternate plan. in terminal "cd /media/3281008f-a606-406...28a4c3da/etc/default" > "sudo gedit grub" > ooh ooh, "Save" is available > remove suggested # > save > close > "ls -alg grub" > "more grub" > suggested # is gone.
5) superstitiously open new terminal as instructed > "pwd" > /home/ubuntu > "sudo update-grub"
6) Enter > /usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for / (is /dev mounted?).
5a) alternate plan. go back to previous terminal... again superstitiously, I have no idea what's going on here > "pwd" > /media/3281008f-a606-406b-9737-554928a4c3da/etc/defaults > "sudo update-grub"
6) Enter > /usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for / (is /dev mounted?).
7) no 7. didn't make it here.
 
I'm beginning to understand why people just pay cash for Apple & MS OSs. gaaahhhh. Thinking about "Gave up waiting for install and it just works."

---

### Post by th1bill on 2010-08-16
I also tried this on my MSI K9n6PGM2 with a triple core AMD Phenom Black with zero success, I don't believe this is the answer.

---

