---
title: "3.5mm Microphone Issues"
date: 2009-07-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Xlost on 2009-07-06
I have recently moved from Windows 7, to Ubuntu 9.04 which I have come to love. However I am having some small issues, which may cause me to have to switch back. I am not a super huge Linux guru, but know enough to do most things.

I have spent the last 4 days trying to get my 3.5mm Microphone (headset) to actually work. All other sounds works great with no issues, but the mic has never worked very well. Reading, and trying guide after guide, and solution writes up have lead me to 4 reinstall's of Ubuntu, and the only way to get it to work was using a USB web cam/Microphone, which I do not want to use. My 3.5mm headset cost a good bit of money, and don't want to have to switch to a usb headset. 

My computer has an onboard sound which is the following:       

SupremeFX Audio Card
ADI 1988B 8-channel High Definition Audio CODEC
Support Jack-Sensing, Multi-streaming and Jack-Retasking
DTS Connect

And a link to my [motherboard]("http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16813131073"). 

I have done all the guides, with alsamixer commands to unmute mics, and make sure the capture devices are all setup correctly. Never had any problems with hearing sound, but recording I can get some small distorted voice capture which is barely understandable. I have pushed up my settings to PCM to boost it with no luck either. I am really stuck, and have a hard time staying with Ubuntu until I can get this working correctly. 

If any one have an idea what I need to do step by step that would be great.

---

### Post by Revolutionary101 on 2009-07-06
I have the same problem.

---

### Post by Xlost on 2009-07-07
/bump

---

### Post by Xlost on 2009-07-08
Just to add I have done alsamixer from terminal, and been able to save it by using sudo alsactl store command, but problem still exists.

---

### Post by ShepHeard on 2009-07-08
[**EDIT**: Hold your horses... Everything worked fine last night, but I rebooted today, and back to square one. The only thin I cn think of is that I had installed reinstalled skype after the 6 hour 'fix you sound' marathon last night. I'm gonna do a fresh install and check the sound then.]

Hi mate,

Try the following:

(basically, we're going to make sure that both ALSA and Pulseaudio are completely up-to-date. Trust me - I'm into my fifth straight day of trying to get sound/mic/skype working and I'm about ready to kill some one. This solved the following problems for me:

- Speakers not switching between headphones and back when headphones plugged in/removed --> Confirmed with my HP Compaq nx6325
- Internal and external mic --> Tested with sound recorder.
- Skype --> it's midnight. I'll try tomorrow.

Good luck.)


Follow these steps taken from [here]("http://aldeby.org/blog/index.php/howto-ubuntu-linux-on-hp-pavilion-dv2000-dv6000-dv9000-series-laptops#audio"):

> PULSEAUDIO

To install the updated deb packages by hand download it from [http://ppa.launchpad.net/themuso/ppa/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pulseaudio/](http://ppa.launchpad.net/themuso/ppa/ubuntu/pool/main/p/pulseaudio/) and double click on the downloaded .deb file. Done it!

If you instead want to have it automatically updated at every new release all you have to do is adding its repository as a third party software source in System -> Administration -> Software Sources -> Third Party Software: click on ADD button and paste

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/themuso/ppa/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/themuso/ppa/ubuntu) jaunty main

You also have to add the PPA authentication key:

gpg --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv B88A1AA8
gpg --export --armor B88A1AA8 | sudo apt-key add -

Update the package lists and upgrade the prompted packages

Then, use the following script, found [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6589810#post6589810") to update your ALSA drivers. Download the script to your home directory, then run

```
$ tar xvf AlsaUpgrade-1.0.x-rev-1.17.tar
$ sudo ./AlsaUpgrade-1.0.x-rev-1.17.sh -di
```

(Just check the command refers to the version you downloaded.)

Finally - take a look at [this]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HdaIntelSoundHowto") link. Basically, you may need to add a line to your alsa-base file. 

Read the guide first, but in a nutshell, you will:

```
$ sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base
```

Then add 

```
options snd-hda-intel model=MODEL
```

to it, making sure that there is not already a similar line of code!!

You will need to replace "MODEL" with whatever applies from the file "HD-Audio-Models.txt" Located in "/usr/src/alsa/alsa-driver-1.0.20/alsa-kernel/Documentation", assuming alsa-driver-1.0.20 is the ALSA driver you have installed. 

I also have my default sound card (System|Preferences|Default Sound Card) set to Pulseaudio, and in System|Preferences|Sound, set all to Pulseaudio, except the Default Mixer Tracks, which I have set to HDA ATI SB (Alsa mixer). 
Hope this helps, let me know how you get on, and I will do likewise.

Shep

---

### Post by ShepHeard on 2009-07-09
Sorry man - check my edit above.

---

### Post by malrost on 2009-07-09
Just to clarify about your headphones: do they have a separate 3.5mm jack for audio (black or green) and the mic (pink)? If separate plugs, is the audio input plug stereo and the mic plug mono? You're talking about a headset with a mic attached, right?

Can you attach a screenshot of your alsamixer settings, similar to what I've attached below? (First open alsamixer, then to take screenshot: Applications>Accessories>Take Screenshot, choose "grab selected area" or "grab current window" as preferred.)

---

### Post by ShepHeard on 2009-07-09
here's mine...

---

### Post by malrost on 2009-07-09
Thanks ShepHeard, though just to clarify I was asking the OP, Xlost for his screenshot (as well as info @ the headphones).

Your problem seems substantial enough to warrant its own thread. If you had it working last night, you might be able to reconstruct the steps you took just by checking your ~/.bash_history file to see what commands you ran & in what order.

---

### Post by Xlost on 2009-07-09
I finally got it working, but sadly its under a different distro called Sabayon 4.2. In Sabayon I just had to do the normal unmute the mic, and everything started working first try.

---

### Post by ShepHeard on 2009-07-09
@malrost - Sorry - of course - it is bad form to jump someone's thread like that, but we did seem to have the same problem... 

I do indeed have my own thread, but the only replies so far being people saying "me too - I have this problem".

Otherwise, I've reinstalled Ubuntu, because I had no idea what had done what. I wanted to start again. I shall continue this on my own thread. 


@Xlost - if you have time, please let me know how you get on. I've tried a few distros, but usually come unstuck due to my BCM4312 wireless driver (Fedora, openSUSE) though I was thinking that mint might be worth a shot. Basically, I like Ubuntu, it's a great community. However, I need Skype. It's a real issue, esp with Ubuntu, and it's the sort of problem that'd send me back to Win XP if only I could get it to connect to our router at home...


Cheers guys,

Shep

---

### Post by malrost on 2009-07-09
N/p Shepheard, I just didn't want put Xlost off. Can you point me to your thread? I doubt I can help w/ your prob --don't use Skype on my desktop-- but will give it the ol' college try.

I haven't looked into it too much but the threads I've seen describing conflicts between skype and pulseaudio have been a smaller set of problems relating to the broader incompatibility between 32 bit only Skype and a 64 bit OS.

---

### Post by ShepHeard on 2009-07-10
Hi man,

Cheers - appreciate the effort - my thead is [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1205190").

S

---

