---
title: "Creating an Extended Monitor using Hardy"
date: 2008-10-19
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Acoshi on 2008-10-19
Computer: Black Macbook (i810)
Monitor: Gateway 19" FPD1976W (widescreen 1400 x 900)

I am trying to create a extended monitor off of my laptop and have ran into a wall.

I go to the screen resolution option and it only allows me to clone screens not extend them.
I was looking at a couple of forums and found that I needed to edit xconf.conf. But all of the options I tried only cloned my screens.

Is there any fix for this in Hardy Heron 8.04?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-10-19
> Is there any fix for this in Hardy Heron 8.04?

Thanks in advance!

Doin it right most likely.

You should consider posting your xorg if you've got problems with it, don't you think?

---

### Post by Acoshi on 2008-10-19
Ok here it is.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by Acoshi on 2008-10-20
bump

---

### Post by Acoshi on 2008-10-20
I'm now getting a strange error:

xrandr: screen cannot be larger than 2464x900 (desired size 2720x900)

---

