---
title: "9.10 Movieplayer not playing DVD"
date: 2009-11-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ksuorion on 2009-11-10
I would like to get Movieplayer to Play DVD on Ubuntu 9.10.  Newbiew,not sure whats the issue.  Installed a dvd4 pkg mentioned in another post.  That did not correct problem.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by unamanic on 2009-11-10
Either one of these should do it for you.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/PlayingDVDs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/PlayingDVDs)

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-10
```
sudo wget http://www.medibuntu.org/sources.list.d/$(lsb_release -cs).list \
 --output-document=/etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list &&
sudo apt-get -q update &&
sudo apt-get --yes -q --allow-unauthenticated install medibuntu-keyring &&
sudo apt-get -q update
```
then
```
sudo apt-get install libdvdcss2
```

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-11-11
Hi,

I would personally add to HappyFeet's excellent post:

```
sudo apt-get install vlc
```

as I suspect that you are using Totem which I personally believe is *not* the greatest DVD player available. But perhaps you will disagree with this assessment :).

Andrew

---

### Post by dxxvi on 2009-11-11
> **andrew.46 said:**
> Hi,

I would personally add to HappyFeet's excellent post:

```
sudo apt-get install vlc
```

as I suspect that you are using Totem which I personally believe is *not* the greatest DVD player available. But perhaps you will disagree with this assessment :).

AndrewAgree. I even removed rythmbox and the movie player application in Karmic and used vlc instead (i know that vlc is not a music file management like rythmbox, but ... i don't care).

---

### Post by mjp29 on 2009-11-11
> **andrew.46 said:**
> Hi,

I would personally add to HappyFeet's excellent post:

```
sudo apt-get install vlc
```

as I suspect that you are using Totem which I personally believe is *not* the greatest DVD player available. But perhaps you will disagree with this assessment :).

Andrew


that's what I was coming back to find.  thank you thank you thank you.  I had vlc before but needed it for a new install cause i gave the other computer to my mom.  

One thing that bugs me to no end about movieplayer is that when i try to go forward in the movie i'm trying to watch, movieplayer simply vanishes before my eyes

---

### Post by ksuorion on 2009-11-11
Issued two commands for 9.10.  Started movieplayer, recognized DVD and title, clicked play and received:
No URI handler implemented for "dvd"

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-11-11
> **ksuorion said:**
> Issued two commands for 9.10.  Started movieplayer, recognized DVD and title, clicked play and received:
No URI handler implemented for "dvd"

Try VLC.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-11-11
Try installing these (1 or more may already be installed, doesn't matter

```
sudo apt-get install gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg
```

If you want to fill out the more useful plugins's use this

```
sudo apt-get install gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-multiverse gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg gstreamer0.10-pitfdll

```

---

### Post by Tom of Helatrobus on 2010-01-31
I installed libdvdread4 then vlc. 

DVDs play on vlc but not on Movie Player. I don't know why. I guess as long as DVDs play on *something*, then I've got no problem...

---

### Post by fiendish_mcdoogle on 2010-04-22
I installed K3B and immediately afterwards dvds worked properly in movie player and VLC...
Prior to the installation of K3B dvds only worked in VLC and attempting to skip in the title or leading up to the start of the movie caused it to not work.

---

### Post by fiendish_mcdoogle on 2010-04-22
cancel that... doesnt work anymore... at all

---

### Post by singercs on 2010-04-23
I had the same issue but after the help everything works very well. Thanks

---

### Post by voscom on 2010-04-23
as I suspect that you are using Totem which I personally believe is *not*  the greatest DVD player available. But perhaps you will disagree with  this assessment

---

### Post by Contra75 on 2010-05-28
> **unamanic said:**
> Either one of these should do it for you.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/PlayingDVDs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/PlayingDVDs)

2nd worked for me. Now VLC takes all dvds. Thanks.

---

