---
title: "Splash screen/grub menu does not show on primary monitor"
date: 2009-08-29
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by reablom on 2009-08-29
I've connected my TV to the PC using  the DVI output on my videocard (nVidia 9500GT). The monitor is connected to the analog (VGA) output of my videocard.

In the nVidia settings I've chosen my monitor as primary display and the TV as secondary. I use the TwinView configuration and the TV is a clone of the monitor. 

Once booted everything works fine, but during boot (up until the point where I need to enter username and password) the monitor doesn't display anything (it mentions "no signal detected" and goes into standby). The TV displays the grub menu and the splash screen. Clearly this is not how I intended it to be when choosing the monitor as my primary screen. 

Does anyone have an idea of how I can solve this?

BTW I am running Ubuntu Jaunty.

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2009-08-30
Initially try returning your system to single monitor mode (using nvidia-settings). If this is OK, then reset for TwinView mode, and see if this has cleared your problem.

If not, post a copy of your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file here.

---

### Post by reablom on 2009-09-02
Thanks for the reply, but that didn't do the trick. Here's my xorg.conf. I hope you can help.

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#    Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
#    Driver      "kbd"
#    Option        "XkbRules" "xorg"
#    Option        "XkbModel" "pc105"
#    Option        "XkbLayout" "us"
#    Option        "XkbVariant" "intl"
#    Option        "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#    Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
#    Driver      "mouse"
#    Option        "CorePointer"
#EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
    Option         "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option         "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
    Option         "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "BenQ E2200HD"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 94.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "EnableMonitor" "crt1,lvds,tv,tmds1,crt2,tmds2,cv,tmds2i"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9500 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
    Device         "aticonfig-Device[0]"
    Monitor        "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Viewport    0 0
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1920x1080 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1920x1080 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1920x1080 +0+0, DFP: 1920x1080 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by fela on 2009-09-02
This is at a hardware level I'm afraid. The nvidia-settings app modifies the X server configuration, and the X server only loads just before the login screen.

It could well be a limitation of your video card. Try looking in your computer's BIOS setup.

---

### Post by reablom on 2009-09-02
That's what I was afraid of. So my videocard seems to have the DVI out put as default when both outputs are connected to a device?

---

### Post by fela on 2009-09-02
> **reablom said:**
> That's what I was afraid of. So my videocard seems to have the DVI out put as default when both outputs are connected to a device?

It could be. Does your video card have an HDMI output? If so, you can connect the TV to that if it has an HDMI input (most/all HDTVs do). I don't think it's likely that the HDMI output would be the preferred primary one.

I have a palit nvidia 9800GT with 1 HDMI, 1 VGA and 1 DVI-D output. I have two monitors, one on the DVI and one on the VGA and the primary one is the VGA. It could be the other way round on yours though.

Does your TV have a composite input? If it does, you can connect it to the S-video on your graphics card if it has one.

---

### Post by reablom on 2009-09-02
Yes it does have an HDMI output and the TV has an HDMI input, BUT I had to buy a relatively expensive DVI/HDMI cable as my previous videocard had no HDMI output. At this point i'm not gonna buy another expensive HDMI cable before i'm absolutely certain that it's the only way to solve the problem

---

### Post by fela on 2009-09-02
> **reablom said:**
> Yes it does have an HDMI output and the TV has an HDMI input, BUT I had to buy a relatively expensive DVI/HDMI cable as my previous videocard had no HDMI output. At this point i'm not gonna buy another expensive HDMI cable before i'm absolutely certain that it's the only way to solve the problem

Right, so (if I'm correct) you'd need to connect your computer screen to the DVI port for it to become the primary display, and the TV to the VGA for it to be secondary. I don't think you can convert VGA into HDMI (don't know though), so I don't know if there's actually a resolution to your problem: it might just be an unfixable hardware limitation.

You could always buy another video card with an HDMI output :P

I think all Palit cards have HDMI, well my one does anyway.

EDIT: did you say that your current video card does have HDMI? If so why not just connect the TV to that and the screen to the DVI?

---

### Post by reablom on 2009-09-02
OK. Maybe I wasn't clear:

LCD monitor: only VGA (analog) input
TV: HDMI input (o.a.)
Current videocard: HDMI, VGA and DVI output
Previous videocard: VGA and DVI output

So (while using my previous videocard) I bought a DVI2HDMI cable to connect the TV to the PC. Now with the new videocard I do not want to buy a new (expensive) cable again before I know for sure the it will solve the problem. I'll try with a short HDMI I've got lying around to see if this solves the problem.

---

### Post by fela on 2009-09-02
> **reablom said:**
> OK. Maybe I wasn't clear:

LCD monitor: only VGA (analog) input
TV: HDMI input (o.a.)
Current videocard: HDMI, VGA and DVI output
Previous videocard: VGA and DVI output

So (while using my previous videocard) I bought a DVI2HDMI cable to connect the TV to the PC. Now with the new videocard I do not want to buy a new (expensive) cable again before I know for sure the it will solve the problem. I'll try with a short HDMI I've got lying around to see if this solves the problem.

OK, so right now you have the screen on the VGA and the TV on the DVI via the DVI2HDMI cable. Try putting the TV on the HDMI! ;)

---

