---
title: "Ubu12.10 VLC will not play Nflx DVDs"
date: 2013-06-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by kernalkorn on 2013-06-11
AMD FM1 A4 APU using Radeon Catalyst fglrx driver. 4GB RAM

Ubuntu 12.10

After re- subscribing to DVD rentals from Nflx, Ive had a VLC (internal optical media device) success rate of approx 1 out of ten DVDs.  I've had to run them on an external player or pipe them in from another room via HDMI to my TV from a Win XP machine. VLC is the only player that has even played one DVD successfully on the Asus internal CD/DVD/RW device.  In fact is was a Russian language 1960s film remastered from VHS. All the mouse selected menus subtitles and language options worked.  No recent American, Asian or Euro made DVD will run using VLC. banshee, movie player etc.   Most players can see the video device and read the title but will absolutely do nothing with it.  Zip, Zero Nada, The AMD tower box is a beautiful reliable general purpose machine that sits behind my LCD-TV perfectly silently doing anything I require of it, runs Flash Vids and HDMI 7.1 audio etc., except it will not play DVDs. 


 By contrast my 10yrold XP Home box plays anything I dump in it and nVidia dual screens it to any viewing device.  Any suggestions?  Is this a decryption boondoggle complements of RIAA?

---

### Post by newbie-user on 2013-06-13
Generally, in Ubuntu, you have to install some DVD utilities to be able to watch a DVD movie. Here are some commands to run, assuming you're root:
```
apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras -y
cd /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/
./install-css.sh
```

This pulls the required files from the medibuntu repos that will allow you to watch DVD movies.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-06-14
[http://how-to.wikia.com/wiki/How_to_watch_Netflix_%28Watch_Instantly%29_in_Linux](http://how-to.wikia.com/wiki/How_to_watch_Netflix_%28Watch_Instantly%29_in_Linux)

---

