---
title: "Blank Xorg.conf Files"
date: 2009-05-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by systemtyrant on 2009-05-11
I just installed ubuntu 9.04 on my IBM thinkpad T41 with a ati mobility 7500 card and the xorg.config file is blank.  I've tried running a few of the xorg reconfig utilities, but nothing seems to fix it.  I'm not real familiar with xorg config files so I'm not really wanting to create one by hand without some assistance if that is required.

Anybody know what I can do to fix this?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-05-11
> **systemtyrant said:**
> I just installed ubuntu 9.04 on my IBM thinkpad T41 with a ati mobility 7500 card and the xorg.config file is blank.  I've tried running a few of the xorg reconfig utilities, but nothing seems to fix it.  I'm not real familiar with xorg config files so I'm not really wanting to create one by hand without some assistance if that is required.

Anybody know what I can do to fix this?

Hi and could you post the output of the command in the terminal
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by systemtyrant on 2009-05-11
There is no output when I run that.  The xorg.conf file is empty.  Void of any configurations or notes.

---

### Post by systemtyrant on 2009-05-11
I ran 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg' just for the fun of it and then re-ran 'cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf' and now the xorg.conf file isn't blank, but this is all it has in it:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

I've also got an Acer V193 monitor hooked up I would like to use as a second monitor.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2009-05-11
> **systemtyrant said:**
> There is no output when I run that.  The xorg.conf file is empty.  Void of any configurations or notes.

Sorry for the delay. I ran the live cd on my old laptop with a ATI 7000 and this is the file
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```
Make sure you use a capital X in the command 
```
gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``` Then save the file and reboot. hope this helps. :)
Desktop effects work to my surprise. :)
Edit I guess I am to slow :P
You may use system, preference, displays for you external monitor.

---

### Post by systemtyrant on 2009-05-11
I've tried that to no avail.  As soon as I set up the second display x dies a horrible death.  As it stands now the desktop is sluggish and slow.  I keep hoping to find somebody with a t41 with a configured xorg that I can borrow. :)

I've been hitting the net looking for solutions and not really finding any for the t41's.  I have read that the autoconfig doesn't work very well with older ati graphics cards as far as setting them up proper.  Have you heard anything like that?

---

