---
title: "9.04, 2 soundcards"
date: 2009-11-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by q.dinar on 2009-11-12
hello.
i used 1 soundcard, but i could not use both microphone-in and line-in separately at same time, so i had installed second sound card, but had not tried to use it at that time. some time after that i have upgraded to 9.04. then ices2 beginned to start unstablely on computer start: some times loads sometimes not, fails. it was configured to use alsa and hw:0,0 device.
then i have written there "default" and moved stream to correct device with p.a. device chooser, it works but there are several problems:
it uses much processor: near 20% ices2 and near 5% pulseaudio process, while with old configuration was only ices2 and it used near 7%. and one time i have seen ices2 was using near 40% of processor with new configuration, it have gone back to 20% after restart of it.
second problem: may be ices2 do not work when i am not logged in or have logged out, and i cannot run ices2 as other user, i configured it to run with my user to be able to move stream to it. i have not checked whether ices2 works with pulseaudio when i am not logged in or have logged out.
as i know, ices2 started to fail because pulseaudio took its hw:0,0 device and ices2 could not access it. so i want to configure pulseaudio not to use that device. i have commented out this place in /etc/pulse/default.pa to not load, as said to me in irc:
### Automatically load driver modules depending on the hardware available
#.ifexists module-hal-detect.so
#load-module module-hal-detect tsched=0
#.else
### Alternatively use the static hardware detection module (for systems that
### lack HAL support)
#load-module module-detect
#.endif
now i see this before that:
### Load audio drivers statically (it's probably better to not load
### these drivers manually, but instead use module-hal-detect --
### see below -- for doing this automatically)
#load-module module-alsa-sink
#load-module module-alsa-source device=hw:1,0
#load-module module-oss device="/dev/dsp" sink_name=output source_name=input
#load-module module-oss-mmap device="/dev/dsp" sink_name=output source_name=input
#load-module module-null-sink
#load-module module-pipe-sink
there i can load proper devices? how?

second way is to uninstall pulseaudio, i have tried to uninstall "pulseaudio" and restart, but there were no sound of flash in firefox, and now i have installed pulseaudio back.
i have seen there thread about how to uninstall pulseaudio safely and install alsa instead of it, if i make as said there will flash sound work correctly?

one thing i have seen: sound recorder application in applicatons - audio and video menu has not worked while pulseaudio was working, i could not see the application in device chooser, but when i uninstalled pulseaudio i have seen that it works.

ices2 is daemon that takes sound from file or microphone and sends to icecast2 which is other daemon(server) that takes sound from several sources which are like ices2 and sends them to many listeners to audio players.
i use ices2 to take sound from line-in and installed second soundcard to use with microphone, because first sound card mixed microphone and line-in sound or used only one of them.

---

### Post by q.dinar on 2009-11-13
Safely Remove Pulseaudio? : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1313253](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1313253) .
i have made that but flash in firefox does not work. but execution of /bin/ps is not allowed to firefox with apparmor, may be that it prevents?

---

### Post by q.dinar on 2009-11-13
allowing /bin/ps has not helped, and firefox asked to read /dev/ then.

---

### Post by q.dinar on 2009-11-21
now after restart flash in firefox works but ices2 is not running now.

---

