---
title: "ATi dual head / dual adapter"
date: 2009-04-12
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by soapBAR2 on 2009-04-12
Hi,

I'm trying to get dual head on 2 ATi cards each with one monitor connected (specs below). I'm certain it's not a hardware or kernel issue, because
A) Both cards work by themselves in Linux
B) It works on the same machine in XP (dual boot)
C) The adapters show up in lshw/lspci/aticonfig --lsa (see below)
Ideally, I'd get this setup + compiz (compiz is a must, sorry) with the free drivers (xserver-xvideo-xorg-ati or something) since it's a lot snappier, but unless a travelling linux magician happens upon this thread, I'll accept that I'm SOL with the free driver.

Specs and code posted below. I'll post my aticonfig option list instead of my xorg.conf because
A) It's a big, confusingly-named mess, and dialup users probably don't want to spend half the night downloading it and the other half scratching their heads over it
B) It's generated by aticonfig, so posting the xorg.conf is pointless
C) Dealing with aticonfig gives me error messages rather than dealing with xorg.conf and trial+error.
[B]
Specs:[/B]
Kubuntu 8.10 x86_64, kernel 2.6.27-11-generic
Video Card 1 - ATi Radeon 2100 Onboard
Video Card 2 - ATi Radeon X300 PCIe x16
Monitor 1 - CRT, capable of 1600x1200@85HZ
Monitor 2 - CRT, capable of 1600x1200@85HZ
X.org X Server - v1.5.2
Driver - FGLRX (proprietary - v8.54.3
AMDCCCLE - v2.1

**Desired Setup:**
Dual adapter, dual head, one horizontal desktop with both monitors at 1600x1200@85HZ with Compiz.

**What I've tried:**
GUI Catalyst Control Panel (it lists my secondary display/adapter as "disabled")
KDE System Settings Display (lists only one output)
aticonfig --initial (one screen/adapter works, stable X server)
aticonfig --initial=dual-head (unstable X server, locks up access to virtual terminals, have to use ssh to correct)
Custom aticonfig (see below)
Manual xorg.conf edit (no luck)

```
$ sudo aticonfig --initial --adapter=all --enable-monitor=crt0,crt1 --dtop=horizontal --resolution=0,1600x1200 --resolution=1,1600x1200 --vrefresh=0,60-85 --vrefresh=1,60-85
```
Gives me an unbootable X server - it tries, bless it, but it eventually gives up and goes to a Virtual Terminal.

```
$ aticonfig --lsa
* 0. 02:00.0 Radeon X300/X550/X1050 Series
  1. 01:05.0 ATI Radeon 2100

* - Default adapter
```

```
$ lspci
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (Internal gfx)
00:02.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc RS690 PCI to PCI Bridge (PCI Express Graphics Port 0)
...
01:05.0 Display controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon 2100
...
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV370 5B60 [Radeon X300 (PCIE)]
02:00.1 Display controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV370 [Radeon X300SE]
```
(I'm worried that I'm missing a VGA controller entry above Radeon 2100's "Display Controller" entry, as xorg.conf seems to reference it for the Radeon X300, or is this because the Radeon 2100 is onboard?)

```
$ aticonfig --query-monitor
  Connected monitors: crt1
  Enabled monitors: crt1

```
I think the problem may be this one above - the monitor is definitely connected, but trying sudo aticonfig --enable-monitor=crt0,crt1 crashes my X server with a nonsensical screen (it looks like it's not got the right horizontal refresh rate, but I could be wrong), and trying sudo aticonfig --enable-monitor=crt1,crt2 gives me "ati_dm: FGLRX_EnableDisplays failed when try to enable display: 11.".

Thanks in advance,

-soapBAR

---

### Post by soapBAR2 on 2009-04-13
Shameless bump!

Can someone tell me how necessary the "VGA compatible controller" is? Is there any way to force linux to have a "VGA compatible controller" for the 2100? The fact that it doesn't have one and that the card is detected, but doesn't work, strikes me as more than coincidence.

I've googled for SurroundView (the feature which enables use of onboard at the same time as a discrete card), and from what I can tell, the onboard should be acting as if it's a discrete card.

Addendum - the odd thing is that the IGP-attached monitor is fed a blank signal, rather than nothing. I can tell, because instead of the "No signal/check input" message, it's just black.

Addendum2 - Booting without the X300 Discrete card plugged in makes lspci list a "VGA Compatible Controller" for the 2100 (obviously the 2100 is the only video device)... stranger and stranger..

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-04-13
You need a newer version of fglrx to do that. Try the 9.3 driver, it has better multi card support than the one you are trying to use.

---

### Post by Neo5588 on 2009-09-12
When you are using more then one video card there is a issue because you can only be using one video driver at a time. I have looked into this and have tried what you have tried and a computer can not support two different video drivers at the same time. Only one can function and the other is ignored.

---

### Post by etothepii on 2010-07-06
I'm not sure what you mean, the computer can support more than one card!?

---

