---
title: ".NEF raw image viewer/editor for Ubuntu that displays images properly"
date: 2018-05-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ultragamer2 on 2018-05-31
I am trying to find a way to use .NEF (raw digital camera files from a Nikon D5100 SLR) in Ubuntu.

I have tried Digikam, darktable, Rawtherapee, Ufraw and Shotwel but they all display them either too dark, too light or washed out, etc. My understanding is because there are certain settings that only the official Nikon viewnx program has which is Windows only. Some simple images viewers display the images properly but apparently they are just loading an embedded jpg.

Has anyone found a way to use Nikon D5100 .nef raw images in Ubuntu, perhaps another program or perhaps some sort of preset or settings file to use in one of those programs mentioned already?

I'm sort of a newbie.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-05-31
Give this a look:  [https://www.xnview.com/en/xnviewmp/](https://www.xnview.com/en/xnviewmp/)

There is a linux version there. And it is available as a DEB download.

---

### Post by ultragamer2 on 2018-06-01
Thanks I tried it but so far it's similar to others, the preview looks fine and even if you double click on an image it looks fine but when you convert to png or jpg etc, you get a very dark looking image.

Same result with dcraw.

So it seems the programs are there in linux to convert .nef but the settings are all wrong and I'm not sure which ones to set the get it looking the same as in viewnx. If there was some sort of setting file you could load into one of these programs for the specific camera that might fix it.

---

### Post by ultragamer2 on 2018-06-08
Still testing.

---

### Post by ultragamer2 on 2018-06-14
It ends up looking a bit washed out or faded when compared with the Nikon viewnx software version of the same .nef raw file.

---

### Post by ultragamer2 on 2018-06-14
After some testing the linux application Darktable gives good results (with a few adjustments) with the viewnx output next to it. So that's working well now.

---

### Post by jorisjoris on 2019-06-09
What are the adjustments that you have made?

---

