---
title: "5.1 Surround Sound problem: No Subwoofer!"
date: 2017-01-11
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by adventure man on 2017-01-11
Hey guys!  I've had this issue for a while now, researched it a lot but couldn't resolve it.  I put my speakers to 5.1 Surround Sound, go to test, every channel works but the subwoofer (LFE).
[ATTACH=CONFIG]273143[/ATTACH]

5.0 works beautifully in some games (Outlast) and movies on VLC Media Player, but I would like that bass boost. Any help would be appreciated! I'm willing to start from scratch and try most anything.

Specs:
Ubuntu 16.04 LTS
Sound card: HDA Ati SB
Chip: Realtek ALC662 rev 1
Video: Nvidia Geforce 960
Mobo: Biostar A880GZ

---

### Post by tux-2.0 on 2017-01-27
Here's what I did to fix this subwoofer issue after searching endlessly and after multiple reinstalls of Ubuntu 14.04, simply set the speaker configuration to 7.1 in the sound settings. I did this simply out of curiosity. My 5.1 Altec Lansing speaker system never worked better!
Just ignore the side speakers. 
No messing around with configuration files. Please spread this wonderful news to other individuals experiencing similar issues. Hope it helps.

---

### Post by adventure man on 2017-01-27
Can you tell me what it says in your sound settings?

I only have 3 options:
Analog Stero Output
Analog Surround 4.0
Analog Surround 5.1

I can't find 7.1, is there somewhere in the config file I can turn this option on?
Thanks!

---

### Post by tux-2.0 on 2017-01-27
I'm not an expert but I will try to help you out the best I can. I accomplished this by trial and error. I have Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS 64-bit kernel 3.16.0-77-generic

**Another problem related is sometimes I lose the subwoofer and have to switch back to 5.1 from 7.1 and the subwoofer works again.** 
Weird, right?
[B]I think this is a bug in the Ubuntu build and this bug should be reported to the topmost members on here, or better yet, the Ubuntu developers themselves.
Because I'm suffering from the same buggy audio implementation of drivers!
[/B]
I may not be able to help you after all with your situation, sir. I am sorry if I wasted your time. I'm a new member here and I wanted to do the best I could in helping you out.

But anyway,
I have in sound settings: 

Analog Stereo Output
Analog Surround 5.1 Output
Analog Surround 4.1 Output
Analog Surround 7.1 Output
Analog Surround 5.0 Output
Analog Surround 4.0 Output
[B]
Is the sound card physically installed and recognized by your hardware?[/B]

 Open a terminal and type: 
*lspci -v | grep -A7 -i "audio"*

**My output**:

00:09.0 Audio device: NVIDIA Corporation MCP73 High Definition Audio (rev a1)
    Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company Device 2a64
    Flags: bus master, 66MHz, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 23
    Memory at efff4000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intel

And messing around with config files has gotten me no positive results.

---

### Post by tux-2.0 on 2017-01-27
Perhaps you're better off reporting a bug to Ubuntu since you're using Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial Xerus and I'm using Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty Tahr which have the two completely different HWS since the Hardware Enablement Stack HWS messes up many drivers, such as video, network, audio, even vital motherboard CPU chipsets.

---

### Post by adventure man on 2017-01-29
Thanks for all the helps Tux!  If you look at the screenshot I posted in the original post, there is a final sound setting at the bottom that says "HDA Nvidia Digital Surround 7.1".  Now, I usually don't use that setting because the sound is not as good as the Analog surround BUT upon testing the subwoofer in that setting it does give me an odd buzzing sound.  Unfortunately I tested this in a 5.1 Dolby SS movie setup with VLC media players and I didn't get anything out of the subwoofer.

My Output:

00:14.2 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA) (rev 40)
    Subsystem: Biostar Microtech Int'l Corp SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA)
    Flags: bus master, slow devsel, latency 32, IRQ 16
    Memory at fe100000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intel
    Kernel modules: snd_hda_intel

--
01:00.1 Audio device: NVIDIA Corporation Device 0fba (rev a1)
    Subsystem: eVga.com. Corp. Device 2962
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 19
    Memory at fe080000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intel
    Kernel modules: snd_hda_intel

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2017-03-20
*Thread moved to **Multimedia Software by request.**.*

---

### Post by adventure man on 2017-03-24
Bump

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2017-03-27
How are you connecting your speakers to computer? is there receiver in between? what cables are you using?

---

### Post by adventure man on 2017-03-28
Just through a 3.5mm jack on motherboard, I'm using a pair of JVC Stereo headphones.

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2017-03-28
I am not expert on 5.1 sound from headphones.
Have you tried these pair of headphones for 5.1 sound on other computer? Or have you tried to plug in full 5.1 channel speaker system to your computer, just to confirm?

---

### Post by bobmann on 2017-03-29
Do you have blu-ray player or you are using AV receiver? I faced similar problem with my Polk Audio RM705 5.1 CH Home Audio Speaker System. Sent it back to the manufacture and they returned it within 15 days. And after that it was okay. May be the sub was malfunctioned.

---

### Post by adventure man on 2017-03-30
I use Razer Surround Sound software on my windows setup and the sub works fine there.  
I don't have a true sound card with all the different speaker jacks this is just a virtual setup.  
All works fine except the darn sub :(  I'm wondering if this is the same for others?
I used "Veromix" to get this virtual effect: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2267902](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2267902)

I should probably post on that thread now that I think about it :lolflag:

edit: meh....it's a closed thread unfortunately. :(

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2017-04-03
Let us know if this is sorted or not. I am curious now.
One more thing you can try is HDMI port. Try to hook up your system with HDMI port and see if you get 5.1 sound from it.

---

### Post by adventure man on 2017-07-14
Hey sp40140 quick update: I never got the sub-woofer to work unfortunately. I switched over to windows 10 and use "Razer Synapse" for my surround sound. I still use Lubuntu 17.04 on my laptop, I'll update again if I try out the surround on that.

---

