---
title: "Re:  (19.04) mp4 not playing on youtube / greasemonkey + extensions"
date: 2019-11-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by csae2608 on 2019-11-28
Hello ,

i use to play back mp4 on youtube via greasemonkey + viewtube extension on firefox browser.


since ubuntu 19.04 it seems the playback is no longer functioning on youtube, maybe due to missing plugins?
on ubuntu 18.04 it is still functioning; don't know what changed in 18.10 and 19.04 (or 19.10).

the only plugin i find which is active on firefox is openh264 videocodec; 

the error is the following

"video-format or mime-type is not supported"


any idea on why this is happening? any solution? can't find any plugin to install anymore like gecko-mediaplayer or totem-mozilla, they seem deprecated, sadly.

i should add that the playback does not function on firefox 52 esr , but functions with firefox 60 esr.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-11-28
Just so you know, 19.04 is EOL and no longer supported.
But for supported Versions 18.04 && 19.10, your install should go as follows:
```
sudo apt install libdvdnav4 libdvdread4 gstreamer1.0-plugins-bad gstreamer1.0-plugins-ugly libdvd-pkg
sudo apt install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

---

### Post by csae2608 on 2019-11-28
> **1fallen said:**
> Just so you know, 19.04 is EOL and no longer supported.
But for supported Versions 18.04 && 19.10, your install should go as follows:
```
sudo apt install libdvdnav4 libdvdread4 gstreamer1.0-plugins-bad gstreamer1.0-plugins-ugly libdvd-pkg
sudo apt install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

Thanks , i didn't expect such a fast response :)

The packages of the 1st line were already installed.
Installed the "ubuntu-restricted-extras" , but videos (on firefox 52 esr) still not playing as expected, sadly.

maybe ubuntu changed something in the background that inhibits earlier firefox from playback of codecs properly? or maybe i am still missing some vital codec on 19.04? thanks

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-11-28
Can you post a link that won't play on your end.

---

### Post by csae2608 on 2019-11-28
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CqsXPv5TPYY](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CqsXPv5TPYY)

playback is fine withouth greasemonkey + viewtube, but i rely on it to blend out undesired publicity , and for ease of use.

i noticed that .mp4 playback is not functioning, whereas .webm playback is normal.

please see screenshot on the left (mp4 not playing back) 
screenshot on the right (webm playing back normally)

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-11-28
How did you install Firefox ESR? Access to snaps and flatpaks or other sources may be blocked too in this environment.
Plays fine here:
```
Video ID / sCPN
CqsXPv5TPYY / QW4M 9JX3 W4QK
Viewport / Frames
779x438 / -
Current / Optimal Res
854x480@30 / 854x480@30
Volume / Normalized
100% / 100% (content loudness -5.7dB)
Codecs
vp09.00.51.08.01.01.01.01 (244) / opus (251)
Color
bt709 / bt709
Connection Speed
2802 Kbps
Network Activity
0 KB
Buffer Health
63.53 s
Mystery Text
s:c44 t:0.00 b:0.000-63.529 P
```

---

### Post by csae2608 on 2019-11-29
hei, i just downloaded the archive from mozilla ftp and extracted it locally and started from there (+disabled the automatic-update.process)

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2019-12-01
> **1fallen said:**
> Just so you know, 19.04 is EOL and no longer supported.


It's supported until January. All of the short term support releases have nine months of support.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-12-01
What do you mean by "undesired publicity?" Advertising? Give Brave Browser a try. It filters out a lot of ads and scripts by default.

YouTube ads rarely run more than fifteen seconds.

---

