---
title: "Jack Rack and Scripting"
date: 2010-07-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by ntaforge on 2010-07-03
Hello


I just setup Ubuntu on my church sound computer and did the Studio Preparation. Now I use Ardour to record the services and Jack Rack for effects (DC offset, compression, limiting and gate.) I'm wanting to make a script that will launch and start Jack, launch Jack Rack then open a saved rack and then launch Ardour and open a saved session. This is to help the technically challenged church members who can't follow instructions. 

Now the only issue that I can find is Jack Rack has this random number under the jack connections. So if I save a Ardour session with the connections set, it is ruined due to the random number that is generated by Jack Rack. Is there a way to kill that number and what is the best way to make a script to do the above?

Noah

---

### Post by ntaforge on 2010-07-04
Bump

---

### Post by ntaforge on 2010-07-05
Bumpage

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2010-07-05
Any reason you want to use jack+ardour instead of just Audacity? You can add compression and limiting etc. after the file is recorded. It would be much simpler for anyone to use.

Failing that you could try using calf plugins or something instead of jack rack. Can't really help out much on the scripting front, but application launchers are easy to set up on the right click menu bar.

---

### Post by ntaforge on 2010-07-07
For some reason that is unknown, Ardour runs at a snails pace but everything else works just fine!
I want to use realtime effects to save time on rendering. I don't want to sit for an hour after church is over just applying effects.
I would use Calf but it doesn't allow you to save presets and it lacks a limiter and gate.
Thanks for the suggestions!

---

