---
title: "Problem in resolution with dual monitor setup"
date: 2010-02-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jabe_z on 2010-02-05
Hi, 

I'm new to Ubuntu and right now i am using Ubuntu 9.10. Yesterday i connected two monitors to my system. But i'm facing problem in setting the resolution of the monitors. I can get the desired resolution on only one monitor and for the other monitor, i've to settle with the system generated resolution instead of the resolution which i want :( :( . I could not change the resolution of the second monitor through the GUI which is provided by nVidia. Please help me setup the custom resolution for the second monitor also. 

Resolution for my 1st monitor is 1366x768 ( my desired )
Resolution for my second monitor now is 1360x768 ( not looking good, i want to change this to 1366x768 )

Both the monitors are Dell IN1910N monitors which has support upto 1366 x 768 at 60 Hz resolution.

I want to know how i can add some more custom resolutions like "1280x800" "1024x768" to the monitors. 

I'm attaching my xorg.conf file for your reference. 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-02-05
You could try some minor changes in xorg.conf....

first backup current xorg.conf :

**sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup**

Open:

**sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf**

change:
[I]Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-1"
Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1360x768 +1366+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"[/I]

to:
[I]Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1366x768 +0+0, CRT-1: 1366x768 +1366+0"[/I]

save changes and log out/in to restart X and load xorg.conf.
What happens?
If no X and dropped to shell use backup of xorg.conf:
[B]sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
[/B]

---

### Post by jabe_z on 2010-02-05
I changed the xorg.conf file as you said, but it is not recognizing the screens. 

in "CRT-0: **1360x768** +1366+0, CRT-1: **nvidia-auto-select** +0+0"

**1360x768** and **nvidia-auto-select** seems to be names of the monitors which are generated by the system automatically. When i change them, system is not recognizing the monitors. :( :(

---

