---
title: ".M4a recognization/conversion issues"
date: 2011-06-19
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Wildcarded on 2011-06-19
Ok so I uploaded about 7.5k songs from my old Creative Zen, and most of them are in the .M4a format (not .m4a - don't know if the distinction matters). I'm using Amarok and Mixxx and neither of them recognize the songs at all. Both of them claim support for OGG type files. Downloaded FAAD2, LAME (I'm brand new Ubuntu, so I'm fairly sure but not positive I installed these properly - did a search in synaptic later and it appeared they were already installed). I think I installed a few other codecs as well. I have spent a lot of time researching this and trying the suggested solutions but either I'm doing it wrong or they're not working for me.

I don't really want to convert, as I would prefer not to suffer quality loss. That being said, I tried converting them to no avail. Even ran a shell script that was supposed to convert .m4a to .mp3. It went through them, scanned them all, and at the end it said that it converted a total of 0 files.

Basically I'm looking for someone to explain how I can go about fixing this. I'm willing to learn, I just have a very limited knowledge base right now and no one to really answer my questions.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-06-19
Look for the restricted-extras package on the Software Center, or try this:
```
$ sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras
```

Regards.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-06-19
Can you post one of these files here or elsewhere online? Could be a problem with [Janus DRM]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Janus_%28DRM%29") which I believe these devices can be afflicted with :(.

---

### Post by Wildcarded on 2011-06-19
> **andrew.46 said:**
> Can you post one of these files here or elsewhere online? Could be a problem with [Janus DRM]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Janus_%28DRM%29") which I believe these devices can be afflicted with :(.

Doubtful, most of this music was all torrented to be honest. Can't attach any files anyways cause it's a larger upload than this site supports it looks like. If you pm me an email i can send one to you, if you think that's likely an issue.

And I already have the restricted extras installed. Amarok is not recognizing .Wma either, though Banshee does it just fine. Tried .M4a in Banshee to no avail.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-06-19
Try install VLC, is on the software center. If they are 'regular' m4a, VLC will play them just fine.

Regards.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-06-20
> **Wildcarded said:**
> Can't attach any files anyways cause it's a larger upload than this site supports it looks like. If you pm me an email i can send one to you, if you think that's likely an issue.

Thanks for the file. Unfortunately it is unplayable by vlc and mplayer, and these are the development versions of both. I suspect some corruption in the transfer process.

I can place the file in a temporary location on my website, if you are happy with this, so more skilled people than myself can have a look?

---

### Post by Wildcarded on 2011-06-20
That sounds ideal. Please do and let me know if someone else has a better answer.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-06-20
> **Wildcarded said:**
> That sounds ideal. Please do and let me know if someone else has a better answer.

Even better: the troublesome file is here:

```

wget "http://www.andrews-corner.org/tmp/01 25 Or 6 To 4.M4a"

```

Hopefully someone can see the problem :).

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-06-20
I downloaded the file. I was not able to either play it, nor get some info about its codecs.

I opened it with an Hex editor (GHex). Surprise here!

The file is a string of null characters, from begin to end. My guess is this isn't the result of a transfer's corruption. It looks more like that the original device tried to protect the song from being copied.

Regards.

---

