---
title: "5.1 surround problem"
date: 2012-03-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by veledrom on 2012-03-28
Hi,

My 5.1 speaker system doesn't work. I mean only left and right speakers work but not sub-buffer and other three. It was perfectly fine on Sunday. I think something went wrong with regular updates of Ubuntu 11.04 64Bit. It was fine in 10.04 64Bit.

Just a note: Never works with Win7 64Bit but fine on WinXP.

Thanks for help

Creative Inspire 5.1 5200
ASUS 1155 P8P67-M PRO REV 3.0 [LINK]("http://www.asus.com/Motherboards/Intel_Socket_1155/P8P67M_PRO/#specifications")

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-28
How are your speakers connected to PC?
- discrete analogue cables 3xmini-stereo jacks?
- S/PDIF out to external black box brick ?
- USB to external black box brick?
- other..

Do you want all audio (stereo) to be upmixed to 5.1 ?

---

### Post by veledrom on 2012-03-28
I haven't moved any jacks from sound card. They were all working on Sunday so I don't think it is to do with cables etc. This is a chronic problem in Win7 and some ubuntu versions.

---

### Post by veledrom on 2012-03-28
Solved.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/InstallingLinuxAlsaDriverModules](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/InstallingLinuxAlsaDriverModules)

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-28
That's using a sledgehammer on a tack..

To answer my question..
So you are just using 6 ch analogue outputs..

---

### Post by veledrom on 2012-03-29
Although it is solved, I have another question now.

Yes it is 6 channel (5.1) but how to I know that if it analogue or digital? How can check it?

Thanks

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-29
Looks to be analogue.

The digital version uses USB.

Makes little difference to the price/performance of this type of audio gadget. 

Other possible digital audio connections include:
- S/PDIF
- TOSLink
- HDMI
- LAN
- McI2S in a custom connector off a soundcard..

---

### Post by veledrom on 2012-03-31
Thanks

---

