---
title: "v 8.04 Screen refresh rate stuck at 60hz"
date: 2009-06-13
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by jukingeo on 2009-06-13
Hello all,

I have been reading about problems with the new version of Ubuntu with the refresh rate getting stuck at 60hz, however, I have version 8.04 and I have the same problem.

I will say that my computer was in hiatus for about 3 months from moving from one home to another and to make space to set up my machine.  Since the past two evenings I can't get my monitor out of 60hz refresh rate.

I will say that I did do the updates for Ubuntu and that herein may lie the problem.

So some assistance would be appreciated.

My system is a Dell 4600 2.8ghz with 2 gig ram and 2 500gig SATA 7000rpm hard drives.

The video card is an ATI 9600XT with 256meg ram

The OS is Ubuntu Studio Hardy (8.04).

Just for the record, I CAN adjust the resolution from 320 x 200 to 1600 x 1200.  I have it set now for 1024 x 768

EDIT:  Correction to the above line, the settings to change resolution are present but if I do try to change the resolution to lets say 800 by 600, it will not take the setting and go back to 1024 x 768, thus at this point in time my resolution is a fixed 1024 x 768 and my refresh rate is at 60hz and I cannot change either or.  However, with the refresh rate, 60hz is the only option available.

I have a Sony Multiscan E200 17" monitor.

Is this an issue with the monitor or with the video card?

Thank You,
Geo

---

### Post by jukingeo on 2009-06-15
I been looking into this problem for a couple days now and it does seem that there is no solution and no one seems to have answers either.  It seems as if the later versions (and updates) do not support ATI cards very well and they are stuck at 60hz.

While it isn't much of a big deal, I do notice the flickering of the screen and find I can't set at my machine as long as I want to.  After about 4 or 5 hours, I must rest.  Whereas my machine at work (Windows XP), I have set at 85hz and I can sit at that machine all day.

It sure would be nice if the developers would address this situation as it appears it is an on going problem from version 8.04, to 8.10, AND also the new version 9.04.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-06-15
In 8.04 there still is a "Screens and Graphics" that may or may not be of any help, never had ati so don't know there.

Also as far as crt monitors I've never trusted what ubuntu reported, at times it's at odds with the monitor's display info (most crt's will report the refresh rate ect. by using 1 or more of the panel buttons.

It can usually be found in edit menus in one of the subsections or
 
gksu displayconfig-gtk


Edit: noting that I've never used S&G to set graphics, **wouldn't do so**, but have used to set monitor, mine have been in the list. (viewsonic, sony


possibly yours

[http://74.125.47.132/custom?q=cache:NgFWf8Djbf8J:www.docs.sony.com/release/specs/CPDE200_mksp.pdf+Sony+Multiscan+E200+17%22+monitor&cd=5&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=pub-2070091971271392](http://74.125.47.132/custom?q=cache:NgFWf8Djbf8J:www.docs.sony.com/release/specs/CPDE200_mksp.pdf+Sony+Multiscan+E200+17%22+monitor&cd=5&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=pub-2070091971271392)

> Horizontal Scan Range
CPD-E100: 30-70kHz
CPD-E200: 30-85kHz
Vertical Scan Range
CPD-E100: 48-120Hz
CPD-E200: 48-120Hz
Maximum Resolution
CPD-E100: 1280 x 1024 @ 60Hz
CPD-E200: 1600 x 1200 @ 60Hz
Preset Resolutions (27 modes)
640 x 480 @ 60Hz VGA Graphics
640 x 480 @ 85Hz VESA
720 x 400 @ 70Hz VGA Text
800 x 600 @ 75Hz VESA (E100 only)
800 x 600 @ 85Hz VESA
832 x 624 @ 75Hz Macintosh 16"
1024 x 768 @ 75Hz VESA
1024 x 768 @ 85Hz VESA
1280 x 1024 @ 60Hz VESA (E100 only)
1280 x 1024 @ 75Hz VESA (E200 only)
1600 x 1200 @ 65Hz VESA (E200 only


---

### Post by jukingeo on 2009-06-19
> **mc4man said:**
> In 8.04 there still is a "Screens and Graphics" that may or may not be of any help, never had ati so don't know there.

Also as far as crt monitors I've never trusted what ubuntu reported, at times it's at odds with the monitor's display info (most crt's will report the refresh rate ect. by using 1 or more of the panel buttons.

It can usually be found in edit menus in one of the subsections or
 
gksu displayconfig-gtk


Edit: noting that I've never used S&G to set graphics, **wouldn't do so**, but have used to set monitor, mine have been in the list. (viewsonic, sony


possibly yours

[http://74.125.47.132/custom?q=cache:NgFWf8Djbf8J:www.docs.sony.com/release/specs/CPDE200_mksp.pdf+Sony+Multiscan+E200+17%22+monitor&cd=5&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=pub-2070091971271392](http://74.125.47.132/custom?q=cache:NgFWf8Djbf8J:www.docs.sony.com/release/specs/CPDE200_mksp.pdf+Sony+Multiscan+E200+17%22+monitor&cd=5&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=pub-2070091971271392)

Thanx for the information on the gksu displayconfig-gtk command.  I did see the setting on that screen you posted, however, when I select it, it is asking for a driver.  So I don't know what to do now.

Geo

---

### Post by jukingeo on 2009-06-27
Ok, here is the scoop thusfar.  My machine is still stuck at 60hz.  Most of the tutorials I looked that had results in solving the problem were those that have NVidia video cards.  For the most part it looks like us ATI users are stuck with 60hz.

However, one thing I did was hook up a flat screen monitor to my computer and at 60hz, it looks pretty darn good.  I don't see the flicker you normally see with a CRT at that speed.  In fact when I first set up the monitor I thought I was at a different refresh rate, but no it is at 60hz.

It seems that the 60hz setting is more apparent with a CRT monitor.  So for now I am going to call this cased closed and stick with using a flat screen monitor for my ATI card.  I probably will get an Nvidia card for the CRT monitor and have dual displays.

Thus all in all, I am not sure if it is ATI's fault or the fault of the developers in regards to getting proper drivers working for the displays.  While it may be bearable to some, working very close to a CRT monitor at 60hz is pretty annoying.  So it would be nice if the developers from both sides would just shake hands and work together. I don't understand why ATI wouldn't cooperate if it would mean selling their video cards to Linux users.  It is sheer stupidity not to take care of the Linux users as that would be then an untapped avenue for revenue.

But I have seen this pattern many times before with hardware support for Linux.  Unfortunately it is still the reason why I am also still using Windows XP.  I would love to completely make the switch to Linux, but I can't because of the support (or lack thereof) of hardware in Linux.

Geo

---

