---
title: "Testing an old midi keyboard controller"
date: 2012-03-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-03-09
I'm having problems trying to test the output of an old midi keyboard, PCS Mk-101.
Taking the advice that I've read on other threads, I'm trying to see if it works on Windows first, before trying to sort out a Ubuntu set up.

So I've got Midi-ox loaded in my 64bit desktop, running XP, and connected the keyboard via a new midi/games pci card (This thread is coming out of my Ubuntu 10.10). 
I've set the card as the default, and sound out of the card is ok.
With Midi-ox running, it will allow me to use the pc keyboard to generate sounds, and the monitor window shows the data info flowing, but when I set the PCS as input midi and MS synth(if I remember correctly) as the output, and with both input and output monitor windows open, I see no activity, and get no sound.

Question - did this keyboard need a driver in Windows ? The only reference I can find via google is an old auction page mentioning that they had a floppy supplied with it when it was new.

Most grateful if anyone can give me a lead on this, if a driver is necessary, and even a source for one. Google hasn't pointed me to one yet, nor to a manufacturer, but I'm still searching.

Alternatively, is there another way of checking the keyboard output ?
I've got a CRO somewhere, lots of leds, and digital meters, so if someone could offer an alternative method using hardware, that would also be useful.


John

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2012-03-09
Here's my suggestion: try it in Ubuntu. Fire up Synaptic Package Manager and search for Midi. A quick search indicates that lmms might be useful.

Do you have any indication of the name of the manufacturer, other than "PCS," which seems to be a dead end?

This isn't a great place to find help with Windows.

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-03-10
I take your point re windows, it's just that the aim is to get it running in ubuntu, but other threads suggest trying it in windows first.
I thought there might be a residue of experience here of others following the same route.
There certainly seem to be a lot of threads on the difficulties of getting it working !
Thanks for your suggestions. I'll give it a try, and repost the result.

Re the manufacturer - PCScience Direct is the only info I have, and the only link I can find is now defunct. Probably went out of business in 1999.

John

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-03-10
> LMMS can also be used with a MIDI keyboard. A list of successfully installed keyboards is under development. Yamaha PSR 500m, Yamaha E413 keyboard. Midistart 3 pro keys USB keyboard by miditech, and Korg Nano, have been reported to work in the forum. -But hardware and OS differences are not unimportant! Ask in the instrument-store if you can test the keyboard you want to purchase,.......

As I feared, like so many other wonderful pieces of software, this appears to make no provision for older keyboards, nor any help in getting started.

I've been to the online help pages, and they are great if you wanted to create music with  your pc keyboard, wanted to write songs, make arrangements, etc., etc.

What they never do is say "plug your midi keyboard in, click here, and a sample file will play to check your set up. Now click here and here, and try pressing the keys on the keyboard. If nothing comes out of your speakers, there's something wrong with your keyboard."

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-10
You can monitor the midi commands with KMidimon.

To get any midi sound generated by PC you need software synthesiser & sound fonts.
Fluidsynth & fluidsynth-soundfonts packages.
You don't have to use ubuntu studio & jack (if required) can be installed with alsa.

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-03-11
Thanks for the kmidimon idea, Bicyclerboy, I'll try that.
John

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-03-11
Went to Kmidimon/Help/KMidimon Handbook for newbie's instructions -
>  "Could not launch the KDE Help Center Could not find service 'khelpcenter '. "
Not a good start.

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-11
I suspect that most the K* GUI applications are native kde desktop apps..

That error looks to be an unmet dependency for some kde help file display program.

The installed help files are very likely some formatted ascii like html/xml.
If you can find the install location you can just view with gedit or
cat readme.help | less.

---

### Post by JayPeeJay on 2012-03-11
I am unfamiliar with the device you are talking about, but it connects from your midi on the keyboard through your game port on your sound card?  That is pretty old skewl.  I had one of those connections on an old windows pc setup, I don't even have a game port on my pc now so I couldn't even test it to see if it still works.  Everything is USB or firewire now.

I sugguest getting a midi to usb adapter.  You can get them for <$50 I think.  I have a midiman usb uno, I had to get the package midisport from Synaptic for that one, but I think most will simply be plug and play without installing anything at all (like my m audio axiom keyboard for example).  But since I brought that up, I found that controller for about the same price as I paid for the midiman uno adapter so ......... yeah.

I know there is a store in my city that rents out musical equipment for cheap, maybe you could rent out some stuff and do a little troubleshooting......

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-03-12
> **JayPeeJay said:**
> I am unfamiliar with the device you are talking about, but it connects from your midi on the keyboard through your game port on your sound card?  That is pretty old skewl.  I had one of those connections on an old windows pc setup, I don't even have a game port on my pc now so I couldn't even test it to see if it still works.  Everything is USB or firewire now.....

Thank you for taking the time to post, JayPeeJay. 
I'm pretty "old skewl" myself, which might be inferred from my mentioning a CRO (Cathode Ray Oscilloscope for the uninitiated).

> **JayPeeJay said:**
> ....I sugguest getting a midi to usb adapter.....

One of the first things I tried, and, as it didn't work, I started along the path that I spell out in the second sentence of my first post, namely -
> ....trying to see if it works on Windows first, before trying to sort out a Ubuntu set up.


> **JayPeeJay said:**
> 
I know there is a store in my city that rents out musical equipment for cheap, maybe you could rent out some stuff and do a little troubleshooting......

Not quite sure what you're suggesting here by way of "stuff", presumably hardware ?

The troubleshooting method I'm using is to ask the questions I've written in my first post.
For example, if I get no activity shown in the Midi-ox monitor in XP, is it valid to assume the keyboard is duff, or does the absence of a driver produce the same symptom ?
Logic can't differentiate in this case, but someone else's knowledge and experience might.

By the way, "duff" has a variety of meanings around the globe, but for someone of my vintage it means rubbish.

John

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-14
If you are dual booting..
The midi interface in *buntu linux is supported by alsa.
[http://alsa.opensrc.org/AlsaMidi](http://alsa.opensrc.org/AlsaMidi)

amidi -l
amidi -L
With keyboard connected etc...
amidi -d

You can get <$10 USB midi adaptors that are supported by alsa.
You have to check the USB IDs before buying (not easy).

Midi cabling comes from the really cheap & nasty era so it would pay to check continuity etc.

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-03-14
Thanks, BicyclerBoy. 
Bit tied up at the moment with trying to sort out code for my cnc, and teaching SWMBO how to use Shotwell on her pc ;)
When I get my free time, I'll have a try.
John

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-03-14
amidi -l picked up my sound card, but amidi -d, after connecting my keyboard via my gameport, just kept running, without showing a result. I tried with the usb adaptor and with the original gameport connector, but no effect.
One complication when running a usb adaptor - the original power adaptor is a 9v supply, and I've no idea if the usb outputs enough to run this old keyboard.

Anyway, my present situation is that I still have no method that detects any activity, like a data stream, from the keyboard.
May be time to find the CRO, and try to remember how to set it up.
any suggestions as to the sort of frequency the data stream may run at, anyone ?
John

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-14
I would guess that
amidi -d
requires you to point it at the required device, the default may be wrong.

Post your
amidi -l

AFAIK The +5V feed in the midi interface is just enough to bias the next stage opto diode/coupler or BJT, it is not enough to power much..
I think the std requires opto-isolation.
Midi is just a self clocking serial data stream (like S/PDIF) 5V binary logic active low. Uses open collector output & provides pull-up bias on another pin.

If you connect a 300ohm resistor between pins 4& 5 you should see data on both (but more on pin5).
31.25Kbaud

[http://www.gweep.net/~prefect/eng/reference/protocol/midispec.html](http://www.gweep.net/~prefect/eng/reference/protocol/midispec.html)

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-03-15
As requested -

> john@dragon:~$ amidi -l
Dir Device    Name
IO  hw:1,0    C-Media CMI8738 MIDI

John

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-15
From what I read on alsa web resource the cmipci driver defaults the midi port off.
You could try:
sudo modprobe snd-cmipci mpu_port=0x330
amidi -l


The possible values for mpu_port:
mpu_port - 0x300,0x310,0x320,0x330,-1=disable (default)
[http://alsa.opensrc.org/Cmipci](http://alsa.opensrc.org/Cmipci)

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-03-16
Tried your first suggestion (for the port setting ?)
> john@dragon:~$ sudo modprobe snd-cmipci mpu_port=0x330
[sudo] password for john: 
WARNING: All config files need .conf: /etc/modprobe.d/emc2, it will be ignored in a future release.
john@dragon:~$ amidi -l
Dir Device    Name
IO  hw:1,0    C-Media CMI8738 MIDI
john@dragon:~$ 

Could you confirm that the WARNING refers to a change in settings that will affect the emc2 package ?

As it happens, that emc2 is only being used as a gui simulator, so I don't need an output to a machine(it's a cnc machine controller)

Do I need to 'undo' that instruction, and if so, how ?
John

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-03-16
That warning is just revealed by running modprobe...
You did not change anything..
The warning has been listed in your log files every reboot since about 3 years ago.

All files in /etc/modprode.d/ must be named *.conf.
So eventually you must rename emc2 to emc2.conf..

Back to midi:
Running modprobe from terminal only affects this session, it does not stick.
snd-cmipci driver was already loaded, we just changed the driver setup.

It is possible that snd-cmipci needed to be removed & then modprobed..
It is possible that your midi port was already enabled.

alsa documentaion is hard work.
Are there any files here?
ls /proc/asound/card1/stream*
Any bytes of data Rx here?
cat /proc/asound/card1/midi0

The possible values for midi port look to be IO space address (intel legacy)
Could make a loopback cable to test the midi port..should Rx an actual copy of Tx..
Only need to link pin 4 to 4 & pin 5 to 5..
[http://www.google.co.nz/imgres?imgurl=http://pinouts.ru/images/pc2midicable.gif&imgrefurl=http://pinouts.ru/Home/pc2midicable_pinout.shtml&h=398&w=748&sz=9&tbnid=U0y2Oizkb_inaM:&tbnh=62&tbnw=116&prev=/search%3Fq%3Dmidi%2Bpinouts%26tbm%3Disch%26tbo%3Du&zoom=1&q=midi+pinouts&docid=DprY-u7yCQowmM&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DaRjT6C0CaWriAfm9NTFBQ&sqi=2&ved=0CEIQ9QEwAw](http://www.google.co.nz/imgres?imgurl=http://pinouts.ru/images/pc2midicable.gif&imgrefurl=http://pinouts.ru/Home/pc2midicable_pinout.shtml&h=398&w=748&sz=9&tbnid=U0y2Oizkb_inaM:&tbnh=62&tbnw=116&prev=/search%3Fq%3Dmidi%2Bpinouts%26tbm%3Disch%26tbo%3Du&zoom=1&q=midi+pinouts&docid=DprY-u7yCQowmM&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DaRjT6C0CaWriAfm9NTFBQ&sqi=2&ved=0CEIQ9QEwAw)

In a terminal run:
amidi -p hw:1,0 -d
In another terminal run
amidi -p hw:1,0 -S "F0 A5 A5 F7"

Works here with USB midi adapter (hw:1,0,0)..I now need to frame the data with "F0..F7" to make it work..

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-05-03
Had a bit of a medical break, but now trying again,

> alsa documentaion is hard work.
You can say that again ! Managed to get to their pages(now alsa-project.org) but found the text mind-numbing.

Tried your earlier queries, and found -

> john@dragon:~$ amidi -l
Dir Device    Name
IO  hw:2,0    C-Media CMI8738 MIDI

> john@dragon:~$ amidi -d
ALSA lib rawmidi_hw.c:233:(snd_rawmidi_hw_open) open /dev/snd/midiC0D0 failed: No such file or directory
cannot open port "default": No such file or directory


> Are there any files here?
ls /proc/asound/card1/stream*

No file called stream in /proc/asound/card1/


> Any bytes of data Rx here?
cat /proc/asound/card1/midi0

No file called midi0

> The possible values for midi port look to be IO space address (intel legacy)
Could make a loopback cable to test the midi port..should Rx an actual copy of Tx..
Only need to link pin 4 to 4 & pin 5 to 5..
[http://www.google.co.nz/imgres?imgur...ed=0CEIQ9QEwAw](http://www.google.co.nz/imgres?imgur...ed=0CEIQ9QEwAw)

In a terminal run:
amidi -p hw:1,0 -d
In another terminal run
amidi -p hw:1,0 -S "F0 A5 A5 F7"

Works here with USB midi adapter (hw:1,0,0)..I now need to frame the data with "F0..F7" to make it work.. 

I'm afraid I'm losing you here -put it down to my age :confused:

Regards
John

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2012-05-03
Try this in terminal:

sudo rmmod snd-cmipci
sudo modprobe snd-cmipci mpu_port=0x330
amidi -d

Try alternative values for mpu_port until amidi -d works:
mpu_port - 0x300,0x310,0x320,0x330,-1=disable (default)

Could be worth trying:
sudo midi -d 
(in case the permissions are wrong).

If amidi -d does not show any device there is no point trying to proceed.

The end of my previous post was a method to test the midi interface with a simple loopback..no midi instrument needed.

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2012-05-03
> If amidi -d does not show any device there is no point trying to proceed.
This is what I feared.
Thanks for your help, BicyclerBoy.

John

---

