---
title: "11.04 Mounting windows music from LAN on startup"
date: 2011-05-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by aabmas on 2011-05-17
Thank you in advance for any assistance you can provide. I'm pretty new to Ubuntu, but I'm running Natty x64.

My problem is that in order to get Banshee to play my music thats in a Windows system on the LAN, I have to mount the volume first. This works fine if I navigate to the folder every time I startup Ubuntu and then play music through the library in banshee.

However, I want to add a command to mount the volume on startup in the startup applications. 

I tried this in a terminal:

```
sudo mount -a smb://home/p/My Music /home/*username*/Music/Music on Home    
```

This didn't mount anything. In fact, I couldn't even cd to the directory "smb://home/p/My Music". And yes, I did already make the directory "/home/*username*/Music/Music on Home". I'm thinking that my problem is really how do I write the address of a Windows network drive.

So what am I doing wrong? Is this even possible? Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by aabmas on 2011-05-18
Well, I figured it out for anyone who is looking.

First of all, you can't use "//home". You have to use the local IP for the host server, so the path for the directory to mount should be "//192.168.*.***/file/path". 

NOTICE: if the directory has a literal space in the path (" ") then replace the space with a "\040", and yes the the slash is supposed to be opposite the direction of the others. So, if the path was "//192.168.1.100/path/My Music", you would use "//192.168.1.100/path/My\040Music" instead. 

Also, the mount command must be used as follows to mount "//192.168.1.100/path/My\040Music" to "/home/*username*/Music/Network":

```

sudo mount -t smbfs //192.168.1.100/path/My\040Music /home/*username*/Music/Network

```
Upon returning, you will be prompted for a password, but just ignore this and press enter if there is none.

If you want to mount this directory on Ubuntu startup, you must add a line to the /etc/fstab file. So, in a terminal:
```

sudo gedit /etc/fstab

```
At the bottom of the file, you would add:
```

//192.168.1.100/path/My\040Music /home/*username*/Music/Network smbfs username=*windowsuser*,password=*windowspassword* 0 0

```

A few things to notice here; first, if, you have no windows password, substitute the word "defaults" for *windowsuser* and *windowspassword*. Also, be sure to notice that there is NO space between the windows username and "password".

Save the file and exit gedit. To test if this worked, instead of restarting, just enter "sudo mount -a" in a terminal. Ubuntu mounts all of the devices listed in the /etc/fstab file on startup, so that is all you should have to do! :D

---

