---
title: "9.04 X / Nvidia - Very badly broken - drivers?"
date: 2009-06-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by OscarFoxtrot on 2009-06-25
Hi

I am trying to use 9.04 with a newly installed (Gainward) PCI-e nvidia GeForce 8400GS. I got this card specially as it was recommended on here as working. 

With a new install it only works at 800x600. Installing the nvidia drivers from System - Hardware drivers breaks X completely, so I just get a black screen and corrupted square as a static mouse pointer.  Booting using reconfigure/recover graphics configuration doesn't work.

_This also breaks running from Live CD_, I get a black desktop with top and bottom bar, mouse pointer but no menu or icon, though this looks like it's running at 1024x768 or higher. 

_If I try to install from Live CD_ the installer stops after the initial moving-bar logo with a pale blue-grey screen with a different pale blue-grey rectangle at top left. 

The only way I've got back (now) is running as Live CD using 'safe graphics'.

---

### Post by OscarFoxtrot on 2009-06-26
> **OscarFoxtrot said:**
> 
I am trying to use 9.04 with a newly installed (Gainward) PCI-e nvidia GeForce 8400GS. I got this card specially as it was recommended on here as working. 

With a new install it only works at 800x600. Installing the nvidia drivers from System - Hardware drivers breaks X completely, so I just get a black screen and corrupted square as a static mouse pointer.  Booting using reconfigure/recover graphics configuration doesn't work. 

I have tried doing this, which I found online, booting as root

```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx

``` (it didn't like that, I had to specify one, I think nvidia-glx-180?. Then I got about 10 lines of WARNINGs of different things not working)
```

sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-org

```  (the instructions said to select nvidia, it didn't offer me this, just asked about keyboard types)

fairly obviously this didn't work. 

glxinfo | grep direct is supposed to tell me direct rendering = yes, but it isn't. Hardware drivers tells me 'a different version' of the nvidia driver is enabled. Display can't set resolution because it is relying on the nvidia driver but not picking them up.

---

### Post by mattsimis on 2009-06-26
How about the nVidia proprietary drivers, from nvidia.com? Im using them on a Geforce 7900GS. They are very fast in X and Boxee. I had issues with the Ubuntu packaged nvidia drivers too.

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-06-26
I'm having issues with this combination too. Here is my xorg.conf:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Samsung"
	Modelname	"SyncMaster 950P
	Horizsync	30-96
	Vertrefresh	50-160
	modeline "1024x768@85" 94.5 1024 1072 1168 1376 768 769 772 808 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1024x768@75" 78.8 1024 1040 1136 1312 768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1024x768@70" 75.0 1024 1048 1184 1328 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
	modeline "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
	modeline "1152x864@75" 108.0 1152 1216 1344 1600 864 865 868 900 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1280x1024@75" 135.0 1280 1296 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 1011 -hsync +vsync
	modeline "1280x960@85" 148.5 1280 1344 1504 1728 960 961 964 1011 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1280x1024@85" 157.5 1280 1344 1504 1728 1024 1025 1028 1072 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1280x960@75" 129.86 1280 1368 1504 1728 960 961 964 1002 -hsync +vsync
	modeline "1400x1050@60" 122.61 1400 1488 1640 1880 1050 1025 1051 1087 -hsync +vsync
	modeline "1400x1050@75" 155.85 1400 1496 1648 1896 1050 1051 1054 1096 -hsync +vsync
	modeline "1600x1200@65" 175.5 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1600x1200@60" 162.0 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1600x1200@75" 202.5 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1600x1200@70" 189.0 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
	modeline "1792x1344@60" 204.8 1792 1920 2120 2448 1344 1345 1348 1394 -hsync +vsync
	modeline "1856x1392@60" 218.3 1856 1952 2176 2528 1392 1393 1396 1439 -hsync +vsync
	modeline "1920x1440@65" 234.0 1920 2048 2256 2600 1440 1441 1444 1500 -hsync +vsync
	modeline "2048x1536@60" 266.95 2048 2200 2424 2800 1536 1537 1540 1589 -hsync +vsync
	gamma 1.8
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```Anyone here well versed in xorg? Does it matter that the "Monitor" appears before the "Device" section? 
Do the modes need to be added to device section?

---

### Post by OscarFoxtrot on 2009-06-26
> **mattsimis said:**
> How about the nVidia proprietary drivers, from nvidia.com? 

I tried that. Downloaded NVIDIA-Linux-x86-185.18.14-pkg1.run but it refuses to run unless I run it as root. Doesn't want to run under sudo. 

I suppose on the bright side it hasn't made things more broken, which everything else I've tried has.

Maybe I'll just get used to 800x600 ... :cry:

---

### Post by OscarFoxtrot on 2009-06-28
I would be happy to use the propretary drivers if I could get them to work.

Right now, I'd be happy to get 1280x1024 resolution and a PC that I thought would still be working next week ....

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-07-02
I don't suspect the driver. It's more likely the xorg.conf file nVidia creates with its auto configuration. I have one xorg.conf file right at /(root) which doesn't seem to be a standard config file. The xorg.conf file above will give you 1600x1200 but gnome doesn't recognize any of the other sync entries. Does anyone know how to properly name this display section?

---

### Post by Roaring Silence on 2009-07-02
I am having the exact same trouble. I had Ubuntu Hardy running on an old machine and I used the Nvidia Legacy driver for my graphics card, which  you can download from the Nvidia website. It worked well in Hardy. Yesterday I installed Xubuntu Jaunty - what a nightmare. After 36 hours of trying I still haven't got a screen resolution better than 800x600. The same legacy drivers didn't work in Jaunty. I tried Jaunty's own nvidia-glx package for my graphics card. That doesn't work either. 
I tried all the options on this page:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7340951]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7340951")
They didn't work.
It really is too bad that Ubuntu make it so difficult to get a common video driver working, or can't sort out this problem
If I can't get Xubuntu to work properly soon, I shall have to give up, this is a real time drain. I shall either go back to Ubuntu Hardy or try a different flavour of Linux, unless anyone can come up with another solution soon.
Roaring Silence

---

### Post by Roaring Silence on 2009-07-02
Several times I get the error message:

failed to load /usr/lib/xorg/modules/drivers//nvidia_drv.so

yet when I look in that folder nvidia_drv.so is there. So why is it failing to load?

Is that a typo, by the way? Should there be a double forward slash: // before the name of the driver?
If so where can I find the configuration file that gives the path to the driver after xorg.conf has ordered that the nvidia driver be loaded?

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-07-02
The nvidia troubleshooting routine comes up on my ax1700. It asks me to edit the xorg.cong file but I don't know what to name the device in the "device" section. My monitor parameters are right but the xorg.conf file doesn't know what to use to drive that resolution. We need an "X"pert :)

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-07-15
I looked through the error logs and it seems like the automatic xorg.conf file is not being generated correctly. This might be because the computer has dual graphic channels (6150 on board and G100 via pci). Has anyone tried disabling either of the video ports in the bios to see if that gets the auto config script working?

---

### Post by juelze on 2009-07-22
Man, seems like I'm not the only one having issues with Jaunty and Nvidia (I was using an ATI 9800 Pro that worked okay though).  Went to a Nvidia 6600Gt because Nvidia works better with Linux, well, apparently not because I've had nothing but problems and only a few souls trying to help out.  I think I'll try Hardy when I get home and ditch all this Jaunty BS.

---

