---
title: "Mp3?"
date: 2009-01-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Lupinus on 2009-01-04
Hi All,

New here, sorry if it's been answered but I can't seem to figure this out.

I am trying to rip my CD's using MP3 format.  However, nothing it letting me choose that format.  I got sound juicer but it is only giving me the option of flac, wav, and spx.

If I click edit profiles I see MP3, but it wont give it to me in the actual drop down list.

Anyway I can get it to rip MP3's or a different program that will allow this?

I'm running Ubuntu 8.10.

---

### Post by Jorell00 on 2009-01-04
I think thats because you need lame to create mp3's - do a search on lame should tell you how to install it

---

### Post by Lupinus on 2009-01-04
Thanks, that made it work.

New question.  How do I choose the sound quality/bitrate?  I'd rather have a higher bitrate and larger file with better quality.

---

### Post by Major_Kong on 2009-01-04
> **Lupinus said:**
> Thanks, that made it work.

New question.  How do I choose the sound quality/bitrate?  I'd rather have a higher bitrate and larger file with better quality.

You're using the command line ? 

Anyway:
> Quick start (short answer)
[edit] Best quality: "archiving"

-b 320. This is the strongest setting for MP3, with the lowest risk of artifacts. With the exception of a few situations, quality is rarely better than the highest VBR profiles described below. However, 'archiving' music using a lossy format like MP3 is never recommended – no matter how transparent the resulting files might sound. The alternative is to use Lossless formats like WavPack, FLAC etc. that allow true archiving, bit for bit like on the original CD.
[edit] High quality: HiFi, home or quiet listening

-V0 (~230 kbps), -V1 (~210 kbps), -V2 (~190 kbps) or -V3 (~170 kbps) are recommended. These settings will normally produce transparent encoding (transparent = most people can't distinguish the MP3 from the original in an ABX blind test). Audible differences between these presets exist, but are rare.
[edit] Portable: background noise and low bitrate requirement, small sizes

-V4 (~155 kbps), -V5 (~130 kbps) or -V6 (~115 kbps) are recommended. -V6 produces an "acceptable" quality, while -V4 should be close to perceptual transparency.
[edit] Very low bitrate, small sizes: eg. for voice, radio, mono encoding etc.

For very low bitrates, up to 100kbps, ABR is most often the best solution. Use --abr <bitrate> (e.g. --abr 80).

--preset voice is only available in the command line front-end, and is there for compatibility. It is currently mapped to --abr 56 -mm, so that means that the recommendation would be to encode in mono, and use ABR. 
[http://wiki.hydrogenaudio.org/index.php?title=LAME#Quick_start_.28short_answer.29](http://wiki.hydrogenaudio.org/index.php?title=LAME#Quick_start_.28short_answer.29)

---

### Post by Lupinus on 2009-01-04
> You're using the command line ? 
I generally don't because I'm not familiar with the commands.  If I know the command though I have nothing against it. 

I just have no idea where to go in Sound Juicer to change the bitrate/quality

Edit:
Sorry about all the questions I'm still trying to sort all of this out.  

Now that I'm able to rip as MP3 is there anyway (modifying Brasero or getting a different app) that I can burn MP3 CD's?  All I'm seeing on Brasero and K3b is the option to make audio CD's limited to 80 minutes.

---

### Post by Major_Kong on 2009-01-04
Ah, then you'll have to know how to change the gstreamer pipeline soundjuicer uses to encode the mp3 files.

Type 
> gst-inspect-0.10 lame 
in the console to see the options.

EDIT: If all this seems to complicated to you, try rubyripper. 

PS: Do you have the restricted-extras package instaled? I think K3b needs a mp3-plugin in order to burn mp3 files into a Audio-CD.
Or do you want to just burn a data cd containing mp3 files ?

PPS: Try Nero Linux, if you're having trouble adjusting to K3b/Brasero. It has a free evaluation period.

---

### Post by Lupinus on 2009-01-04
I want to burn an MP3 music CD for my car stereo.  Got the rip to work now I just need to get them burned

---

### Post by JackS on 2009-01-04
> **Lupinus said:**
> I generally don't because I'm not familiar with the commands.  If I know the command though I have nothing against it. 

I just have no idea where to go in Sound Juicer to change the bitrate/quality

...

Ubuntu Hoary has the needed "LAME" GStreamer plugin installed by default.
If not, it can be installed in Synaptic.  Which is your ubuntu version?


Start SoundJuicer and choose from the menu:
SoundJuicer>Edit>Preferences
  OutputFormat = CD Quality, MP3
  EditProfiles=
    Profile Name = CD Quality, MP3
    Gstreamer pipeline = audio/x-raw-int,rate=44100,channels=2 ! lame name=enc mode=0 vbr-quality=6 ! id3v2mux
    FileExtension=MP3
    Active=Checked

This works for me using v7.10 - gutsy.  Hope this helps get you started.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-01-04
> **Lupinus said:**
> I want to burn an MP3 music CD for my car stereo.  Got the rip to work now I just need to get them burned

simply make a data cd--use any program (brasero, gnomebaker, k3b,  etc), or drag and drop them with nautilus cd/dvd creator

---

