---
title: "Getting 1360x768 resolution to work"
date: 2009-06-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by wasted4life on 2009-06-05
I installed Ubuntu 9.04 couple days ago and everything works like a charm but cannot get 1360x768 resolution to work. 
I use Mirai 32" HD-Ready TV with Nvidia 9800 GT 
There's 1360x768 resolution in nvidia-settings but cannot use it because when I do : all colors are messed up and screen is too far to the left. 
I have tried for couple days to get it work by looking different forums and modifying xorg.conf but I haven't use linux before so... 
Can anyone help me? 

My Xorg.conf

Section "Monitor"

    # 1360x768 @ 60 Hz (EDID) HSync: 47.7121 kHz
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
    ModeLine       "1360x768" 85.50 1360 1424 1536 1792 768 771 778 795 -hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9800 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Modes      "1024x768@60" "1360x768@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "1360x768 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "1360x768_60 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Scunizi on 2009-06-05
Did you get that xorg file from someplace on the net? or was it generated by something that you ran?  If it was the first you might consider backing it up (sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup).  Once that is done, from terminal run sudo nvidia-xconfig and have it write another xorg for you.  After that run nvidia-settings.  If it doesn't come up then sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings and try again.  

If all else fails you might consider using the latest driver direct from nvidia.  There is a little effort to install but not really difficult if you've been messing with xorg.  Your card would certainly be better supported with it then the one packaged with ubuntu.  On Jaunty I think it's 180.51 which wasn't bad but the latest is 180.60 as of this writing.  The downside to installing the driver direct from nvidia is anytime you get a kernel upgrade you'll have to reinstall it.  Not a biggie rally.

---

