---
title: "[9.04] Flash + Firefox = 100% CPU + stuttering"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-03
I can't play flash videos on Firefox or any other browser on Jaunty. The CPU usage goes over the roof, the video stutters and freeze, Firefox becomes unresponsive (not crashed) and the only solution is to close the tab.

If I download the video, I can no longer play it on gnome-mplayer or smplayer. I just hear the sound. I can play it on Totem, but it behaves like Firefox. The only player that I can play the video is VLC. It plays nice and without using too much CPU.

Any idea why this is happening?

---

### Post by Antlers on 2009-05-03
I have almost the same problem.  I have no problem watching something I've already downloaded, but anything streaming eats up most of both cores of a dual core cpu, (youtube, etc).  This happens in any browser, firefox, galeon, chromium.

---

### Post by hesperus on 2009-05-03
have you tried the medibuntu repositories?
probably won't help the flash situation but might help the other players

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-03
> **hesperus said:**
> have you tried the medibuntu repositories?
probably won't help the flash situation but might help the other players

Yes. First thing I do after a new install is to enable medibuntu repository and then install all  software again, using *dselect-upgrade*. Everything was fine in Hardy, but not in Jaunty.

---

### Post by diedo on 2009-05-03
you can reomve adobe plugin and install swfdec-mozilla

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-03
> **diedo said:**
> you can reomve adobe plugin and install swfdec-mozilla

Already went that road. Removed all flash stuff then tested swfdec-mozilla and mozilla-plugin-gnash, also combined flashplugin-nonfree-extrasound (aka libflashsupport) with flashplugin-installer, but nothing works. From this list, I currently have only flashplugin-installer.

I recently observed that not all videos are really bad, depends on the site. Some are playable, but not as they used to be and the CPU usage is always high.

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2009-05-03
I had this in Ibex, it was video driver problem.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-03
> **Ringi said:**
> I had this in Ibex, it was video driver problem.

I have removed nVidia 180 driver and installed 177. No joy. It is better, but the problem persists.

---

### Post by xc3RnbFO8P on 2009-05-03
Here is a bug report:
[http://https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/272811]("http://https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/272811")
and
> 

This is due to the limitations of xv currently.

From the swfdec faq:
"Here's the problem: As you might know, hardware has a dedicated method to
display video, called the video overlay. That is what xv and in turn mplayer and
ffmpeg use. It has the following features: * reserve a rectangular region on the
screen for video display * move a memory rectangular image of YUV video data to
that region and scale it to fit. That's not a lot and works well enough for
video, but not for Flash. Flash allows rendering stuff on top of the video (the
end screen on Youtube for example has the last video image shine through) and it
allows translucent videos and drawing non-rectangular parts of videos. All of
this is not supported by xv, which is why we decided to not go through the pain
to use it. The unfortunate side effect is that currently a lot more horsepower
is required to display a video via Swfdec.

The end goal is to use OpenGL and its video extensions to speed up Flash video.
That should make it as fast as xv for graphic cards that provide these features
(almost all current graphic cards do). But then, there is currently no OpenGL
cairo backend, even though there's constantly talk about doing one." 

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-03
> **Ringi said:**
> Here is a bug report:
[http://https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/272811]("http://https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/272811")
and

That explains why flash is hard to deal with, but not why I hadn't this issue with Hardy Heron and have it now with Jaunty.

---

### Post by Zarok on 2009-05-04
I have a similar problem on my Eee 1000-laptop. Every time I open a site with flash it bumps the cpu usage to 100%. It usually finishes playing the file, but when I try closing the tab it completely freezes firefox, I have to manually kill the process with sudo kill AND reload alsa for audio to work. Incredibly annoying. I first had this bug after using Ibex for a while, it first worked but then started failing on me, and a clean reinstall to Jaunty didn't help. Any ideas?

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-04
I have solved half of the problem, I guess. Python 2.5 was using too much CPU. 

Jaunty comes with Python 2.6, but some applications I had on Hardy still uses Python 2.5. I might be wrong but I think the other applications that could use Python 2.6 were actually using Python 2.5 or this version was loaded together with 2.6 ( i don't know exactly how this thing works). Anyways, I removed Python 2.5, together with the applications that were dependent on it (guake, mimms and ontv) and now the system looks much more responsive. I tried to play a flash video and it works. There are still some CPU spikes for a few seconds, which make the movie stutters, but is much better than before.

I still need to test some stuff, but I think removing Python 2.5 helped a lot.

If you decide to do the same, first check if there isn't any important applications that depends on Python 2.5 and that you actually have Python 2.6 installed, otherwise you might brake your system. Maybe someone more experienced could vouch for this and explain how these multiple versions of Python works.

I still need to improve flash.

---

### Post by dru72fl on 2009-05-14
Has anyone fixed this issue with 9.04 as of today?

---

### Post by zika on 2009-05-14
You might try:```
sudo mkdir /etc/adobe
*echo* "*OverrideGPUValidation*=true" >~/mms.cfg
sudo mv ~/mms.cfg /etc/adobe/
```
(from [http://blogs.adobe.com/penguin.swf/2008/08/secrets_of_the_mmscfg_file_1.html](http://blogs.adobe.com/penguin.swf/2008/08/secrets_of_the_mmscfg_file_1.html) and [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/346289](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/346289))
I did not have the problem with Flash but it did speed it up.

---

### Post by Anvarich on 2009-05-14
I have this issue too, but in Opera flash plugin work properly. 10-20% CPU usage.

---

### Post by ralphwroberts on 2009-05-14
I've tried everything above and everything else I could find in these forums ... Flash just does not work with Firefox, Opera, Ephiany, Galeon, and Lord knows what else in 9.04.

Definitely a nasty frustrating big bad BUG.

Anyone got ANY idea of progress in fixing it?

Thanks.

---

### Post by madey on 2009-05-14
I've got the same with Kubuntu 9.04. It works properly for a first minute and it starts to stutter after a while. This trick with 'OverrideGPUValidation' doesn't work for me either.

---

### Post by Labello on 2009-05-14
hi folks!

maybe i have a solution. this worked just for me. i use a atifiregl5200 with the opensourcedriver(the only one that supports my card) and an old P4.
I wals also annoyed by choppy youtube-playback and when it wasn't choppy it played at double speed but without sound, which made clips also unwatchable. BOTH issues where fixed with the following method:

1. I installed Swiftfox. I installed the debs that fitted my architecture from their repo, without having firefox installed.(i did an CLI installation with no browser at all.)
[http://getswiftfox.com/deb.htm](http://getswiftfox.com/deb.htm)

2. Then i followed this method to remove pulse to avoid the fast playback of all media. but i still didn't have any sound in youtube.
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-remove-pulse-audio-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-remove-pulse-audio-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex.html)

3. the following post explains how to set a certain audio-device for all playback as standart. It uses just ALSA and OSS as far as i know. this fixed the sound issue in youtube and now all my apps play sound smoothly
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?p=3096372#post3096372](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/showthread.php?p=3096372#post3096372)

4. I enabled direct rendering and compositing via adding these lines to my xorg.conf
> 
Section "DRI"
        Mode 0666
EndSection
        
Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Now I can watch youtube-clips even in HD, which is really HUGE, without problems.

Maybe these links help you out! Feel free to ask. I will try to answer your questions.

---

### Post by Anvarich on 2009-05-18
All described methods not working for me. In any browser I have 100% CPU load and HD mode in youtube doesn't work. Any suggestions ? may be post in launchpad bug?

---

### Post by bigmbywater on 2009-05-21
So I have had the problem recently, but I've fixed it for myself.

I've went in and removed swfdec packages, and left only the flashplugin-installer and flashplugin-nonfree packages.

Not sure if it'll fix it for you guys, but it has for me.

Good luck!

---

### Post by Anvarich on 2009-05-21
> **bigmbywater said:**
> So I have had the problem recently, but I've fixed it for myself.

I've went in and removed swfdec packages, and left only the flashplugin-installer and flashplugin-nonfree packages.

Not sure if it'll fix it for you guys, but it has for me.

Good luck!

All gnome packages dependence on swfdec packages. apt-get remove swfdec* will remove all gnome. I can dpkg --force-all -r swfdec but every time after apt-get upgrade, swfdec will be installed. Can any body  explain other methods remove swfdec or don't use its library?

---

### Post by treewell on 2009-05-22
I am a pretty novice Ubuntu user but I seem to have located the source of the issue on my machine:

I upgraded to Jaunty having had no previous issues, but started getting issues after the upgrade.

After trying many of the above fixes I gave up and reinstalled Jaunty from scratch.  This seemed to cure the problem completely.

I then realised that I had not got the Nvidia drivers installed so I installed them and the problems returned.

So this suggests that the problem is specifically a combination of the Nvidea drivers + Jaunty.

I don't have any magic solutions.  None of the previous fixes (at least those that I understood) worked.  I seem to be stuck with the option of using the generic video drivers with the poor performance accociated with them.

B.

---

### Post by Anvarich on 2009-05-22
I'm post bug here [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/swfdec-mozilla/+bug/379196](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/swfdec-mozilla/+bug/379196). Any commets to bu are welcome.

---

### Post by rainwalker on 2009-05-22
> **Anvarich said:**
> All gnome packages dependence on swfdec packages. apt-get remove swfdec* will remove all gnome. I can dpkg --force-all -r swfdec but every time after apt-get upgrade, swfdec will be installed. Can any body  explain other methods remove swfdec or don't use its library?
I don't have it installed and Flash works, though I've had slightly worse performance with Flash since doing a fresh install of Jaunty (worked almost perfectly on Hardy). I never removed it, the package just wasn't installed from the beginning. Maybe your dependencies are messed up?

---

### Post by Anvarich on 2009-05-23
> **rainwalker said:**
> I don't have it installed and Flash works, though I've had slightly worse performance with Flash since doing a fresh install of Jaunty (worked almost perfectly on Hardy). I never removed it, the package just wasn't installed from the beginning. Maybe your dependencies are messed up?
Hmm, I try to remove not official repositories from sources of apt, may be thats is solution.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-23
> **Labello said:**
> 4. I enabled direct rendering and compositing via adding these lines to my xorg.conf

Now I can watch youtube-clips even in HD, which is really HUGE, without problems.

Maybe these links help you out! Feel free to ask. I will try to answer your questions.

Thanks. That definitely improved things a lot. I'm also able to watch videos in HD, Firefox is loading much faster and more responsive. I still have trouble in some sites, but is good enough.

Could you please explain what these xorg modifications do and why they improve overall performance?

---

### Post by FrankieFrankie on 2009-05-25
> **zika said:**
> You might try:```
sudo mkdir /etc/adobe
*echo* "*OverrideGPUValidation*=true" >~/mms.cfg
sudo mv ~/mms.cfg /etc/adobe/
```
(from [http://blogs.adobe.com/penguin.swf/2008/08/secrets_of_the_mmscfg_file_1.html](http://blogs.adobe.com/penguin.swf/2008/08/secrets_of_the_mmscfg_file_1.html) and [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/346289](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/346289))
I did not have the problem with Flash but it did speed it up.

Thanks, this worked for me!

---

### Post by Radhavictory on 2009-05-28
Hello guys,

I followed the advice on this website

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/speed-up-firefox-web-browser.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/speed-up-firefox-web-browser.html)

and it worked like magic! I suggest you go have a look too.
Hope you have the same result, ciao!

---

### Post by HunterThomson on 2009-06-06
It seems I have fixed the problem. I just watched a whole 1 1/2 hr movie on Hulu and didn't have a problem.

This is what I did.

First I...

```
sudo mkdir /etc/adobe
echo "OverrideGPUValidation=true" >~/mms.cfg
sudo mv ~/mms.cfg /etc/adobe/
```

After this, in hulu it would be the same problem kind of. Like, it would not play the video but play the sound then after the sound was finished it would play the video realy fast. This would happen before. 

The thing that changed was the when it would freak out and do that the CUP "Did Not" go to 100%.... So, I thought "Well half way there..."

Then I was thinking, "hell I'll try getting rid of Pulse Audio. That is sound and sound seems to be the only problem now..."

So, I did this...

```
sudo apt-get remove pulseaudio
sudo apt-get install esound
```

and this...

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/Xsession.d/70pulseaudio /etc/X11/Xsession.d/70pulseaudio.back
sudo rm /etc/X11/Xsession.d/70pulseaudio
```

Now I just watched a full 1.5hr long movie on hulu.com and even paused it and watched in full screen (but I kept it small for most of it to watch the CPU in conky.

It did get jumpy a vary little bit form time to time but no big deal. Other then that, it is working fine now.

So, If I have the problem pop up again I'll post here.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-06
I think you shouldn't remove pulseaudio. You could try to fix it following [this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578). 

I'm currently trying to find a way to disable pulseaudio, instead of removing it.

---

### Post by zika on 2009-06-06
> **lovinglinux said:**
> I think you shouldn't remove pulseaudio. You could try to fix it following [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578"). 

I'm currently trying to find a way to disable pulseaudio, instead of removing it.
I haven't tried yet but would renaming /etc/init.d/pulseaudio do the trick? Or moving it to a safe place?

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-06
Just an update:

Removing pulsaudio also removes ubuntu-desktop which, according to Synaptic description:

> 
It is also used to help ensure proper upgrades, so it is recommended that
it not be removed.

Installing esound also removes ubuntu-desktop.

There is a good explanation of what it does at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=378140](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=378140)

It seems that it only affects upgrades and you can install it again just before upgrading.

I think I'm gonna try removing pulseaudio too :)

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-06
I removed pulsaudio and installed esound. It's much better now. I can even watch videos on crappy web flash players and YouTube HD on fullscreen.

Thanks for the tip.

EDIT: I can even watch Youtube HD while running rkhunter, which is CPU hungry. Now I will try to transcode a video and watch YouTube at the same time :)

---

### Post by HunterThomson on 2009-06-06
Broken agin. I jumped the gun. All that did not fix it :(

---

### Post by HunterThomson on 2009-06-06
> **zika said:**
> I haven't tried yet but would renaming /etc/init.d/pulseaudio do the trick? Or moving it to a safe place?

You could even just stop it to see if that fixes the problem. It didn't for me though....


```
sudo /etc/init.d/pulseaudio stop
```

Pulseaudio is a outdated audio server. ALSA is way way way better. Ubuntu just install any crap the devs can find weather they work or not.

---

### Post by zika on 2009-06-06
> **HunterThomson said:**
> You could even just stop it to see if that fixes the problem. It didn't for me though....
```
sudo /etc/init.d/pulseaudio stop
```Pulseaudio is a outdated audio server. ALSA is way way way better. Ubuntu just install any crap the devs can find weather they work or not.
If You take a look at [http://http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7382547#post7382547]("http://http//ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7382547#post7382547") it looks like PulseAudio is here to stay ... :) If I want to listen to more than one source (music and just a gllimpse on some news, for example) I can not do that with ALSA ...

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-06
> **zika said:**
> If You take a look at [http://http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7382547#post7382547]("http://http//ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7382547#post7382547") it looks like PulseAudio is here to stay ... :) If I want to listen to more than one source (music and just a gllimpse on some news, for example) I can not do that with ALSA ...

I'm listening music with rhythmbox, playing a video with smplayer, watching YouTube videos and TV at the same time. Is that what you mean?

---

### Post by zika on 2009-06-06
> **lovinglinux said:**
> I'm listening music with rhythmbox, playing a video with smplayer, watching YouTube videos and TV at the same time. Is that what you mean?
I do. Maybe I was not trying it properly or maybe the problem is that I have USB DAT ... who knows, I will try it again ... :)
**update1:** No, I've tried again, it looks like that this USB DAT (ProJect = Burr-Brown Japan PCM2702) can not handle multiple sources  with ALSA. With PulseAudio it does. I mean PulseAudio does that for it.
If I am to be honest I do not have great problems with PulseAudio so ...   [B]
update2:[/B] No, ALSA configured but no sond sharing. ALSA is the latest version 1.0.20. FF is 3.5 and 3.6. Kernel is 2.6.30.060609. No problem, just checking if I was right the first time. I'll keep trying just for the sake of it ... :)
**conclusion:** There is a substantial gain in responsiveness of my machine when switched to ALSA ... PulseAudio resamples a lot without real need. Even with resample-method=copy ...

---

### Post by sandydoull on 2009-06-17
This seems to be linux-wide issue (choppy flash video dont know about audio issue) that has existed in as far back as version 9 of adobe flash player. Symptoms are choppy video playback especially when viewing fullscreen videos from sites such as youtube, BBCiplayer, hulu.com etc.

It might help if everyone who is having this issue goes to adobe's support site and votes for the bug to be worked on: [http://bugs.adobe.com/jira/browse/FP-1692](http://bugs.adobe.com/jira/browse/FP-1692)

Has anyone found a workaround for this issue, if so you might want to let them know over at adobe :lol:

---

### Post by pyutaros on 2009-06-19
Subscribing.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-19
> **pyutaros said:**
> Subscribing.

You don't need to post to subscribe. Click the "Thread Tools" menu above the first post and it will provide an option to subscribe.

---

### Post by pyutaros on 2009-06-19
Thanks.  Didn't notice that before.

---

### Post by fishtoprecords on 2009-06-20
> **bigmbywater said:**
> I've went in and removed swfdec packages, and left only the flashplugin-installer and flashplugin-nonfree packages.

This worked perfectly for me. Thanks

---

### Post by nkv.hex on 2009-06-22
> **lovinglinux said:**
> I can't play flash videos on Firefox or any other browser on Jaunty. The CPU usage goes over the roof, the video stutters and freeze, Firefox becomes unresponsive (not crashed) and the only solution is to close the tab.

If I download the video, I can no longer play it on gnome-mplayer or smplayer. I just hear the sound. I can play it on Totem, but it behaves like Firefox. The only player that I can play the video is VLC. It plays nice and without using too much CPU.

Any idea why this is happening?

The default flash plugin in jaunty is set to swfdec which is bit buggy at present. Remove the package mozilla-swfdec  and libswfdec. Install adobe flash plugin from adobe's site. It should fix the problem.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-22
> **nkv.hex said:**
> The default flash plugin in jaunty is set to swfdec which is bit buggy at present. Remove the package mozilla-swfdec  and libswfdec. Install adobe flash plugin from adobe's site. It should fix the problem.

I know your intentions are good, but you should read the other posts in the thread before posting, not just the first one.

---

### Post by monkey23 on 2009-07-01
> **lovinglinux said:**
> I know your intentions are good, but you should read the other posts in the thread before posting, not just the first one.

This worked for me.
From synaptic package manager, I uninstalled swfdec. I already had adobe flash installed. All good.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-07-01
> **monkey23 said:**
> This worked for me.
From synaptic package manager, I uninstalled swfdec. I already had adobe flash installed. All good.

That's not the point. [I know it works](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1193567), but that's not the issue. [This has already been discussed several posts before this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7206876&postcount=6). That's what I'm talking about ;)

---

### Post by Vesperatus on 2009-08-17
Hi, 

I seem to have the very same issue. 

I start a flash movie and a couple of minutes into it, cpu it's 100% and browser becomes very slow. Just killing the tab or going to another web page immediately stops the 100% cpu.

I uninstalled pulse and installed esound
I added the couple of lines to xorg.conf
I did  the trick with the mms.cfg file. 
I uninstalled python2.5 only to realize I still need python2.5-minimal in order to run VirtualBox.

Anyone found something else that might fix this ?  I'm running flash 10. should I revert to flash 9 ?

I installed flashplugin-nonfree and also tried the one from the adobe download page.

Still cant use half the web on my ubuntu .....

---

### Post by sandydoull on 2009-08-17
What kind of hardware are you running on? If you are using a mobile processor that supports frequency scaling there the may be a fix which involves modifying the **up_threshold** entry in /etc/init.d/ondemand, it worked for my acer aspire one which has an intel atom processor, i now have watchable fullscreen flash, search these forums for more info.

> **Vesperatus said:**
> Hi, 

I seem to have the very same issue. 

I start a flash movie and a couple of minutes into it, cpu it's 100% and browser becomes very slow. Just killing the tab or going to another web page immediately stops the 100% cpu.

I uninstalled pulse and installed esound
I added the couple of lines to xorg.conf
I did  the trick with the mms.cfg file. 
I uninstalled python2.5 only to realize I still need python2.5-minimal in order to run VirtualBox.

Anyone found something else that might fix this ?  I'm running flash 10. should I revert to flash 9 ?

I installed flashplugin-nonfree and also tried the one from the adobe download page.

Still cant use half the web on my ubuntu .....

---

### Post by Vesperatus on 2009-08-17
> **sandydoull said:**
> What kind of hardware are you running on? If you are using a mobile processor that supports frequency scaling there the may be a fix which involves modifying the **up_threshold** entry in /etc/init.d/ondemand, it worked for my acer aspire one which has an intel atom processor, i now have watchable fullscreen flash, search these forums for more info.

I have an intel core 2 duo. The hardware is a vostro 1720 from Dell. Not sure about frequency scaling. I will check it...

---

### Post by Vesperatus on 2009-08-18
I started the Cpu scaling monitor.

while watching a video, I can see the scale go from 800 to 1.6 to 2.4 Ghz. It keeps going up and down, always changing. At some point, it will kick to 2.4, stay there for a couple of seconds and the problem starts. After that, the scale will go back to anywhere between 800 and 2.4Ghz. Firefox becomes unresponsive, the video is unwatchable, etc. I tried locking the frequency at 2.4 and after a while, I have the same issue. 

What is really weird is that the video doesnt even need to be playing for the issue to appear. I just have to let the video buffer and it will happen...

Any other ideas or should I try my luck with vista :(

---

### Post by yotam on 2009-08-19
So far, after installing:

```
# dpkg-query -s adobe-flashplugin
Package: adobe-flashplugin
Status: install ok installed
Priority: optional
Section: partner/web
Installed-Size: 10120
Maintainer: DL-Flash Player Ubuntu <FlashPlayerUbuntu@adobe.com>
Architecture: i386
Version: 10.0.32.18-1jaunty1
Replaces: flashplugin (<< 6)
Provides: flashplugin-nonfree
...
```

the stuttering problem I was experiencing is gone.

---

### Post by Vesperatus on 2009-08-19
> **yotam said:**
> So far, after installing:

```
# dpkg-query -s adobe-flashplugin
Package: adobe-flashplugin
Status: install ok installed
Priority: optional
Section: partner/web
Installed-Size: 10120
Maintainer: DL-Flash Player Ubuntu <FlashPlayerUbuntu@adobe.com>
Architecture: i386
Version: 10.0.32.18-1jaunty1
Replaces: flashplugin (<< 6)
Provides: flashplugin-nonfree
...
```

the stuttering problem I was experiencing is gone.


What media did you add ?

```
sudo apt-get install adobe-flashplugin
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Package adobe-flashplugin is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
E: Package adobe-flashplugin has no installation candidate

```


****** EDIT ******

Well.. went back to downloading the .deb from adobe. Testing and i'll be back. Just add another kernel update too.

```
dpkg-query -s adobe-flashplugin
Package: adobe-flashplugin
Status: install ok installed
Priority: optional
Section: web
Installed-Size: 10120
Maintainer: Ubuntu MOTU Developers <ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com>
Architecture: i386
Version: 10.0.32.18-1
Replaces: flashplugin (<< 6)
Provides: flashplugin-nonfree
Depends: debconf | debconf-2.0, wget, fontconfig, libnspr4-dev, libnss3-dev, libcurl3, libatk1.0-0 (>= 1.13.2), libc6 (>= 2.6-1), libcairo2 (>= 1.4.0), libfontconfig1 (>= 2.4.0), libfreetype6 (>= 2.3.5), libgcc1 (>= 1:4.2.1), libglib2.0-0 (>= 2.14.0), libgtk2.0-0 (>= 2.12.0), libpango1.0-0 (>= 1.18.3), libstdc++6 (>= 4.2.1), libx11-6, libxext6, libxt6
Suggests: firefox, konqueror-nsplugins, x-ttcidfont-conf, msttcorefonts, ttf-bitstream-vera | ttf-dejavu, ttf-xfree86-nonfree, xfs (>= 1:1.0.1-5)
Conflicts: flashplugin (<< 6), xfs (<< 1:1.0.1-5), flashplayer-mozilla
Description: Adobe Flash Player plugin version 10
 This package will download the Flash Player from Adobe. It is a
 Netscape/Mozilla type plugin. Any browser based on Netscape or Mozilla can use
 the Flash plugin. This package officially supports the following browsers:
 .
 Firefox 2.x, Firefox 3.x, SeaMonkey 1.11
Original-Maintainer: DL-Flash Player Ubuntu <FlashPlayerUbuntu@adobe.com>

```



****** EDIT ******

Same thing.
Time to switch OS i guess...

---

### Post by sandydoull on 2009-08-19
try the up_threshold fix before you ditch Ubuntu, I had similar cpu scaling behaviour and also tried locking the CPU to full speed. If you dont get it working the only other option is windoze, this appears to be a linux-wide problem:(

Here's a link to a blog post I made describing how to apply the fix: [http://blog.sandydoull.com/#post3](http://blog.sandydoull.com/#post3)
and the thread where i found the fix: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1111090&highlight=up_threshold](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1111090&highlight=up_threshold)

What isn't clear in the forum post is that you can add the entry to the file if it is  missing, otherwise you just need to adjust the value, i currently have a value of 60.

> **Vesperatus said:**
> What media did you add ?

```
sudo apt-get install adobe-flashplugin
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Package adobe-flashplugin is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
E: Package adobe-flashplugin has no installation candidate

```****** EDIT ******

Well.. went back to downloading the .deb from adobe. Testing and i'll be back. Just add another kernel update too.

```
dpkg-query -s adobe-flashplugin
Package: adobe-flashplugin
Status: install ok installed
Priority: optional
Section: web
Installed-Size: 10120
Maintainer: Ubuntu MOTU Developers <ubuntu-motu@lists.ubuntu.com>
Architecture: i386
Version: 10.0.32.18-1
Replaces: flashplugin (<< 6)
Provides: flashplugin-nonfree
Depends: debconf | debconf-2.0, wget, fontconfig, libnspr4-dev, libnss3-dev, libcurl3, libatk1.0-0 (>= 1.13.2), libc6 (>= 2.6-1), libcairo2 (>= 1.4.0), libfontconfig1 (>= 2.4.0), libfreetype6 (>= 2.3.5), libgcc1 (>= 1:4.2.1), libglib2.0-0 (>= 2.14.0), libgtk2.0-0 (>= 2.12.0), libpango1.0-0 (>= 1.18.3), libstdc++6 (>= 4.2.1), libx11-6, libxext6, libxt6
Suggests: firefox, konqueror-nsplugins, x-ttcidfont-conf, msttcorefonts, ttf-bitstream-vera | ttf-dejavu, ttf-xfree86-nonfree, xfs (>= 1:1.0.1-5)
Conflicts: flashplugin (<< 6), xfs (<< 1:1.0.1-5), flashplayer-mozilla
Description: Adobe Flash Player plugin version 10
 This package will download the Flash Player from Adobe. It is a
 Netscape/Mozilla type plugin. Any browser based on Netscape or Mozilla can use
 the Flash plugin. This package officially supports the following browsers:
 .
 Firefox 2.x, Firefox 3.x, SeaMonkey 1.11
Original-Maintainer: DL-Flash Player Ubuntu <FlashPlayerUbuntu@adobe.com>

```****** EDIT ******

Same thing.
Time to switch OS i guess...

---

### Post by Vesperatus on 2009-08-19
> **sandydoull said:**
> try the up_threshold fix before you ditch Ubuntu, I had similar cpu scaling behaviour and also tried locking the CPU to full speed. If you dont get it working the only other option is windoze, this appears to be a linux-wide problem:(

Here's a link to a blog post I made describing how to apply the fix: [http://blog.sandydoull.com/#post3](http://blog.sandydoull.com/#post3)
and the thread where i found the fix: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1111090&highlight=up_threshold](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1111090&highlight=up_threshold)

What isn't clear in the forum post is that you can add the entry to the file if it is  missing, otherwise you just need to adjust the value, i currently have a value of 60.

Thanks.  Added the value, rebooted and still the same thing. I'm pretty sure I didnt had that issue when I first installed Jaunty. One update has messed up flash and I cant find what it was...

This falls in the "wtf" category ....

---

### Post by oogmsn on 2009-08-20
ok not sure if this might work for some of u but did for me...im on jaunty with flash 10.0 r32 and this were causing lots of problem for me for couple of mths till i tried this simple step
I just open up synaptic and search for flash under all...then i leave only adobe-flashplugin there and uninstall the rest (for my case there is only one i.e. libswfdec-0.8.0) - hope that helps...tis is a truly pain in the bum for me previously!

---

### Post by Vesperatus on 2009-08-20
Thanks for your time oogmsn.

However, I allready made sure that I only had adobe-flashplugin installed. I also double checked juste now. 

](*,)](*,)](*,)

---

### Post by yotam on 2009-08-20
> **yotam said:**
> So far, after installing:

```
# dpkg-query -s adobe-flashplugin
Package: adobe-flashplugin
Status: install ok installed
Priority: optional
Section: partner/web
Installed-Size: 10120
Maintainer: DL-Flash Player Ubuntu <FlashPlayerUbuntu@adobe.com>
Architecture: i386
Version: 10.0.32.18-1jaunty1
Replaces: flashplugin (<< 6)
Provides: flashplugin-nonfree
...
```

the stuttering problem I was experiencing is gone.

Sorry, I take this back. I got stuttering noise again inside firefox.
Restarting firefox, seems to 'solve' this annoying problem.

---

### Post by Vesperatus on 2009-11-05
9.10 solved my flash issues. On of the 1834 downloaded packages did anyway ;)

---

### Post by sandydoull on 2009-11-05
That's good to hear, I wonder which package it was that fixed the issue, my custom ubuntu (EEEbuntu) is switching to debian for their next update and have blocked  9.10 cos it will break something. 

I wouldnt mind staying with ubuntu, but also like the stripped down-lightness of eeebuntu base, not sure how to acheive this with a straight ubunttu install without ending up breaking something!:mad:

> **Vesperatus said:**
> 9.10 solved my flash issues. On of the 1834 downloaded packages did anyway ;)

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-11-05
> **Vesperatus said:**
> 9.10 solved my flash issues. On of the 1834 downloaded packages did anyway ;)

It didn't solve mine. I'm currently fighting flash again right now. I switched ISP and the new one provides a lot of videos, since it is owned by the biggest TV channel in the country. But I can't watch the videos due to flash high CPU usage and lag. It's driving me crazy.

What is really weird is that I have a low-end notebook with only 256 Mb of ram that works perfectly with compiz disabled. The flash CPU usage is still high, but it doesn't stutters. I tried to do the same on my desktop machine, which has a more powerful CPU, 2 GB DDR2 RAM and nvidia 7300GT graphics card, but it doesn't work. No matter what I do, no matter which browser I use, flash still uses a lot of CPU and stutters. It is unwatchable. After a while I have to kill the browser, otherwise the entire system becomes sluggish. I'm starting to hate Adobe.

EDIT: apparently, the dust in the fan was a contributing factor. I clean it up frequently, so it wasn't actually growing spider webs, but cleaning it today helped. I can at least watch the videos now.

---

### Post by phillw on 2009-11-26
> **lovinglinux said:**
> It didn't solve mine. I'm currently fighting flash again right now. I switched ISP and the new one provides a lot of videos, since it is owned by the biggest TV channel in the country. But I can't watch the videos due to flash high CPU usage and lag. It's driving me crazy.

What is really weird is that I have a low-end notebook with only 256 Mb of ram that works perfectly with compiz disabled. The flash CPU usage is still high, but it doesn't stutters. I tried to do the same on my desktop machine, which has a more powerful CPU, 2 GB DDR2 RAM and nvidia 7300GT graphics card, but it doesn't work. No matter what I do, no matter which browser I use, flash still uses a lot of CPU and stutters. It is unwatchable. After a while I have to kill the browser, otherwise the entire system becomes sluggish. I'm starting to hate Adobe.

EDIT: apparently, the dust in the fan was a contributing factor. I clean it up frequently, so it wasn't actually growing spider webs, but cleaning it today helped. I can at least watch the videos now.


Hot == bad.  You might also want to check the fan for the GPU, if there is one fitted.

Phill.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-11-26
> **phillw said:**
> Hot == bad.  You might also want to check the fan for the GPU, if there is one fitted.

Phill.

The fan was fine, but I decided to upgrade the CPU. I have got a Core 2 Duo 7500 and everything is fine now. I guess my old Pentium was reaching end of life of something, because everything is amazingly smooth now. I can even encode a video while watching flash.

---

### Post by Sciamano on 2009-12-04
Ok, I've found something that works. I had the stuttering problem in Firefox 3 and flash movies. When I start the PC, everything goes fine, then after a few hours the stuttering shows up.
It might sound stupid but I noticed that going to Firefox menu Tools -> Add-ons -> Plugins and disabling, and re-enabling the Shockwave Flash plugin, the stuttering stops and flash videos play fine again.
Might not solve the problem, but it's a workaround, at least for me.

---

