---
title: "12.04 HDMI Sound Malibal P150em SE"
date: 2012-07-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by gflam on 2012-07-08
Hi I have a Malibal P150em SE laptop which i'm currently running ubuntu on. It has a Nvidia GTX670m graphics card. I plugged it into my Panasonic tv today and found there was no sound over hdmi. I checked sound settings and hdmi was not there as an output only Digital Output and Speakers were in the list for output.

I googled around however i'm kind of new to ubuntu and have already broke unity more times than i'd like to admit. So when i found nothing pertaining to my exact card i figured i'd ask here since i don't need to break my system today.

My output from aplay -l is this
```
[FONT=monospace]
[/FONT]george@george-P15xEMx:~$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 0: ALC892 Analog [ALC892 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 1: ALC892 Digital [ALC892 Digital]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 3: HDMI 0 [HDMI 0]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 7: HDMI 1 [HDMI 1]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
george@george-P15xEMx:~$

```

---

### Post by gflam on 2012-07-09
I learned tonight by chance that i have the hdmi connected as the computer boots the sound and everything will work which is actually alright for me. Not the best solution but the computer boots very quickly so not a big deal.

If anyone does have a solution though that still would be welcomed though :D

---

### Post by jamchamp on 2012-07-11
> **gflam said:**
> I learned tonight by chance that i have the hdmi connected as the computer boots the sound and everything will work which is actually alright for me. Not the best solution but the computer boots very quickly so not a big deal.

I had discovered this quite sometime back, and was happy doing it. But a month back even that solution stopped working...:(

---

