---
title: "5.1 analog sound sorta works"
date: 2011-08-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by zyberwoof on 2011-08-30
I'm running a media center machine that is hooked up to the receiver for 5.1 analog surround sound.  In other words, 3 mini plugs in my PC connect to 6 RCA jacks on my receiver.

As my title states, the audio sorta works.  Here are some quick facts:
[LIST]
[*]I have 5.1 selected in the sound menu.
[*]Running ```
speaker-test -Dplug:surround51 -c6 -l1 -twav
``` works great.  I hear all 6 channels that way.
[*]I always have at least the front two channels working.
[*]I have already made this change: **default-sample-channels = 6**.
[/LIST]

Now here's where the "sorta" comes in.  I'll go through my scenario step-by-step.
[LIST=1]
[*]Start playing music in Banshee.
[*]The music is only playing through the front Left and Right speakers (2.0 channel).
[*]I go to the sound menu and change the audio from 5.1 analog to something else, and then back.
[*]Suddenly my subwoofer springs to life.  All 6 channels are working!
[*]The song ends and a new one begins.
[*]The music is only playing out of the Left and Right front speakers again (2.0 channel).
[*]I can repeat the sound menu part in step 3 and all 6 channels start working again for the duration of the song.
[/LIST]

I have similar results with audio in Firefox.  Any ideas?  
[SIZE="1"]
Sorry if this has been discussed.  The "sorta" part of this problem makes it harder to search for this issue.  Most complaints are for the audio not working at all.[/SIZE]

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-08-31
Does this help:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1640574](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1640574)

---

### Post by zyberwoof on 2011-09-03
Yup.  That fixed it.  Thanks!

---

