---
title: "8.10: nvidia-settings segmentation fault"
date: 2008-10-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Bender2k14 on 2008-10-31
In the nvidia-settings menu (System->Administration->NVIDIA X Server Settings), if I click "Save to X Configuration File" (in the "X Server Display Configurations" page), the window closes.  This was not the behavior in Ubuntu 8.04.  If I open the menu from the command line, then clicking "Save to X Configuration File" will print "Segmentation fault" before the window closes.  This happens whether or not I use sudo when executing nvidia-settings.

I heard that the new X.Org was going to rely less on the xorg.conf file, but it still exits.  I can still apply my desired changes by clicking "Apply", so I personally do not have any problems.  I am wondering if the segfault is a bug.

Does anyone else have this behavior in 8.10?

---

### Post by TheBuzzSaw on 2008-10-31
I was just about to create a thread for this very problem. I am experiencing it as well.

---

### Post by m_l17 on 2008-10-31
I'm having the same issue :( After every reboot I need to run nvidia-settings to get the settings back, as they get lost.

---

### Post by Bender2k14 on 2008-10-31
In a, possibly, related issue...

When I try to apply my settings the first time, the wrong monitor is the primary (even though I have the other monitor checked).  So I do not accept the new setup (by clicking cancel when it is counting down).  If I just click apply again, then the correct monitor is the primary.

---

### Post by TheBuzzSaw on 2008-10-31
I found a solution that seems to work.

I renamed my xorg.conf file to something radically different: xorg_conf_backup.txt

Then, when I had nvidia-settings save to xorg file, it asked where it was. I just pointed it to the same location (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) and had it make a new one. That seemed to make it stick. It seems unhappy in having to deal with existing xorg files.

---

### Post by Bender2k14 on 2008-10-31
Good find BuzzSaw.  Removing the file causes a save-popup instead of a segfault, but it still won't let me save (opening with sudo of course).

---

### Post by Bender2k14 on 2008-10-31
These issues are covered in this [preexisting Launchpad bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-settings/+bug/286424/").

---

### Post by TheBuzzSaw on 2008-10-31
> **Bender2k14 said:**
> Good find BuzzSaw.  Removing the file causes a save-popup instead of a segfault, but it still won't let me save (opening with sudo of course).
It *appears* to not let you save, but I checked, and mine actually did generate an xorg.conf file. Check it out. :)

---

### Post by m_l17 on 2008-10-31
> **Bender2k14 said:**
> These issues are covered in this [preexisting Launchpad bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-settings/+bug/286424/").

Thank You for the link. For some reason the screen doesn't resize correctly even after a reboot. So I'm going to start from the beginning.

---

### Post by m_l17 on 2008-10-31
After several reboots and uninstalling and reinstalling the nvidia 177 driver I'm still having the same problem. It just won't resize correctly, I attached a screenshot the corners are cut off and it's like that for all windows. But for some reason in the screenshot it comes up correctly. Short of reinstall I don't know what else to do.

---

### Post by Pconfig on 2008-10-31
Can you attach your current xorg.conf file?

What's the max resolution your screen can handle?

---

### Post by m_l17 on 2008-10-31
> **Pconfig said:**
> Can you attach your current xorg.conf file?

What's the max resolution your screen can handle?

It's an Dell 2405fwp with native resolution of 1920x1200.

But I finally got it working, with some trial and error:

[Dell Insipiron 531] how to get 1920x1200 [2405fpw] resolution working with onboard nvidia graphics [Nvidia 6150se] using vga out:

1. Isntall the restricted drivers System ---> Hardware Drivers

2. Select the recommended drivers, install and reboot.

3. Backup the original /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

$ sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.org

4. Edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

$ sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

5. look for the Section "Monitor"

add the following lines[DO NOT CHANGE ANYTHING ELSE]:

HorizSync       30-81
VertRefresh     60

6. look for Section "Screen"

add the following lines[DO NOT CHANGE ANYTHING ELSE]:

 SubSection      "Display"
        Depth           24
        Modes           "1920x1200_60"
        EndSubSection

7. Then do:
$ sudo nvidia-settings 

then from  X Server Display Configuration select the 1920x1200 resolution
and 60hz

8. Saving the X configuration File [while nvidia-settings is still open]:

$ sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
 
save file as /etc/X11/xorg.conf

9. edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf  if needed be repeat 5 & 6

10. then Reboot and press the autosize button on the LCD :D

And here is a copy of my working xorg.conf file:

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       30-81
        VertRefresh     60  
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
        SubSection      "Display"
        Depth           24
        Modes           "1920x1200_60"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection


```

This wiki article was very helpful:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto")

Once I get a video card with digital out mostly likely won't have press autosize button on LCD after rebooting.

---

### Post by daghost on 2008-10-31
running sudo nvidia-xconfig and then sudo nvidia-settings did the trick for me

---

### Post by Pconfig on 2008-10-31
Oh wait, this is related to a bug posted on launchpad

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-settings/+bug/286424](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-settings/+bug/286424)

---

### Post by TheBuzzSaw on 2008-10-31
> **daghost said:**
> running sudo nvidia-xconfig and then sudo nvidia-settings did the trick for me
This solution worked far more elegantly than mine did. Good work.

---

### Post by MeanEYE on 2008-11-01
Hi everyone... 

Here's a few pointers to those who still have problems with this.

Like TheBuzzSaw said, rename the xorg.conf in /etc/X11 to something like xorg.backup.conf or whatever you like...

Then in nvidia-settings create configuration you like and click "Save to X Configuration file". Popup should ask you where to save. If saving to /etc/X11/xorg.conf still gives you seg fault try saving it to ~/xorg.conf (your home dir) and then copying. If you still have problems with saving just click "Show preview..." from popup dialog, copy content of the message and then using a normal text editor save it to it's rightful place :)

Hope this helps someone! :)

---

### Post by jkman on 2008-11-01
renaming the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file worked perfectly for me.  Thank you!

---

### Post by chingchong on 2008-11-02
Hey thanks a lot for the help this solved the issue for thread [Multiple Cubes ??? - separate X screen]("http://ph.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?p=6089680") I tried renaming xorg but removing xorg.conf completely was the only thing that worked. If Rails, Tomcat, and PostgreSql work fine then Ubuntu may be my new OS. Currently a big fan of Fedora 9, but I've always had an affinity for Deb package maintenance. Just got hit by another kernel update with fedora. Thanks again.

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2008-11-02
I actually just got this issue due to trying to prevent my resolution from being 1024x768 after every time I boot up.  I'm not sure what I did but it was working fine until I changed something, which happened to not work.

Intrepid seems really nice but there are WAAAAY too many bugs in it.  I'm getting floppy drive and keyboard issues as well, and even though my wireless driver and wireless networks were detected without ndiswrapper, I still needed to install ndiswrapper anyway.  I hope theres more updates this week, I was going to leave Ubuntu if I had more time to pick out a different distro.

---

