---
title: ".avi issues"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by youknowwhat4q on 2009-05-03
I am attempting to get a video from the survelence system at my work to play on my computer, but when ever it attempts to open any of the .avi files it says:

> GstPlayBin: Only a subtitle stream was detected.  Either you are loading a subtitle file or someother type of text file, or the media file was not recognized.

I need to either find a way to make it work, or convert it to a more common format so that it can be used as evidence.

I have no problem with other .avi files so I imagine that there is just some odd codec that is needed anyway... I don't know.

Any and all help is appreciated, thanks in advance.

---

### Post by bumanie on 2009-05-03
Hmm...can't suggest too much as linux usually deals with .avi very well. As you say the security video must have something other code in it other than a 'plain' .avi codec. The best thing to try and convert to something else would probably be winff, which is a GUI for ffmpeg or may be avidemux. Also try other media players to open it in - you might be lucky and find one that works. vlc player, handles many codecs, but not sure about any with some sort of security codec like you seem to have. Good luck. Sorry this probably is not much help.

---

### Post by youknowwhat4q on 2009-05-03
ffmpeg can't do it and neither can any of the other converters I have tried...

I'm lost.

Does anyone know of a program that would tell me what codec would be needed?  Maybe if I have that then I could convert it...

---

