---
title: "xorg.conf file got blasted, help!"
date: 2008-06-27
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by DaltonAdair on 2008-06-27
I was trying to setup Xinerama, and after my tinkerings failed I tried to copy my xorg.conf_backup file over the jacked up xorg.conf using

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Well, after I did that and rebooted, the display on my laptop (Dell Latitude D830) got messed up and Xserver wanted me to do some configurations. What?

After drowning in the pool of driver lists and monitor lists, I decided to hit cancel and just try to restore my backup again.

Nothing. I looked into the file and it was BLANK!?

Obviously I didn't do something right here, so I need help with two things:

1. How can I get my config back? When I installed HH on this machine it seemed to at least know my scree does 1280x800 at 60Hz (which impressed me).

2. Is there an Intel driver for linux that I can use on this? If so, chances are I might not have to fool around with the xorg.conf and just be able to stretch my desktop like I wanted to. (I hope.) 

Thanks alot.

---

### Post by DaltonAdair on 2008-06-27
Nevermind on the first item there, I managed to restore a backup that Xserver made on its own. Everything as far as that goes is good.

---

### Post by BandD on 2008-06-27
try this from a command line:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

You can also boot into the LiveCD and copy the xorg.conf file there into your permanent system.

What version of Ubuntu are you using?  With an Intel graphics card use xrandr to change your screen settings.  If you are using Hardy just try the settings in System--> Preferences--> Screen Resolution (that is basically a graphical interface for xrandr).

---

### Post by DaltonAdair on 2008-06-27
I already got my original config back, but thanks for the help. I am using Hardy Heron.

I noticed that in the Screen Resolution app, I do seem to have the ability to configure multiple monitors. I have my 15" laptop monitor, and a 17" ViewSonic VA1703wb.

I can detect the secondary monitor and change resolution on it, but it clones my main monitor even though I don't have that selected. How can I get this to stretch my desktop?

---

### Post by BandD on 2008-06-27
Do you have an Intel graphics card?  If so you need to add a Virtual screen size that can accomidate the rsolutions of your monitors to your xorg.conf file.  The max size with the Intel cards to still have direct rendering is 2048x2048.  Here's how I have mine set up:

```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
  	[B]SubSection "Display"
  		Virtual 1280 1568
  	EndSubSection[/B]
```

That gives me the ablity to have 2 screens, my laptop monitor at 1280x800 and my external at 1024x768 (max width is 1280 and max height is 1568--800+768=1568.  In this scenario my monitors are one on top of the other so that I can stay within the 2048 max).   So just add the stuff in bold to your Screen Section in xorg.conf, logout and back in and you should be good to go.

---

### Post by DaltonAdair on 2008-06-27
I tried that and I still have the same situation. 
Except, when I logged back in the screen was dark, so I rebooted.
After I rebooted, everything seemed to be working fine up until the point Ubuntu became unresponsive and none of my icons or trays were functional.
After rebooting a second time, I am typing this. 

Blech.

Lemme past a rundown of my xorg.conf here: 
(BTW my Intel chipset is a 965)

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
  		Virtual 1280 1568
  	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
```

This produces a clone of my laptop screen (1280x800) on the 17" sitting to the left of it. 
Here is a screenshot of my Screen Resolution setup. 

[IMG]http://i35.photobucket.com/albums/d187/Konahomaru/Screenshot-MonitorResolutionSetting.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by BandD on 2008-06-27
Ok so Let me explain a little better.  The max resolution of the 'virtual screen' and to still have direct rendering is 2048x2048.  

So in my case I can't have the screens set side-by-side because 1200 (my laptop screen's width) + 1024 (my external's width) = 2224 and 2224 greater than 2048.  Now I can make a screen this big, but I lose direct rendering so things like Compiz and what not stop working and video performance decreases greatly.  

How do I get around this?  I set the monitors on top of each other. Because 800 + 768 = 1568 which is within the bounds of the 2048 mark.  So the height of my 'screen' is 1568.  With this set up I basically have one big screen that is 1200w x 1568h with the screens on top of each other (even though they are side by side on my desk).  So you can either calculate the biggest screen set up you are going to need, or replace the 1200x1568 with the max 2048x2048 in your xorg.conf.

Try and drag your external monitor **below** your laptop screen in the Screen Resolution window.

If this is still confusing, check out this link: [http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2]("http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2").  Scroll down about 2/3 of the way and you'll see a nice diagram that explains all this.

---

