---
title: "IBM T42 Screen Resolution"
date: 2009-02-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by rwfnetworking on 2009-02-22
guys,

I'm running Ubuntu 8.10 on my IBM Think Pad T42 and can't seem to figure out how to get a better resolution that 1024x768@60hz. Is it not possible to get a better resolution?  ATI Radeon Mobility 7500 video and no enteries in the xorg.conf, so I'm assuming that means all the drivers are supported? At any rate here it is:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



Robert

---

### Post by jseiser on 2009-04-01
I know this doesnt help, but I am about to purchas eon of these from geeks.com, can you tell me if the wireless is fully supported?

---

### Post by rwfnetworking on 2009-04-01
> **jseiser said:**
> I know this doesnt help, but I am about to purchas eon of these from geeks.com, can you tell me if the wireless is fully supported?


Yes, out of the box as well as most other hardware features. You can find good links searching google. I used the keyword: "ubuntu t42 thinkpad".  One thing to watch out for is many of the T42's LCD's only supported 1024x768. Not a bad resolution. but that is the max you can get unless you upgrade the LCD like I did. Also I wuld look for something better than the Radeon 7500 that mine has. It seems a bit slow rendering/ Although it appears supported and it works, I think the 9500 would be a better choive if you can find one. 


Robert

---

