---
title: "Play video not smooth"
date: 2008-05-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by metaphongtov on 2008-05-31
I just installed Ubuntu 8.04 on my Laptop running VGA ATI RADEON XPRESS 200M 128MB.I already install all codecs in "Add remove application" and Ati driver in "Update to use Restricted driver". I wonder why when I play video I don't get smooth quality, as i acttached the picture here.
[IMG]http://i47.photobucket.com/albums/f163/metaphongtov/Screenshot.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by metaphongtov on 2008-06-01
Anyone helps me plzzz?

---

### Post by Trollslayer on 2008-06-01
Hve you switched to the restriced driver? The open source one doesn't have much video acceleration.

---

### Post by metaphongtov on 2008-06-01
> **Trollslayer said:**
> Hve you switched to the restriced driver? The open source one doesn't have much video acceleration.

I go to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers, then I selected all device drivers.Any idea?

---

### Post by metaphongtov on 2008-06-02
I don't understand, when I unselect "ATI accelerated graghic driver" in the Restricted Driver, the video can be played smoothly. When I select it goes like the picture I attached above. What's wrong with my VGA ?

---

### Post by metaphongtov on 2008-06-03
any pro can help me?

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2008-06-03
Take a lot of load from your video card, by disabling the visual effects:
[http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/tipsandtweaks](http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/tipsandtweaks)
(number 5)

Does this help?

Greeting, Pjotr.

---

### Post by metaphongtov on 2008-06-03
Nothing changed by disabling the visual effects, unless I deselect the restricted vga driver. Have anyone use this ATI with the same problem like me?

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-06-03
what does your xorg.conf look like?

---

### Post by metaphongtov on 2008-06-03
I check in /etc/X11/xorg.conf, i found the information like this:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by metaphongtov on 2008-06-04
???? ANy solution?

---

### Post by piyushchandrakar on 2008-11-21
the same problem with me i tried to install the new drivers from ati and removed the catalyst.. 
driver are ati 8.11 the latest one.
after the videos are smoother then the previous one but after using 2-3 hours my system crashed and even not running on recovery mode,
each time the display menu pop up to use the correct display before startind and i frustrated.. might be at new driver installetion i made something worng.

so finally i reinstalled ubuntu and still waiting that someone give me correct procedure..

i am having ATI MOBILITY RAEDON HD 3400 with AMD TURION processor. the driver version installed is provided by restricted driver..

so no idea about how to resolve the problem neatly.

---

### Post by Lokesh_linux on 2011-10-31
I am also facing this issue. I have Dell Inspiron N50110 with ATI graphics card i have activated the restricted drivers for it but can't play hd videos as smooth as it plays in windows media player in windows 7 and I thought Linux is the best to play video files...
Huuhh....

---

