---
title: "[SOLVED] 8800GT doesn't work with Hardy"
date: 2008-09-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by gforcing on 2008-09-08
After an unusually long road to installation, I'm ready to use Ubuntu. But my XFX 8800GT doesn't seem to play nice with Hardy.

No matter how I install the nVidia driver - through EnvyNG, or as a direct download from the website - I get a blacked out screen (no input) whenever Ubuntu boots into the GDM. Therefore, I know it's probably an xserver (xorg.conf) issue vs. a driver issue. But I just can't figure it out.

Can anyone help? Here are my system specs:

2 x 2GB Corsair DDR2 RAM
Maxtor 250GB HDD (has dual-boot Vista Ultimate and Ubuntu)
Seagate 750GB HDD (file storage)
Gigabyte motherboard (nForce 750a SLI chipset)
AMD Athlon 64 x2 5600+
Zalman CPU Cooler
XFX 8800GT

And (although I'm not sure if this is relevant) I have a Gateway XHD3000 30" monitor (2560x1600).

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-09-08
Try a different Monitor

---

### Post by gforcing on 2008-09-08
Well, thanks, but this is the only monitor I have to work with.

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-09-08
Im certain that card runs out of the box with Ubuntu, did you make sure you uninstalled/removed the previous drivers before installing the next.

That card has been supported since the 169.09 version of drivers, 

[http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/IO_18897.html](http://www.nvidia.co.uk/object/IO_18897.html)

---

### Post by gforcing on 2008-09-08
Yes, I know for a fact that I uninstalled the old drivers prior to installing the new ones.

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2008-09-08
You could try editing xorg.conf and modifying this part to suit your needs:

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
    VertRefresh 56-75
    HorizSync	28 - 80
You have to put brand and model and the values that correspond to your monitor.

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-09-08
As you suspect a xorg error, you could try this

> In my xorg.conf, I changed this:

Code:
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
to this

Code:
Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "nvidia"
EndSection


Other than this, the latest driver from nvidia should run that card, maybe it is your monitor...

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-09-08
Heres a guide to installing [nvidia drivers in Hardy]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=797270")

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-09-08
Moved :)


Have you tried booting into recovery mode and use the xfix option after the drivers are installed.

---

### Post by gforcing on 2008-09-09
Yes, that's the only way I'm able to use this computer at all. Unfortunately, I have to run it at a super low resolution.

---

### Post by drewk1 on 2008-09-09
Same for me, cannot get my 8800GT to work with Hardy

Tried several different drivers, manual install & Envy but nothing seems to work

---

### Post by Egi_Power on 2008-09-10
I have this card: GeForce® 8800 GT Alpha Dog 512MB DDR3 XXX (PV-T88P-YDD4)
It works excellent.

If i remember good i got the driver when i enabled the extra effects in System->Preferences->Appearance->Visual Effects tab.

I attach my xorg.conf for reference, but it could be that you have some hardware problem.

> [FONT="Courier New"]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection[/FONT]

---

### Post by gforcing on 2008-09-10
Problem solved! It turns out, the issue was actually with my motherboard (which has onboard graphics). As a last-ditch effort, I finally discovered that the onboard graphics in my motherboard were enabled. I disabled them, and lo and behold, problem solved! Thanks all for your help, though.

---

