---
title: "jaunty + ati fglrx + compiz + video playback = crash?"
date: 2009-06-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Troublegum on 2009-06-04
Hello,[INDENT][LEFT]jaunty + ati fglrx + compiz + video playback = crash?
[/LEFT]
[/INDENT]This equation sums up my situation in short.
I run the following hard- and software:

[LIST]
[*]Asus M3A78-EM mainboard
[*]with IGP ATI Radon HD 3200
[*]AMD Athlon X2 5050e
[*]Ubuntu 9.04 64bit
[*]proprietary ATI Catalyst Drivers 9.5 (fglrx) from ati website
[*]tvtime, vlc, totem
[/LIST]

My problem is that when I activate desktop effects (compiz) and play a video in vlc or totem or watch tv using tvtime, the system crashes and becomes unresponsive and I have to push the reset button. 
I tried to experiment a little bit with the "VideoOverlay" and "OpenGLOverlay" options in my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. I added the following lines but that didn't help.
```
Option "VideoOverlay" "on"
Option "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
```

This is my xorg.conf file:
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
    Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    Option        "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option        "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Driver      "fglrx"
    BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "Default Screen"
    Device     "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
    Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

In VLC I tried to set the video output mode to X11, that helped a little bit. Using that setting, I can watch a video in VLC, but the fullscreen control bar (the control panel that appears as soon as you move the mouse when in fullscreen) flickers and the result is not satisfactory.

I even tried the radeonhd 1.2.5 driver, but the 2d performance was very poor and the desktop was very slow, so thats no alternative for me.

With desktop effects off, video playback works fine. I'd say "who cares, who needs desktop effects", but I'd like to use the rhythmbox desktop art plugin ([http://www.nedrebo.org/code/rhythmbox/desktop_art](http://www.nedrebo.org/code/rhythmbox/desktop_art)), and that plugin requires desktop effects for transparency. 
I tried the "playing now" screenlet as an alternative but that didn't work.


Is the something else I can try?
Anyone can help me?

---

### Post by zarej on 2009-06-05
I have the same problem on my laptop with ati HD 3200 mobile and ati proprietary drivers installed from synaptic.

---

### Post by Troublegum on 2009-06-06
I just tried the patched XServer with not backfill functionality ([https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/xserver-no-backfill](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/xserver-no-backfill)), but that does not solve the problem.

---

### Post by Melcar on 2009-06-06
Turn off Compiz, or switch your players to X11 output.  A lot of work for composite is going into fglrx at the moment, so a lot of stuff is currently broken.  Video playback is near flawless with what is to become the 9.7 drivers, so patience, because the fix is coming.

---

### Post by braete on 2009-06-06
in compiz setings manager, under general options, uncheck unredirect_fullscreen_windows (general tab)
this fixed, for me, vlc (and notification) "problems"

---

### Post by terdon on 2009-06-06
I can report the same problem under vlc 1.0.0-rc2 Goldeneye as well.

In case you are having the same problems with other video players (as I did), [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1081070&highlight=jaunty+video") is a HOWTO for compiling the latest mplayer.
After compiling, I reinstalled smplayer and it now works fine.

---

### Post by terdon on 2009-06-06
OK, i think I solved this. Apparently it is all because of a bug in cairo-dock. See [this thread]("http://www.cairo-dock.org/bg_topic.php?t=2201").

This workaround fixed video playback for me:


```

cd /usr/bin
sudo mv smplayer smplayer.bin

```

Then create a textfile (using gedit, emacs or whatever) called smplayer. 

```
gedit ~/smplayer
```

Into this file write the following lines:

```
#!/bin/bash                                                                     

export XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1
exec /usr/bin/smplayer.bin "$@"

```

Then make the file executable and copy it to /usr/bin:

```
chmod 755 ~/smplayer
sudo mv ~/smplayer /usr/bin 

```


You can repeat the exact procedure for vlc, simply replace "smplayer" with "vlc" EVERYWHERE in the above instructions.


Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Troublegum on 2009-06-08
@Melcar: that's good to hear. Do you  have inside knowledge of the ATI Catalyst driver development? Is there a roadmap available to the public?

@terdon, @braete: 
unfortunately, that did not solve my problem. :(

---

### Post by theApokalypsis on 2009-07-24
> **braete said:**
> in compiz setings manager, under general options, uncheck unredirect_fullscreen_windows (general tab)
this fixed, for me, vlc (and notification) "problems"

Ha, this also helps for dual monitors if (for ex in Totem) the full screen disappears and reappears when interacting with it. (with Catalyst 9.7 just released and radeon 4850)...

which, I got it to work with RandR properly, and tear free video, no crashing, 9.04... finally. Though as soon as 3D support in the open source ones is good Im switching back :)

---

### Post by JJ_Kame_R on 2009-07-25
I still got the broken video playback with cat 9.7.
I wonder if at ATI's site someone is aware that they are releasing totally useless software.
I wish they move the "one month" release to "released after solutions" release.

:(

---

### Post by JJ_Kame_R on 2009-08-27
Bug still present in catalyst 9.8.

---

### Post by oxmosys on 2009-09-05
In my case, catalyst 9.8 fixed the problem! I had to remove the one installed by ubuntu and to install the 9.8 one from amd websites (after adding the execution permissions on the file). So it's a good think while opensource ati driver does not support opengl yet!

---

### Post by Troublegum on 2009-09-18
Ati Catalyst 9.9 is available: [http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.3.3.1&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.7&product=2.7.4.3.3.3.1&lang=English)

Did anyone try them? I didn't had the time yet. I guess I will wait for the karmic release to setup a new,clean installation and give ATI a new try.

@oxmosys: what video card/chipset do you have? I have a ATI HD3200.

---

### Post by augustorighetto on 2009-09-19
I just installed the Catalyst 9.9 on my Ubuntu Jaunty x64 and the system continues unstable.

My laptop is a Lenovo W500 with an ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3650.

I don't use compiz and the system crashes when I do a scroll in Firefox or move/resize any window.

Annoying....

---

### Post by ramdelgado on 2009-09-23
i try the driver ati 9.9 with my laptop compaq cq45-115la ati radeon hd 3200 amd sempron 

...

blank screen, go back to uninstall :(

---

### Post by gurpal2000 on 2009-09-26
like a similar thread, i thought the release notes for catalyst 9.9 say that you need at least x.org 6.8 to run it? jaunty 64-bit comes with xorg 1.6 no ?

should i just try it? (I have integrated HD 3200 on a Biostar mobo with Phenom2 triple core)

---

### Post by hanbin973 on 2009-09-27
I'm using hd3450 and I have the same problem.

Xv Acceloration dosn't make any problem but it sucks!

I use GL2 and waiting for XvBA-Video library (XvBA library Vaapi backend )to be opened and use XvBA ( The bench of XvBA is really cool, only 1~20 percentage usage on CPU, The GPU handles almost everything ) ~

The only way to solve this problem is using a patched mplayer and use CoreAVC codec with mplayer.

Or use Xv.

---

### Post by linux4life88 on 2009-09-29
9.9 ATI drivers made my system crash as well. My laptop has the ATI HD4650 graphics card. Hopefully something will be worked out because right now Ubuntu is unusable because the ATI drivers simply make my system unusable.

---

### Post by JJ_Kame_R on 2009-10-07
> **linux4life88 said:**
> 9.9 ATI drivers made my system crash as well. My laptop has the ATI HD4650 graphics card. Hopefully something will be worked out because right now Ubuntu is unusable because the ATI drivers simply make my system unusable.

Everything still looks the same after last 4 releases: it's crap.

In 20 days we will have a angry karmic koala with lots of new stuff.
Old jaunty stuff is not working... imagine new one.

I will go back to intrepid till ATi release some really updated software.

We all know that xorg sucks but how could nVidia solve the compatibility problems in no time while ATi isn't figuring out what's going on?!

---

