---
title: "Fix NVIDIA Drivers Install With Multiple or DUAL Nvidia Cards"
date: 2009-04-09
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by d2globalinc on 2009-04-09
So after installing Nvidia drivers a few hundred times using the self installer from Nvidia's website I decided to post about an issue that happens if you have multiple nvidia cards installed on your machine.

If you have the nvidia installer modify and update your xorg.conf it will add the entry to use the nvidia driver, however it will not add the BusID, so if you have multiple cards X will not start.

Here is a quick HOWTO fix so that you can get X to start.  Then you can use nvidia-settings to configure your xorg.conf and cards from there.

#1 - Install the nvidia drivers using the downloaded self installer from nvidia's website.  (I'm not going into detail on this with this quick howto - a search of the forums / google can find more information on this if you need it)

#2 - After the install we will do a quick check to make sure X will start -

From the terminal or console after install and before rebooting do the following:

```

lspci |grep VGA

```

This will return the BusID of all the VGA compatible controllers (nVidia Graphics Cards) in your system.  To get X to start we will use the first one that has the lowest BusID (and is an nVidia Corporation controller).

In my system it returns this (I have 3 8800GTX Video cards, your Make / model / number of items the above command returns will prob be different):

```

03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8800 GTX] (rev a2)
04:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8800 GTX] (rev a2)
07:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8800 GTX] (rev a2)

```

So I make a quick note of 03:00.0 - which is the lowest BusID and represents one of the 3 nVidia GeForce 8800GTX's I have in my system - and move on with this howto..

Now that I know the BusID I want to start with, I edit my xorg.conf to adjust the device entry.

```

sudo nano -w /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

Locate the DEVICE section of your xorg.conf that was generated by the nVidia installer.. it will contain Driver  "nvidia" .  Now in that section add the BusID option right below the Driver "nvidia" line (be sure to use your own BusID you found using the above lspci command, mine was 03:00.0 - so my BusID is PCI:3:0:0) - Use mine as an example, but be sure to use your own BusID.

```

    Driver         "nvidia"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"

```

Once you have made this adjustment be sure to leave everything else in that and other sections of the xorg.conf as-is and now you can save the changes ("ctrl-o" when using nano) - and reboot your machine.  X should start now on one of your nVidia graphics cards.

Ok - hope that explains it.. If you already had a BusID in your xorg.conf file, then you prob already have a modified xorg.conf and don't need this instruction.  If it didn't match what you found in the lspci command and your having issues, then you may want to change it to see if that gets your X up and running!

I'll be posting a comprehensive HowTO soon for using multiple nVidia graphics cards using Ubuntu Hardy, Intrepid, and Jaunty!

Again this was for getting a single nVidia card up and running in a multiple card system - so now you can use X and open a new terminal window and type "sudo nvidia-settings" to start the nvidia X server configuration tool to make your new xorg.conf for all your cards / monitors, etc.

Thanks and good luck!

Shane Menshik
D2 GLOBAL INC
[http://www.d2global.com](http://www.d2global.com)

---

