---
title: "10.04 realtek acl861 no audio"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by riboni.g on 2010-05-01
since i installed the new ubuntu 10.04 on my laptop i have no more sound, i tried many guides but i still cannot figure out what's the problem

whit lspci -v:

00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
    Subsystem: Fujitsu Technology Solutions Device 10c7
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 22
    Memory at f0000000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel driver in use: HDA Intel
    Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

thanks

alc861, not acl

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-02
Can you post the output of these terminal commands for me please:
```
uname -a
aplay -l
cat /proc/asound/version
head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#*
```
Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
Please post text output using code tags. Also helpful is the make/model of your PC/Laptop.

---

### Post by riboni.g on 2010-05-02
gio@gio-laptop:~$ uname -a
Linux gio-laptop 2.6.32-21-generic #32-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 16 08:10:02 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux
gio@gio-laptop:~$ aplay -l
**** Lista di PLAYBACK dispositivi hardware ****
scheda 0: Intel [HDA Intel], dispositivo 0: ALC861 Analog [ALC861 Analog]
  Sottoperiferiche: 1/1
  Sottoperiferica #0: subdevice #0
scheda 0: Intel [HDA Intel], dispositivo 1: ALC861 Digital [ALC861 Digital]
  Sottoperiferiche: 1/1
  Sottoperiferica #0: subdevice #0
scheda 0: Intel [HDA Intel], dispositivo 6: Si3054 Modem [Si3054 Modem]
  Sottoperiferiche: 0/1
  Sottoperiferica #0: subdevice #0
gio@gio-laptop:~$ cat /proc/asound/version
Advanced Linux Sound Architecture Driver Version 1.0.21.
gio@gio-laptop:~$ head -n 1 /proc/asound/card*/codec#*
==> /proc/asound/card0/codec#0 <==
Codec: Motorola Si3054

==> /proc/asound/card0/codec#1 <==
Codec: Realtek ALC861

here u are...the laptop is a fujitsu siemens amilo pi 1505
thanks for the help

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-02
Looks like your modem is the default sound device - need to change that. 
Using a Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
Open this file for editing:
```
 gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf 
```
Insert these lines at the bottom:
```
alias snd-card-0 snd-hda-intel
options snd-hda-intel model=auto  
```
Save. Close. Reboot. Check your levels in alsamixer.
```
 alsamixer 
```
Press F6 to select the correct soundcard.
Press F3 to show playback levels. F4 selects capture levels [or use <Tab>]
Use the left/right arrow keys to select and up/down arrow keys to change levels.
Go to "System>Preferences>Sound" and make sure the correct soundcard is default.

---

### Post by riboni.g on 2010-05-05
i did what you say but it still not working... i notice that in the alsamixer i can't change the level of the master from zero

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-05
Add this option, leaving the others intact:
```
(just below this entry)alias snd-card-0 snd-hda-intel
add 
alias snd-card-1 snd-Si3054

```

Also, what is the output of this command;
```
lsmod | grep snd
```

---

### Post by riboni.g on 2010-05-05
gio@gio-laptop:~$ lsmod | grep snd
snd_hda_codec_realtek   203168  1 
snd_hda_codec_si3054     3396  1 
snd_hda_intel          21877  7 
snd_hda_codec          74201  3 snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_hda_codec_si3054,snd_hda_intel
snd_hwdep               5412  1 snd_hda_codec
snd_pcm_oss            35308  0 
snd_mixer_oss          13746  1 snd_pcm_oss
snd_pcm                70662  7 snd_hda_codec_si3054,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_pcm_oss
snd_seq_dummy           1338  0 
snd_seq_oss            26726  0 
snd_seq_midi            4557  0 
snd_rawmidi            19056  1 snd_seq_midi
snd_seq_midi_event      6003  2 snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi
snd_seq                47263  6 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_seq_midi_event
snd_timer              19098  2 snd_pcm,snd_seq
snd_seq_device          5700  5 snd_seq_dummy,snd_seq_oss,snd_seq_midi,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq
snd                    54148  24 snd_hda_codec_realtek,snd_hda_codec_si3054,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_hwdep,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_seq_oss,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
soundcore               6620  1 snd
snd_page_alloc          7076  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm
gio@gio-laptop:~$

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-05
OK. I think I fubarred there. Remove all the custom lines from alsa-base.conf and add these instead:
```
alias snd-card-0 snd-hda-intel
alias sound-slot-0 snd-hda-intel
alias snd-card-1 snd-Si3054
alias sound-slot-1 snd-Si3054
options snd-hda-intel model=auto
```

Save. Close. Reboot.

---

### Post by riboni.g on 2010-05-07
still not working..thanks anyway

---

### Post by pchatzip on 2010-05-29
riboni.g ...did you find an solution?? i have exactly the same problem with the same laptop-model.. and mine also.. in alsamixer .. master sound is 0 and i can't do anything..

---

### Post by yazeed1984 on 2010-05-29
im having the same issue here with the same sound card......alc861


please any suggestions.((i tried all the mentioned above)):confused:

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-05-30
Go to this page:
[http://www.linlap.com/wiki/audio+tester]("http://www.linlap.com/wiki/audio+tester") and download the two files necessary to run the test. You'll find the instructions there. Report your results.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2010-05-30
> **yazeed1984 said:**
> im having the same issue here with the same sound card......alc861


please any suggestions.((i tried all the mentioned above)):confused:
It would be better to disable the modem in the BIOS/system setup if you don't use it.

Another possible solution is to use the index option in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
```
options snd-hda-intel model=auto index=0
```

---

### Post by pchatzip on 2010-06-01
I found the solution...

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa
sudo apt-get update

sudo  apt-get install linux-alsa-driver-modules-$(uname -r)

if packets downloaded and installed with these comments everything fine!!

reboot and you ll have sound again..

---

### Post by pchatzip on 2010-06-02
does anyone try it???!!!!

---

### Post by riboni.g on 2010-06-17
IT WORKED!!!
the audio is working perfectly pchatzip, thank you so much....i was ready to go back to the 9.10 version....
sorry if didn't try it before but i was away for few weeks...

---

### Post by sami8519 on 2010-07-01
Thank you so much Pchatzip for your instructions. It worked!

---

### Post by Trublue on 2010-07-01
I have the same card in my Tosiba Satellite L30 and I have been able to get sound by adding  options snd-hda-intel model=uniwill-m31 to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf    
Worth a try.

---

### Post by wardyp on 2010-07-20
Worked for me too, many thanks!

---

### Post by stany on 2010-08-08
> **pchatzip said:**
> riboni.g ...did you find an solution?? i have exactly the same problem with the same laptop-model.. and mine also.. in alsamixer .. master sound is 0 and i can't do anything..
I also have the same problem but there is sound on the earphone but not on the loudspeakers....

---

### Post by stany on 2010-08-10
> **riboni.g said:**
> still not working..thanks anyway
Have you already found a solution, and if so, please help me with same problem

---

### Post by mezdap on 2010-10-17
I have a problem like this. But different is that I haven't a problem till last night. I install and remove some radio programs and I install vlc player and some plug-ins and after that, I can't use my sound card on ubuntu but I have install a windows on a virtual box and sound card is working perfectly. Can anybody help me?

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-10-17
> **mezdap said:**
> I have a problem like this. But different is that I haven't a problem till last night. I install and remove some radio programs and I install vlc player and some plug-ins and after that, I can't use my sound card on ubuntu but I have install a windows on a virtual box and sound card is working perfectly. Can anybody help me?

Can you post the output of these commands please:
```
sudo fuser -v /dev/dsp* /dev/snd/* /dev/seq*
```
```
dmesg | grep -C1 -E 'ALSA|HDA|HDMI|sound|hda.codec|hda.intel'
```

---

### Post by mezdap on 2010-10-18
> **lidex said:**
> Can you post the output of these commands please:
```
sudo fuser -v /dev/dsp* /dev/snd/* /dev/seq*
``````
dmesg | grep -C1 -E 'ALSA|HDA|HDMI|sound|hda.codec|hda.intel'
```

Sure,
xxxx@Vxxxr:~$ sudo fuser -v /dev/dsp* /dev/snd/* /dev/seq*
                     USER PID ACCESS COMMAND
/dev/dsp:            aanbar     2255 F.... VirtualBox
xxxx@Vxxxr:~$ sudo fuser -v /dev/dsp* /dev/snd/* /dev/seq*
xxxx@Vxxxr:~$ dmesg | grep -C1 -E 'ALSA|HDA|HDMI|sound|hda.codec|hda.intel'
[   18.974494] vga16fb: not registering due to another framebuffer present
[   18.975164] HDA Intel 0000:00:1b.0: power state changed by ACPI to D0
[   18.975206] HDA Intel 0000:00:1b.0: power state changed by ACPI to D0
[   18.975217]   alloc irq_desc for 22 on node -1
[   18.975219]   alloc kstat_irqs on node -1
[   18.975226] HDA Intel 0000:00:1b.0: PCI INT A -> GSI 22 (level, low) -> IRQ 22
[   18.975276] HDA Intel 0000:00:1b.0: setting latency timer to 64
[   19.113814] input: HDA Intel Mic as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1b.0/sound/card0/input8
[   19.114057] input: HDA Intel Mic as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1b.0/sound/card0/input9
[   19.114256] input: HDA Intel Headphone as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1b.0/sound/card0/input10
[   19.355123] Synaptics Touchpad, model: 1, fw: 7.0, id: 0x1c0b1, caps: 0xd04711/0xa00000

BYW HDA and sound words are red.

and, for now sound is ok but I can't turn it on or off. not from lenovo's keys not from Ubuntu

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-10-19
> **mezdap said:**
> Sure,


and, for now sound is ok but I can't turn it on or off. not from lenovo's keys not from Ubuntu

```
USER PID ACCESS COMMAND
/dev/dsp: aanbar 2255 F.... VirtualBox
```
That should be Pulseaudio where it says VirtualBox. Virtualbox is locking the soundcard output.

---

### Post by mezdap on 2010-10-19
> **lidex said:**
> ```
USER PID ACCESS COMMAND
/dev/dsp: aanbar 2255 F.... VirtualBox
```That should be Pulseaudio where it says VirtualBox. Virtualbox is locking the soundcard output.
Than what can I do?
I mean even I didn't start the vitrualbox I can use the sound but I cant turn it on or off or anykind changing.

---

### Post by mezdap on 2010-10-19
and its interesting, &#305; dont have any dsp file under dev
/dev/dsp I mean there nothing here.

but I want to see up there m volume control again.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-10-20
Try this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4338983&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4338983&postcount=2)

---

### Post by mezdap on 2010-10-24
> **lidex said:**
> Try this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4338983&postcount=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4338983&postcount=2)
&#304;t didnt work exacly. I mean as long as I installed how many updates, my ubuntu is getting crazy and I had to format. Now I wont use any update.

---

### Post by heyho on 2010-10-31
Anybody else having similar problems with the snd- intel-hda hardware, this is the thread to check out.

[snd-intel-hda database thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1043568")

---

