---
title: "Nvidia geforce fx5500 problem"
date: 2009-11-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Huntz23 on 2009-11-18
I was install some games and I noticed I had some lag and realized that I had not yet upgraded my driver.  I went to the nVid website and downloaded the manfacturer driver.  after I installed(which went fine, screen was a little grainy though), the restricted driver box in the corner of the screen cameup.  It told me to download the restricted proprietary drivers, and with the screen being grainy I thought that would help so I DLed the restricted modules and the nVid glx modules and install went well.
    It recommended restart and when I did it didnt make it through xserver.  I restarted in recovery and checked fix xserver, when I did it rolled back my xorg.conf.  I finished booting and now the nvidia restricted proprietary drivers or off and the manfacturer driver is off.  Now when I try extreme tux racer or frets on fire they dont load telling me that I am missing some glx visual.  I tried reinstalling the nvidia manfacturer driver and it broke xserver again and Irolled it back.  And the restricted drivers aren't doin the trick either.
    So I ran the installer for nvid and unistalled the manfacturer driver and went through synaptic and removed all the nvida packages that the restricted package handler installed and tryin to start fresh.  I may have missed a couple but it should be clear enough to start over.  KDM works and runs but its jsut not whole enough for glx or something.

Kubuntu 8.04 Hardy
P4 1.6 GHz
1 GB 2100 ram
256MB BFG TECH GeForce fx5500 OC

Here is xorg reconfig:
[B]michael@livingrm:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
[sudo] password for michael:
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20091118182740[/B]

Here is is my current xorg.conf file:
[B]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
        Option          "XkbOptions"    "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
EndSection

[/B]

So that s it in a nutshell, hitting the proverbial wall as I have never had an issue with anything glx or my nvidia cards I am in new territory.

thanks in advance,
Michael

---

### Post by Huntz23 on 2009-11-22
OK I figured it out myself.

Like I said earlier I uninstalled everything except the xserver-xorg-video-nv module.  I left the restricted-modules-manager unistalled and reinstalled the nvidia-new-kernel-source-envy, nvidia-glx-new-envy, linux-restricted-modules packages(and some other but as we know apt does a wonderful job of finding and installing the depo's).  But I still had the hang up on restart.  I switched the video device module to the 'nv' in my xorg.conf file, and after finishing the boot into kdm i didnt have any glx becuase the 'nv' doesn't accelerate anything.  So I was still hitting the wall.  Still no answer here I spend three days wading through all sorts of forum responses, some having the same issue, some similar. well here was the solution in not so big letters and almost between the lines.  I come to the conclusion that **you have to only restart xserver not the machine for the video module to take.**  It seems my mistake was I was restarting the machine and somewhere during reboot I assume it breaks the module load for xserver and thus breaks xserver.  So I rewrote xorg.conf to 'nvidia' to load the glx driver and **logged out only and chose the 'restart xserver' option.**  Xserver restarted and I logged in and everything seems to be fine at the moment.  Someone correct me if I am wrong, so this post doesn't steer someone in the wrong direction.  Otherwise case solved(hehe).

---

