---
title: "10.10,Ati X1300/1550 Radeon, Dual Monitor, Won't Work"
date: 2010-12-31
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by silverwolf636 on 2010-12-31
I am running a 2.7Gh with 2G ram with an ATI X1300/1550 Radeon Card and running with dual monitors. I had the monitors functioning in Linux Mint but it was an older driver version and it was slow. I was reading about the Ubuntu Maverick 32bit and fresh installed it 
I have just installed Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick 32bit.
Everything that I have found on here concerning ATI and fglxr has not worked. 
Can someone give me some suggestions here? Greatly appreciated.

--ray--

---

### Post by Sn3ipen on 2011-01-10
I am having some troubles with my second screen blinking every two or three seconds. I got a radeon x1400 though so i tought i should bump this one.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-01-13
The "problem" with ALL of the ATI X-series cards/chipsets and current Ubuntu versions (9.x or newer) is that AMD/ATI dropped flgrx support for those cards YEARS ago.  There is no fglrx driver that will work with those cards and any Ubuntu version newer than 8.10.

---

### Post by tjones00 on 2011-01-13
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1665001](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1665001)

I'm actually interested if the xorg-edgers drivers as Temujin suggested will work with these cards.

---

### Post by tjones00 on 2011-01-15
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1538308](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1538308)

Well according to my post fiddling with a X1250 and ubuntu 10.04 I seemed to have tried the xorg edgers drivers and they didn't play nice with the modern kms kernels and my card.

Hopefully they do now.

radeonhd still seems viable if you can get advanced rendering to work and is possible with Ubuntu 10.04 by turning off xrandr and plymouth.

Perhaps it will work with these peoples cards and it just didn't work with mine.

From the thread.

xorg.0.log.old
line 458
(II) RADEONHD(0): Query for AtomBIOS Get Datatable from Codetable: failed
None
(II) RADEONHD(0): RHDAudioSetClock: using TMDS B as clock source with 74250 khz
(II) RADEONHD(0): Using ACR timing N=4096 CTS=74250 for frequency 32000
(II) RADEONHD(0): Using ACR timing N=6272 CTS=82500 for frequency 44100
(II) RADEONHD(0): Using ACR timing N=6144 CTS=74250 for frequency 48000
(II) RADEONHD(0): RHDAudioSetSupported: config 0x60040 codec 0x1
(II) RADEONHD(0): Using HW cursor
(==) RADEONHD(0): DPMS enabled
(II) RADEONHD(0): Xv: No Textured Video possible without the Command Processor.

---

### Post by sk8tyfoo on 2011-01-16
I am having this same problem on a dell laptop with an x1400 radeon card.  I am running ubuntu 10.10

---

### Post by sk8tyfoo on 2011-01-30
There has got to be a way to fix this, because while my second monitor is on, it works just fine.  I can see my wall paper, move windows onto it and off of it, it just turns off for a second, then back on.  I just don't want to give up on it.

Please help

---

### Post by action9 on 2011-06-02
has anyone got any solutions to this because I have a ati x1300 card installed on 11.04 and tvout is giving me hassles like crazy

---

