---
title: "16.04 &amp; Pithos"
date: 2018-02-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by 1-retired-surfer on 2018-02-14
Everything's running good - the distro seems to get stronger every time I boot it up, if that is possible, but I'm a n00b, so I may not know any better. 

My problem is that I cannot get Pithos to 'see' any changes/additions in my Pandora account. 

Things I have done so far: 

[INDENT]1. Removed and re-installed Pithos
2. Told Pithos to launch from TERMINAL
3. Looked for updates, different versions of Pithos
[/INDENT]
 
None of this has worked. 

My GUI is somewhat different from what other people see for theirs. Am I stuck with the station lineup that I had when I initiated Pithos in Ubuntu originally or can I fix this somehow?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-02-14
Do you make changes from pithos or from the Pandora website ?  I have no problems adding and removing stations in pithos and rarely login to Pandora except to change passwords. 

Edit: I think the Pandora web site syncs/detects changes in pithos and not vise versa.

---

### Post by 1-retired-surfer on 2018-02-14
I always make changes on the Pandora side of Ubuntu - via a webpage. I haven't been able to get any changes to migrate to Pithos - ever. 

There is no provision to make changes on my Pithos GUI. I wish I could post a screenshot - but I get a warning that my picture is missing some sort of security lapse.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-02-15
So, you don't see the drop-down menu under the pithos name ? Edit: If using the Unity desktop the menu may appear in the top panel because Unity uses the global menu.

---

