---
title: "8.10 - no burnproof in brasero?"
date: 2008-11-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Dawa on 2008-11-24
using 8.10 intrepid ibex now and when i go into the disc options in Brasero the "Use burnproof" option is grayed out.  it worked just fine in 7.10.

how do i get my burnproof back?

EDIT:  not sure if this is related but i get an error message after the burn completes about "failing to mount" the disc, and the checksum scan never happens.  the discs appear to work, however.   ....how did Brasero get so mangled?

---

### Post by aeiah on 2008-11-24
i havent found too many uses for brasero (although im using it with 7.10 like you were. maybe it has more functionality now), but there's always k3b if you need it. are you sure it isnt an issue with your dvd drive and 8.10?

---

### Post by Dawa on 2008-11-24
i would like to continue using brasero.  with burnproof.

---

### Post by BlueSkyNIS on 2008-11-24
Yes, I also find Brasero very buggy on Intrepid. Checksum scan never happens, I can't drag & drop files from left panel to the right, can't save project...it's almost unusable!

---

### Post by rye_ on 2008-11-24
yes, it's remarkable that its inclusion was allowed.

A couple of days ago, I flew off the handle when I found brasero unusable, declaring I'll use arch and kde4 from now on.  I'm back to gnome/ubuntu but still think this is appalling.

:confused:

---

### Post by Dawa on 2008-11-25
yeah... i know this is free and all that but it really seems like since gutsy Ubuntu has been aiming for the world record in Launchpad bug submissions.

anyway...  nobody knows why burnproof would be disabled?  I installed K3b, and it works in there, so it looks like I'm running gnome so i can putz around in KDE apps now.  hooray.

---

### Post by sarahjohn on 2008-11-25
Downloaded Ubuntu 8.10 iso file today. After that i am try to burn the iso file to a rewritable disc using brasero. But it shows an error message at the end of buring process "a write error occured which was likely due to overburning the disc". Please help me............

---

### Post by Halfwalker on 2009-02-02
Hrm - interesting data point for this problem (which I have as well with Intrepid v8.10 x64)

When burning Memorex DVD**-R** I'm able to select and deselect the BurnProof checkbox.

When burning Memorex DVD**+R** DL (dual layer) it's greyed out.

When burning Magnavox DVD**+R** it's greyed out.

Repeatable for two entire 25-pack spindles of discs.  Next pack I get will be a **-R** pack I think ...

D.

---

