---
title: ".WMV file doe not work well"
date: 2009-05-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by blogx on 2009-05-17
I want to open some files which are *.WMV, but they cannot be played well, only have sounds, what shall I do?

---

### Post by devosion on 2009-05-17
Have you installed the ubuntu-restricted-extras package?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/")

---

### Post by blogx on 2009-05-17
I had trid "sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras" but it still doesn't work.
The Movie Player can play RM/RMVB/MP3/MP4/AVI/WMA now, but cannot work for WMV

---

### Post by devosion on 2009-05-17
Have you tried using another media player? Try the file in VLC or another media player and see how that works. Also try other WMV files, do they all act the same? Im not sure if it's a similar problem I had with older WMV files in that they weren't being displayed correctly. I would get artifacts, discoloration, and strange sound issues. The problem with this being the issue is that this hasn't been a problem for me since Gutsy Gibbon.

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2009-05-17
> **devosion said:**
> Have you tried using another media player? Try the file in VLC or another media player and see how that works. Also try other WMV files, do they all act the same? Im not sure if it's a similar problem I had with older WMV files in that they weren't being displayed correctly. I would get artifacts, discoloration, and strange sound issues. The problem with this being the issue is that this hasn't been a problem for me since Gutsy Gibbon.

VLC is indeed a superior video player, and IMHO, is the best for viewing DVDs as well.

:guitar:

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2009-05-19
Hi blogx,

> **blogx said:**
> I want to open some files which are *.WMV, but they cannot be played well, only have sounds, what shall I do?

MPlayer will play *almost* all of these files but it depends more than a little on the *exact* makeup of the files. Are you able to post an example of one of these problem files somewhere?

All the best,

Andrew

---

### Post by bhishan on 2009-05-19
> **oldrocker99 said:**
> VLC is indeed a superior video player, and IMHO, is the best for viewing DVDs as well.

:guitar:

+1 to VLC Player

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-05-19
vlc is great but still lacks vdpau support so it can't take full advanatage of nvidia card. vdpau reduces load on CPU and makes it possible to watch HD movies even on slower CPUs.

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2009-05-19
WMV is tricky, the newer the version the less likely it will work under linux.
A good way to get around this is to install stuff like VLC and Mplayer, both should help get whatever else codecs might be needed.
Medibuntu is another good option.

---

