---
title: "Extra volume controls"
date: 2009-11-19
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by fepple on 2009-11-19
Hello, I'll add some back ground in case anyone different solution.

On previous versions of Ubuntu my volume control had a long list of faders, the usual "Master", "CD", "Line in" and some others.  One of the secondary faders called PCM controlled all sound generated by applications.

So to balance my volume I would turn master up to full and then adjust the PCM slider down to get my "max volume".  This would allow me to use hot keys to turn the volume up and down on the "master volume" and let me use the full range of it.

Now I've upgraded to Karmic, the PCM slider has disappeared.  I do have application sliders, but if I turn them down and the master up some new application plays a sound and blows my ears out :). So instead I am adjusting the master volume now, but in two 'notches' it will go from to quiet to to loud.

So my question is... is there 'a secondary' volume control anywhere still.

Thanks

---

### Post by fepple on 2009-11-19
I just remember you can access the old style faders using the console application "alsamixer".  If you load that up you can turn the PCM down in that, however when you adjust the "Master" from outside alsamixer the PCM will reset back to 74% every time.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by fepple on 2009-11-19
I found a solution...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8314847&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8314847&postcount=4)

The config sample in this post will rebind my gnome defined hotkeys to adjust the PCM volume, meaning I can now balance the master against it

---

