---
title: "3 monitors (I'm considering suicide)"
date: 2009-07-05
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by [matt] on 2009-07-05
OK, first of all, I'm very new to Linux. Please don't post on this telling me to go look at other posts talking about multiple monitors. I've been looking at posts talking about this subject for almost a week now and I lack the technical knowledge to link their exact situations to mine and figure out what I need to do. I have tried quite a few different procedures and I still don't have this working yet. I have given up attempting to learn this on my own - I need help customized to my situation. Also, I remind you that I'm a noob - I know how to open a terminal and type things into it, but that is about the extent of my knowledge with Linux terminal commands. Thanks in advance for any help.

*Now this is my problem...
-I am running Ubuntu Jaunty 64 bit. I have an onboard GeForce 6150 SE 430 and I recently installed a GeForce FX 5200 dual-vga PCI card. I have one monitor connected to the onboard card and two connected to the 5200. 
-When I first installed the 5200 card, Ubuntu loaded and the two displays on the 5200 worked and were able to display two separate parts of one desktop, but I wasn't seeing anything on the 6150(also, the 6150 card showed up in the Nvidia settings window, but did not show a monitor connected). 
-I went into the BIOS and changed the primary(or whatever it's called) back to the 6150. Now, the monitor on the 6150 works, but I'm not seeing anything from the 5200. The 5200 card is still shown in the Nvidia settings window as "GPU 1 (GeForce FX 5200)" and it shows the two monitors that I have connected to it. 
-When I go to the display configuration menu of Nvidia settings it shows that the two monitors connected to the 5200 are disabled. I have tried to go in and configure them using separate x screens on each and also as separate x screens only on each card and twin view on the 5200(I think - I'm still learning about this X screen and Twin View stuff). After the setup I click on apply and I receive a dialog box saying "The current settings cannot be completely applied due to one of the following reasons...     ...For all the requested settings to take effect, you must save the configuration to the X config file and restart the X server". I read that this is done using Ctrl+Alt+Backspace    ...apparently not on my computer because it does absolutely nothing. When I save to X config file I get a warning box: "Unable to remove old X config backup file..." After rebooting I am right back where I started with the displays disabled. It's like freaking Groundhog Day with this.

SO, I would like to set up these monitors preferrably so that they show a seperate dektop on each, although at this point one desktop stretched across all three would be enough.

-For good measure, here is a copy of my xorg.conf file...

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Tue Mar 24 06:15:32 PST 2009
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    # generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
    Driver    "nvidia"
EndSection

```



- And here is xorg.conf.backup...

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Tue Mar 24 06:15:32 PST 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```


**One note: I dual-booted into my RC version of Windows 7 and setting these three screens up was a matter of two or three mouse clicks and a restart and it works like a charm. It's actually kind of aggrivating - I want to learn Linux, but Windows continues to make the transition VERY difficult.

---

### Post by jman6495 on 2009-07-05
1st
try Menu >  Preferences > Display

that might help

2nd
have u got the video drivers for both your cards

3rd
3 moniters! LUCKY

4th
Considering suicide?
Search your local anti depression clinic

---

### Post by bobince on 2009-07-06
> I have one monitor connected to the onboard card and two connected to the 5200.Is this even supposed to work (under any OS, before the advent of Hybrid SLI)?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-07-06
> **bobince said:**
> Is this even supposed to work (under any OS, before the advent of Hybrid SLI)?

As long as all the devices use the same driver, and the driver has some way of organising things, why not?

To the OP: You seem to be on the right track. I've not tried to do what you're attempting, but a couple of points come to mind. If the NVidia-settings tool is to put anything in xorg.conf, it needs to be run as root. You can probably do this with ```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

Killing the X server with Ctrl-Alt-Backspace was disabled with the version of X that came with 9.04, apparently because new users were "accidentally" pressing that combination. There are instructions in the Release Notes for 9.04 to re-enable the old behaviour. Otherwise, I believe logging out restarts the X Server these days. If it doesn't, you can use the other method. Switch to a virtual console (Ctrl-Alt-F1) and run ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start
``` and then switch back to your graphical environment (Atl-F7).

---

### Post by [matt] on 2009-07-07
CatKiller, I tried what you recommended. I get this when trying to run nvidia-settings: "error: the control display is undefined; please run 'nvidia-settings --help' for usage information". I ran nvidia-settings --help but I don't know what I'm supposed to be looking for or doing with that?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-07-08
The only references to that error message that I've managed to find are from people running OpenSUSE. One thing that might help, according to a page I just read, is to run ```
export DISPLAY=:0.0
``` first or, failing that, to run ```
[FONT=monospace]sudo [/FONT]nvidia-settings -c :0
``` instead.

---

### Post by [matt] on 2009-07-09
export display does nothing, nvidia settings is the same window I've been using for most of this troubleshooting. It's not getting me anywhere because I am unable to get the system to keep the changes I make in it. I'm going to reinstall and attempt again through the nvidia settings window....

---

### Post by kaapstorm on 2009-07-11
Hi [matt]

I just found your post because I've just set up what you're trying to do, and was wondering if I could get TwinView working across all 3 monitors (which would allow graphics acceleration, and my beloved cube). I'm not sure about the TwinView yet, but here's how to do what you're trying.

The good news is that you're halfway there.

I can see from your xorg.conf file that you're already using a proprietary NVIDIA driver. That's the driver you'll need. (The "Device" section in your xorg.conf file says the driver is "nvidia" instead of the open source "nv" driver.) (If you want to change that, or want to see what version of the NVIDIA driver you're using, go to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers. That will allow you to change versions.)

And when you start the nvidia-settings program (System > Administration > NVIDIA X Server Settings) you can see all your screens. That makes me think that your BIOS settings are correct. I have just configured my BIOS settings to ENABLE my onboard GPU, and set is as the primary video adaptor. I don't know if you have to set it as the primary video adaptor, but it seemed like a good idea. [This page]("http://www.nvnews.net/articles/hybrid_sli_interview/index.shtml") makes it sound like you can turn off displays you don't need, and the onboard GPU uses less power, but I haven't tried it yet.

The last part is easier than it seems. The trick is to run the NVIDIA X Server Settings program as the root user, so you can save your settings. If you run it as a normal user, you get the error you saw earlier, "Unable to remove old X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'." Running it as a normal user is for when you only want to affect your current session, e.g. if you want to disable a monitor so that you can play a game, and then enable it again later. Running it as root allows you to affect the machine, and therefore all users.

As CatKiller said, you run it as root by opening a terminal (don't press Ctrl-Alt-F1 -- instead open a terminal in Gnome: Applications > Accessories > Terminal), and type
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```
That should open the NVIDIA X Server Settings program as before, but now you'll be able to save your configuration file.

Once it's open, click on X Server Display Configuration. When I did, I saw my primary display (onboard), and my two other monitors, disabled, to its right. 

Click on the first one, and click "Configure...". Choose "Separate X screen". 

Click on the second one, and click "Configure...". Choose "TwinView". (TwinView is better than Separate X screen. If you have more than one X screen, you can't use accelerated visual effects. But if all your monitors use TwinView (the bit I haven't figured out how to do with Hybrid SLI) then you can.)

Now drag your monitors in the Layout pane, and set their resolution if necessary, until they match what is in front of you.

Check "Enable Xinerama".

You're done. Click "Save to X Configuration File". It will give you a warning about absolute-positioned monitors. Don't worry about it. If your layout looks right, it probably is right. This time saving should work.

Quit NVIDIA X Server Settings, and log out. Logging out should restart the X server. 

The login screen (called "GDM" or "Gnome Display Manager") should now use all 3 monitors. Moving your mouse across to your other monitors should show the mouse pointer as you'd expect. If they are in the wrong order, don't worry. Using NVIDIA X Server Settings as before, you can move your monitors around into the right order.

Logging in should make you happy. If you have been using visual effects, they will stop working, I'm afraid. Your windows will not have title bars. To get title bars back, choose System > Preferences > Appearance. Choose Visual Effects. If "None" is already selected, choose "Normal". It will give you an error. Close it by pressing "Esc". Choose "None" again. 

Your title bars will reappear. And the world will be good. You can put away the razor blades now.

If I figure out how to use TwinView across all 3 monitors so I can get my visual effects back (and I must admit, I'm not holding my breath), I'll let you know.

---

### Post by kaapstorm on 2009-07-11
P.S. It seems from [this article]("http://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/nvidia-hybrid-sli,1924.html") and [this article]("http://www.bit-tech.net/hardware/motherboards/2008/08/15/asus-crosshair-ii-formula/1") that to get the speed benefits of Hybrid SLI (for TwinView) you need a card that supports GeForce Boost. i.e. a GeForce 8400GS or 8500GT. Unfortunately I have a GeForce 9500 GT.

---

