---
title: "10.04 - cannot install XBMC"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by novitiate on 2010-05-02
I followed the instructions at [http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_install_XBMC_for_Linux_on_Ubuntu,_a_Step-by-Step_Guide](http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_install_XBMC_for_Linux_on_Ubuntu,_a_Step-by-Step_Guide) and added the team-xbmc repository, and updated apt-get

Then I try sudo-apt-get install xbmc xbmc-standalone and see the following:

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package xbmc


What can I do to install XBMC on Ubuntu 10.04?

---

### Post by novitiate on 2010-05-02
I found a link on XBMC's forum to this page: [https://edge.launchpad.net/~team-xbmc-svn/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=lucid]("https://edge.launchpad.net/%7Eteam-xbmc-svn/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=lucid")

It suggested adding another repository:  ppa:team-xbmc-svn/ppa

I did, and could then install XBMC.****

---

### Post by xtremedementor on 2010-05-03
Worked great for me also. I was about to go back to 9.1 tonight just because of this.
Thanks you have saved me a job.

---

### Post by PrvSAT on 2010-08-10
it doesn't work anymore as described above as Aug 10. 
I installed XBMC from synapic package but something seems to terrible wrong with that version. My video was very choppy. I had XBMC installed before and worked just fine and now I do not know how to install or get a good version as before...
Any advice?

---

### Post by thaseint on 2010-08-11
Tried doing the above, using the SVN repo...didn't work on my Lucid 10.04 LTS installation.

The only thing that shows up as being available is a key library. 

XBMC and XBMC-standalone don't seem to be available using either the SVN or standard team-XBMC repos. Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by linkx on 2010-08-12
Same here. I saw a report that the ppa was down. I don't think the server is giving packages at the moment.

---

### Post by shini-kire on 2010-08-14
the same problem does not want to settle there if xbmc :(

Help! plzz!

---

### Post by rocker9455 on 2010-08-14
> **linkx said:**
> Same here. I saw a report that the ppa was down. I don't think the server is giving packages at the moment.

Any ideas when the ppa will be back up?

---

### Post by shini-kire on 2010-08-14
> **rocker9455 said:**
> Any ideas when the ppa will be back up?

finally someone upload the deb to any server or dropbox or folder 
/home/~/.xbmc

plzz

---

### Post by Noswas on 2010-08-14
Got the same problem here.. really annoying :/ find no other way to do it either..

---

### Post by web032009 on 2010-08-19
try this [https://edge.launchpad.net/~team-xbmc-svn/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=lucid](https://edge.launchpad.net/~team-xbmc-svn/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=lucid)

works for me

---

### Post by papibe on 2010-08-19
@web: I believe that's the svn, also known as the unstable ppa.

Edit: The normal ppa (not the last one) is back !!

Regards.

---

### Post by xpatux on 2010-10-01
I was trying to do something similar for days, so i wrote an article with a step by step to build an HTPC with xbmc on ubuntu 10.04 and LIRC keymap.xml and lcdproc with antec veris premiere.

It may help you:
[http://log.patux.cl/htpc/](http://log.patux.cl/htpc/)

---

### Post by ovetz13 on 2010-10-02
Thanks adding the svn ppa worked like a charm. Thank you again.

---

