---
title: "14.04.1 - clean install reports no Nvidia drivers available. Why?"
date: 2014-07-26
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Rizlaw on 2014-07-26
Today I did a clean install of 14.04.1. Prior to 14.04.1, I was running 12.04.4 with the proprietary Nvidia driver. While using 12.04, I never got an update notification advising the release of 14.04.1, that's why I did a clean install to my /root partition and left my /home partition alone. This clean install went without problems apart from what I describe below.

The clean install of 14.04.1, by default, installed the Nouveau open source driver. Not what I wanted or expected based on previous Ubuntu installations.

I installed Nvidia X Server Settings and found that my Nvidia 750Ti card was not recognized (it was under 12.04.4).

I ran the Software Updater and checked for "Additional Drivers" to see if the latest Nvidia driver was installed. It wasn't. I saw a message that stated "no proprietary drivers are in use". After several minutes of presumably searching for other drivers the program advised that no other drivers could be found! It didn't even display that the Nouveau driver was installed and in use. I never encountered this problem before (i.e., not getting a list of Nvidia drivers displayed to install). I do have the Canonical partners and Independent third-party partners repositories enabled which should cover Nvidia drivers.

I see from other posts, that many are having issues, of various kinds, installing the Nvidia drivers. Why is 14.04.1 not seeing my card properly and not finding and allowing me to change to the Nvidia driver?

Is there a verified way to install the Nvidia driver without trashing my new install? Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by renanrischiotto1 on 2014-07-26
Hello!

Try to install with the command:

[B]sudo apt-get install nvidia-331

[/B]How did you install Ubuntu? You did the image .ISO checksum?

How did you install the NVIDIA X Server Settings?

Try installing the version 14.04 (not 14.04.1) and then update the system.

Well, some people say that having a folder /home separated of root no have problem, but I think it has. If you can not resolve this problem, try to make a clean install, with everything in root except the swap.

Hugs!

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-07-26
> **Rizlaw said:**
> The clean install of 14.04.1, by default, installed the Nouveau open source driver. Not what I wanted or expected based on previous Ubuntu installations.
nouveau is installed by default (even if it's not used). I can't remember Ubuntu using the proprietary driver by default, but even if that's the case, it wouldn't work with your particular card based on below information...

> Why is 14.04.1 not seeing my card properly and not finding and allowing me to change to the Nvidia driver?
GTX 750/Ti needs version 334.xx or later, and it's not in the Trusty repo.

> Is there a verified way to install the Nvidia driver without trashing my new install? Thanks for any help.

It's not in the repo, so you're going to have to use a PPA. [https://launchpad.net/~mamarley/+archive/ubuntu/nvidia](https://launchpad.net/~mamarley/+archive/ubuntu/nvidia)

---

### Post by Rizlaw on 2014-07-27
> **Temüjin said:**
> nouveau is installed by default (even if it's not used). I can't remember Ubuntu using the proprietary driver by default, but even if that's the case, it wouldn't work with your particular card based on below information...


GTX 750/Ti needs version 334.xx or later, and it's not in the Trusty repo.



It's not in the repo, so you're going to have to use a PPA. [https://launchpad.net/~mamarley/+archive/ubuntu/nvidia](https://launchpad.net/~mamarley/+archive/ubuntu/nvidia)

Thanks for your reply Temujin.

I took a chance and installed the Nvidia 331 driver in the Ubuntu repos for 14.04.1. This didn't work for me before when I tried it with 14.04, but it seems to work now, so I presume that 331 has GTX750Ti support.  For now, I will leave things as they are. Thanks again for your input.

---

### Post by Steve_Hazeldine on 2014-11-12
Since I have had endless problems with nouveau causing gpu overheating and shutdown- it really is NOT a good default choice - I have searched high and low to find an answer to that very question.

Downloading the latest ".run" driver package from Nvidia just leads to more grief since they (Nvidia) seem to require a recompile and/or relink to get their stuff to work.  That being said, rather than aim for the latest 340 release, settling for 331 and just running "apt-get install nvidia-331" appears to do what it's supposed to.

I have more testing to complete before I can say if it cures the overheating issue.

---

