---
title: "Jaunty and nvidia 180.44 woes - resolution settings won't tick when logging out of X"
date: 2009-05-28
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by akagdis on 2009-05-28
I am a n00b but I have tried many solutions in the forums for this problem.  I have a GeForce 7600 GT using Nvidia 180.44 drivers on Jaunty and found out that my monitor, Viewsonic E90f doesn't report any EDID info (I get 'edidfail' when I run dccprobe).  
     I added the  Option  "UseEDID"  "False" under 'device' and added horizontal/vertical sync/refresh rates in my xorg.conf file.  I now have many resolution choices but when I restart X, it keeps putting me back into a 'safe' resolution, 800x600!  It is REALLY frustrating, 
     I would almost call it a deal-breaker with ubuntu, but I like it so much, I am willing to stick it out (don't get me started on lack of ALSA drivers and SB XFI!).  Anybody have any ideas? 

-Alex

 Here is my xorg.conf:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    Modeline "1024x768_85.00"  94.39  1024 1088 1200 1376  768 769 772 807  -HSync +Vsync
    HorizSync       30.0 - 86.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"

EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Option          "UseEDID"     "False"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Option          "UseEDID"     "False"        
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7600 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by akagdis on 2009-05-30
bump

---

### Post by cjlemmon on 2009-06-04
I have the same problem with a GeForce 6600.

---

### Post by akagdis on 2009-06-15
<bump>

I had to revert back to Intrepid and it works fine, but would like the problem solved before I upgrade in the future, if at all.

---

### Post by Sigshane on 2009-06-17
My situation is similar to the OP's, with the following particularities:

From bootup to user login screen, screen resolution on my HP laptop is perfect (1280 x 800).  It is only after I have logged on that the screen res defaults to 800 x 600.  I have to manually change that every time I log on, and it only lasts until the next boot.

I have renamed, moved, even deleted the xorg.conf and backup files, to no avail.  Yeah, it allowed me to save changes, but it made no difference on the next login.

---

