---
title: "Setting up TwinView in Hardy 8.04 LTS"
date: 2008-05-04
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by bharkins on 2008-05-04
I am trying to correctly edit the xorg.conf file to get TwinView to function. There are lots of suggested versions, all for prior versions of Ubuntu. What's the starting point for Hardy? Here is my xorg.conf:

[SIZE="1"][FONT="Microsoft Sans Serif"]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection
[/FONT][/SIZE]

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-05-05
Back-up the file, and use nvidia-settings to generate a new one for you with Twinview.

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
sudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by bharkins on 2008-05-06
> **AstalaVista said:**
> Back-up the file, and use nvidia-settings to generate a new one for you with Twinview.

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
sudo nvidia-settings
```

I have tried nvidia-settings but get error messages. I need to edit xorg.conf. I am using my HP notebook at resolution of 1650x1050 and a Samsung HDTV of 1950x1080. I need to know the suggested Metamodes sequence, the various Options, what the sequence is for each monitor for setting the monitors to Clone. I have reviewed dozens of xorg.conf edits from 2006-2007, but I need the edits for Hardy 8.04 LTS.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2008-05-06
What error messages?

nvidia-settings got twinview setup for me with a cloned desktop painlessly.

This didn't work at all in 6.06.

--wally.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-06
I used Nvidia-settings to setup my hp laptop with my 36" hdtv perfect. What errors are you receiving from nvidia-settings?

---

### Post by bharkins on 2008-05-06
> **EXCiD3 said:**
> I used Nvidia-settings to setup my hp laptop with my 36" hdtv perfect. What errors are you receiving from nvidia-settings?

I had a message about not being able to set up the MetaModes correctly and that was last week. However, that was with Gutsy and now I'm switched to Hardy. I'll give another try tomorrow with nvidia-settings and post results.

---

### Post by EXCiD3 on 2008-05-06
could you run "sudo nvidia-settings" in terminal and post the errors? It looks like you arent the only one with a 8800 experiencing that problem.

---

### Post by bharkins on 2008-05-08
> **EXCiD3 said:**
> could you run "sudo nvidia-settings" in terminal and post the errors? It looks like you arent the only one with a 8800 experiencing that problem.

I got it working in the nvidia settings GUI screen. This was with Hardy,  previous problem was with Gutsy. Getting the clones, correct resolution, etc., all popped up almost as quick as a Widnow setup. I did notice that the settings screen has to be set up each time to go to dual monitors, but it's only a few mouse clicks.

Another Ubuntu milstone for me, and when a problem is solved it makes one feel great.

Thanks for the help.

---

