---
title: "Gstreamer installation missing plugin the sequel"
date: 2015-02-22
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by gregory7 on 2015-02-22
Although there is another problem with this which has been fixed - its solution to rename the registry.i686 bin file as old and have it be regenerated by clementine does not stop the error - and the radio station continues to fail to start with the error message:

 Your GStreamer installation is missing a plug-in.

I have gone through the solutions which I have found here, but no luck - the other radio stations work btw...:)

---

### Post by gregory7 on 2015-02-22
Maybe someone can think of a way to check to see if all the plugins are present and correct for Clementine?

Or perhaps I need to upgrade gstreamer from 0.10 to 1.0?

If so how?:confused:

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-02-22
Why don't you post the url that is giving clementine the problem.
clementine has not been ported to gstreamer1.0 so nothing for you to do there

---

### Post by gregory7 on 2015-02-22
> **mc4man said:**
> Why don't you post the url that is giving clementine the problem.
clementine has not been ported to gstreamer1.0 so nothing for you to do there

OK, thanks for yr time :)

It is Smooth FM at [http://www.smoothradio.com/london/radio/player/](http://www.smoothradio.com/london/radio/player/)

I know it works but which plugin do I need to install? And how? :confused:

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2015-02-23
I get the same result with Clementine here on Debian, and I have all the obvious gstreamer0.10 audio plugin packages installed (good, bad, ugly, ffmpeg).
Perhaps it has something to do with this URL only working in the UK?

---

### Post by gregory7 on 2015-02-23
> **Temüjin said:**
> I get the same result with Clementine here on Debian, and I have all the obvious gstreamer0.10 audio plugin packages installed (good, bad, ugly, ffmpeg).
Perhaps it has something to do with this URL only working in the UK?

Works fine when I play it from the browser both with the vpn or without, so that can't be it. :confused:

---

### Post by gregory7 on 2015-02-23
So there are two questions here:

1) Can anyone else add Smooth FM as one of their Radio Stations on Clementine?

2) Is there no way to update any missing plugins with Gstreamer?

---

### Post by gregory7 on 2015-02-24
If someone could try and add that station, and then report if it is possible, then that would be a step forward - ie we would know where the problem lies...

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2015-02-24
> **gregory7 said:**
> Is there no way to update any missing plugins with Gstreamer?

Yes, but you need to know exactly what plugin you're missing. Unfortunately, Clementine isn't specific in that regard: [https://github.com/clementine-player/Clementine/issues/4660](https://github.com/clementine-player/Clementine/issues/4660)
It's possible whatever plugin it wants doesn't exist in gstreamer or the error is symptomatic of another issue. Like I said, I have all the gstreamer plugin packages installed and I get the same message.

---

### Post by gregory7 on 2015-02-24
> **Temüjin said:**
> Yes, but you need to know exactly what plugin you're missing. Unfortunately, Clementine isn't specific in that regard: [https://github.com/clementine-player/Clementine/issues/4660](https://github.com/clementine-player/Clementine/issues/4660)
It's possible whatever plugin it wants doesn't exist in gstreamer or the error is symptomatic of another issue. Like I said, I have all the gstreamer plugin packages installed and I get the same message.

So in short there is no way forward on this and I need to wait until Clementine or gstreamer work it out?

That's fine, just so I can be happy I went as far as I could :)

Thanks again for your time ):P

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2015-02-25
I don't think it has anything to do with gstreamer/plugins. The link you gave doesn't seem to be a direct link to a radio stream.
I think you'll find this site a little more useful ;) [http://media-ice.musicradio.com/](http://media-ice.musicradio.com/)

On my system, Clementine was able to play both the m3u and xspf link.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-02-25
A url to the site player isn't going to work in a standalone player.
Plus it's limited to UK users, -  sort of, - if you give the site player a valid postcode then it will allow playback from anywhere  (plus flash enabled..
Ex. code - 
EC1A 1BB

as far as in an external player, 1 possible is  - 
```
http://media-ice.musicradio.com/SmoothLondonMP3
```

---

