---
title: "10.10 desktop with snd-hda-intel"
date: 2011-01-01
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Flimflamsam on 2011-01-01
Hi there all, I've been trying to get my sound working - after realizing it was disabled in the BIOS, I enabled it and have been using the Comprehensive Guide to try and make it work.

From `lspci -v`:-

00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
    Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. P5LD2-VM Mainboard (Realtek ALC 882 codec)
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 5
    Memory at cfdf8000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: <access denied>
    Kernel modules: snd-hda-intel

This is the output I got from the `sudo module-assistant a-i alsa-source` command:-

In file included from include/linux/pci.h:58,                               
 &#9474;                  from /usr/src/modules/alsa-driver/acore/memalloc.inc:13,   
 &#9474;                  from /usr/src/modules/alsa-driver/acore/memalloc.c:1:      
 &#9474; /usr/src/modules/alsa-driver/include/linux/pci_ids.h:2: fatal error:        
 &#9474; @CONFIG_SND_KERNELSRC@/include/linux/pci_ids.h: No such file or directory   
 &#9474; compilation terminated.     

uname -r
2.6.35-24-generic-pae

cat /etc/issue tells me this is Ubuntu 10.10 (desktop).

Anyone have any ideas or hints/tips? Could this be as simple as me not having the kernel headers properly installed (despite successfully following all of the previous steps in the guide).

Thanks!

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-01-01
Forget that for now. I'll need some more info.
Use the alsa-info-script to provide detailed information.
Run this command in a terminal:
```
wget http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh 
```
Choose the upload option and provide a link for the output.
[Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"]

---

