---
title: "9.04 + Matrox TripleHead2Go widescreen virtual desktops"
date: 2009-09-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Paegus on 2009-09-10
I have recently converted fully to Ubuntu on my main computer and so far so good. got the wireless etc working after some digging etc. Even got my Matrox TH2G running nicely at 3840x1024 across 3 1280x1024 monitors as i had them under XP. But I've run into a slight snag that I've been unable to find a suitable answer to. In XP I had Matrox's PowerDesk utility (or nVidia's GridLines) to transparently split the 3840x1024 desktop into however many sub/virtual/whatever desktops I wanted. Though I recall nVidia's version being somewhat limited. Obviously my pick was 3 vertical dividers. With this enabled maximizing a window caused it to maximize only to whatever 1280x1024 sub-section they were mostly in instead of spreading across the entire desktop.

So is there a valid solution to this in Ubuntu? I've found videos of things that split the screen like a video game console, I've found references to virtual tiling desktop manager and so on but frankly these are not what I'm after since they're either completely the wrong idea or are not in the least be transparent. I'd've thought Compiz would have something along these lines seeing as it seems so scriptable but so far I've found nothing that sounds like it'll do what I want.

The closest thing I've found is Compiz's Grid addon that 'Warps and resizes windows to fit an imaginary grid' but there doesn't seem to be any way to define the grid of have it interact with maximizations.

Does anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by Paegus on 2009-09-12
nothing?

---

### Post by baksiidaa on 2010-08-26
Try Fake Xinerama ([http://ktown.kde.org/~seli/fakexinerama/](http://ktown.kde.org/~seli/fakexinerama/)).

---

