---
title: "9.10 sound issues, running in VMWare"
date: 2009-11-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by Nwwmac on 2009-11-14
I'm running 9.10, even though I'm a newbie with Ubuntu, because it gives me better support for my monitor. However, I'm having sound problems. 

I'm running 9.10 virtualized with VMware on a Mac running Snow Leopard. I used the Comprehensive Sound Problems Solutions Guide sticky and have gotten to Part 3 of the 'General Help' section. 

Step 3, LSPCI -v ID'd my sound card correctly as:

02:02.0 Multimedia audio controller: Ensoniq ES1371 [AudioPCI-97] (rev 02)
	Subsystem: Ensoniq ES1371 [AudioPCI-97]
	Flags: bus master, medium devsel, latency 64, IRQ 16
	I/O ports at 2080 [size=64]
	Kernel driver in use: ENS1371
	Kernel modules: snd-ens1371

I've installed PulseAudio Volume Meter and can see the signal to my card. When there is signal & sound it is really choppy and unlistenable. At other times it is non existent (no signal showing, no sound at all). Typically the choppy sound will give way to silence / no signal. 

My 9.10 install was a fresh one so I don't believe the issue is an older kernel, which I've seen suggested in other threads. I am using VMWare Tools, which were installed under Vmware 2. Upgrading to VMWare 3 trial has not helped as far as I can tell. Sadly I'm not sure if they are loaded automatically. 

I'm stumped for how to proceed. I think the card is ID'd correctly and the drivers are running. 

Suggestions? ;)

---

### Post by Klin'Targ on 2009-11-17
I have a similar setup. It seems that a new feature of pulseaudio, GlichFreeAudio is incompatible with the VMWare virtualized sound card driver (and other drivers as well... see [http://n2.nabble.com/pulseaudio-breaks-after-update-today-td3312334.html](http://n2.nabble.com/pulseaudio-breaks-after-update-today-td3312334.html) ) . Disabling it seems to work for me. To do so change 

```
load-module module-udev-detect
```

to

```
load-module module-udev-detect tsched=0
```

in /etc/pulse/default.pa

and then execute 
```
killall pulseaudio && pulseaudio
```

---

### Post by jeyaganesh on 2009-12-01
Klin'Targ, it was very helpful. Now I can hear musics in Ubuntu on vmware fusion 3.:D

---

### Post by imagining on 2009-12-02
Thank you for the fix. Unfortunately it didn't work for me.

I did modified /etc/pulse/default.pa as instructed, then, my interpretation of the next step of "and then execute" was to open up an Terminal window and type:

    killall pulseaudio && pulseaudio

and

    Enter/Return, righ?

So I did, but I am getting back this:

    E: pid.c: Daemon already running.
    E: main.c: pa_pid_file_create() failed.

What I do wrong? Please help! Thank you!

My system & setup:

    Mac Pro OS X Version 10.6.2
    VMWare Fusion Version 2.0.6 (196839)
    Ubuntu Server 9.10 (karmic)
     Kernel Linux 2.6.31-15-server
     GNOME 2,28.1

---

### Post by Stoneface on 2009-12-07
I did the same - I did modify /etc/pulse/default.pa - and ```

stoneface@ubuntu:/etc/pulse$ killall pulseaudio && pulseaudio 
```

Then I got 
```

E: alsa-sink.c: ALSA woke us up to write new data to the device, but there was actually nothing to write!
E: alsa-sink.c: Most likely this is a bug in the ALSA driver 'snd_ens1371'. Please report this issue to the ALSA developers.
E: alsa-sink.c: We were woken up with POLLOUT set -- however a subsequent snd_pcm_avail() returned 0 or another value < min_avail.
E: alsa-source.c: ALSA woke us up to read new data from the device, but there was actually nothing to read!
E: alsa-source.c: Most likely this is a bug in the ALSA driver 'snd_ens1371'. Please report this issue to the ALSA developers.
E: alsa-source.c: We were woken up with POLLIN set -- however a subsequent snd_pcm_avail() returned 0 or another value < min_avail.

``` But it did work after that :-)

P.S. Did this on a Macbook Pro OS X 10.6.2 using VMWare Fusion 3 to run Ubuntu

---

### Post by Stoneface on 2009-12-15
[S]After an update to the latest kernel sound is gone again. default.pa was not altered. When I exceuted killall pulseaudio && pulseaudio the sound did not return..[/S]

Sound was turned off after restarting.. Just had to raise the volume ... :-)

---

### Post by rmcellig on 2009-12-18
> **Klin'Targ said:**
> I have a similar setup. It seems that a new feature of pulseaudio, GlichFreeAudio is incompatible with the VMWare virtualized sound card driver (and other drivers as well... see [http://n2.nabble.com/pulseaudio-breaks-after-update-today-td3312334.html](http://n2.nabble.com/pulseaudio-breaks-after-update-today-td3312334.html) ) . Disabling it seems to work for me. To do so change 

```
load-module module-udev-detect
```

to

```
load-module module-udev-detect tsched=0
```

in /etc/pulse/default.pa

and then execute 
```
killall pulseaudio && pulseaudio
```

Can you let me know how exactly in Terminal I can make these changes? I'm new to all this and need some guidance. Thanks!!!

---

### Post by pengudeus on 2010-01-08
> **rmcellig said:**
> Can you let me know how exactly in Terminal I can make these changes? I'm new to all this and need some guidance. Thanks!!!

  No problem.

Open the terminal in any way you like...personally, I like to do alt+f2 and type in gnome-terminal.  Once you're in the terminal, run

```
sudo gedit /etc/pulse/default.pa
```

( Note: I used gedit....use whatever text editor you prefer )

This should load the file.  I found the line 
```
load-module module-udev-detect
``` 

and replaced it with

```
load-module module-udev-detect tsched=0
```

Save and close out of it.  Now, my process for ending pulse audio is different ( and cleaner ) than Klin suggested.  Try this:

```
pulseaudio --kill
```

then

```
pulseaudio --start
```

Good luck :D


Also, thanks to Klin'Targ for the fix.

---

### Post by AlexUbu on 2010-02-13
Thanks for the fix....it worked great I have finally sound, it was driving me crazy!!!!

---

