---
title: "13.04, EasyCAP 04d9:2517 Holtek"
date: 2013-06-24
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-24
A little background:  setting up a XBMC media center.  Want to also include my old VHS tapes onto disk.  Have Roxio VHS To DVD device -> doesn't work in Linux.  Went to EBay, bought an EasyCAP device.  This device's usb manu/prod ids: 04d9:2517 and says Holtek (output from lsusb).  I have looked through what I can find on the net and in the forum for EasyCAP, and haven't found my specific device.  Great - did I buy a version of EasyCAP not compatible with Ubuntu?

Has anyone gotten the EasyCAP 04d9:2517 Holtek working?  Can you point me to a how-to or give me some additional instructions?  Everything I've seen on the EasyCAP is talking about what seems to me to be a completely different manufacturer/product.

Thanks!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-06-25
*Thread moved to **Multimedia & Video**.*

(No idea why this was in ***Absolute Beginners*** ...)

Yea, I have an Ezycap and got it working without a problem. If you plug it in, run dmesg immediately, it is recognising that the dongle is plugged? That is a good sign. They use a Realtek chip (at least mine does) but can't remember what driver. In 12.04 I just plugged it in and it worked but in 10.04 LTS I had to install the driver. What is giving you a sign that it is not working? You have an antennae plugged into it?

I would be tempted to install MeTV on a regular install, plug the dongle in, check dmesg and if it is recognised, check MeTV and see if that recognises it.

PS: Mine is the Ezycap DVB-T FM DAB and on the back it has a code: N11833.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
It's simply a usb dongle - says EasyCAP on it - no numbers, words, etc., other than that.

lsusb shows it as:

Bus 005 Device 002: ID 04d9:2517 Holtek Semiconductor, Inc. 

Everything I've seen says it should be something like /dev/video0 or /dev/video1.  I have nothing with "video" in the name in /dev.  That makes me think it's not being recognized.  Perhaps a udev rule needs to change - I don't know.  I also don't know if it requires a driver.  A search of ubuntu easycap 04d9:2517 doesn't return much on the net.  Similarly a search of ubuntu easycap holtek.

The threads I have seen for these generic "Easycap" devices in both the forums and on the net all seem to reference a different chipset. 

So, that's why I don't *think* it's working - can't find a device for it, nothing helpful on the net or the forums for this USB id that I could find.

BTW - I don't seem to know where posts go.  Just exactly what does go in the ABS?  I thought something like this did - and I thought more people would see it there.  More viewers to that forum than to the others.  Just a question - no hassle ;)

Thanks for the help again!

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
Forgot to post the dmesg output - strange manufacturer shows, and it claims one of the endpoints is the wrong size (been a year or so since I used the calls in libusb, but I always just adjusted my programming for an endpoint size - don't know what this means in this context).

```
[84404.992345] usb 1-5.1: new high-speed USB device number 10 using ehci-pci
[84405.087840] usb 1-5.1: config 1 interface 0 altsetting 1 bulk endpoint 0x83 has invalid maxpacket 256
[84405.091197] usb 1-5.1: New USB device found, idVendor=1b71, idProduct=3002
[84405.091210] usb 1-5.1: New USB device strings: Mfr=3, Product=4, SerialNumber=2
[84405.091219] usb 1-5.1: Product: usbtv007
[84405.091227] usb 1-5.1: Manufacturer: fushicai
[84405.091235] usb 1-5.1: SerialNumber: 300000000002
dave@davezbox:~$ 

```

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
BTW - [this link]("http://linuxtv.org/wiki/index.php/Easycap#USBTV007_EasyCAP")  is what makes me think I got one with the incorrect chipset for Linux support.  It shows some kernel patch (I used to patch OS's, but have never done it in Ubuntu) and an *experimental*  driver.

That's why I was hoping someone would see this who has this exact model and can tell me if it worked for them or not.

Since you have a capture device that is working, are there any more specifics than what you listed if I try to find one on Ebay?

Thanks again!

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
I should note:  needs to be usb and have composite inputs

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-06-25
```
usb 1-5.1: new high-speed USB device number 10 using ehci-pci
```

That's probably it. If you boot without the dongle in, get to the desktop, plug it in, run dmesg. That should show at the bottom. If it does, don't worry about the fact that it isn't showing in /devs for the moment, just see if it is detected by software, which is why I suggested you install MeTV. That will either pick it up immediately or not at all then we can move on. ;)

* After reading your link, yes, it could be:

[84405.091227] usb 1-5.1: Manufacturer: fushicai

... but it will still be using a chip manufactured by someone else. That's the bit we need and I'm not finding which driver they are using on that link. I would add the patch if I had any idea how to do it and see how that goes.

* Further update. Part of the patch says:

> This is a video4linux2 driver for USBTV007 based video capture devices.

If we go from that link we're presuming yours is an Ezycap USBTV007, which it might not be.

PS: I gave details of the dongle I have earlier. USB one side, plug for antennae the other.  ;)
PPS: It is not the Holtek entry. I have one that doesn't go away if I unplug the dongle.
PPPS: I am using 12.04 LTS. You also might want to have a dig through here:

[http://www.dogpile.com/search/web?fcoid=417&fcop=topnav&fpid=27&q=USBTV007+ubuntu&ql=](http://www.dogpile.com/search/web?fcoid=417&fcop=topnav&fpid=27&q=USBTV007+ubuntu&ql=)

It doesn't look promising but I wouldn't give up quite yet ...

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
VLC wasn't finding it, but I went ahead and installed Me TV.  Nothing shows there, and when I tried record it said no dvb devices found.

BTW - mine is an EasyCAP device - not Ezycap like yours.   They appear to be 2 entirely different animals.

Holtec, as shown in the lsusb for the device, is the chip manufacturer (Holtek Semiconducter).

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
Just took the dang thing apart.  The main chip doesn't have a manufacturer name on it, and I didn't see a manufacturers mark either.  The chip has these 3 lines:

UTV007
A168978.1
1311L 1BK1

I'm going to search again for anything mentioning linux and utv007.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-06-25
What I'm saying is I also have a Holtek entry under lsusb as well so don't think that's your card:

```
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 002: ID 8087:0020 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 002 Device 002: ID 8087:0020 Intel Corp. Integrated Rate Matching Hub
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 0930:0508 Toshiba Corp. Integrated Bluetooth HCI
Bus 001 Device 004: ID 04f2:b128 Chicony Electronics Co., Ltd 
Bus 002 Device 003: ID 04d9:1135 Holtek Semiconductor, Inc. 
```

Run lsusb with the dongle in, unplug, run it again. That will identify.

PS: Yep, EZ and Easy cap different beasts I'd say too.

More ideas:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1998282](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1998282)

Might have hit the jackpot here, installation instructions at bottom:

[http://easycap.blogspot.com.au/p/easycap-dc60.html](http://easycap.blogspot.com.au/p/easycap-dc60.html)

Tons more clues here:

[http://www.dogpile.com/search/web?fcoid=417&fcop=topnav&fpid=2&q=easycap+ubuntu+12.04&ql=](http://www.dogpile.com/search/web?fcoid=417&fcop=topnav&fpid=2&q=easycap+ubuntu+12.04&ql=)

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
OOOPPPSSS - dup of below post!  Removed.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-25
Yep - it's the HolteK device.  Unplug - it goes away, plug it in- it's back.  No other devices change or delete/come back.

I did some more searching all over the dang net last night, and wouldn't you know, I find 4 threads that say this particular thing (utv007) from fushicai will not work with linux.

Do I know how to pick 'em or what??  ;)  Guess it's 2 items to sell on EBay cheap - hardly worth it.  I'd pay them forward on the forums here but since they don't work in Linux that wouldn't be nice at all ;)

So, I was looking on Ebay - couldn't find your device when I was looking (it was 4 a.m. so I might not have been the most alert).  I did find a EzyCap 116 on EBay - looks sort of like what I've got, but I'm afraid to touch it without knowing if it will work.

Guess I'll keep hunting until I find one.

BTW - Holtek also makes chips that go in everything from keyboards, mice, video, etc.  I noticed Chicony - so that's probably your keyboard - perhaps your Holtek device is your mouse or a card reader?

My search continues.......    ;)

EDIT: 

Forgot to mention - those links you posted are for a different chipset that is known to work with Ubuntu.  The title  "EasyCAP" is actually just a generic for a series (4 that I know of) of Chineese manufacturers' capture devices.  The ones with the Syntek (sp?) chipset seem to work fine - unfortunately it's the luck of the draw when you buy one, and wouldn't you know mine doesn't have the chipset that works with linux?  ;)

Also - just found a picture and description of your device.  It appears to be a tuner - USB at one end, antenna connection at the other from what I saw.  I actually need one with the composite video and 2 RCA sound jacks so I can attach my VCR to my PC to record what's on the old tapes.  Please let me know if I'm incorrect. 

Thanks again for all your help!   Between you and Cheesemill you guys have been the ones to help make my media center idea come to success.  Just need to finish scanning all the disks (omg - I never thought of how long that would take - I'm going to be busy for weeks ;) ) and then my VHS tapes, THEN all of my sister and brother inlaws' disks and tapes!  Yikes!

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-06-26
I did find a thread on the net that said that the Pinnacle Dazzle DVC100 works in Ubuntu.  I found 1 on Ebay in the price range I can probably afford.

Can anyone verify that indeed this works in 13.04?

---

