---
title: "only 4:3 resolution on LCD TV"
date: 2009-01-07
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by airjaw on 2009-01-07
Hi , wondering if I can get some help / advice on setting up a media center with my comp.

I'm running 8.10 with an nvidia card and all the correct nvidia drivers. I can run 1680 x1050 res on my 22" widescreen monitor but when I hook it up to the TV thru VGA, I can only get a 4:3, 640x480 resolution. 

edit: my TV is a Toshiba 1080p, 42"

I've tried running gksu displayconfig -gtk (does nothing).
I've installed Envy, which just confirmed that I had the correct driver already.
Is there anything I can do?

my xorg.conf file:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option    "AddARGBGLXVisuals"    "True"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

Thank you.

---

### Post by amauk on 2009-01-07
while hokked up to the TV, run
sudo nvidia-settings

and choose the resolution

---

### Post by airjaw on 2009-01-07
hi thanks for your advice.  The resolution in nvidia settings only goes up to 640x480 tho

---

