---
title: "PulseAudio application"
date: 2009-06-17
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by alvaroalo on 2009-06-17
Hello everybody,

I am trying to use PulseAudio in order to forward the audio stream which is actually played in the system, through the network, since I want to recombine some audio of this machine, and some video of other, into a common server. The first thing I wanted to do was storing the audio in a wav file or mp3 file, but I have not been able yet.

I would be really grateful if u can give me any hint to do it.

Hugs!!!!!

---

### Post by alvaroalo on 2009-06-24
OK, I solved my first problem, following the pulseaudio guides and some other guidances. Now, I have a question, which I really dont know if it could be possible to solve.
Thanks to PulseAudio, we are able to stream the audio executing in a server to some clients via RTP, and we can listen to it in these clients, but my question is a variation of this stuff.
What I really want to do is to integrate IN THE CLIENT this stream which I have received from the server with video data using FFMPEG in order to generate a mpg file as an output, with video and audio integrated, but I really don' know if it will be possible.
I have searched on the Internet, and I have not found anything related...

Could you please help me?????

Thanks!!!

---

### Post by alvaroalo on 2009-06-24
Well, the real problem is the following
Forget my last comment
I want to integrate with ffmpeg some video generated by an application, and some other audio generated by some other application.
I have tried to use pipe-sinks, but when trying to use, Rhythmbox does not work (if I play a song, it does nothing, in other terms, it reacts as if the song is not being played). As a result, the file generated with the pipe-sink remains always empty.
On the contrary, if I configure the file default.pa in order to use RTP for streaming, the player works fine, but I have not got activated the pupe-sink, and so, nothing will be dumped to /tmp/sound.
Any idea???
Thanks!!!!

---

