---
title: "13.10 on Radeon HD8870M / Intel Haswell produces green display"
date: 2014-02-25
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by gbrosso on 2014-02-25
Hello all,

I'm running a Dual Boot (Windows8.1 / Ubuntu 13.10) on a new Dell Inspiron 17R (5737). 
The screen displays only in green and violet colours. And the resolution is quite bad even though I'm on 1600x900. I could see this from the liveCD but thought that it was due to the hybrid graphics card (Intel Haswell / AMD Radeon HD 8870M) and that I could fix it later. 
I couldn't!

I've installed both the old AMD Catalyst for the HD 7****M series and the new AMD Catalyst Beta drivers that are supposed to support this card.  It works but my display is still green. I can even switch between graphic cards through the AMD Catalyst Control Centre. But I'm still green. 

I also installed *fglrx-pxpress* and a "Sorry, Ubuntu has crashed" message appears after logging in. The log-in screen is also green and purple. 

Here is my lspci output:

```
lspci -k | grep -iA2 'VGA'
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Haswell-ULT Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)
	Subsystem: Dell Device 05ee
	Kernel driver in use: i915
--
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Venus XT [Radeon HD 8870M]
	Subsystem: Dell Device 05ee
	Kernel driver in use: fglrx_pci

```

Any help is greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by GandalfTheNerd on 2014-03-06
If you find a solution I'd dearly love to know it! There seem to be a number of us with the same issue. See [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2204287](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2204287) for the gory details (with pictures!)

---

### Post by GandalfTheNerd on 2014-03-06
viktor_sk made it work with a customised (earlier) version of Ubuntu (12.04.1). You can read about it here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2204599](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2204599). In the meantime, it works fine with an external monitor using 13.10. Not ideal for a laptop, but better than nothing.

---

### Post by androjduser on 2014-03-11
same problem. 
I have a inspiron with i3-4010U processor and integrated intel hd4400.
I tried : 12.04, 13.10, all possible daily 14, with and without the intel 1.0.3 or 1.0.4 video driver pack : still green screen on the laptop, but the screen on the hdmi is ok (1920*1080), 
if you can live with only one screen, boot with NOMODESET in grub. the way to do this is easily found on the forums.

---

