---
title: "12.04 version pulse not working ALSA better but not indicator"
date: 2013-09-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by JanuszR on 2013-09-21
[FONT=times new roman]Hello, 
I was trying to listen music on default installation of Ubuntu and sound (movie, mp3, radio) was broken. In the [zip file]("http://www.infocentre.pl/prv/samples.zip") one can find two filaes:
Hiszpanskieubuntu_pulseaudio.mp3 - recorded with Nokia C6
and
hiszpanskie_ok.mp3 - original sound cut with Audacity.
It was recorded from RythmBox, but in other players situation is similar - sound works horrible. 
I decidet to remove pulseaudio and install ALSA. And sound is ok, movie too. Radio soudns great. But I do not have indicator - simple volume control on the panel.

I was trying to put gnome-sound-applet in autostart - not working - it is in system but not showing icon in panel. I was trying to reinstall indicator but it install pulseaudio and situation with broken soun occur once again. Again unistall pulse and sound works and no indicator. 

I using gnome - unity is still somewhere, but not like it.
On the other hand, pulseaudio works great with some special live distribution called Przyjzny Puchacz. Of course, I was trying to obtain some suggestions from Polish Ubuntu Forum Board, but my posts were removed, because of - not this place, not this version, to many question, etc. 
Anyone got suggestions? My Nokia is old and not so fast to upgrade to newest UBUNTU. 

Ubuntu 12.04.3 LTS (Precise Pangolin)
Nokia Booklet 3g (1,6GHz ATOM, 1Gb RAM)

[/FONT]

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-09-22
I use this to control my headphone volume: [http://softwarebakery.com/maato/volumeicon.html](http://softwarebakery.com/maato/volumeicon.html)
xfce's mixer may work for you too.

---

### Post by JanuszR on 2013-09-22
Downloaded it from mentioned site. Ubuntu cant uncompress it :) Any suggestion?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-09-22
> **JanuszR said:**
> Downloaded it from mentioned site. Ubuntu cant uncompress it :) Any suggestion?

Use the version in the repo:
```
sudo apt-get install volumeicon-alsa
```

---

### Post by JanuszR on 2013-09-22
Yes, i install it using Synaptic. And after reboot icon didnt appear. Morover, Synaptic show that volumeicon-alsa is installed, but command in the terminal answer that volumeicon-alsa is not found.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2013-09-22
The command is just:
```
volumeicon
```
And if you like it, you will need to find a way to make it start when you log in (I'm an xfce user, so I don't know how to do that in Gnome or Unity these days).

---

### Post by JanuszR on 2013-09-22
LOL, stupid me :) :) :) Thanks!!!. Now I got icon and mute option after click. And it links me to text alsa-mixer, which I really like.

---

