---
title: "8.10, latest X.org and support of nvidia restricted drivers"
date: 2008-12-18
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by eaidoido on 2008-12-18
sorry for the noobiness of my question but, does 8.10, with the latest X.org support nvidia restricted drivers?

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2008-12-18
> sorry for the noobiness of my question but, does 8.10, with the latest X.org support nvidia restricted drivers?


yes.

---

### Post by timcredible on 2008-12-18
> **eaidoido said:**
> sorry for the noobiness of my question but, does 8.10, with the latest X.org support nvidia restricted drivers?

i can't get it to work on mine.  8.04 was a breeze.  i have another computer with ati card, which worked perfect out of box with 8.10, but had to install 8.04 in safe graphics mode - go figure, role reversal between 8.04 and 8.10 with video cards.

as for your other questions, the dell mini 9 is really small, but the mini 12 is pretty nicely sized (i have co-workers with mini 9, acer 9", mini 12, and i have a dell vostro 1000).  they all run 8.10 fine except for the mini 12, which the guy returned last week because it came with vista and he couldn't get the video working in 8.10, but dell started selling the mini 12 with 8.04 on monday, so if you want something light, the mini 12 is nice.  if you want a full-size laptop, i think most work with 8.10 without issue - i have a dell vostro 1000, a co-worker has a toshiba something-or-other, another co-worker has a dell xps laptop, and another co-worker has a macbook air.  we all run ubuntu on them in dual-boot mode, and they all work.  in case you're wondering, i work in the IT field, that's why have so many co-workers with laptops that run ubuntu.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2008-12-18
Posts moved to their own thread.

---

