---
title: "5.1 surround no/quiet subwoofer"
date: 2010-12-08
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by nick.robinson95 on 2010-12-08
Hey, i need a bit of help. After trying for a few hours to fix this issue i cannot get it to work and i cannot find any other threads about this so here goes.

I have just plugged in a 5.1 surround system out of my computer and im running Ubuntu 10.10, i have looked all through the sound settings in preferences and i have configured it all properly, when i go into the testing screen everything works perfectly but when i try to play music through banshee or rhythmbox there is no bass/sub woofer or it may just be very very quiet. i have been pulling my hair out trying to figure out why it wont work.

For now i have just changed the audio profile to stereo and i seem to get bass, but i would really like to be able to listen to it in 5.1 sound. The sub woofer also works when i watch dvd's.

Please help :)

---

### Post by conradin on 2010-12-08
I use VLC for playing most media, I realise it might not be perfect for your uses daily, but you could try it for testing purposes. 

Within vlc, while playing whatever media you have, press ctrl+e for the sound equaliser. Then check that it is in operation. Then try changing the settings. 

I can tell you my home theatre systems work fine with maverick. The purpose  here would be to tell if youre able to generate acceptable playback in software.
do you have any hardware controls? what type of system do you have?

---

### Post by nick.robinson95 on 2010-12-08
Ok, i've figured out that it works when i change the audio profile to stereo while the song is on and then if i change the audio profile to 5.1 while its still playing then it works perfectly, however when i change the song it gets rid of the sub woofer again. This leads me to belive that it is a bug in Ubuntu or the software it uses to manage sound. Its quite annoying, how would i report this?

---

### Post by nick.robinson95 on 2010-12-08
> **conradin said:**
> I use VLC for playing most media, I realise it might not be perfect for your uses daily, but you could try it for testing purposes. 

Within vlc, while playing whatever media you have, press ctrl+e for the sound equaliser. Then check that it is in operation. Then try changing the settings. 

I can tell you my home theatre systems work fine with maverick. The purpose  here would be to tell if youre able to generate acceptable playback in software.
do you have any hardware controls? what type of system do you have?

I also tried using vlc and no matter what I changed nothing happened, I've discovered that it is something wrong with the audio in Ubuntu, maybe a bug? It could still be my fault though but I have figured out a temporary way to get bass working.

---

### Post by nick.robinson95 on 2010-12-09
Bump

---

### Post by disciple3d on 2011-01-03
I had the same problem - I believe this is because pulseaudio is not remapping the LFE (subwoofer) channel by default.

I swap the audio cables, and things work in rythmbox, but then using totem, they are the other way around.  

It works ok when the source is 5.1, but when it is 2 channels, no sub.

I have managed to fix it though :)

Firstly, I set things back, so the speaker tester works correctly.  Make sure that is working correctly before continuing.


Then I tried this:

```
gksu gedit /etc/pulse/daemon.conf
```

Find the line 

```
;  enable-lfe-remixing = no
```

Change to:

```
enable-lfe-remixing = yes
```

So, uncomment the line, and change the option to yes instead of no.  Save the file, and then run:

```
killall pulseaudio

```

It should respawn automatically.  Then try playing a stereo MP3 - you should get some bass!  (Make sure you didn't turn it up all the way...)

You can use alsamixer in the terminal to tweak volumes..

---

### Post by nick.robinson95 on 2011-01-03
Thank you so much, its all working now. Cheers.

---

### Post by bygway on 2011-02-16
@disciple3d - YOU ROCK!! Dude I tried Ubuntu a couple of years back and this was one of the biggest pet peeves that I had with it. Now that I'm on Ubuntu only and I have 5.1 I'm happier than a pig in poo! Thanks mate!

---

### Post by aerofly5 on 2011-04-10
The only problem is is that there is no bass in 5.1 content anymore. This is a major annoyance for me, as games and hi-def movies have no bass whatsoever

---

### Post by 71GA on 2011-10-30
disciple3D you saved my problem !!!

---

