---
title: "12.04 hangs on boot"
date: 2013-01-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by charlier653 on 2013-01-21
I think I really goofed this time.

I replaced my failing nvidia video card with another I had, an MSI radeon card.

When I tried to install the driver for it, the computer stopped responding, now I can't get it to boot. I'm guessing I should have removed the nvidia driver before trying to install the radeon.

I get through the grub bootloader with no problems, and Ubuntu hangs just before the log-in screen.

I've tried to use the alt+F1 session routine, but still hangs even there.

Is there a way to resolve without a re-install?

---

### Post by Lightning Dragon on 2013-01-21
Hello,

You can try removing the new GPU and put the old one back in (if possible). This should allow you to boot back into the computer (same thing happened to me, only I went from new to old when my card died). You will be able to remove or install whatever you need then.

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2013-01-21
Thank you, Lightning Dragon,

I'll give that a try, and report back.

---

### Post by Lightning Dragon on 2013-01-21
Hello,

I hope the above method works for you. If it doesn't, then you will have to get into CLI (Command Line Interface) and try to uninstall/install the (un)needed files that way and try to reboot.

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2013-01-21
Ok, managed to get into tty shell.

The only reference book I have on CLI commands is practically useless (ubuntu linux toolbox) for what I'm needing to do, at least for the level I'm at.

I have little knowledge of where I would find the driver files to remove them using the CLI.

Yes, I'm lost without a GUI.

Could I use ```
sudo apt-get install Xorg 
``` to start fresh with this?

---

### Post by Lightning Dragon on 2013-01-21
Hello,

CLI is like the terminal, commands are accepted like "sudo" and "apt-get" still. How did you install the drivers? That could help find out how and which you installed. Manual or was it through the Additional Drivers?

No, I don't think that will but you back into an "empty" place to start fresh with.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-01-21
*Thread moved to **Multimedia & Video***

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2013-01-21
I was using the additional drivers "feature", which I thought would replace the nvidia with the ATI. I think I was wrong.

I have managed to get myself to /ect/X11 and I've found I have (among other things) xorg.conf and xorg.conf2 for configuration files. I doubt I can safely delete either of these, as I suspect that there are pointers to either of them in the Xinit files.

Just had a wild hair, and went to alt+F7. It appears that the system is hanging after "checking battery state". My computer is a desktop, not a notebook. Why would the boot sequence need to check this? And what is it supposed to do after seeing there is no battery.

I am having trouble in opening a text editor from the shell. And once I do that, how do I get out of it after making changes, if any?

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-01-21
it might be as simple as goint to the Ctrl-Alt-F1 virtual terminal and doing

```
sudo service lightdm stop
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
sudo service lightdm start
```This should restart the Xserver with the default radeon driver and auto-probed configuration

---

### Post by Lightning Dragon on 2013-01-21
Hello,

You cannot open programs like a text editor like gedit within the CLI. You can only use what it shows you. And you are right about the battery thing, that should not be showing. This is definitely because of the drivers.

You can try the following;

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/50617/how-can-i-remove-nvidia-drivers](http://askubuntu.com/questions/50617/how-can-i-remove-nvidia-drivers)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/128113/how-do-you-remove-nvidias-proprietary-drivers](http://askubuntu.com/questions/128113/how-do-you-remove-nvidias-proprietary-drivers)

Those kind of methods are the only ways you can uninstall them without having access to the "GUI" Ubuntu.

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2013-01-21
Steeldriver, 

```
sudo service lightdm stop
``` returns E: unknown instance.

When I try ```
sudo service lightdm start
```I get "lightdm start/running process 5073":.

So I tried ```
sudo service lightdm stop 5073
``` I get "stop: Env must be KEY=VALUE pairs.

Lightning Dragon, I'll have a look at those links. I hope it helps, because I really don't want to have to reinstall.

BTW, reinstalling the nvidia GPU is the only way I could get it to allow access to the tty shells, thanks for that tip!

---

### Post by Lightning Dragon on 2013-01-21
Hello,

I hope they help to. I hate GPU issues, had to reinstall Ubuntu 12.04 seven times before I realized the actual problem.

Please post back if it didn't work or if it did so others know what to do if they encounter the issue.

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2013-01-22
The links helped, sort of. Got rid of the nvidia driver, which also removed the xorg.conf and xorg.conf.bak files.

Still hangs just before the log-in screen. 

I'll go back in with the recovery console, now that I know how to make it read/write, and search out the ati driver and remove it too, just to see what happens. I'm hopeful that it will allow full boot. Lightdm now starts without a ([COLOR="Red"]fail[/COLOR]).

When I previously tried ```
apt-get purge ati
apt-get purge ati-current
``` both returned "could not find package" errors. Any thoughts on how to remove the lightdm thing to get back to the default new install driver?

The "checking battery state" now has an (ok) after it, so there might be a slight improvement.

---

### Post by Lightning Dragon on 2013-01-22
Hello,

You do not want to remove Lightdm, that is important. For removing ATI drivers, please see these links;

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1869540](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1869540)
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/174478/how-do-i-remove-ati-video-drivers](http://askubuntu.com/questions/174478/how-do-i-remove-ati-video-drivers)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1056539](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1056539)

Unfortunately I don't know what ATI driver you installed and have never uninstalled an ATI driver as I don't have them, but the above should work. However, I did read that where you downloaded the driver from has an install and uninstall instructional page.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-01-22
When you get to the menu list at boot, choose the kernel you are going to boot and hit 'e' to edit it. Find the line that ends in 'quiet splash' or either of those words. After a space add 'nomodset'. Follow the instructions at the bottom of the screen to save changes and continue with boot. What happens?

If you are not getting a menu list at boot hit the shift key right after the BIOS screen.

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2013-01-22
Found a solution that seems to have worked:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Oneiric_Installation_Guide#Removing_Catalyst.2Ffglrx")

I have gone through the removal steps, and now have full boot to desktop. I'll continue with the installation build steps tomorrow and post the results here.

Thanks for all the help, guys!

---

### Post by Lightning Dragon on 2013-01-22
Hello,

I'm very glad you got it to work, charlier!  

When you come back to the thread, remember to mark it solved and list which option helped you or the steps so others can fix the problem (as I have seen lots of people with the issue).

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2013-01-22
Still working on it, there are a few issues within this set of problems.

I still have in my applications>system tools>administration menu (path?) nvidia settings.

Not sore where to go to get that removed, not just unchecked in a menu list. To me that means there are still bits and pieces of the nvidia software still onboard, and I'll need to get rid of them before i can fully install the proper ATI/AMD drivers.

I have no clue where those bits and pieces might be hiding, so any hints anyone might have would be helpful and appreciated.

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2013-01-22
Did more searching, and found this:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/206283/how-can-i-uninstall-a-nvidia-driver-completely]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/206283/how-can-i-uninstall-a-nvidia-driver-completely")

took a little while, as I was busy with other things but everything except nvidia-commons has finally been removed. According to that page
> "If you want to be sure that you will purge everything related to nvidia you can give this command

```
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-*
```

the asterisk in the end means (Purge everything with the name nvidia-)

BUT

above command will also remove the nvidia-common package and the nvidia-common package have as dependency the ubuntu-desktop package." so I left that in.

As suggested there, I used ```
dpkg -l | grep -i nvidia
``` which I assume means list all deb packages with nvidia in the name along with finding and listing any other references to nvidia. So I now have an almost nvidia free computer, and will try again to install the ATI/AMD 13.1 driver.

Interesting note: In the listing from that last command there were 3 nvidia drivers still in the software, dating back to 9.04. And I thought windows was bad about keeping unused outdated software.....

At least now i know of the need and the how of removing all old drivers etc. before changing out hardware.

I bet I'll be doing this again next week when my new(er) motherboard arrives......

Anyway, thanks a bunch for the help you all have been.

Charlie

---

### Post by charlier653 on 2013-01-22
Update for anyone facing these same issues:

Current motherboard: Asrock alive sata 2 glan (I know, piece of horse hocky, but the price was right -- free when I needed it)
GPU: MSI radeon HD 4350 rescued from my wife's computer when we upgraded it

Currently running the FGLRX through the additional drivers

Tried to install the FGLRX-Update, and returned the same problem -- install failed, and on reboot hangs just before log-in screen.

To fix this issue:

Reboot. At GRUB screen choose recovery console.

Drop to recovery shell.

Make drive(s) rw

```
mount -n -o remount,rw /
```

find your fglrx packages with

```
dpkg -l | grep -i fglrx*
```

At this point you should have a list of all fglrx packages installed

remove the fglrx-update

```
apt-get remove --purge fglrx-update
```

Reboot.

You should be able to get to your log-in screen per normal boot.

---

### Post by Szostak on 2013-01-23
> **Lightning Dragon said:**
> Hello,

You cannot open programs like a text editor like gedit within the CLI. You can only use what it shows you. And you are right about the battery thing, that should not be showing. This is definitely because of the drivers.

You can try the following;

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/50617/how-can-i-remove-nvidia-drivers](http://askubuntu.com/questions/50617/how-can-i-remove-nvidia-drivers)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/128113/how-do-you-remove-nvidias-proprietary-drivers](http://askubuntu.com/questions/128113/how-do-you-remove-nvidias-proprietary-drivers)

Those kind of methods are the only ways you can uninstall them without having access to the "GUI" Ubuntu.

However you can open text file using nano command. Also, running aticonfig --initial , shows you a bunch of text, i ran it into terminal (on my notebook, and it listed all the Catalyst settings), then i guess it is possible to change ATI settings using "Catalyst text-mode", just don't know which commands i could use.

---

### Post by Lightning Dragon on 2013-01-23
Hello,

> **Szostak said:**
> However you can open text file using nano command. Also, running aticonfig --initial , shows you a bunch of text, i ran it into terminal (on my notebook, and it listed all the Catalyst settings), then i guess it is possible to change ATI settings using "Catalyst text-mode", just don't know which commands i could use.

Yes, but I meant you can't get any GUI applications to run through it, only text based things. Unfortunately I do not have ATI drivers or ATI products, so I have no idea what command you can run. However, Ubuntu's wiki does have instructions on this for ATI you can check out.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-01-23
> **Lightning Dragon said:**
>  However, Ubuntu's wiki does have instructions on this for ATI you can check out.

And the link would be ... ?

Anyhow, problem solved. With ATI, the solution seems to be avoid the FGLRX post-release updates in 'Additional Drivers'. Thats what crashes my machine.

---

### Post by Lightning Dragon on 2013-01-23
Hello,

I thought I had linked to it in my post where the "ATI" was, my apologies for that. Here is the link for anyone else, should they happen upon this thread; 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

See below "6. Reporting a bug". They have steps to purging the driver.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-01-23
;)

---

