---
title: "18.04"
date: 2021-05-21
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by gordie692 on 2021-05-21
Hey guys just me looking for a cd ripper that works I used to use cyberlink in windows but don't use windows anymore tied sound juicer, k3b Asunder, ripper X and rip off and no luck unless I used them incorrect or should use windows to rip my cd's

thanks guys

p.s 18.04 works great and I heard Canonical brought unity I liked Unity

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-05-21
Most desktop versions of 18.04 lost support a few months ago. Only the Gnome3 DE version is still supported. Use **ubuntu-support-status** command to see how much of your system packages aren't supported today.
It has been a few years, but I last used
```
NAME
       pacpl - Perl Audio Converter, a multi purpose converter/ripper/tagger
```

This is a shell/CLI tool which means it is much easier to script when converting lots and lots of discs.

When searching to tools that are similar to some other tool, there is a website - AlternativeTo.net.  Put in the tool you know and it will show alternatives.  Can be filtered based on OS.

We can also search the configured APT repos using keywords.
```
apt search ripper
```

That returned:
[LIST]
[*]sound-juicer
[*]ripperx
[*]ripoff
[*]pacpl
[*]jack
[*]grabcd-rip
[*]goobox
[*]asunder
[*]yaret
[/LIST]

Any of those can be installed using the APT package manager.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2021-05-21
> **gordie692 said:**
> k3b Asunder, ripper X and rip off and no luck 

All of those should work fine for basic ripping. You're going to need to be more specific about what failed (logs, errors, etc.) if you want this thread to go anywhere.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-05-21
Even though I am using a GUI version, Xubuntu-20.04 in  my case, I find abcde one of the best CD-rippers to use; it can simultaneously rip to several filetypes if needed, eg, flac, mp3, etc etc, which are the two I use simply by putting the CD in the drive and running the command ***abcde*** 

It is configured with simple text files of which I keep a few available to enable me to change the output filetype simply by renaming the conf file that I want to use in my home folder as ***.abcde.conf***

---

