---
title: "9.10 crashes with external monitor"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by zenkaon on 2009-10-30
Hello, Just installed 9.10 on my Dell latitude D420. lspci says I have:
```

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

```

My kernel is 2.6.31-14-generic

My laptop has many uses, when at work I take it to meetings (running from the laptop screen) and when at my desk I like to hook it up to a 19" monitor, keyboard and mouse.

In ubuntu 7.10,8.04,8.10 and 9.04 I would type
```

xrandr --auto

```
when the monitor was plugged in and everything would be fine. However in 9.10 I seem to get some sort of horrible kernel crash. The mouse pointer appears on the external monitor and laptop screen, both are blank otherwise, and the system completely hangs - hard reboot being the only way around it, can't even ssh in.

I have tried going to System->Preferences->Display but with the external monitor plugged I get the same results and have to do a hard reboot.

I am happy to post log messages if it will help debug this problem.

Does anyone have any suggestions????

---

### Post by pietermansz on 2009-10-30
Same thing over here with Latitude d520. After the crash i could not get Ubuntu started (seemed to loop somewhere)

I resolved the problem by starting in save mode at the root console and restored an older /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

I am still not able to use dual screens.

---

### Post by lodravah on 2009-10-30
Yup, same here. I have an MSI Wind with the Intel GMA945 chipset, and I have the same problem. As soon as I enter the "Display"-app from the menu, I get black, frozen screen and have to do a hard reboot. I cannot use my laptop/netbook with an external monitor so far. Have tried two different ones. At home and just two minutes ago here at school. I have an MSI Wind U100, 2Gb ram.

Also, my memorycard-reader doesn't work.

*edit.

It works! I switched off the "Visual effects"_before_ hooking up the external monitor. Hit "Display", "detect monitor", and clicked my way to widescreen-heaven :) I then re-enabled visual effects when I had everything on the big screen, and so far it works. I cannot guarantee for how long or anything else, but right now I'm typing on my little Wind hooked up to my uni's Dell 24" 16:10, 1900x1200 monitor. And, let me check here.... fully working visual effects :) 

Hope it works for you guys too..

-lodravah

---

### Post by zenkaon on 2009-10-30
I note that I have no /etc/X11/xorg.conf file

Maybe I need one??? I've used these over the years and know that they can be a right pain in the backside to setup correctly.

I believe that I am using xf86-video-intel as my driver, how can I check this?

Does anybody know how to correctly setup and xorg.conf file for this driver and my laptop (card listed at start of thread)

Or, is it something else causing the crashes?

I feel really silly sitting at my desk typing on my laptop with my 19" monitor (that worked fine yesterday with 9.04) turned off.

---

### Post by chaumo on 2009-10-30
I have the same problem with an Acer Travelmate (about 4-5 years old) with a Intel 915 Card, a 15' (1024x768 ) notebook screen and a external 19' (1280x1024).

```
#lspci | grep -e VGA -e Display
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 03)
``````
#xrandr 
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 200, current 2304 x 1024, maximum 4096 x 4096
VGA1 connected 1280x1024+0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 376mm x 301mm
   1280x1024      60.0*+   75.0  
   1152x864       75.0  
   1024x768       75.1     70.1     60.0  
   832x624        74.6  
   800x600        72.2     75.0     60.3  
   640x480        72.8     75.0     66.7     60.0  
   720x400        70.1  
LVDS1 connected 1024x768+1280+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 304mm x 228mm
   1024x768       60.0 +   85.0     75.0*    70.1     60.0  
   832x624        74.6  
   800x600        85.1     72.2     75.0     60.3     56.2  
   640x480        85.0     72.8     75.0     59.9  
   720x400        85.0  
   640x400        85.1  
   640x350        85.1  
TV1 disconnected (normal left inverted right x axis y axis)
```Using the system/preferences/screen menu I can use one or the other, or even both (but cloned, not extended), if i try to get them working as extended everything crashes (well, apps are still working as rhythmbox keeps playing, but no keyboard nor mouse, black screen and can't get to console through Ctrl+Alt+F1) so i need to do a hard reboot.

Switching off visual effects (as said before) seems to work, but I can't enable them later, neither normal effects. I wouldn't mind leaving them off but if there's a solution... and a question, is there a way to select which is the 'main' screen? I would like to have the menus and task bar in the 19' screen and not the laptop.

---

### Post by arodeus on 2009-10-30
Same problem with Samsung NC10. Here is my lspci video controller section:

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

When I switch-on my external monitor X crashes. No way restore situation: just turn off my laptop. I cleaned my xorg.conf file to ensure that old configuration generated from Jaunty wasn't the problem.

THX,
Diego

---

### Post by zenkaon on 2009-10-30
OK, so I've done a bit work investigative work on this. Here are my notes:

Plug external monitor into Dell Latitude D42 laptop running ubuntu 9.10:
uname -r = 2.6.31-14-generic
lspci:
```

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/PM/GMS, 943/940GML and 945GT Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

```

goto System->Preferences->Display and everything dies. Can still shh in. From a remote machine I get the following.

dmesg:
```

[   36.312025] hda-intel: azx_get_response timeout, switching to polling mode: last cmd=0x008f000c
[   38.184977] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   38.357130] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   38.729233] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   38.896599] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   44.636037] eth0: no IPv6 routers present
[   48.437890] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   48.603390] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   48.937835] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   49.103329] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   49.453788] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   49.619297] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   67.854110] padlock: VIA PadLock not detected.
[   70.815498] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   70.981240] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   71.321880] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   71.487511] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   71.822748] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   71.988299] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   75.598206] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[   75.764929] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[  163.807514] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[  163.974204] [drm] TV-16: set mode NTSC 480i 0
[  164.323346] [drm] DAC-6: set mode  1a
[  360.820192] INFO: task i915/0:310 blocked for more than 120 seconds.
[  360.820202] "echo 0 > /proc/sys/kernel/hung_task_timeout_secs" disables this message.
[  360.820210] i915/0        D c08145c0     0   310      2 0x00000000
[  360.820223]  ef5fbf04 00000046 ef00a5dc c08145c0 ef00a848 c08145c0 7ecdf70c 00000026
[  360.820241]  c08145c0 c08145c0 ef00a848 c08145c0 7ecdd993 00000026 c08145c0 f1454700
[  360.820259]  ef00a5b0 ef56a414 ef56a418 ffffffff ef5fbf30 c056f776 ef43f110 ef56a41c
[  360.820277] Call Trace:
[  360.820296]  [<c056f776>] __mutex_lock_slowpath+0xc6/0x130
[  360.820305]  [<c056f690>] mutex_lock+0x20/0x40
[  360.820363]  [<f829cc0a>] i915_gem_retire_work_handler+0x2a/0x70 [i915]
[  360.820376]  [<c0157a7e>] run_workqueue+0x6e/0x140
[  360.820416]  [<f829cbe0>] ? i915_gem_retire_work_handler+0x0/0x70 [i915]
[  360.820427]  [<c0157bd8>] worker_thread+0x88/0xe0
[  360.820438]  [<c015c280>] ? autoremove_wake_function+0x0/0x40
[  360.820448]  [<c0157b50>] ? worker_thread+0x0/0xe0
[  360.820456]  [<c015bf8c>] kthread+0x7c/0x90
[  360.820465]  [<c015bf10>] ? kthread+0x0/0x90
[  360.820475]  [<c0104007>] kernel_thread_helper+0x7/0x10
[  360.820502] INFO: task Xorg:1424 blocked for more than 120 seconds.
[  360.820508] "echo 0 > /proc/sys/kernel/hung_task_timeout_secs" disables this message.
[  360.820515] Xorg          D c08145c0     0  1424   1378 0x00400004
[  360.820526]  f0adde28 00003086 eb2ae000 c08145c0 f0a55a88 c08145c0 565fc475 00000026
[  360.820544]  c08145c0 c08145c0 f0a55a88 c08145c0 565fb03b 00000026 c08145c0 ef7e48c0
[  360.820562]  f0a557f0 ef56a414 ef56a418 ffffffff f0adde54 c056f776 00000000 ef56a41c
[  360.820579] Call Trace:
[  360.820589]  [<c056f776>] __mutex_lock_slowpath+0xc6/0x130
[  360.820598]  [<c056f690>] mutex_lock+0x20/0x40
[  360.820638]  [<f829ce8b>] i915_gem_throttle_ioctl+0x2b/0x70 [i915]
[  360.820651]  [<c01e70c5>] ? do_sync_readv_writev+0xb5/0xf0
[  360.820701]  [<f80d26c0>] drm_ioctl+0x180/0x360 [drm]
[  360.820744]  [<f829ce60>] ? i915_gem_throttle_ioctl+0x0/0x70 [i915]
[  360.820758]  [<c02c7acf>] ? security_file_permission+0xf/0x20
[  360.820767]  [<c01e735f>] ? rw_verify_area+0x5f/0xe0
[  360.820776]  [<c01e77a8>] ? rw_copy_check_uvector+0x78/0xf0
[  360.820787]  [<c0127c38>] ? default_spin_lock_flags+0x8/0x10
[  360.820797]  [<c05707da>] ? _spin_lock_irqsave+0x2a/0x40
[  360.820808]  [<c015f405>] ? __remove_hrtimer+0x25/0x70
[  360.820818]  [<c015fc63>] ? hrtimer_try_to_cancel+0x33/0x80
[  360.820828]  [<c014947e>] ? do_setitimer+0x23e/0x300
[  360.820849]  [<c01f4cf3>] vfs_ioctl+0x73/0x90
[  360.820859]  [<c01f4fc1>] do_vfs_ioctl+0x71/0x310
[  360.820867]  [<c014957b>] ? sys_setitimer+0x3b/0x90
[  360.820877]  [<c01f52bf>] sys_ioctl+0x5f/0x80
[  360.820886]  [<c010336c>] syscall_call+0x7/0xb

```

lsmod |grep intel:
```

snd_hda_intel          26920  2 
snd_hda_codec          75708  2 snd_hda_codec_idt,snd_hda_intel
snd_pcm                75296  3 snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_pcm_oss
snd                    59204  16 snd_hda_codec_idt,snd_hda_intel,snd_hda_codec,snd_hwdep,snd_pcm_oss,snd_mixer_oss,snd_pcm,snd_seq_oss,snd_rawmidi,snd_seq,snd_timer,snd_seq_device
snd_page_alloc          9156  2 snd_hda_intel,snd_pcm
intel_agp              27484  2 i915
agpgart                34988  2 drm,intel_agp

```

All in all this doesn't look good!

I'll be filling in a bug report, does anyone have a solution? or are we waiting on a new kernel and new drivers?

---

### Post by davidoloan on 2009-10-30
Same problem with Samsung NC10 & Fujitsu Siemens Lifebook.

9.10 is such a leap forward for me mainly down to the fact that all the Video features now work properly. It completely transforms the experience. 

The fault was mentioned in all the testing so it may be a deliberate decision not to support external monitors. I hope not.

We have 3 Samsung NC10's which are great on the move or around the house, but for word processing you need the big screen attached and the big screen is great for the BBC iPlayer and so on.

Unfortunately, I will have to leave 9.04 on the other computers in our house in the meantime as OpenOffice is used a lot. Major :( !

As with others I can mirror screens but the resolution on both is wrong. If I start 9.10 without external screen attached the laptop resolution corrects. With external attached if I untick mirror, and then set both resolutions as soon as I press apply both screens go black, the mouse cursor appears on the external screen and everything freezes. As with others only way to restart is to turn off power switch and restart.

Overall 9.10 is amazing and I really appreciate the efforts of everyone involved. I hope someone knows a fix.

---

### Post by zenkaon on 2009-10-30
Bug report filled in at:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/465318](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/465318)

If this problem effects you, please visit the bug and add your discontent.

---

### Post by danman.danman on 2009-10-31
Same problem for me on a Toshiba Satellite laptop.  For what it's worth, I found that if I enable the compiz crash handler, I'm still able to move the mouse around on my laptop lcd.  The display is frozen on the menu for accessing the Display app, but the mouse cursor will move.  So that's not much "handling" but still slightly different behavior.  The external monitor display remains dark.

Hmm, here's something else.  With the crash handler enabled, my keyboard doesn't freeze this time.  I'm able to ctrl-alt-F1 to get the console.  Is there a way to recover the x session?

---

### Post by CloudyWind on 2009-11-01
Disabled visual effects and external screens now work as expected!

Thanks for the quick work around - not fussed on visual effects anyway.

---

### Post by zenkaon on 2009-11-02
Can confirm, If all visual effects are turned off (System->Preferences->Appearance->Visual Effects->None) then the external monitor will work.

I'll update the bug

---

### Post by davidoloan on 2009-11-04
The fix works for me too except for one thing. If I have the external screen attached when I try to play a video using any player including VLC I get audio but a only a black screen within the video player on either of the two screens.

When I disconnect the external screen and play a video I get audio and pictures with no problems.

Could someone who knows a bit about computers explain if turning off Visual Effects could be the cause of this. I checked a computer running 9.04 where Visual Effects was set to "None" by default and it would play the video on an external screen, albeit badly but I think this was down to the Intel Driver issue.

What is Visual Effects for?

I haven't experienced any of the speed probs [zenkaon]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=283510") refers to in the bug page. 

Ubuntu 9.10 runs perfectly for me on a Samsung NC10 save for this small issue. It is much smoother, video works perfectly which it would not on 9.04 and all my microphone problems have disappeared. It is a great O/S and I am glad to have moved away from Microsoft XP.

---

### Post by Sugz on 2009-11-04
Same problem with an Advent 7203, worked fine(ish) in Gutsy, but now its about as good as a chocolate fire guard.
Plugging in an external monitor renders both displays + host machine useless unless one hard boots.

---

### Post by zenkaon on 2009-11-06
After applying the recent xorg updates there is no change in this bug. Still cannot use an external monitor.

Does anyone know if you can use 9.04 intel video drivers in 9.10???

---

### Post by zenkaon on 2009-11-07
Hello,

I see that Karmic is using xserver-xorg-video-intel version 2.9.0

The intel website says that version 2.9.1 is out:
[http://intellinuxgraphics.org/](http://intellinuxgraphics.org/)

Does anyone know how to upgrade?

---

### Post by yonasz on 2009-11-08
Same problem Acer 3003 wlmi with sis760mx. Cpu is very slow after connecting extended monitor...Any solution yet or i have to downgrade to 9.04???

---

### Post by rtnair@gmail.com on 2009-11-08
Hi,

I had the same problem running Karmic on my Dell D520 with Dell E178FP monitor - It supported only `Mirror Screens' and the maximum resolution was 1024x768(for both panels). And if I try switching off `Mirror Screens' and select a higher resolution for the external monitor, then the system would freeze, forcing me for a hard reboot.

Then I tried by switching off the Laptop screen(15'') from inside the `Display Preferences' window - That did the trick! Now my external monitor gives 1280x1024 resolution and I don't need to switch off Compiz...

Hope this setting helps somebody out there...

--Raja

---

### Post by Houbos on 2009-11-09
I had the same problem also in 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope, but now, with auto-attaching it's even worse. Solution is simple, disable Compiz 3D acceleration before attaching external monitor.

Here's simple utility. It switches 3D acceleration on/off. DEB package available.

**Compiz Switch**
[http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/pages/Compiz-Switch](http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/pages/Compiz-Switch)

---

### Post by Houbos on 2009-11-09
xf86-video-intel 2.9.1 looks promising, this looks very similiar to our problem. Haven't tried this version yet.

> Bug description:
When logging out from KDE (Kubuntu Karmic), the login screen does not appear.
Instead the screen stays black, only showing the mouse cursor.[http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/xorg/2009-October/047859.html](http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/xorg/2009-October/047859.html)

---

### Post by RickG03 on 2009-11-09
I have been having the same issue on a Sony Vaio VGN series with Intel graphics. I have used Ubuntu for at least a couple of years now and rejoiced with 9.04 allowed dual head displays to work properly for me. For the last six months I would run my laptop and a 21" monitor in extended display mode, both with different resolutions, and everything worked great. 

I updated to 9.10 a couple of days ago and wish I hadn't. Ever since, I get the lock up issue when I try to put the external display in extended mode. None of my Compiz settings appear to work either. When I go to the display settings, Visual Effects are set to 'None' and it won't allow me to select either 'Normal' or 'Extra'. Something in the 9.10 upgrade appears to have hosed my video driver...

In desperation, I tried installing the latest Intel driver, although it appears I don't meet all the dependencies to compile. ./configure stalls at the following, and looking for packages with'-dev' appended doesn't find anything. Any ideas?

checking for DRI... configure: error: Package requirements (xf86driproto glproto) were not met:

No package 'xf86driproto' found
No package 'glproto' found

I would really like to get this working again as I have become dependent on the secondary monitor for day to day work.

---

### Post by vmunoz on 2009-11-12
Thanks, Raja, your solution solved it for me. I don't need both screens on at the same time. Unmirroring and turning off the laptop screen allowed me to set the right resolution for the external monitor. This was on a Acer Aspire One netbook.

> **rtnair@gmail.com said:**
> Hi,


I had the same problem running Karmic on my Dell D520 with Dell E178FP monitor - It supported only `Mirror Screens' and the maximum resolution was 1024x768(for both panels). And if I try switching off `Mirror Screens' and select a higher resolution for the external monitor, then the system would freeze, forcing me for a hard reboot.

Then I tried by switching off the Laptop screen(15'') from inside the `Display Preferences' window - That did the trick! Now my external monitor gives 1280x1024 resolution and I don't need to switch off Compiz...

Hope this setting helps somebody out there...

--Raja

---

### Post by JEStone on 2009-11-17
Same problem here. IBM R51 2888-69U. I've tried all suggested fixes and still nothing.

---

### Post by jambo600 on 2009-11-18
Same issue with a Sony VGN-TX3XP:

lspci gives:
```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

```

For what it's worth, altering the mirror options didn't help, but turning the appearance preference / Visual effects tab to "none" did resolve the problem.

Jambo

---

### Post by mikepost on 2009-11-19
I have a Dell Inspiron 640m and was struggling with this, but turning off visual effects worked for me.  I had also previously edited my xorg.conf to include a virtual resolution greater than the two resolutions that I wanted to use (1440x900 and 1024x768), I don't know if this had any influence on the eventual outcome but don't want to change it just in case!

---

### Post by gtoddf on 2009-11-20
I have a Thinkpad T60 with a Dell 19" monitor.  Using any resolution above 800x600 on the monitor would cause the system to crash.

Resolution:  Go to Set System - Appearance - Visual Effects and set to "None"

---

### Post by davidoloan on 2009-11-20
One very annoying side effect of this is when visual effects are set to none in order to use the external monitor you can't use the webcam in Skype on either screen.

Restart without the external monitor and the webcam works fine.

This and the fact that you cannot play saved video on either screen (you get audio only) when the external screen is attached are the two side effects of setting visual effects to none for me.

Don't want to complain to much. Other than this issue 9.10 is faultless for my purpose.

On the bug page its status is undecided and unassigned. How long do these issues usually take to get resolved?

---

### Post by andysemailis on 2009-11-27
I too have an acer aspire one (model AOA-150) with the Intel Mobile 945GME Express chipset. I have looked into this extensively and tried many different work arounds. It seems that the display doesn't "crash" when you try to extend onto a monitor with a higher resolustion... but rather just squishes the whole graphical view to the far left into a space maybe one pixel wide. I have notices that if i move the mouse around in the new vast black area, the cursor will change as it mouses-over buttons and windows (which tells me everything is there just not displayed properly). I have tried to use different xorg.conf files, but as I dont have much experience with editing this kind of config, I have yet to come up with a solution. I have used the ubuntu forums to solve many problems before.. this is the first time i had to make an account in the attempt to get my word out there and find a problem.

> **vmunoz said:**
> Thanks, Raja, your solution solved it for me. I don't need both screens on at the same time. Unmirroring and turning off the laptop screen allowed me to set the right resolution for the external monitor. This was on a Acer Aspire One netbook.

---

### Post by bubieyehyeh on 2009-11-28
Looks like its being actioned on this launchpad bug 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/408432](https://bugs.launchpad.net/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/408432)

which I have marked the previous bug a duplicate of.

Upstream bug progress can be found here:

[http://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23112](http://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=23112)

But no progress since the original reporter has gone quiet it seems.

---

### Post by carlosgj on 2009-11-28
I have the same problem with a Dell Inspiron 9400 with the Intel Graphics card 945GM/GMS  and an ACER AL1916 external monitor.  The monitors work fine as "mirrors" but when I uncheck the mirror screens option in the Display dialog box.  And when I enter the apply button both of the monitors go blank, and the mouse pointer goes to left side of one of the monitors and the system crashes.  I have read a little and found no answer.

---

### Post by Perturbed Penguin on 2009-12-04
> **davidoloan said:**
> Could someone who knows a bit about computers explain if turning off Visual Effects could be the cause of this. I checked a computer running 9.04 where Visual Effects was set to "None" by default and it would play the video on an external screen, albeit badly but I think this was down to the Intel Driver issue.

What is Visual Effects for?

As far as I am aware 'visual effects' simply turns on Compiz effects and compositing... video playback, webcams, etc OUGHT to work fine without visual effects turned on. That being said my lenovo s10 netbook is hanging in the same way other people have described whenever I try to open audio or video(using totem) w/ external monitor connected and no visual effects turned on.

On a side note I also confirm that switching to Metacity(turning off visual effects) allows my external monitor to work whereas otherwise I was having the same hanging problems as others here where the mouse cursor would show but the system is completely unresponsive.

*edit*
... thanks lodravah for the quick fix, at least I can use an external monitor for presentations now! ;)

---

### Post by smodon on 2009-12-06
damn that really sucks, should have read the forums earlier... lost a half day with this **** :(

---

### Post by fethio on 2009-12-07
This freeze issue seems to be happenning more and more often. It happened with the extra monitor. It also happened when I was using OpenOffice some time ago. The incidents increased after the Karmic (9.10) upgrade. 

whats really dissapointing about this is it makes me feel like I'm using Microsoft. I'm asking myself is Ubuntu becoming like Windoz? I hope not/

There seems to be something unstable about Karmic that I don't know about. Maybe I'm not following up something already in the forums?

---

### Post by 4zdenek on 2009-12-20
I had same problem on Advent 7111 laptop after I've installed 9.10, it's working now as I disabled visual effects. Other thing that is working for me is to log into system in GNOME Failsafe mode. 

```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
```
```
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS/GME, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

```

---

### Post by ssemel on 2010-01-03
Same problem. In my case, everything worked fine after installing 9.10, until yesterday when I temporarily turned off the external monitor through the Display settings preference. A few minutes later when I when back into the Display preference and clicked the external monitor back on, the computer crashed when I hit "Apply". Now I can't the computer to display to the external monitor. Interestingly, the external monitor does work when I log into the computer using a different user account. It's only my main account that doesn't work properly.

---

### Post by davidoloan on 2010-01-18
Has anybody succeeded in getting video and web cam to work on an external monitor with Visual Effects turned off?

---

### Post by Nerdfest on 2010-01-18
Similar problems here with desktop effects enabled. Both audio and video work fine with the laptop screen and the external monitor with it off though. I do have video if I don't set the external monitor to a lower resolution than it defaults to though.

---

### Post by harsh.chronicle on 2010-01-20
Hey everyone,

I have had this problem of ubuntu 9.10 crashing when I attempt to connect it to an external monitor or projector. I am having a video controller: Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller I tried everything I could find around here or anywhere else where google could reach but nothing seemed to work. Though I don't know much about Ubuntu I have been able to fix this problem for my machine in an serendipity. When i ran the compiz check script by entering ./compiz-check from the terminal( I didn't know how to do this either so got it from [http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/pages/Compiz-Check](http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/pages/Compiz-Check) ). I found that the driver used by the xorg file was vesa and not intel.
I knew this by running sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf in terminal.
the code was:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Option "MonitorLayout" "TFT"
	Option "Clone" "false"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"GLcore"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"vesa"
EndSection
------------------------
I changed it to 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Option "MonitorLayout" "TFT"
	Option "Clone" "false"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"GLcore"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"Intel"
EndSection
------------------------------------
I updated the xorg package with command

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

than rebooted (yes i had to reboot even after updating package cause i still dont know how to restart the x-server as mentioned at many places, please tell me if u know).

And everything is working fine now.

If i have to connect to an external display now I only have to go to system>administration>multiple screens

if u w don't have multiple screen button it means you need to install that app.
you can do that by just entering grandr at the synaptic package manager.

this worked for me, don't know if i was lucky or something happened in the process that i don't know of. but if it works for someone else please confirm so that it is known for solution.

I know the trouble it created for me. ruined my B-plan presentation to a VC :(.

just hoping that it doesn't ruin anyone elses day.
I have started loving linux.
Thanks and regards
Harsh Sheth

---

### Post by specialk1st on 2010-02-27
> **lodravah said:**
> Yup, same here. I have an MSI Wind with the Intel GMA945 chipset, and I have the same problem. As soon as I enter the "Display"-app from the menu, I get black, frozen screen and have to do a hard reboot. I cannot use my laptop/netbook with an external monitor so far. Have tried two different ones. At home and just two minutes ago here at school. I have an MSI Wind U100, 2Gb ram.

Also, my memorycard-reader doesn't work.

*edit.

It works! I switched off the "Visual effects"_before_ hooking up the external monitor. Hit "Display", "detect monitor", and clicked my way to widescreen-heaven :) I then re-enabled visual effects when I had everything on the big screen, and so far it works. I cannot guarantee for how long or anything else, but right now I'm typing on my little Wind hooked up to my uni's Dell 24" 16:10, 1900x1200 monitor. And, let me check here.... fully working visual effects :) 

Hope it works for you guys too..

-lodravah

Not sure this is a proper fix either, but THANK YOU SO MUCH for posting this!  :KS :p :) :D

---

### Post by davidoloan on 2010-02-27
So has anybody installed the 10.04 early versions?

Is the external monitor resolved in 10.04?

---

### Post by JaRRoslav on 2010-03-04
I have the same problem with external monitor unless I plug monitor before boot. If I plug monitor and then boot my netbook, it runs fine and with visual efffects.

---

### Post by KFwLsKvVAs on 2010-03-09
Been wondering about whether this is fixed in 10.04 also, anybody have any info?

---

### Post by Stankoman on 2010-03-09
Had the same problem :popcorn:

I changed the visual effects to none, and it worked...

SYSTEm > preferences > appearance >

---

