---
title: "Nvidia driver problems 8.04, wont install and run"
date: 2008-07-02
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by tatermonkey on 2008-07-02
I am running 8.04 and I cant get the nvidia-glx-new driver running. I have the following setup. Currently stuck on 'nv' driver. 

Kubuntu 8.04 KDE 3.* 64 bit

Athlon 64 3500+ 

Geforce 7300 GT 512 meg DDR2

KDS 22in widescreen lcd 1680x1050 native. 

Gigabyte mobo and so on.

I fresh installed and first used the restricted driver manager. Everything went normal, driver downloaded and installed and said to reboot like normal. Bootsplash comes up and when kdm starts I get a black screen. So I reboot and use the autofix and resume booting and it works in vesa. 

I tried using synaptic same results. 

Tried editings xorg.conf by placing "nvidia" instead of "nv" with the same results.  

I used envy (updated) and still the same. 

Tried dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg from root prompt in recovery mode and it doesnt even do through those steps. Just keyboard config. 

Using the nv driver everything works just fine minus working 3D of course. Using just the tools in kubuntu system settings (kubuntu kcontrol) in admin mode I can get my 1680x1050 res and set it to the nv driver and everything works. 

But I have the same os on my work comp (dell e521 with integrated Nvidia 6150 ) and everything worked great. 

This is a very frustrating problem , PLEASE HELP :confused::confused::(:(:(

---

### Post by blazercist on 2008-07-02
> **tatermonkey said:**
> I am running 8.04 and I cant get the nvidia-glx-new driver running. I have the following setup. Currently stuck on 'nv' driver. 

Kubuntu 8.04 KDE 3.* 64 bit

Athlon 64 3500+ 

Geforce 7300 GT 512 meg DDR2

KDS 22in widescreen lcd 1680x1050 native. 

Gigabyte mobo and so on.

I fresh installed and first used the restricted driver manager. Everything went normal, driver downloaded and installed and said to reboot like normal. Bootsplash comes up and when kdm starts I get a black screen. So I reboot and use the autofix and resume booting and it works in vesa. 

I tried using synaptic same results. 

Tried editings xorg.conf by placing "nvidia" instead of "nv" with the same results.  

I used envy (updated) and still the same. 

Tried dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg from root prompt in recovery mode and it doesnt even do through those steps. Just keyboard config. 

Using the nv driver everything works just fine minus working 3D of course. Using just the tools in kubuntu system settings (kubuntu kcontrol) in admin mode I can get my 1680x1050 res and set it to the nv driver and everything works. 

But I have the same os on my work comp (dell e521 with integrated Nvidia 6150 ) and everything worked great. 

This is a very frustrating problem , PLEASE HELP :confused::confused::(:(:(

if im not mistaken the correct kernel module name for the nvidia-glx module in xorg would be "nvidia-glx" not "nv" or "nvidia" , the proprietary driver uses "nvidia" and I forget which one uses "nv".  I use the Proprietary driver so I'm not 100% sure on this but I think its right

---

### Post by tatermonkey on 2008-07-02
"nvidia-glx" really? On a buntu system I typically just used the dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg command. But that doesnt seem to do anything useful in 8.04. 

Ok, here is my working xorg.conf on my comp here at work.

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Feb 14 18:13:41 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "RenderAccel" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection




Dont know why I didnt think of this earlier, silly me. 
I need to cross check it with my home system. And that should fix me. I have read about several others having this problem . I hope this solves it for all of us.

---

### Post by blazercist on 2008-07-02
maybe I was wrong I dont use the driver from the repos.  good luck.

---

