---
title: "need howto fireGL"
date: 2009-10-14
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-10-14
i have a Lenovo t60p with jaunty installed(linuxformat cd last month). need to get my fire gl 5200 working. lenovo only has RPM package. could try alien but it sounds iffy.
any help would be appreciated. thanks.

---

### Post by oboedad55 on 2009-10-15
> **mjhouska said:**
> i have a Lenovo t60p with jaunty installed(linuxformat cd last month). need to get my fire gl 5200 working. lenovo only has RPM package. could try alien but it sounds iffy.
any help would be appreciated. thanks.

Is this an ATI card? If you go to system>administration>hardware drivers do you come up with any video drivers?

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-10-15
Yes it's an ATI. And no, no Drivers listed.

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-10-15
just the 2D works after installation.  The Track balls game flickers in places though it runs. evreything else seems fine.

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-10-15
no flickerck just some squares are black when i think they should be red. flicers in higher res i think.
no hardware drivers listed is confirmed

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2009-10-15
Post the output of:

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

You are probably running the open source "ati" or "radeon" driver.

To get 3D you will need the ATI binary blob.  Unfortunately, that card is no longer supported by ATI.  AMD/ATI has deemed it too old (regardless of what you might think), to be supported by the newest Catalyst binary blobs.  Only newer ATI cards will work with Jaunty and Karmic.  You would have to downgrade to Intrepid/Hardy and install the older Catalyst driver to get 3D performance.

Or, dual-boot and play games in Windows and just use 2D in Ubuntu until the 3D open source drivers work--probably next year sometime.

I have a T43p with a FireGL, so I feel your pain.

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-10-16
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-10-16
not much there

---

### Post by mjhouska on 2009-10-16
i like how the Harddrive light stays idle. :)  It the sign of a proper  OS

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2009-10-19
If the proprietary driver installer doesn't detect your card, then you have to regress to Intrepid or Hardy and install the fglrx binary blob (ATI binary Catalyst driver) or stick with the open source driver that may get better in the future (over the next year).

AMD/ATI has determined that your card is too old for the newest Catalyst driver that is contained in Jaunty.

So, despite what you think, a large company has determined that your computer is obsolete.

---

