---
title: "12.04 won't automatically switch audio to bluetooth headset"
date: 2012-10-10
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by quequotion on 2012-10-10
So I've spent the day looking into this, and managed to get fairly close.

This is the behavior I expect

0. During any audio stream (music, movie, game, whatever)

1. Activate bluetooth headset.
2. Audio redirects to the headset.
3. Deactivate bluetooth headset.
4. Audio redirects to the speakers.
5. Rinse and repeat.

This should work entirely hands-free.

Just once I actually witnessed that this is possible, but bluetooth subsequently crashed and I have never been able to reproduce the miracle. It took considerable research and reconfiguration to get that far, and I've yet to find any other confirmed success stories.

What is actually happening 99.999% of the time:

1. On activation, headset connects, but no profile is selected, so nothing appears to happen.
2. Manually select "Audio Sink" in blueman
3. Audio redirects to the headset.
4. Deactivate the headset
5. Audio redirects to the speakers.
6. [s]At this point bluetooth support often fails entirely and the adapter becomes irrecoverably inoperative.[/s] This is has not happened for the last several attempts.
7. If bluetooth is still working, it is possible to repeat this procedure.

The failure seems to be somewhere between connecting the paired headset and selecting a profile for how it will be used. According to the configuration, both A2DP and HSP should be autoconfigured and autoconnected automatically, but in fact they are not.

Gnome-bluetooth is not capable of properly configuring the connection as it has no facility to select profiles and crashes irrecoverably more often than not.

By "irrecoverable" in the case of bluetooth support and gnome-bluetooth-applet I mean that *no available means successfully restore functionality*, from restarting the bluetooth service to manually configuring the adapter with hcitool and hciconfig. The only solution appears to be a complete reboot.

---

### Post by quequotion on 2012-10-10
After a couple of reboots, bluetooth isn't crashing anymore, but I still have to manually set the "Audio Sink" profile to redirect audio to the headset.

---

### Post by quequotion on 2012-10-11
I put together a [bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/+bug/1065380") which will hopefully help narrow down what's going wrong here.

---

### Post by quequotion on 2012-10-13
[s]I found the missing link.

Pulseaudio's default configuration is incorrect.

module-bluetooth-discover is NOT activated, although pulseaudio-module-bluetooth is installed and a bluetooth transceiver is available.

In order to get a bluetooth headset to automatically recieve a profile, the following must be added to **/etc/pulse/system.pa**: ```
### Automatically detect bluetooth devices
load-module module-bluetooth-discover
```I'll put together a full tutorial on this later.[/s]

---

### Post by quequotion on 2012-10-13
Nevermind that, everything just blew up again. Long story short: trying to do something neat like use bluetooth  headphones hands-free turned out to be incredibly difficult and full of  bugs.... and failed.

I was right the first time--bluez is broken, but not the way I thought; unfortunately pulseaudio's bluetooth support is *also* broken.

Furthermore [Ubuntu's documentation]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BluetoothHeadset") on the matter is either very out of date or wildly inaccurate.

Bluez becomes unsustainable once pulseaudio takes over assigning profiles. It will eventually crash, irrecoverably. I think the problem here is that bluez, not pulseaudio, should be making the device profiles available. Pulseaudio should only be responsible for streaming the audio, not creating or annihilating audio devices. Bluez can't seem to handle giving control of the hardware to pulseaudio.

Pulseaudio's module-bluetooth-discover should be loaded with the default configuration, according to [it's creator's blog]("http://jprvita.wordpress.com/2009/12/15/1-2-3-4-a2dp-stream/"), but it is not. In fact, even specifying that it should be loaded manually will usually fail and the module will often not load. It can be loaded temporarily via pacmd or pactl, but it will unload itself at some point either way. I can't find any other documentation on the module beyond the original author's blog posts.

This module also has several other problems, among them crashing bluez, and more specifically: [This bug]("http://comments.gmane.org/gmane.comp.audio.pulseaudio.general/12426"), which is probably what I am dealing with, was dismissed for further testing that never happened. Then [this patch]("http://comments.gmane.org/gmane.comp.audio.pulseaudio.general/13055"), the only proposed solution with a patch available, was dismissed in favor of a better solution that was never implemented.


I've gathered a lot of scattered tips into a brief rundown of how to get a bluetooth headset *almost* working handsfree.
Start by changing the configuration of bluetooth audio (**/etc/bluetooth/audio.conf**, unchanged sections omitted):```

# This section contains options which are not specific to any
# particular interface
[General]
Enable=Socket #What does this actually do? Advised in Archlinux tutorial, undocumented.

# Automatically connect both A2DP and HFP/HSP profiles for incoming
# connections. Some headsets that support both profiles will only connect the
# other one automatically so the default setting of true is usually a good
# idea.
AutoConnect=true #This is commented out by default, again undocumented.
```Changing the configuration of pulseaudio (**/etc/pulse/system.pa**, additions only):```
### Automatically detect bluetooth devices
load-module module-bluetooth-discover #Maybe this does more harm than good

### Automatically redirect to newly available sinks
load-module module-switch-on-connect #Probably necessary... probably....
```Don't forget to remove redundant surround sound configuration if you have one (**/etc/pulse/daemon.conf,** check this setting)```
; default-sample-channels = 2 #Commented out like so is best; must not be greater than 2
; default-channel-map = front-left,front-right # Again, commented out like so is best
```Install blueman and remove gnome-bluetooth```
sudo apt-get remove gnome-bluetooth && sudo apt-get install blueman
```

---

### Post by Cringster on 2012-10-15
I have been trying to get bluetooth working reliably, too. 

For me, the situation right now is that after every disconnect of the headset I have to remove the headset from blueman-manager and re-pair it, otherwise I can't re-connect the a2dp audio sink.
The error message shown on the stderr from blueman-manager is:
```
fail (/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/blueman/gui/manager/ManagerDeviceMenu.py:134)
fail (DBusException(dbus.String(u'Stream setup failed'),),) 

```I have tried two different bluetooth USB sticks ("lsusb" output):
```
Bus 001 Device 005: ID 0a5c:2101 Broadcom Corp. Bluetooth Controller   and
Bus 001 Device 010: ID 0f4d:1000 Microtune, Inc. Bluetooth Dongle
```The headset I am using is a Sony DR-BT101 which supports A2DP with the SBC and MP3 codecs. I am on Ubuntu 12.04.

---

### Post by quequotion on 2012-10-15
> **Cringster said:**
> I have been trying to get bluetooth working reliably, too. 

For me, the situation right now is that after every disconnect of the headset I have to remove the headset from blueman-manager and re-pair it, otherwise I can't re-connect the a2dp audio sink.
The error message shown on the stderr from blueman-manager is:
```
fail (/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/blueman/gui/manager/ManagerDeviceMenu.py:134)
fail (DBusException(dbus.String(u'Stream setup failed'),),) 

```I have tried two different bluetooth USB sticks ("lsusb" output):
```
Bus 001 Device 005: ID 0a5c:2101 Broadcom Corp. Bluetooth Controller   and
Bus 001 Device 010: ID 0f4d:1000 Microtune, Inc. Bluetooth Dongle
```The headset I am using is a Sony DR-BT101 which supports A2DP with the SBC and MP3 codecs. I am on Ubuntu 12.04.I have similar error messages. Sometimes I even get a dialogue pop-up with an error like that or a red error bar in the bottom of the "Devices" window, but sometimes it fails silently.

If I don't try to force loading module-bluetooth-discover (which usually doesn't work anyway) I have somewhat less trouble reconnecting, sometimes...

---

### Post by quequotion on 2012-10-20
Looks like no one's going to acknowledge the bug report. I don't think it's chances are very good since Bluez, Pulseaudio, and Linux all use their own bug trackers.

Bluez's upstream bug tracker is MIA and Pulseaudio isn't causing the bug, so Linux is the last option. I'll get around to making a report for the kernel devs, but I'm not sure if this can or will be addressed in the kernel.

---

### Post by insaini on 2012-10-26
incredible.. ive been trying for the past week to get my headrush set working and it just keeps disconnecting itself.. stuttering / jerky playback continuously. 

did you file a bug in launchpad ?

---

### Post by quequotion on 2012-10-26
> **insaini said:**
> did you file a bug in launchpad ?Yes. Unfortunately it isn't getting any attention. Could you take a look at it and add yourself to "users affected"? [Here's the link again]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/bluez/+bug/1065380").

---

### Post by insaini on 2012-10-27
My issue is more related to this bug

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/405294?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/405294?comments=all)

---

### Post by quequotion on 2012-11-03
> **quequotion said:**
> Changing the configuration of pulseaudio (**/etc/pulse/system.pa**, additions only):```
[s]### Automatically detect bluetooth devices
load-module module-bluetooth-discover #Maybe this does more harm than good[/s]

### Automatically redirect to newly available sinks
load-module module-switch-on-connect #Probably necessary... probably....
```After several weeks of testing, I came to the conclusion that **module-bluetooth-discover **indeed does more harm that good, *if it does anything at all*. I was never able to verify that this module assisted in the connection of bluetooth audio devices, but I did occasionally experience bluetooth crashing, pulseaudio crashing, and blueman crashing...

In other news, still no word on bluez's bugtracker.

---

### Post by MiroDz on 2013-03-17
I know the thread has been inactive for few months, but maybe someone will read this.

Add:

Enable = Socket
Disable = Media

into "General" section of /etc/bluetooth/audio.conf

The "Enable = Socket" makes no difference in my case anyway, but they recoment it on many forums.

But "Disable = Media" is different coffee, with this all my bluetooth headsets connect again like a charm.

---

### Post by elemaniaq on 2013-07-18
I read.

Thanks

---

### Post by quequotion on 2013-08-19
> **MiroDz said:**
> Enable = Socket
Disable = Media

I already had Enable = Socket. I will try a reboot with Disable = Media as well.

I am concerned that neither option is well documented except to say they will be deprecated in the future (in the pulseaudio documentation).

So far my best case scenario is this:

0A. Replace (usless) gnome-bluetooth with (useful) blueman
0B. Add module-switch-on-connect to pulseaudio's configuration

1. Activate headset
2. Select "Audio Sink" with blueman (*this is the part that bluez should do automatically, but it doesn't*)
3. Use pavucontrol to specify A2DP or HSP/HFP

---

### Post by quequotion on 2013-08-20
> **quequotion said:**
> I will try a reboot with Disable = Media as well.

Well... that was interesting...

This *did* enable bluetooth headsets to auto-select a profile on connect (HSP/HFP)* but it also scrambled the ALSA subsystem.

- all soundcard indexes were randomly reorderd
- ALSA-only applications could not detect certain audio devices

Pulseaudio doesn't care if alsa is scrambled or not, so audio worked most everywhere, but I have some ALSA-only applications, like Mixxx, that started behaving very strangely.

Why does this option scramble ALSA?

*I think this is the default, there may be options to control which profile is auto-selected: [module-bluetooth-device]("http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/PulseAudio/Documentation/User/Modules/#index34h3")

---

