---
title: "Karmic: Yet another NVidia TwinView problem"
date: 2009-12-03
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by golynyk on 2009-12-03
Hi there, this is my first thread so if I've made a mistake in posting please let me know.

I am having a tough time getting TwinView to work on 9.10 with my NVIDIA GeForce 8200. I had it working fine on Kubuntu 8.10, but after a clean install to Ubuntu 9.10 I cannot seem to get my dual-monitor setup to work.

Here are the pertinent system specs:

**Motherboard**: Asus M3N78-VM with onboard NVIDIA GeForce 8200 (see below)
**Processor**: AMD Athlon 64 X2 5000 Brisbane 2.6GHz (Socket AM2)
**Memory**: 4 GiB (2 x 2 GiB) 240-Pin SDRAM DDR2 800 (PC2 6400)

**Video adapter**: Motherboard-integrated NVIDIA GeForce 8200 with 1 DVI, 1 SVGA, and 1 HDMI port
**Monitor 1**: Hanns-G HN199D (19" LCD, 1280×1024, DVI)
**Monitor 2**: ViewSonic P810 (21" CRT, 1600×1200 @ 60 Hz, SVGA)
**Physical setup**: LCD (DVI) to the left of CRT (SVGA).

**OS**: Ubuntu 9.10 / Windows XP SP3 via GRUB 1.97 beta4
**Kernel**: 2.6.31-15-generic
**NVIDIA driver version**: 185.18.36
**X.Org version**: 1.6.4 (10604000)

Basically it comes down to: I can only get one monitor to work at a time. Either one works individually (TwinView off) but if I try to enable both at the same time, only the CRT works.

My current xorg.conf is posted [here]("http://home.cogeco.ca/%7Erevolution/xorg.conf"). Currently I'm running on just the LCD screen on the DVI port.

Now, here's what I do to try to enable the second monitor:

1. Open terminal
2. $ gksudo nvidia-settings
3. Click X Server Display Configuration

here's what I see:

[IMG]http://home.cogeco.ca/%7Erevolution/x_screen1.png[/IMG]

4. For the ViewSonic, change Resolution to 1600×1200, Position to Right of HSD HN199D

this looks like this:

[IMG]http://home.cogeco.ca/%7Erevolution/x_screen2.png[/IMG]

5. Click "Apply"

and this is what I get: (linked because 2880×1200 image):
[x_screen3.png]("http://home.cogeco.ca/%7Erevolution/x_screen3.png")

the LCD screen is black and the NVIDIA X Server Settings window moves over to the CRT at the right.

6. The display settings automatically revert after 10 seconds.


Thank you very much for any help you can provide.

---

### Post by golynyk on 2009-12-04
Upgraded to 190.42 drivers (directly downloaded from NVidia website) [s]and it's working now. Accelerated video performance isn't as good but it appears to work.[/s]

never mind, still not working. It worked while I had *both* drivers installed, but now that I'm on the 190.42 drivers, it's not working again.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2009-12-04
nvidia has a beta driver out 195.22 you can try
you can restart in recovery mode and it will install
I have set it up twice


post your xorg.conf file
it is in /etc/X11

this is mine using a TV as second monitor
> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Sun Nov 22 18:17:43 PST 2009

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@nannyberry)  Sat Sep  5 21:13:00 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Sony CPD-E540"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     48.0 - 170.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"    

EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1600x1200 +0+0, TV: nvidia-auto-select +1600+0"
    Option         "TVStandard" "NTSC-M"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by golynyk on 2009-12-04
It's posted in the OP. See [http://home.cogeco.ca/~revolution/xorg.conf]("http://home.cogeco.ca/%7Erevolution/xorg.conf")

Note I've changed to the 190.42 drivers and it's still not working.

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-12-04
Try the nouveau nvidia drivers. Fedora has them by default, and twinview was set up automatically for me.
```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-nouveau 
```
Then reboot.

But first remove the Nvidia drivers you installed.

---

### Post by golynyk on 2010-01-16
So my power supply exploded just before Christmas, and I've been busy, and have had another computer supplied by the school, so it took me until the other day to get a new power supply. But I'm back at this problem.

When I turned my computer back on it had a number of updates it wanted me to run, including updating the kernel to 2.6.31.17. Now my NVIDIA drivers don't work *at all*. So I'm going to try following HappyFeet's advice and installing the nouveau drivers. I'll let you know how it goes.

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2010-01-16
Just install the drivers from Nvidia's page. I have an ASUS M3N78-VM myself and works great with the latest (195.30 now) drivers. I tested it with 2 monitors (2 * 1280x1024) and it was a one-click affair.
Also, i did not mess with xorg.conf since using the Nvidias drivers. 
And i ALWAYS set explicit resolution + refresh rate for dual screen - never had problems and i tried in 3 cards - 7600GS, NVS 285 ans 8200 IGP. But i always used TFTs.

---

### Post by golynyk on 2010-01-16
I'm assuming you mean 190.53 not 195.30? I'm trying them now. EnvyNG recommended 185.18.36-0ubuntu9 but those didn't work.

I'm downloading the 190.53 drivers now ... will report back.

---

### Post by golynyk on 2010-01-16
Also: nouveau didn't work either.

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2010-01-16
> **golynyk said:**
> I'm assuming you mean 190.53 not 195.30? I'm trying them now. EnvyNG recommended 185.18.36-0ubuntu9 but those didn't work.

I'm downloading the 190.53 drivers now ... will report back.

No, i meant 195.30. Its a beta driver. Here is the link:

[http://www.nvidia.com/Download/Find.aspx?lang=en-us]("http://www.nvidia.com/Download/Find.aspx?lang=en-us")

Click Search, the search includes the beta drivers also. 
Before installing: 

- make absolutely sure that no driver from repositories is installed (sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-glx-*)

- remove the xorg.conf file:

sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf

It will be regenerated, dont worry. Just answer yes at the end to the installation script's question.

Also, you will have to reinstall the driver on kernel updates.

---

### Post by golynyk on 2010-01-16
Huh. Well, 190.53 drivers work, anyway.

I continue to long for the day when setting up video drivers is as easy as Windows... :)

Anyway, thanks for the help!

---

