---
title: "8.04 Netatalk, Avahi, mt-daapd conflict."
date: 2009-03-15
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by dmovad on 2009-03-15
I setup a Pentium III computer as a file server for our Mac's at home using 8.04 server edition, installed Netatalk to provide "afp" shares to the Mac's and Avahi to advertise said shares to the Mac's.  All has been working flawlessly since September however I have had a great deal of difficulty adding Firefly, the daap music server.  I've tried the version in the repositories svn-1696 which crashes constantly and I've tried compiling svn-1586 which runs but is not properly advertising and thus not visible to iTunes clients or our SoundBridges.  I suspect that the zero config networking included in Firefly may somehow be conflicting with the instance of Avahi that has been on this box and working perfectly for a good amount of time.

My preference would be to get svn-1586 running and not bother with the version in the repositories (svn-1696) because it is not stable according to the engineer of Firefly.  About 18 months ago I got Firefly working on a Buffalo LinkStation and when I had issues with svn-1696 this engineer told me that svn-1586 was stable and in rolling back to it the LinkStation works perfectly and has been for approaching 2 years.

If someone has experience with installing Firefly on a box where Netatalk and Avahi are also coexisting and all is working I'd sure appreciate the help.

Thanks...
Dave

---

### Post by wesg on 2009-05-01
Hi,
I also have a box running Netatalk, Avahi, and I can't for the life of me get mt-daapd (firefly) running with any sort of consistency. I'm running 9.04 Jaunty and I think that might have something to do with it. I'd like to get this fixed though, because it's an important part of my new media server.

---

### Post by dmovad on 2009-05-01
> **wesg said:**
> Hi,
I also have a box running Netatalk, Avahi, and I can't for the life of me get mt-daapd (firefly) running with any sort of consistency. I'm running 9.04 Jaunty and I think that might have something to do with it. I'd like to get this fixed though, because it's an important part of my new media server.
What version of Firefly did you install?

---

### Post by wesg on 2009-05-01
I installed the one from the repository first, but that hasn't worked yet. It never seems to run. I sort of tried compiling from the firefly website, but I didn't get much further with that.

Have you gotten any of them to work with 9.04?

---

### Post by dmovad on 2009-05-01
I haven't installed 9.04 yet and it'll be a couple of weeks until I can but I highly recommend ditching the version in the repositories and download the sourcecode for "svn-1586" and compile it with the options on this page:

[http://wiki.fireflymediaserver.org/Quickstart_Tarball](http://wiki.fireflymediaserver.org/Quickstart_Tarball)

By the way you don't have to take my word for the stability of svn-1586 as compared to later versions just check the comment (Currently, the most stable nightly build is version svn-1586.) on this page on the Firefly project site:

[http://nightlies.fireflymediaserver.org/](http://nightlies.fireflymediaserver.org/)

Download from here: 

[http://nightlies.fireflymediaserver.org/version.php?version=svn-1586](http://nightlies.fireflymediaserver.org/version.php?version=svn-1586)

I hope this helps...

---

### Post by wesg on 2009-05-01
Thanks dmovad, I checked those out, I compiled the svn, but it never seems to actually install or start. I do configure, make, make install, but it doesn't show up in /etc/init.d/ or have an accessible web interface. I wonder what is going on.

---

