---
title: "Can't burn .avi to play in DVD player - FUSTRATED!"
date: 2010-03-06
forum: Multimedia Software
---

### Post by imari2542 on 2010-03-06
I have read countless tutorials and posts to burn a .avi file to I can play it in my DVD player. I did get one to work 2 weeks ago but can't remember what I did (Oh why didn't I write it down? - "smacking my head").  It was a pain in the but then too.

I have spent many hours trying to get this to work and wasted a ton of DVD's.  I'm a big supporter of Linux but honestly, it just sucks for this.  I can just point & click and easily have a playable dvd.  

I've also used different DVD's so I don't think they are the issue.

What am I doing something wrong or not understanding the process?? I'm not intimidated by the CL and have used the CL and countless programs like Tovid, DeVeDe, Sinthgunt, todisc, ManDVD, Brasero, K3B.  

Can anyone PLEASE help me, there has to be an easier way without using Windows.  Thx

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-03-06
> **imari2542 said:**
> I'm a big supporter of Linux but honestly, it just sucks for this.

It doesn't, you just need to understand what you are doing wrong.  

> What am I doing something wrong or not understanding the process?? I'm not intimidated by the CL and have used the CL and countless programs like Tovid, DeVeDe, Sinthgunt, todisc, ManDVD, Brasero, K3B.

Someone might be able to help if you gave half a clue as to where you are stuck.

What was your problem with Devede ?

---

### Post by imari2542 on 2010-03-06
I get no errors in Devede.  I am using Pal for the default format and have tried converting the file to create a disc structure and also made another try creating an iso image ready to burn to disc.  That part seems to go fine unless I am doing it wrong here.

It is when I burn the CD.  I am burning at slow speed but when I put it in my dvd player I get a disc error.

I can go through the whole process again and post any messages/errors I get.

Am I making the right choices in Devede?

---

### Post by imari2542 on 2010-03-06
I have had no errors on the last few cd's I burned, they play fine in the DVD player in my PC.  They just don't play in either of the DVD players attached to my tv's.   What I did was burn the .iso files generated by Devede.  When I did that 2 weeks ago the DVD worked fine.

When I put the DVD in the player I get a disc error and a message telling me that the playback feature may not be enabled.

I just burned another DVD through brasero and there were errors.  Here's what was in the log file:

Checking session consistency (brasero_burn_check_session_consistency burn.c:1905)
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_get_action
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_get_action
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_set_output_size_for_current_track
BraseroBurnURI stopping
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_get_action
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_get_session_output_size
BraseroBurnURI output set (IMAGE) image = /tmp/brasero_tmp_I4VC9U.bin toc = none
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_get_action
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_get_current_track
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_get_input_type
BraseroBurnURI burn:// URI found burn:///WG5.iso
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_set_current_action
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_get_current_track
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_add_track
BraseroBurnURI called brasero_job_get_action
BraseroBurnURI Finished track successfully

---

### Post by imari2542 on 2010-03-09
Any ideas yet anyone?

---

### Post by savafan on 2010-03-09
I'm kind of having the same issue myself. With Windows, I have an AVI to DVD converter, then I can simply burn that conversion using Nero or Imageburn. Quite simple, but it does take some time to convert the files.

I've been playing around with both DeVeDe & winFF to see if I can get the same results, but am struggling in the process as well.

I would also like to find a fairly simple answer to this.

---

### Post by imari2542 on 2010-03-11
Well I am going to keep trying and I'll let you know if I come across anything.  What really fustrates me right now is:

1.  I did this successfully once and am repeating the same steps and now it is not working

2.  No replies or help

I have read many, many threads and have not given up.

I'm sorry but any regular windows user who likes to burn DVD's will never consider Linux because it is much more complicated.  Simply put Windows is much easier.

I agree with the time, the conversion process takes a long time whether you use Windows or Linux.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2010-03-11
I have noted that many people seem to have problems with Brasero, you might want to try GnomeBaker. I also have had all kinds of problems with Brasero and GnomeBaker always has worked for me.

Also, many DVD players will play a DVD data disk that contains AVI or mpg files directly (depends on brand and model, look for some that have DiVix trademark). 

It was not entirely clear to me exactly what you want to do here. I am assuming that you want to make a traditional DVD, i.e., with menus and titles and chapters, etc, from some AVI files that you have. Is that correct?

---

### Post by imari2542 on 2010-03-11
Thanks for the help.

Yes, just for starters to make it simple, a traditional dvd to play in my dvd player attached to my tv. The dvd players does not have the DiVx trademark. Just wanted to burn 1 movie, simple menu with movie name, no chapters, no submenu, just the movie.

I will try what you suggested and check back.  Keeping my fingers crossed ;)

Thanks again.

---

### Post by shadowfax1 on 2010-03-11
Not sure where your from but Pal only works in Europe.....NTCS is the North American standard.
After the conversion to a iso try using K3B....works very well.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2010-03-11
I must echo shadowfax1, when you post here, especially about video issues, it would help if you could give us a location so that it would be clear what formats your location demands. This forum is quite international and some will assume that you are in their country and offer advice that might not work. The more information you can give about your OS, hardware, and location will only help give you useful information.

---

### Post by Khakilang on 2010-04-05
I have try Brasero and it work but take about 4 hour to burn one 1.7GB .avi file to DVD. But my K3b gives an error.

---

### Post by RedRat on 2010-04-05
> **Koh Kook Loon said:**
> I have try Brasero and it work but take about 4 hour to burn one 1.7GB .avi file to DVD. But my K3b gives an error.
It is not clear exactly what you are trying to do. Are you just burning an .avi file to a DVD disk, basically a data disk, OR are you attempting to convert the AVI file to a standard DVD format? The reason I raise this distinction is that many DVD players will play .avi files natively so there is no need to convert them to the VOB mess. However, then you lack the chapters etc.

In any event, I have had fits with Brasero and do all my burning with GnomeBaker, at least for data files.

---

### Post by ubun3wbee on 2010-10-24
Hi imari2542, I'm in the same boat. The issue is creating any disc that is playable on a standalone dvd player connected to a TV. 

NTSC or PAL regions aside, you're obviously going to set that up correctly depending on what corner of the earth you are from. My dilema came when I was silly enough to by a Sony high def AVCHD cam. The files are saved in an MTS format so i used ffmpeg to convert to mpeg. Now I have these MPEG files that I just want to simply put on a disc to send to my family overseas and be able to watch it in the lounge room without having to connect the laptop to the TV.

In my humble and brief experience Brasero is unstable and trying to burn 4Gb takes way too long and often causes the Ap to crash. I can make a DVD Disc with DeVede but it won't play on my DVD player, only on Linux. 

At this stage I'd be happy with sending my family a disc with the mpegs that they can either play on normal DVD player or Windows based PC. Anyone suggestions please?

---

### Post by RedRat on 2010-10-24
From a burning standpoint, I would suggest GnomeBaker or K3b. As to conversions to NTSC or PAL, can't say here. I run 8.04LTS and have found that support for HiDef is sketchy, perhaps it is better with 10.04, yet alone PAL vs. NTSC.

---

### Post by padraic2010 on 2010-12-24
> **shadowfax1 said:**
> Not sure where your from but Pal only works in Europe.....NTCS is the North American standard.
After the conversion to a iso try using K3B....works very well.


Actually PAL is the standard colour format in Australia and much of South East Asia. My DVD players will play PAL or NTSC.

---

### Post by jmate24 on 2010-12-24
try winff it may help. also some dvd players are security encoded so that they only play dvds that have copy protection enabled.

---

### Post by sallymc on 2011-02-08
(SOLVED)  Same problems here on Lucid.  Installed DVDauthor, and all works BEAUTIFULLY.  Good luck.

---

