---
title: "10.4 is finally out"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Philippine Team
---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-29
go download it or leech it via torrent.  As for me, I'd stay away as the speed certainly crawls when downloading on DAY1.  

REJOICE!

---

### Post by SporkD2 on 2010-04-29
I just upgraded and now im at Ubuntu 10.4 LTS tty1 login:

What is this??

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-04-29
log in with your username and pass

then type ```
startx
```

---

### Post by vhinz on 2010-04-29
now downloading.  I was waiting for it last night 'till 7 pm to start downloading and get back to it today.  Unfortunately, wala pa kagabi. I have 1hr and 30 mins to finish downloading 32bit desktop ed.

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-29
Its a miracle it arrived on time. I was really expecting it to arrive on May1.  If you have downloaded it kindly post feed back here.  

so far I read a few backlashes due to the slow update, possibly due to server over load.  Will DL later.

---

### Post by neehs on 2010-04-29
downloading desktop 32 & 64 bit........

---

### Post by MINItron on 2010-04-29
Downloaded and installed 10.04 64bit. This is the first time I have used 64bit OS on this computer. All I can say is HOLY CRAP!!!!!!!! It's like a brand new computer even though I'm running a ancient AMD Turion TL-50 with only 2GB of RAM.

My Windoze Vista isn't loading right now, but I did that when I upgraded to 10.04RC earlier. Should have just waited for the LTS to come out. I figure out how to fix that later.

Scott

---

### Post by beh_botehnga on 2010-04-29
ubuntu 10.04 now downloading:)

---

### Post by Ravskie on 2010-04-29
pa update naman po sino ang may intel 945GM na gamit if hindi sya nag freeze sa Lucid Lynx mine kasi freezing yung screen ang problem ko using 10.04 beta2.... sana may mag response hehehehe ... thanks po in advance !!!!

---

### Post by johnarcews on 2010-04-30
upgrading now from beta2 to final release 

[IMG]http://26.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l1nkogI8wV1qaetoto1_500.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by ingramproductions on 2010-04-30
Download via torrent on first day...
It's way faster

---

### Post by Script Warlock on 2010-04-30
mine actually is beta 2 pero eto na rin ata ang final release kung upgrade ko pa pero still download pa rin para may kopya akong magagamit to replace all 9.04 sa shop ko at gagawin ko na tong 10.04...

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-30
bugs galore so far:

Ubuntu Netbook Ed

*Fn+vol up /down is dead


They fixed the mic issues for 1005ha asus eeepc

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-30
The gwibber feature is a very nice addition to the ubuntu software

---

### Post by zilu54 on 2010-04-30
Kaka-install ku lang ng lucid sa laptop ku kasu parang may napansin aku na kakaiba.
natural lang ba sa bootstart pa lang niya eh hindi na yung nag loload na ubuntu logo? text lang kasi ang akin pero pag shut down ku ng laptop lumalabas naman yung ubuntu logo.

ayoko munang ilipat mga files ko baka masayang lang kasi yung effort ku.
[img]http://www.ubuntu.com/files/1004features/10.jpg[/img]
eto ang tinutukoy ku.

---

### Post by itagomo on 2010-04-30
ako walang internet sa bahay, kaya order nalang sa shipit ng cd. Wait nalang after 1 month, pede na un hehe.

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-30
> **zilu54 said:**
> 
[IMG]http://www.ubuntu.com/files/1004features/10.jpg[/IMG]
eto ang tinutukoy ku.

Yan ang bagong logo ng ubuntu.  I have installed it on my laptop and everything works (well mostly except for the volume buttons)

---

### Post by Samhain13 on 2010-04-30
Downloading via BitTorrent. Tagal pa, 4 hours. Bagal kasi ng connection namin.

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-30
I was lucky enough to download in a deserted internet cafe 30min tapos na ang ubuntu 32bit.

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-30
The gwibber is a great addition.  

No more cross posting between facebook and twiter, anything you write can be posted on those sites in one go.

For some weird reasons the gnome session in the netbook edition does not load properly.

---

### Post by coolsonyeh on 2010-04-30
yay gratz to you guyz!still downloading at 50%.

---

### Post by Samhain13 on 2010-04-30
Just tested the 64-bit version. It seems to be working fine, but I hate the new splash screen. I might install when I wake up. I hope there's a way to change the splash though.

---

### Post by jlandaw on 2010-04-30
aljoriz

How did you get your wifi to work?

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-30
Look a signal type icon then click on it, you will be given a list of available Wi-Fi networks.

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-30
Look a signal type icon then click on it, you will be given a list of available Wi-Fi networks.

Hope this helps

---

### Post by Dyimz on 2010-04-30
currently updating my 9.10, then download ko na din yung 10.4 ^_^

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-04-30
btw if your 3G modem is not detected (smart/sun/tattoo) kindly go to synaptic, search for the following:
usb-modeswitch
usb-modeswitch-data

install then and your modem will now work

---

### Post by neehs on 2010-04-30
testing my 64bit Lucid Lynx on eMachines D725, nakakapanibago dark ang mga menu. updating with codes & all essentials applications...

---

### Post by Samhain13 on 2010-05-01
64-bit Lucid seems to be working fine in my Lenovo G450. Still putting stuff in but I'm not expecting anything major. Hehehe! I'll report back when I'm done setting up. :D

---

### Post by Madonnas BoyToy on 2010-05-01
I've been waiting for this for sooooo long!
9.10 was good, with 9.04 being my favorite, but 10.04 is shaping up to be pretty spectacular.  

I had issues with the X server yesterday that I couldn't figure out, but after I updated today the problem seems to have gone away.

Congrats to the entire Ubuntu community!
Thanks everyone for all your hard work.  You're amazing!

---

### Post by Madonnas BoyToy on 2010-05-01
> **Samhain13 said:**
> Just tested the 64-bit version. It seems to be working fine, but I hate the new splash screen. I might install when I wake up. I hope there's a way to change the splash though.

There's a way to change anything if you're not satisfied...One of the most beautiful things about Linux is that it is 100% customizable.

---

### Post by darkzlayer on 2010-05-01
> **johnarcews said:**
> upgrading now from beta2 to final release 

[IMG]http://26.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l1nkogI8wV1qaetoto1_500.jpg[/IMG]

kuya yan po ba yung default na wallpaper ng 10.04? ganda naman:)

---

### Post by QKC on 2010-05-01
I have just upgrade from 9.10 to current 10.04.I cannot see my mouse pointer.Is anyone facing this issue?

Thanks

---

### Post by Samhain13 on 2010-05-01
> **Madonnas BoyToy said:**
> There's a way to change anything if you're not satisfied...One of the most beautiful things about Linux is that it is 100% customizable.

Yep, found a way to change the splash screen. I had trouble with the other Plymouth themes though, because I have an nVidia graphics card. Found the solution here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1446132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1446132)

Also timed the boot sequence. 27 seconds from power up to the login screen, Karmic did it faster. But I'm not complaining. :D

And here's my screenie:

---

### Post by vhinz on 2010-05-01
Its fast and ung buttons ng windows (close, min, max) nasa right side na sabi nila is parang sa OSX.  Nice color and the gui seems good.  The buttons on my lappy works better and responds faster than 8.10 and 9.04.  I have not tested my vid card if fully supported...un ung naging prob ko from start but basic computing works great even from previous version (not a gaming enthusiast anymore kaya aus lng).

Though I need to install some plugins to play my mp3s and video..hindi nila inincorporate siguro dahil sa different laws of each countries (aun ung explanation bago ko nadownload ung gtstreamer.

---

### Post by pinoyskull on 2010-05-01
pinoyskull reporting...

Installed Lucid Lynx 64bit on my Dell Inspiron 1464, everything's ok except wireless, turns out there's a bug on Broadcom wireless, I followed the Howto of craptree from [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/502433](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/502433) and wireless is alive again :)

I think this will go to all who uses Broadcom wireless, just follow the howto and you're set :)

---

### Post by Samhain13 on 2010-05-02
@pinoyskull:

Yeah, I wasn't able to connect immediately after the install. What I did was I just connected to my router using an Ethernet cable so I can download and install the Broadcom STA driver (as well as my graphics card driver). I'm now able to connect to our wireless network. :D

Using a Lenovo G450, by the way.

-------------

Oh, and incidentally, I found an annoying thing. In Nautilus, I can't seem to find the button that changes the path buttons(?) into the location bar (where you just type the path). I had to edit the thing using the Configuration Editor. So for any one else who likes to type-in the address to some directory instead of clicking the path buttons, go to:

Applications > System Tools > Configuration Editor. Under apps > nautilus > preferences, check **always_use_location_entry**. This will show the location bar in Nautilus, replacing the path buttons.

---

### Post by zeroseven0183 on 2010-05-02
> **Samhain13 said:**
> Oh, and incidentally, I found an annoying thing. In Nautilus, I can't seem to find the button that changes the path buttons(?) into the location bar (where you just type the path).

I agree. It seems odd that they took that option out of Nautilus.

> I had to edit the thing using the Configuration Editor. So for any one else who likes to type-in the address to some directory instead of clicking the path buttons, go to:

Applications > System Tools > Configuration Editor. Under apps > nautilus > preferences, check **always_use_location_entry**. This will show the location bar in Nautilus, replacing the path buttons.

You can also hit CTRL+L to activate it. But who wants to do that anyway? (Ang layo kaya ng CTRL key sa L) :) 
So, yeah, better set it as default.

I find the Location bar easier to use than the pathbar.

---

### Post by Samhain13 on 2010-05-02
CONTROL L!!! Hahaha! That easy! Hahaha! (Seriously, I didn't know that. Thanks for the info.) Still like to have the location bar to be the default. :D

---

### Post by jepong on 2010-05-02
> **neehs said:**
> testing my 64bit Lucid Lynx on eMachines D725, nakakapanibago dark ang mga menu. updating with codes & all essentials applications...

gumagana ba sayo brightness button mo? sa akin dehins eh... :lolflag:

---

### Post by Ravskie on 2010-05-02
> **aljoriz said:**
> The gwibber is a great addition.  

No more cross posting between facebook and twiter, anything you write can be posted on those sites in one go.

For some weird reasons the gnome session in the netbook edition does not load properly.


Sir Aljoriz eepc po  gamit nyo intel 945gm din ba VGA nyan kasi i upgrade my eeepc 900ha sa lucid but my problem is nag freeze every  now and then siguro mga 3x na ako now nagrestart ...... hope meron workaround nito 

thanks in advance !

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-05-02
^ eee pc 900 uses Intel GMA900, 1005ha uses 950 tapos sa 1200 model eh 500 ginamit.  

kaya gamit ko yung netbook na session, sayang gusto ko pa naman yung GNOME.

If you want a good linux for eeepc 900 I suggest:  

Leeenux - specifically made for 7' netbooks, ubuntu based.

---

### Post by Ravskie on 2010-05-02
> **aljoriz said:**
> ^ eee pc 900 uses Intel GMA900, 1005ha uses 950 tapos sa 1200 model eh 500 ginamit.  

kaya gamit ko yung netbook na session, sayang gusto ko pa naman yung GNOME.

If you want a good linux for eeepc 900 I suggest:  

Leeenux - specifically made for 7' netbooks, ubuntu based.

Sir salamat po. mukhang ok sa netbook session kahit mas want ko rin sana gnome stick muna ako dito thanks ulit ng marami !!!!!

---

### Post by coolsonyeh on 2010-05-03
same here i have a HP DV5 Pavilion with a fresh installed Lucid Lynx minsan sa start up palang nag hang na sya. and yung boot splash nya 640x480 lng if i go beyond that nasisira yung ubuntu image and minsan 2-4 images ang nag aapear. im using the newest nvidia driver.pero pag indi ko ininstall yung nvidia maganda yung boot screen nya, kaso wala ako desktop effects. sana may nakakaalam kung pano ayusin to. thanks in advance.

---

### Post by neehs on 2010-05-03
> **jepong said:**
> gumagana ba sayo brightness button mo? sa akin dehins eh... :lolflag: ayaw po gumana Sir Jeff kakainis, sa Windows 7 lang sya ok. not sure if it works on WinXP Pro SP3

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-05-03
When Karmic was released updates were available after 2 days.  In Lucid 3days, wala pang updates?  I must learn to wait.

---

### Post by Samhain13 on 2010-05-03
> **coolsonyeh said:**
> same here i have a HP DV5 Pavilion with a fresh installed Lucid Lynx minsan sa start up palang nag hang na sya. and yung boot splash nya 640x480 lng if i go beyond that nasisira yung ubuntu image and minsan 2-4 images ang nag aapear. im using the newest nvidia driver.pero pag indi ko ininstall yung nvidia maganda yung boot screen nya, kaso wala ako desktop effects. sana may nakakaalam kung pano ayusin to. thanks in advance.

Baka makatulong to sa boot splash problem mo: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1446132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1446132)

Yung hanging at start up, sana related lang siya diyan. Kung hindi, hindi ko na din alam.

---

### Post by coolsonyeh on 2010-05-04
> **Samhain13 said:**
> Baka makatulong to sa boot splash problem mo: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1446132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1446132)

Yung hanging at start up, sana related lang siya diyan. Kung hindi, hindi ko na din alam.

already did that sir yung hang on start up di ko pa po na-encounter after the fix. but the boot splash remains the same.but its ok mabilis naman yung boot so di masyado na importante yun yun boot screen\\:D/
thanks sir samhain

---

### Post by firesock on 2010-05-14
> **zeroseven0183 said:**
> I agree. It seems odd that they took that option out of Nautilus.



You can also hit CTRL+L to activate it. But who wants to do that anyway? (Ang layo kaya ng CTRL key sa L) :) 
So, yeah, better set it as default.

I find the Location bar easier to use than the pathbar.

Hey!! Thank you very much!, how would know that it could be so easy!

much appreciated...

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2010-05-15
UNE (Ubuntu Netbook Edition) users:  

Do a quick update on your system via System>Admin>Update Manager.  

The Gnome session problem is now fixed.. HORAY!

---

### Post by Ravskie on 2010-05-16
> **aljoriz said:**
> UNE (Ubuntu Netbook Edition) users:  

Do a quick update on your system via System>Admin>Update Manager.  

The Gnome session problem is now fixed.. HORAY!


i've done with the update and all i can say is awesome so far no hassle hehehehehe !!!!

UBUNTU ROCKS !!!! :guitar:

---

