---
title: "BQ 4.5 updates not working"
date: 2015-06-05
forum: Ubuntu Phone and Tablet
---

### Post by rogerggbr on 2015-06-05
Hi,
Updates have stopped downloading in last few weeks. Nothing obviously wrong but now have 8 waiting. Tried a reboot. Before I reset the phone are there any other things I should try? Thanks for any suggestions.
Roger

---

### Post by lgd on 2015-06-07
Check logfiles for errors.

---

### Post by rogerggbr on 2015-06-07
Nothing obvious in the logs - I also tailed syslog while trying an update and saw no entries related. It's as if the underlying process is not running or starting. I am not an expert here so any other pointers appreciated. Are there any other logs I should specifically look at? Thanks.

---

### Post by jacktar on 2015-06-16
They may have already updated but not removed themselves. That is the problem I am having (amongst others). Check the version numbers.

---

### Post by rogerggbr on 2015-06-16
Just fixed this after the system OTA updates today, which went OK. 
After the major update from 14 to 15, the individual package updates still would not work. I then tried to install a new package instead from the store. This didn't work but prompted me to log in again. After that the new package installed and I was able to do all the other updates.
I don't know why it lost the details, or why it didn't prompt me before, but at least it is fixed.
Hope this helps someone else.

---

### Post by _sluimers_ on 2015-06-19
How did you get it to version 15.04 in the first place? I'm stuck at version 14.10.

---

### Post by rogerggbr on 2015-06-19
Hi,
The update arrived automatically (I am in UK) but in itself didn't fix anything. I thought it might make a difference, but it didn't. If you are still able to update other apps etc then I would just be patient for a few more days. If you are having the same problem as I was then try and install any other app and see what happens.
Since then other updates are also working as they should.
Cheers.

---

### Post by jos-vh67 on 2015-06-20
I assume that you already tested a "manual" update, by going into system settings and press "updates". Might be a good idea to enable WiFi, because the update from 14.10 to 15.04 is rather large.
You can check also the kernel version (type uname -a in the terminal) to see if the kernel is up to date (I still have 3.4.67, even after the update to 14.05), but for me that stil works. All updates on apps as well as Ubuntu came up.

Did anybody try a kernel update to the latest stable version? Can this be done on the BQ E4.5?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-06-22
As I understand the working of the Ubuntu phone OS is that there are two kinds of updates. There is the Over The Air (OTA) update which updates the OS and these come out at monthly intervals or so. Then there are update to applications which happen whenever the developer of the app pushes an updated version of the app into the app store.

There are other ways to update the system but these methods disable the normal OTA update method because they require the update channel to be changed.

Regards.

---

