---
title: "Mx4"
date: 2015-07-21
forum: Ubuntu Phone and Tablet
---

### Post by ukripper on 2015-07-21
Thought I'd leave a note to MX4 owners and prospective buyers:

Got my MX4 couple of weeks ago. Nice handset, new updates (build number 3) have improved speed but still bit jerky during scopes switching, slow panel sliding, notification sync issues and lack of native apps(QML). However, still the  updates are arriving very quickly, I am hopeful that by next few months it will run all smooth (reminds me of similar experience when I first adopted Android back then in 2008 with Tmobile G1) and look how android has dominating the world now. I don't expect touch to reach to the top but I prefer it to gain enough traction so app developers like me take on development on this platform and earn livelihood.

I'll keep updating this thread as progress is made on touch and app dev front with MX4 :-)

Happy tinkering...

---

### Post by vq1 on 2015-07-21
Thanks for sharing. Ive had my eye on a few MX4 and E5 on ebay. Kinda kicking myself for not jumping on a MX4 that went for 149 bucks. 

But then again Im trying to hold out for the rumor of convergence.

---

### Post by ukripper on 2015-07-22
IMO convergence will happen eventually on both MX4 and BQ handsets, OTA updates are pretty robust. If I were you I will buy the device now to get as familiar as possible and it will ease ride when converging...

---

### Post by ukripper on 2015-07-22
Currently working out ways to get Spotify in browser working. As User agent detects it as android device and browser setting doesn't have UA switch. If some one has any tips please leave a note here, much appreciated!

---

### Post by constantin.karl.mu on 2015-07-22
Not an expert but I'd assume you need to edit ~/.config/webbrowser-app/webbrowser-app.conf

---

### Post by Harald_Walker on 2015-07-23
Am also quiet pleased. Although the fact that the flagship Ubuntu Touch phone has a bug in the camera app that prevents it from taking pictures in the full 20MP resolution is really bad ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/camera-app/+bug/1468341](https://bugs.launchpad.net/camera-app/+bug/1468341)). Isn't there any quality control? The bug isn't even in progress yet and is know for a month now.

---

### Post by ukripper on 2015-07-30
Ok. After a lot of head butting against conf files and google searching, no luck and user agent is still being picked up as android by most sites (maybe that's  how they read the underline device strings rather than the user agent). Anyhow, received a good news yesterday that amazon has released music service for UK prime customers for free. Tried to access the service via webbrowser on mx4, guess what, it kept taking me onto google play thinking it is an android device. This is indeed very frustrating that any music service I try to access via webbrowser diverts me to android app repositories. 

Therefore in vain attempt, I have come to a conclusion that until I can use any of my music service, plus whatsapp I can't make Ubuntu touch as my primary phone..moreover, not many people I know who want telegram.

So back to my LG G2 as primary and Ubuntu mx4 secondary.. I really hope whatsapp and Spotify/amazon service gets ported sooner on mx4....I am going to start a QML app for Ubuntu store, will keep posting its progress on here.

---

### Post by ukripper on 2015-08-12
Is there a website which track latest developments for MX4? So that I keep myself up to date.

---

### Post by Harald_Walker on 2015-08-12
> **ukripper said:**
> Is there a website which track latest developments for MX4? So that I keep myself up to date.
I use a search on Launchpad [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.searchtext=mx4&search=Search](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/+bugs?field.searchtext=mx4&search=Search) to keep an eye on MX4 related issues. 

There are also mailing lists for Ubuntu Touch and app developers that you could follow.

---

