---
title: "Make SeaMonkey default browser in 14.04"
date: 2014-07-13
forum: Ubuntuzilla
---

### Post by RogerDavis on 2014-07-13
I want to change some DEFAULT APPS to something other than is listed as options.  Right now, I want to add SeaMonkey as default for Browser.

This is how I installed it, I think... it's been a few days.
------------------------
$ echo -e "deb [http://downloads.sourceforge.net/projec](http://downloads.sourceforge.net/projec) ... ozilla/apt all main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list > /dev/null
$ sudo apt-key adv --recv-keys --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com C1289A29
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install seamonkey-mozilla-build
---------------------

However, there is no "other" or "browse" option at the default app selection, just the dropdown list that doesn't include SeaMonkey.

I don't know if this is due to my use of Gnome (Flashback Metacity, I'm pretty sure) or not.

How do I either add my app to the list, or input it's name and location, or ???

---

### Post by nanotube on 2014-07-21
Hi,
Sorry for slow reply. This issue is something specific to the desktop environment you are using. I have been using xubuntu for a while now, so I don't know off the top of my head how things are done in gnome these days. 

upon some googling I just did myself, it seems gnome goes by the content of the MimeType entry in the .desktop file. Would you please check for me by editing (as root) /usr/share/applications/seamonkey-mozilla-build.desktop , and add the following line to it (all on one line):

```

MimeType=text/html;text/xml;application/xhtml+xml;application/xml;application/rss+xml;application/rdf+xml;image/gif;image/jpeg;image/png;x-scheme-handler/http;x-scheme-handler/https;x-scheme-handler/ftp;x-scheme-handler/chrome;video/webm;application/x-xpinstall;x-scheme-handler/mailto;
```

after that, restart, or logout/login (whatever is needed for gnome to re-read the .desktop info), and see if it shows up in the preferred application selection list for browser.

Please let me know if that works!

---

### Post by RogerDavis on 2014-07-21
No luck.

I edited  /usr/share/applications/seamonkey-mozilla-build.desktop  in gedit, cut and pasted the line you show above in Code, did a complete system shut down and restart, still no other choices in System Settings - Details - Defaults - Web , only FireFox and Browser.

[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Name=Mozilla Build of Seamonkey
GenericName=Internet Suite
Comment=Web Browser, Email/News Client, HTML Editor, IRC Client
Exec=seamonkey %u
Icon=seamonkey-mozilla-build
Terminal=false
X-MultipleArgs=false
StartupWMClass=SeaMonkey
Type=Application
Categories=Network;WebBrowser;Email;WebDevelopment;IRCClient;
MimeType=text/html;text/xml;application/xhtml+xml;application/xml;application/rss+xml;application/rdf+xml;image/gif;image/jpeg;image/png;x-scheme-handler/http;x-scheme-handler/https;x-scheme-handler/ftp;x-scheme-handler/chrome;video/webm;application/x-xpinstall;x-scheme-handler/mailto;

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-07-21
RogerDavis; Hello,

Try this:
```

sudo update-alternatives --config x-www-browser

```

is SeaMonkey in the list ?

If so then;
See: 
```

man update-alternatives

```
for more information.

[INDENT][INDENT]hope this helps
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by RogerDavis on 2014-07-22
I'll be back at the machine late Wednesday.  I should be able to try this no later than Thursday.

Thanks!

---

### Post by RogerDavis on 2014-07-24
roger@roger-desktop:~$ sudo update-alternatives --config x-www-browser
[sudo] password for roger: 
There is only one alternative in link group x-www-browser (providing /usr/bin/x-www-browser): /usr/bin/firefox
Nothing to configure.
roger@roger-desktop:~$ 

So no luck there.  Is there any way to add, maybe, /opt/seamonkey/seamonkey, or even drop that in where the  /usr/bin/firefox is?
--------------
In the help file, I found some difficult instructions.  I couldn't decide how to do "--install link name path priority [--slave link name path]...", which seems closest to my needs.

---

### Post by RogerDavis on 2014-07-24
Strange after a couple MORE reboots, it was present.  

I set SeaMonkey as default, we'll see if it works...

---

### Post by buellboy9 on 2014-08-02
> **RogerDavis said:**
> Strange after a couple MORE reboots, it was present.  

I set SeaMonkey as default, we'll see if it works...

For future reference, read this thread to see how to update the "Default Applications" dialog after you've made the changes above:
[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/precise/man1/update-desktop-database.1.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/precise/man1/update-desktop-database.1.html)

Works in Linux Mint too.

---

### Post by nanotube on 2014-08-06
aha, update-desktop-database , perfect, good find buellboy9 :) thanks!

---

### Post by nanotube on 2014-08-06
added the MimeType entry into the .desktop generated by ubuntuzilla. should show up in future mozilla release debs.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-08-06
> **nanotube said:**
> added the MimeType entry into the .desktop generated by ubuntuzilla. should show up in future mozilla release debs.

When you are good, You are good ! 
Thanks for the advisement and the update .

[INDENT][INDENT]'buntu
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]just keeps getting better
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by meduzapat on 2014-09-09
the .desktop mime change and the [B]sudo update-desktop-database
did the trick, remember to avoid empty spaces on the .desktop file or you will get errors
[/B]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-09-09
:p+1 ^^ :p

---

