---
title: "FF 3.5.5 -&gt; no Java again! :("
date: 2009-11-25
forum: Ubuntuzilla
---

### Post by shane2peru on 2009-11-25
Ok, once again I'm running Koala 64bit, and ubuntuzilla, and installed FireFox 3.5.5 and cannot get the java plugin working.  This is driving me crazy.  I have tried following this guide:  [http://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/java](http://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/java)  to no avail. :(  I even tried putting the plugin into, /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins and /usr/lib/firefox/plugins but no go!  Arrgh.  Why is java being sooo difficult? 

Shane

---

### Post by nanotube on 2009-11-25
Hi
I suppose you have also tried the suggestion in the ubuntuzilla faq for 64bit users, and that also failed?

edit: i just checked out those instructions you linked to - they should work just fine as well. but you have to install the 32bit version of java! (not the 64bit version, because mozilla's firefox is 32bit!)

---

### Post by shane2peru on 2009-11-25
> **nanotube said:**
> Hi
edit: i just checked out those instructions you linked to - they should work just fine as well. but you have to install the 32bit version of java! (not the 64bit version, because mozilla's firefox is 32bit!)

Aaaaahhhhhhh!  Why does that get me every single time!!!  You are right, 32bit is what I need, which is sooo oddd, because I always have to make sure I have 64bit of everything else.   Anyway, glad it is working, thanks for pointing that out!!!

Shane

What is the point or purpose of Java64?

---

### Post by nanotube on 2009-11-25
> **shane2peru said:**
> Aaaaahhhhhhh!  Why does that get me every single time!!!  You are right, 32bit is what I need, which is sooo oddd, because I always have to make sure I have 64bit of everything else.   Anyway, glad it is working, thanks for pointing that out!!!


hehe great, glad it worked. :)

> 
What is the point or purpose of Java64?

well, if you were running a 64bit build of firefox you'd be looking for a 64bit java. as to what's the point of 64bit stuff in general... your best bet is to read about in on the web. :)

---

### Post by 4485670 on 2009-12-11
Hi,

i was fooling around with this too.
The faq is correct for java and flash.
But actually the directory where i had to link java to "~/.mozilla/plugins" did not exist.
So i created it and linked the file as described.
Then everything worked like a charm.

Hope that helps some people having the trouble too.

---

