---
title: "12.04 Steam game tfc not showing text"
date: 2012-05-13
forum: Wine
---

### Post by userqq on 2012-05-13
**EDIT(added later): better read the later updates since in the end this first idea did not really work.(for me)**

SOLVED? This is more of a workaround:
When i open TFC thru wine the game comes up but the text that says options. find servers, quit etc isnt showing. i can run my mouse over where they should be and i can hear a 'click' sound like normal but no text is shown. So heres what I did.

close wine
dash
type wine
choose configure wine
open the graphics tab
check box 'open in virtual window'
click apply
open steam
start TFC (game that was not showing the text)
opens fine in small virtual window
click game options
under video selected D3d instad of open gl
click apply 
shut down game, steam and wine
go back to configure wine
uncheck 'open in virtual window'
click apply  and close wine
open steam and game text is now viewable

ONE UM>>PROBLEM
Very laggy in D3d mode now so must change in game video back to open gl once game is open.
Make sure to change it back to D3d before you quit or you will have to do this whole process again the next time you play.

NOTE: if you get an 'invalid parameters' notice just try reloading again.
ALSO if anyone figures out a REAL solution please post a link here.
WINE and 12.04 really need to work with steam easily, it is a popular program :)

Im not sure if others are having this problem but may be because 1.86 ghz w 1 gb ram
good luck
):P

EDIT: UNMARKED AS SOLVED. Still a problem, uninstalled and reinstalled wine and stem to no avail, I have no idea why it worked that time but it keeps happening.
Help is still needed. (man, I REALLY dont want to go back to oneric(its a hassle)
Thanks

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-14
Sometimes when you are having trouble with text, it means you need to install the riched20 dll from winetricks. That's not always the solution, but sometimes it is.

---

### Post by userqq on 2012-05-15
> **forrestcupp said:**
> Sometimes when you are having trouble with text, it means you need to install the riched20 dll from winetricks. That's not always the solution, but sometimes it is.

**Thank you!,** I just UN marked this as solved at all and I will try this idea today, I've uninstalled and reinstalled wine and steam and it's like 1 in 10 times it works????????
Im going to keep giving updates

---

### Post by userqq on 2012-05-21
**Update**: ok its hit and miss no matter what i try. I have found a simple workaround.
Open steam
Instead of clicking 'play' TFC--> go to 'servers' at the top.
From the list of servers just left click on one and choose 'connect to server'.

**Im in** and I just BYPASSED that game start screen that wasnt showing text. once im in the game i can now hit esc and choose my options etc.

NOW I will try this method with TF2 and see if I can play as It was getting stuck on the startup screens.

looks like I WONT have to go back to oneric after all. was close :P

---

