---
title: "(11.10)svchost.exe error + power shut off downloading game through wine."
date: 2011-12-02
forum: Wine
---

### Post by CannabisCure on 2011-12-02
**COMPUTER SPECS**: intel i3 540, 4gb corsair ddr3 RAM (single stick), h55v motherboard. 

**OS**: UBUNTU 11.10 

i am new to ubuntu as i am a windows user. i installed wine 1.3/play on linux, and when trying to install games such as Perfect World, Runes Of Magic and shaiya, the installation gets to about 30%-75% and shows me a dialog box saying something similar to "svchost.exe had to shut down error"](*,) or something. then seconds after that, my whole system loses power and crashes. all i want to do is play an MMO. i cant afford windows. 
any help would be greatly appreciated. :D

---

### Post by CannabisCure on 2011-12-02
COMPUTER SPECS: intel i3 540, 4gb corsair ddr3 RAM (single stick), h55v motherboard. 

OS: UBUNTU 11.10 

i am new to ubuntu as i am a windows user. i installed wine 1.3/play on linux, and when trying to install games such as Perfect World, Runes Of Magic and shaiya, the installation gets to about 30%-75% and shows me a dialog box saying something similar to "svchost.exe had to shut down error" or something. then seconds after that, my whole system loses power and crashes. all i want to do is play an MMO. i cant afford windows. 
any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by crazy bird on 2011-12-02
Please, do not multipost the same question: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1889761](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1889761). This will be very confussing for other users and yourself.

---

### Post by crazy bird on 2011-12-02
Please do not multipost the same question: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1889756](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1889756).

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-12-02
try to install some that work well via wine on linux or some that have a linux client.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2011-12-02
Moved to wine section.

---

### Post by CannabisCure on 2011-12-02
still need help

---

