---
title: "14.04 Windows Program not displaying"
date: 2014-08-15
forum: Wine
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-15
I use a password manager that has come over from Windows. I have always been able to run it under wine, but since reinstalling 14.04, the program shows it as being loaded in the desktop dock but does not display its main window, so I can access the program. No error messages just does not display. Before the main program window I get the masterpass word window and into this I can enter the password. What should happen next is the main program window should open with all my passwords but this is not happening! Nothing opens after the main password is entered.

How can I unravel this problem?

R

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-15
I have tried with and without a virtual desktop.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-18
Does anyone have a solution to wine not displaying the program that it appears to have loaded? A window does open, it shows the wine desktop, with the title AnyPass.exe. On the bottom right corner of the window is  the My Password logo, because  I have previously clicked on it and the program has loaded, showing the box for the password. After entering the correct password the program does not proceed to open. In 12.04 this did not go wrong. 

I have just re-installed all of the wine program parts in synaptic, but it made no difference to the program opening.

I have set the wine emulator to WinXP for anypass.exe

R

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-08-18
***&#8203;Moved to Wine ***

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-23
Since I posted the original query I switched to Lubuntu and it did show the program, but i have had other problems with Lubuntu so have gone back to Ubuntu and still have the problem of the program not opening up.

Could I please have some trouble shooting help, because I need this program on a regular basis.

R

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-23
I have noticed that Wine does not retain the C: drive. I set it up, exit, go back and the C: drive is not in the list of drives, but the /home/robins/.wine/dosdevices shows a populated  c: folder.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2014-08-23
I think it is now working. I updated Wine to the one on the wine site.

---

