---
title: "how do you run win programs in 16 bits?"
date: 2008-06-11
forum: Wine
---

### Post by Meow27 on 2008-06-11
in one of the programs im trying to run, i get this ```
fixme:xrandr:X11DRV_XRandR_SetCurrentMode Cannot change screen BPP from 32 to 16
```

i looked in system>preferences> screen resolution but i didnt find any option to change it there

anyone know how change it?

---

### Post by cogadh on 2008-06-11
You probably need to edit your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file to include the option for 16 bit color. Editing the xorg.conf file is not exactly the easiest thing to do, since one minor error in any of the changes you make can leave you completely without a GUI desktop. It might be best if you copied the contents of your xorg.conf to a post here and allowed one of the "experts" to offer some specific editing suggestions.

---

### Post by Meow27 on 2008-06-11
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
```

should i change "Defaultdepth	24" to 16?

---

### Post by cogadh on 2008-06-11
No, that will just make everything look really ugly, though it may let whatever you are trying to run work.

That has to be the most generic xorg.conf I have ever seen in my life. I wouldn't expect yours to be identical to mine, but you are missing some key items that give xorg some of its most useful functionality. 

Before you try to make any changes to you xorg.conf, the first thing you need to do is backup you existing one:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.backup
```
If for some reason the changes you make to the file leave you with a non-functional desktop, then you will need to do the following to get things back to normal:[LIST=1]
[*]Login to the console (text interface only) session using your normal username and password
[*]Run the following command:```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```NOTE - You may want to write that down now, before you get into making actual changes to your xorg.conf. If the GUI doesn't come back up after making the changes, you won't be able to look up that command with a web browser.
[*]Reboot the PC by hitting CTRL-ALT-DEL[/LIST]

The next thing you should do is get some details about your monitor, most specifically, its horizontal sync rate, vertical refresh rate and a list of supported resolutions. You should be able to get that from an owner's manual or from the manufacturer's website. Once you have that information, then you can move on to editing your existing xorg.conf.

Since the xorg.conf is a system file, you need to use root permissions to edit it. I prefer using the terminal editor Nano, but you might prefer a GUI editor like Gedit. To start editing the file, run this from the terminal:
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
OR
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Now, since you have an Nvidia card, there is one option I recommend adding:
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"DynamicTwinView"	"False"
EndSection
```
Nvidia's Dynamic Twin View does a weird thing with you monitor's refresh rates so that the actual rate is not reported correctly to the OS. This can cause some problems with Wine when it is used to run games. Disabling Dynamic Twin View eliminates this problem, but it does mean that the Nvidia configuration utility that comes with the Linux driver won't be able to configure some of the monitor options for you. Since Ubuntu's built-in utilities can handle that already, it shouldn't be a problem.

Next, the monitor section. All you really need to add to this is the proper refresh and sync rates I mentioned above. For example:
```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Horizsync	30-70
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection
```Don't actually use those numbers, they are just an example and may not be appropriate for your monitor. If you use the wrong numbers, you could damage your monitor.

Lastly, adding the 16-bit support. You will need that list of supported resolutions to go along with this. Under that default depth, you will need to add a new subsection with the bit depths and resolutions:
```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
        SubSection "Display"
                Viewport  0 0
                Depth     24
                Modes     "1024x768" "800X600" "640X480"
                Depth     16
                Modes     "1024x768" "800X600" "640X480"
EndSection
```Again, you should not necessarily use the numbers I used, they are just examples. You should only add resolutions you are going to use regularly or might need to use occasionally. Adding anything more than that is just a waste of space in the xorg.conf file.

After you have finished with the edits, save the file, logout, then hit CTRL-ALT-BKSPC to restart the X server. If everything was done correctly, the GUI should come right back up and you will have 16 bit support for your game. If it doesn't come back up, just follow the recovery steps I described above.

---

