---
title: "Problem with wine gaming in a labtop"
date: 2008-05-26
forum: Wine
---

### Post by Lorathal on 2008-05-26
greetings to all ubuntu users,

lately ive researched a lot of linux distrubutions downloaded a lot of them and been loving every single part of it.

however i do have 2 major problems:

1-Gaming not working well with wine (witch is the major issue), ive been trying to play games from windows such as icewind dale 2 , discworld and such , even thought i have not much succeeded in all i searched for solutions mainly for the game i play most: world of warcraft.

my pc is a toshiba sattelite a200-1c3 
[http://pt.computers.toshiba-europe.com/cgi-bin/ToshibaCSG/jsp/productPage.do?service=PT&PRODUCT_ID=134349&toshibaShop=false](http://pt.computers.toshiba-europe.com/cgi-bin/ToshibaCSG/jsp/productPage.do?service=PT&PRODUCT_ID=134349&toshibaShop=false)

the graphic board is ATI Mobility™ Radeon® HD2400

i didnt managed to find any drivers for my labtop for linux except envys ones, for i did follow a guide on how to install world of warcraft on ubuntu, first time i tried half of the frames were missing but it did show some part of the game (altought impossible to play), in the latest 8.04 ubuntu , i tried again having experienced worst results , i could only see the lines of the portal (at the login window), after today downloading some drivers the picture got even worst only the parts where i can write are in full gray the rest is full black.

2- the front microphone and phones are not functioning i put some phones on it and still it distributes sound off the speakers (this is not the main issue and i dont mind if it is ignored).

any help on this issue would be greatly appreciated, i really wanna leave windows out of the picture but i cant do it without at least world of warcraft.

thanks in advance,
Lorathal

---

### Post by jack handy on 2008-05-27
i dont have any technical advice for you, but i'm here to help you save yourself from any future potential ridicule.

its a LAPtop, not a labtop.   the computer sits on top of your lap, hence the clever name.

---

### Post by Lorathal on 2008-05-29
> **jack handy said:**
> i dont have any technical advice for you, but i'm here to help you save yourself from any future potential ridicule.

its a LAPtop, not a labtop.   the computer sits on top of your lap, hence the clever name.

Why did you even bother posting something like that? jesus....

---

### Post by Kinst on 2008-05-29
You need the fglrx driver. Post the contents of etc/X11/xorg.conf and maybe I can help; it definitely sounds like driver trouble.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-29
Well, barring malconfigured (or yet-to-be-configured :>) video drivers, wine can't play everything. It tries its best to provide a windows-ish API to try to fool games and programs into working, but it obviously doesn't work all the time. (Notice I didn't say emulate, tee hee.)

You likely already know of it, but check the [WineHQ AppDB](http://appdb.winehq.org/) to see which applications work and which don't.

As for your sound, this is likely an ALSA issue. If you have an Intel HDA card (and, to an extent, even if you don't), see [this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5017453&postcount=2) post for some information to get you started.

---

### Post by Lorathal on 2008-06-04
> **Kinst said:**
> You need the fglrx driver. Post the contents of etc/X11/xorg.conf and maybe I can help; it definitely sounds like driver trouble.

 xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"pt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	30-70
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc ATI Default Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection


Here ya go sound is fixed now its wow :)

---

### Post by Kinst on 2008-06-04
Hm. You have the right driver. I don't know what's wrong then for world of warcraft, it's supposed to run very well in wine.

---

### Post by Lorathal on 2008-06-29
[[IMG]http://img247.imageshack.us/img247/3145/11863728go2.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img247.imageshack.us/my.php?image=11863728go2.jpg)

Here is what it looks after following some guides in the internet still doesnt work and im using the latest wine / wow the login screen is all black aswell doesnt even show my chars :(

---

### Post by Raistlin355 on 2008-06-29
I was able to play WoW on a Dell Inspirion 1501, a much lesser laptop than what you have and it was playable.  What driver did you install through Envy?  I recall having a problem with one of them.

---

