---
title: "Cs 1.6"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: Wine
---

### Post by volatilepyro on 2010-04-29
So I've been trying for a little while now and I just can't figure out how to get counterstrike 1.6 to work with wine. After some exploring and everything I finally got it to show up under the program list but its only options are to uninstall it. I've been looking around for a few days and just can't seem to find anything useful.

---

### Post by CharmyBee on 2010-04-29
That's because Counter-Strike 1.6 must be run directly from Steam

---

### Post by wmatthews on 2010-04-29
> **volatilepyro said:**
> So I've been trying for a little while now and I just can't figure out how to get counterstrike 1.6 to work with wine. After some exploring and everything I finally got it to show up under the program list but its only options are to uninstall it. I've been looking around for a few days and just can't seem to find anything useful.
I have a feeling that you have the version without the steam.  I don't have that one.  If you want to create a menu item for wine in Gnome just right click on the "Applications" menu select "Edit Menus" and make whatever you would like.

For instance, my link to wine is:

env WINEPREFIX="/home/willie/.wine" wine "C:\Program Files\Steam\steam.exe" -applaunch 10

So you would put something like:

env WINEPREFIX="/home/your_username/.wine" wine "C:\Program Files\Steam\cs16.exe"

I don't know what the execicutable name is for CS 1.6 but I hope that you get the idea.

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2010-04-29
Moved to Wine subforum. :)

---

### Post by asdfoo on 2010-04-30
there isn't a legal version of CS 1.6 without steam.

---

### Post by wmatthews on 2010-04-30
Well we all know it is out there.

---

### Post by asdfoo on 2010-04-30
pirated software isn't supported though

---

### Post by wmatthews on 2010-04-30
Let me correct myself.  When I first started playing CS it was 1.5 then moved up to 1.6 then was added to steam.  I am pretty sure that is how it went.

---

### Post by CharmyBee on 2010-05-01
[This is the only place where you can download CS 1.6](http://store.steampowered.com/app/10/)

---

### Post by wmatthews on 2010-05-01
Okay,  Why don't somebody help me on the thread that I made last night.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1467562](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1467562)

---

