---
title: "World of Warcraft - Glitch every 3-5 sec"
date: 2008-10-28
forum: Wine
---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-10-28
Hey

I read this [throubleshooting guide ]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WorldofWarcraft/Troubleshooting#Glitch%20every%203-5%20sec")and found that my problem is this:

[I]Glitch every 3-5 sec
If you see a noticeable graphical studder every 3 to 5 seconds or so for this you need to edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and add something like: 

Option "UseFastTLS" "2" 

to the Video card "Device" Section. This of course is normally a problem with the OSS (open source software) Drivers for ATi cards. [/I]

but its not working. Where in the xorg.conf file should i place the line:

Option "UseFastTLS" "2" 

?

PS. My videocard is a Mobile ATI X1600

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-10-28
anyone?

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-10-29
Bump again... come on guys, someone must know the answer.

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-10-29
I put the line under Video card device, but it doesnt help, wow still glitch every 1 second

---

### Post by scizzo on 2008-10-29
Which version of wine are you using? And under what version of ubuntu?

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-10-29
Wine 1.0 and Ubuntu 8.04 + all updates offered via auto update

---

### Post by hotballz87 on 2008-10-29
i have the same problem, disabling certian wow addons seems to help a bit (recount especially) but it does not completely stop it

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-10-29
yeah that helped a little, but as you wrote, not much. Isnt there someone who have the answer for this?

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-10-30
bump

---

### Post by Yashiro on 2008-10-30
> Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "UseFastTLS" "2"

It goes beneath the 'fglrx' line. If your driver is not *fglrx* then you're not running the AMD Restricted driver.


If you'd scrolled up a few lines in the guide you'd have seen this example config
> 
 Section "Device"
   Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
   Driver      "fglrx"
   Option       "Capabilities" "0x00000800"
   Option       "UseFastTLS" "off"
   Option       "KernelModuleParm" "locked-userpages=0"
 EndSection

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-10-30
I downloaded the linux from ATIs website and installed it, shouldnt it be the right one?

If not, how do i check which driver im using? And if im not using the right driver where do i download the right one?

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-10-30
bump

---

### Post by &lt;&lt;joe&gt;&gt; on 2008-10-30
hey can you post your  /etc/X11/xorg.conf
then we can tell you (gess) were you should put it

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-10-31
Yes here it is:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"dk"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option 		"UseFastTLS" "2"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by Hairy_Palms on 2008-10-31
My friend has the same issue on XP, with ATI and core2duo, he's had it since the version 3.0 patch. so it might be an ATI problem rather than a wine problem, unless you had it pre-3.0?

---

### Post by nixIT on 2008-11-01
i recently upgraded my system to a ATI HD3870 and am receiving the stutter every 3-5 seconds.  every tip I tried does not help.

can anyone help out?

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-11-01
Hairy_Pamls you are propperly right, must be a ATI problem. I haven't tried patch 3.0 on XP, but if your friend have the same problem its propperly ATI whos ******.

Thank you for clearing this out. Will write a complain email to ATI rigth away :D

nixIT, as Hairy_Palms wrote it is propperly ATI who have the problem, just hope for a new driver soon...

---

### Post by nixIT on 2008-11-02
I just tried it on my Vista partition, and I can play WoW with no problems.  I am wondering if it's the ATI drivers in linux, or the distro, or a configuration issue.

Sure wish we could figure it out so I could stay in Linux.

---

### Post by hotballz87 on 2008-11-02
dunno if it can be ati, i have an nvidia geforce 8800gtx, it has the stuttering too

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-11-03
oooh... then its not just ati... crap... anyone who knows the answer for this one then?

---

### Post by Jepperen on 2008-11-04
bump

---

