---
title: ".net 2.0 --does it work?"
date: 2009-04-05
forum: Wine
---

### Post by Affrikka on 2009-04-05
hey everyone,

I am a composer and recently purchased Sibelius 5. All of our computers run ubuntu except for my dad's work laptop, on which I installed sibby. I went onto the WineAppDB and found that sib 5 also works on linux without a lot of fuss. So, I followed a user submitted installation guide and found that I had to get "winetricks" so I did.
On wine tricks there were a plethora of things for me to choose from, but the guide told me which to choose, and I figured out one of these things was window's .NET 2.0 package thingy.
I watched my terminal install .NET 1.1, and then it started the 2.0 installation, the package popped up and it started to install fine, and then it stopped halfway through telling me that the program installation had an error, and asked if I wanted to send an error report, to which I pushed 'no', because I knew that it was microsoft stuff anyway and wasn't really suppose to work on linux.
The installation aborted all together, and I cannot run sibelius 5 withouth having this .NET 2.0 package.

My question is, is there another way to get this package working?


thanks for your help,

I am running ubuntu 8.06



Affrikka

---

### Post by NightMKoder on 2009-04-05
I'm guessing you're running wine from the repository. Get the latest wine at [http://winehq.org/download/deb](http://winehq.org/download/deb) , and if that fails, make sure you start with a fresh .wine .

---

### Post by Affrikka on 2009-04-05
okay thank you everything is working fine now and I should have sibelius up and running soon! thanks for your help!

---

### Post by asdfoo on 2009-04-06
> **Affrikka said:**
> okay thank you everything is working fine now and I should have sibelius up and running soon! thanks for your help!

If you run into problems, I think you need to install .net2 you using winetricks

wget [http://kegel.com/wine/winetricks](http://kegel.com/wine/winetricks)
sh winetricks dotnet20

---

