---
title: "101"
date: 2010-02-07
forum: Wine
---

### Post by degarb on 2010-02-07
There are three apps that keep me from moving to linux on my desktop:  Dragon speech recognition,   autohotkey.com and BBE sonic enhancer.   (voice rec is as important as the keyboard,  ahk as the commandline, and bbe as noise reduction.

New user, so far about half my attempted windows aps won't work under wine.  half have.  i can't play to much  but want to get a better feel as to the possibilities, in general.

[ i am fiddling around learning capabilities of ubuntu, but limitied when wife using her ubuntu notebook computer, plus she really doesn't have enough disk space yet to play large apps.]  Thanks sorry for the vague post.

---

### Post by asdfoo on 2010-03-12
> **degarb said:**
> There are three apps that keep me from moving to linux on my desktop:  Dragon speech recognition,   autohotkey.com and BBE sonic enhancer.   (voice rec is as important as the keyboard,  ahk as the commandline, and bbe as noise reduction.

New user, so far about half my attempted windows aps won't work under wine.  half have.  i can't play to much  but want to get a better feel as to the possibilities, in general.

[ i am fiddling around learning capabilities of ubuntu, but limitied when wife using her ubuntu notebook computer, plus she really doesn't have enough disk space yet to play large apps.]  Thanks sorry for the vague post.

do you have a question?

---

### Post by degarb on 2010-03-12
> **asdfoo said:**
> do you have a question?

yes. Every problem is a question, or something that begs for a solution. 


------------------------------------------------

 Since I am not a programmer, or developer, all I can do is point out missing features that will keep the OS from dominating, or even being useful to full extent.    

The true benefit of this forum is just not to help the beginners, but to figure out what is missing from the design that is obvious to others that is not obvious to those who have mastery.

An example, is I wrote a windows program to transcode mp3,  i put in hands of hostile person, who didn't see the point.  And, in a matter of 20 minutes on phone with him, I got about a dozen things from him that were missing.  Someone more amenable, wold have giving me less ideas.  Another great example, is anyone trying to teach a program to their 60 year old mother, who is a strong reader; you immediately see the least weakness of design.

---

### Post by asdfoo on 2010-03-12
if you would like help you need to phrase things in the form of a question.

---

