---
title: "1.1.32 on Kubuntu 9.04, DW 8 crashing"
date: 2009-12-23
forum: Wine
---

### Post by webbdawg on 2009-12-23
DW8 works fine until I close a document with several photos in it. The file is usually over 20k and many times around 50k, It just terminates. It does not seem to matter how many documents I have open. 1 or 10 it will crash.

If I close a basic file with barely anything in it it is fine. DW goes on.

One thing I notice is the bar at the insertion point in a document flashes an awful lot.

I am wondering if this may be a video thing that is causing the problem. SO often Video is an underlying issue. I have the Nvidia X Server installed and everything got better but DW. I here lots talk about installing openGL (video stuff). What would that do??

I'm not sure where to look in the WINE configuration or even what to fiddle with.

I work so I have to keep things going. I just work around not closing documents until I am done with everything and I save an awful lot.

---

### Post by webbdawg on 2009-12-23
I did find a work around for DW8 crashing when I close a large document.

I close documents using the menu  File>Close but I get an error message (image below) but the file closes anyway and DW8 does not crash.

[IMG]http://www.webbdawg.com/images/errors/DW8_error.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by webbdawg on 2009-12-24
Suprisingly I have found that using the "Close all" from the "File" menu is closing documents with no issues at all.

[list]
[*]Using the X in a document window crashes DW 8 if the file is over a certain kb. I have not found the exact size where it starts.

[*]Using the File>Close causes an error message but the document closes and DW does not crash

[*]Using the File>Close All seems to close all documents with no error or crashes.
[/list]

I hope this helps someone else.

---

