---
title: "Trouble installing Overdrive Media"
date: 2009-05-15
forum: Wine
---

### Post by tcman on 2009-05-15
I installed wine 1.1.12 on my 9.04 Remix. I was able to successfully download and install Windows Media Player.  Then tried to download and install OverDrive Media console from [http://www.overdrive.com/software/omc/](http://www.overdrive.com/software/omc/) .  It downloads, but Wine won't launch it even though I choose Wine as the default launcher program.  I can't find Wine when I try to manually choose it when I right click and choose Open.

I know the Wine directory is a hidden folder and I can unhide it in file browser, but can't seem to do this on the download window.
Any suggestions on finding the wine app or an alternate way of installing?

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Update

I was able to download the file ODMediaConsoleSetup.exe via the Save feature and then right click on the exe and choose "Open with Wine Windows Program loader".  It looked like it was downloading and running the msi file but generated a text log file called VSDCA_VsdLaunchConditions.Log and stopped.  It's not clear if the log file is generated by wine or the ODM application. Any suggestions on what to do next? Here are its contents.

TASK	CoInitializeEx - COM initialization Apartment Threaded

TASK	Enumerating table using SQL statement: SELECT * FROM `_VsdLaunchCondition`

TASK	MsiGetActiveDatabase

TASK	MsiDatabaseOpenViewW - Prepare Database to view table

TASK	MsiViewExecute - Open Database view on table

Checking a launch condition

TASK	Getting the condition to evaluate

TASK	MsiRecordGetStringW - Fetching value

TASK	MsiRecordGetStringW - Getting value from column 1

TASK	Evaluating condition 'WMP9_EXISTS <> ""'

RESULT	Condition is false

TASK	MsiRecordGetStringW - Fetching value

TASK	MsiRecordGetStringW - Getting value from column 2

TASK	MsiSetPropertyW - Setting Property Value

TASK	MsiSetPropertyW - Setting property HideFatalErrorForm to TRUE

RESULT	Custom Action Succeeded.	uiRet = 1603

---

### Post by asdfoo on 2009-05-15
> **tcman said:**
> I installed wine 1.1.12 on my 9.04 Remix. I was able to successfully download and install Windows Media Player.  Then tried to download and install OverDrive Media console from [http://www.overdrive.com/software/omc/](http://www.overdrive.com/software/omc/) .  It downloads, but Wine won't launch it even though I choose Wine as the default launcher program.  I can't find Wine when I try to manually choose it when I right click and choose Open.

I know the Wine directory is a hidden folder and I can unhide it in file browser, but can't seem to do this on the download window.
Any suggestions on finding the wine app or an alternate way of installing?

Hi

Please don't use 1.1.12, it's a broken release, 1.1.21 is the latest beta.

(hmm.. unless you made a typo and mean to say you have 1.1.21)

The way you need to run an app which doesn't work to get any debug output is by opening a console (gnome-console / konsole), then doing something like:

wine omc-setup.exe

Then you should see some output.  Post it here.

---

### Post by tcman on 2009-05-16
Hi asdfoo,

yes, I just made a typo mistake.  I installed the latest Wine 1.1.21.  Sorry about that.  

I took a step back and tested to see that Windows Media is working correctly under Wine since OverDrive uses it in part thinking that there may be something wrong with the WM install.  Sure enough although WM loads up, it doesn't quite play wma or mp3 quite right.  It plays the files as if it is in fast forward mode all the time and it only plays about 20-25 seconds of the file before it shuts down by itself.  But no errors appear.  Also the bitmap of the WM screen is repeated on the left-most column about an inch wide from top to bottom. Very strange behavior indeed.

Thanks for the gnome-console info.  I'll give this a try in m debugging and post results.

---

