---
title: "/.wine/drive_c&quot; is not supported."
date: 2008-04-21
forum: Wine
---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-21
Hi ,i'm getting stuck with this one :-) and i've googled around but cant find a fix.

notes:
xubuntu 8.04 beta 64bit
wine ver: 0.9.60 (same prob in 0.9.59)

from menu......apps/wine/browse C drive i get the error 
/.wine/drive_c" is not supported.

from terminal it works fine.

Any ideas anyone?

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-22
anyone?

I've tried with the following paths
..~/.wine/drive_c
and
/home/pete/.wine/drive_c

anyone have this working in xfce desktop ?

---

### Post by SBFC on 2008-04-22
I'm not exactly certain what you're trying to accomplish. You're trying to launch winefile from the XFCE menu?

Also, what are you using for sys stats?

---

### Post by gsmanners on 2008-04-22
By default, Xubuntu includes the Gnome system menu in the Xfce menu, but it may be better to edit the menu with just the stuff you want in it (using Xfce4-MenuEditor and Appfinder).

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-23
> **SBFC said:**
> I'm not exactly certain what you're trying to accomplish. You're trying to launch winefile from the XFCE menu?

Also, what are you using for sys stats?

Yes it's "winefile" and launches from terminal (see screenshot) but not from the default launcher in the menu? I'm sure its a simple thing but i cant fix it lol

For sys stats i think you mean my "conky" on the right in the screenshot? search the forum threads its a great little program and fully customisable.

...xfce menu-editor = pants

---

### Post by gsmanners on 2008-04-23
Pants? The menu editor works better than the bookmarks in Thunar. Just drag and drop stuff where you want it in the editor.

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-23
Yes i think its pants! - say you want to edit the existing default menu structure in xfce ,you would think that you could do that within a menu-editor easily right? aka the menu-editor in gnome.

- it just does'nt do what it says on the tin!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=193093](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=193093)

I should add that i really like the look n feel of xfce v gnome and naturally i want to get it all working (if i can)

from xfce appfinder the launcher (see screenshot) opens with the following command?
```
xdg-open~/.wine/drive_c
```

and here's the wine.desktop entry in /usr/share/app-install/desktop

```
[Desktop Entry]
Type=Application
Encoding=UTF-8
Name=Wine Windows Emulator
Name[de]=Wine Windows-Emulator
Categories=Application;Office
MimeType=application/x-ms-dos-executable;application/x-msdos-program;application/x-msdownload;application/exe;application/x-exe;application/dos-exe;vms/exe;application/x-winexe;application/msdos-windows;application/x-msdos-program;application/x-zip-compressed
X-AppInstall-Package=wine
X-AppInstall-Popcon=33829
X-AppInstall-Section=universe
X-AppInstall-Architectures=i386,amd64

```

Whats puzzling me is (from terminal) i can navigate to the 'C' drive and run "winefile" which i cannot from the wine launcher in xfce - nor can i edit it!

---

### Post by lswest on 2008-04-23
hmm, there should be a space between xdg-open and the path (if it's not just a typo), otherwise, if you're planning on launching just an app, change it to ```
wine [path to launcher]
``` Oh, and try to see if you can open any other folder from the menu, might be some problem with the command used to open it. (i don't use xfce)

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-23
> **lswest said:**
> hmm, there should be a space between xdg-open and the path (if it's not just a typo), otherwise, if you're planning on launching just an app, change it to ```
wine [path to launcher]
``` Oh, and try to see if you can open any other folder from the menu, might be some problem with the command used to open it. (i don't use xfce)

Hmmmm ,i tried without the space in terminal and it produces the same result as from the menu launcher (see screenshot). So.....the command dont work but if i type "winefile" it does ?!???

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-23
...and prefixed with "wine" comes up with the same. in a nutshell it cant *see* the 'c' drive ?? 


```
pete@desk:~$ wine xdg-open /.wine/drive_c
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
Warning: the specified Windows directory L"C:\\windows" is not accessible.
Warning: the specified System directory L"C:\\windows\\system32" is not accessible.
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
Warning: the specified Windows directory L"C:\\windows" is not accessible.
Warning: the specified System directory L"C:\\windows\\system32" is not accessible.
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
err:wineboot:main Cannot set the dir to L"C:\\windows" (2)
wine: could not load L"C:\\windows\\system32\\xdg-open.exe": Module not found
pete@desk:~$ 

```


i found xdg-open.exe in /usr/bin/...........maybe wine does'nt know its there?

---

### Post by lswest on 2008-04-23
> **SnakeHips said:**
> 
i found xdg-open.exe in /usr/bin/...........maybe wine does'nt know its there?

it's probably not a .exe file, and hmm, does xdg-open /home/ work from the terminal?

also, does ```
thunar ~/.wine/drive_c/
``` work? if so, change the menu entry to that.

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-23
> **lswest said:**
> it's probably not a .exe file, and hmm, does xdg-open /home/ work from the terminal?

also, does ```
thunar ~/.wine/drive_c/
``` work? if so, change the menu entry to that.

```
pete@desk:~$ xdg-open /home/
method return sender=:1.2 -> dest=:1.19 reply_serial=2
pete@desk:~$ 
```
yes this works and launches in a "thunar" window

```
pete@desk:~$ thunar ~/.wine/drive_c/
pete@desk:~$ 
```
yes this also works and is what i've been waiting for - thankyou

so i need to change the launcher command from

```
xdg-open /.wine/drive_c
``` (default in wine)    

to

```
thunar /.wine/drive_c
```

then

crack open a beer - cheers :-) 

Thanks for your help

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2008-04-23
Hmmm....I think i trod on a bug ,the default wine install has the 'c' drive symlink in dosdevices pointing to my old ide drive (wth!) which is only used for data backup (copy of /home). Main drive is sata. 

```
pete@desk:~$ wineprefixcreate
mkdir: cannot create directory `/home/pete/.wine/dosdevices/c:/windows': Permission denied
pete@desk:~$ sudo wineprefixcreate
[sudo] password for pete: 
wine: /home/pete/.wine is not owned by you
pete@desk:~$ 

```

...and i have read/write to /.wine

---

### Post by lswest on 2008-04-24
can you cd to the C: drive and run "ls -la" and post that output back? it'll tell us the permissions and owner, or check yourself (the first bit says permissions, then there is a user and a group listed, post those back if you don't feel comfortable disclosing the name/listing of the folders in that drive).

---

### Post by jahst on 2008-05-15
All my permissions were read/write for the user
group read only
others read only

I tried several things
1st- Tried changing the /usr/share/applications/Browse C: drive icon using mousepad 
Changed Exec= from xd?-open ~/.wine/drive_c  

to 

thunar ~/.wine/drive_c

Didnt work for me

2nd tested if the thunar command would even open my home directory

Exec=thunar /home/username

Nope

3rd Have no idea why this works but it did for me

Exec=Thunar %F

Opens in the correct drive_c folder

Hope it helps

---

### Post by YokoZar on 2008-05-15
It's a bug with Wine in xfce.  See: [https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wine/+bug/223989](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wine/+bug/223989)

---

### Post by OmniCloud on 2008-06-05
> omnicloud@omnicloud-desktop:~$ env WINEPREFIX="/home/omnicloud/.wine" wine "C:\Program Files\Watchtower\Watchtower Library 2007\E\WTLibrary.exe" 
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
err:module:import_dll Library uresearch20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library mepsctls20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library mepsbrowser20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library wtappshare20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library meps20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library mepscore20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library ureappshare20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library wtmmutil20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library wtgui20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library ure20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library ureutil20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library wtutil20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library urebo20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library mepsappshare20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library wtctls20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library mepsgui20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library urectls20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library ureapputil20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library appframework20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library ureappframework20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library mepsappframework20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library mepsapputil20u.dll (which is needed by L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe") not found
err:module:LdrInitializeThunk Main exe initialization for L"C:\\Program Files\\Watchtower\\Watchtower Library 2007\\E\\WTLibrary.exe" failed, status c0000135

This is my error message that I'm getting when i copy and paste the command into the terminal from the apps desktop icon. 

I can't run any .exe files, no response. 

Watchtower produces no error message or anything. I'm confused here. If this is a problem with Xfce and thunar, what's the solution?

and I can't cd into program files in my .wine folder to run the .exe file from the terminal...

This is sooo annoying. How does this app run perfectly in Gnome and retarded in Xfce?

---

### Post by DoktorSeven on 2008-06-06
First, fix this problem:
> preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
[http://wiki.winehq.org/PreloaderPageZeroProblem](http://wiki.winehq.org/PreloaderPageZeroProblem)

Next, it's looking for DLLs that are probably contained in the same directory as the EXE but since you're running from a different base path it can't find them...
> omnicloud@omnicloud-desktop:~$ env WINEPREFIX="/home/omnicloud/.wine" wine "C:\Program Files\Watchtower\Watchtower Library 2007\E\WTLibrary.exe"

Should probably be:
```

cd ~/.wine/Program\ Files/Watchtower/Watchtower\ Library\ 2007/E/
env WINEPREFIX="/home/omnicloud/.wine" wine WTLibrary.exe

```

Or **cd** to the directory those DLLs mentioned in the error are and run from that location.  Gnome probably does that internally (runs from the directory the executable is located in) and XFCE doesn't.

---

### Post by OmniCloud on 2008-06-11
> **DoktorSeven said:**
> First, fix this problem:

[http://wiki.winehq.org/PreloaderPageZeroProblem](http://wiki.winehq.org/PreloaderPageZeroProblem)

Next, it's looking for DLLs that are probably contained in the same directory as the EXE but since you're running from a different base path it can't find them...


Should probably be:
```

cd ~/.wine/Program\ Files/Watchtower/Watchtower\ Library\ 2007/E/
env WINEPREFIX="/home/omnicloud/.wine" wine WTLibrary.exe

```

Or **cd** to the directory those DLLs mentioned in the error are and run from that location.  Gnome probably does that internally (runs from the directory the executable is located in) and XFCE doesn't.ahh...ok, tks for the post. I'll see if I can get it running in XFCE when I get home.

---

