---
title: "12.04 upgrade now probem with steam (wine?) video. please help"
date: 2012-05-09
forum: Wine
---

### Post by userqq on 2012-05-09
Hi, just did  the upgrade from oneric to precise and now when I open steam thru wine  and try to play TFC the main selection screen (the guy firing a  chaingun) comes up but none of the text selections (like check servers,  quit etc)  are viewable. i can hear the usual clicks if I pass my mouse  cursor over that area and it even sounds like I click on them but it's  no use because I cant see anything that would come up. 
I didn't have this problem with oneric and actually think the problem is  with wine. I kind of remember resetting "something' in wine settings (i  think was in winetricks?) when I first installed steam but that was a  long time ago.
Any help appreciated, i REALLY want to play TFC like usual...
PS already deleted clientregistryblob and updated steam.
thanks in advance.

EDIT: I found that if I open the wine configuration and under the tab  'GRAPHICS' if I check the box that says 'open a virtual desktop" then it  is fine but the window is small. i raelly need full screen for gaming.
EDIT 2:Im pretty sure this problem concerns my video memory and wine, maybe winetricks will help but I dont know what to try.

specs thinkpad R52 1.86 ghz 1 gb ram

---

### Post by userqq on 2012-05-09
OK working now 
-close steam (wine)

-dash
-winetricks
-select the default wineprefix
-change settings
-(tick)-->ddr=open gl
-click OK
-X (close)
-X (close)

worked for me, good luck
):P

ADMIN: please fix thread title error (i dont know how) TY

---

### Post by userqq on 2012-05-13
OK , OP here, Well the problem came back so heres what I did
close wine
dash
type wine
choose configure wine
open the graphics tab
check box 'open in virtual window'
click apply
open steam
start TFC (game that was not showing the text)
opens fine in small virtual window
click game options
under video selected D3d instad of open gl
click apply 
shut down game, steam and wine
go back to configure wine
uncheck 'open in virtual window'
click apply  and close wine
open steam and game text is now viewable

Im not sure if others are having this problem but may be because 1.86 ghz w 1 gb ram
gpood luck
):P
 NOTE ADDED LATER
IT DIDN'T STICK, for a workaround look here  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1979400](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1979400)

---

