---
title: ".wine folder not own by me ?!  O__O"
date: 2009-06-14
forum: Wine
---

### Post by kebabbaro on 2009-06-14
Hi everybody,

I installed wine 1.0.1 on my _newly_ installed Ubuntu 9.04 amd64, and I ran the file mt4setup.exe thru it in order to install the MetaTrader 4 client terminal.
(after copying the Windows library MFC42.DLL in .wine/drive_c/windows/system32 as this is needed to run metatrader)

The setup program seemed to work ok but in the end metatrader won't run so I looked into the .wine/drive_c/Program Files folder just to see that no files have been written there as the folder is empty.

Then I tried to run mt4setup.exe thru the terminal but, SURPRISE, after entering my password for the command "sudo wine  /(correct pathname)/mt4setup.exe" the terminal returns this message: 

/home/my_user_name/.wine is not owned by you      (!!!)

So I checked the properties of the .wine folder using Nautilus, and of course I AM THE OWNER. I thought -WTF I change the owner anyway- and I typed this command:

chown my_user_name /home/my_user_name/.wine

but that didn't work and bash keeps telling me I'm not the owner of the .wine folder

Any idea on how to CONVINCE bash that I AM the owner?

KEB :(

---

### Post by cogadh on 2009-06-14
[NEVER RUN WINE WITH SUDO!]("http://wiki.winehq.org/FAQ#head-96bebfa287b4288974de0df23351f278b0d41014") Because you have done that, your .wine directory is not owned by you, it is actually owned by root. In order to fix the permissions, you will either need to delete the .wine directory and start all over, or use sudo to re-set the permissions:
```
sudo chown -R your_user_name:your_user_name .wine
```

---

### Post by jimv on 2009-06-14
You don't need to use sudo when running something with Wine.

---

### Post by kebabbaro on 2009-06-14
thank you very much folks,
pretty newbie mistake, but I have an excuse: I've actually been using Ubuntu and Linux from less than a week ;)

anyway I deleted my .wine folder, made a complete removal of wine, rebooted system and reinstalled wine: now my metatrader platform works fine \\:D/

See Ya

---

### Post by cogadh on 2009-06-14
For future reference, uninstalling/reinstalling Wine was an unecessary step. If you delete the .wine directory, you have essentially returned Wine to its initially installed state, so any mistakes you have made using Wine are completely erased.

---

### Post by kebabbaro on 2009-06-14
> **cogadh said:**
> For future reference, uninstalling/reinstalling Wine was an unecessary step. If you delete the .wine directory, you have essentially returned Wine to its initially installed state, so any mistakes you have made using Wine are completely erased.
thanks again, very useful piece of info :KS

---

