---
title: "14.04, Wine1.7 and Picasa3.9"
date: 2014-04-29
forum: Wine
---

### Post by kumaryukuma on 2014-04-29
Has anyone been successful at getting Picasa3.9 log-in to work on 14.04 and Wine1.7 ?

---

### Post by papibe on 2014-04-29
Thread moved to the **Wine** subforum.

---

### Post by kumaryukuma on 2014-04-30
Here's a little more detail about what I'm trying to do and what I've tried.

I'm trying to get Picasa web sync working using Picasa 3.9 on Ubuntu 14.04 (Unity) 64bit.

In order for this to work, Picasa requires Internet Explorer to be installed. Since IE8 does not work well in WINE under 64bt, a 32bit environment is used. 

I've been using the following installation order:

1. Install WINE
2. Switch to 32bit
   rm -rf ~/.wine
   export WINEARCH=win32
   wineboot --update
3. Install IE
4. Install Picasa

So far, I've tried the following combinations:

WINE 1.4 with IE6
WINE 1.4 with IE7
WINE 1.4 with IE8

WINE 1.7 with IE6
WINE 1.7 with IE7
WINE 1.7 with IE8

WINE 1.8 with IE6
WINE 1.8 with IE7
WINE 1.8 with IE8

Between each tries, I've deleted the .wine directory.

Any comments would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by Scooby-2 on 2014-06-25
I know this is an old-ish post but I have been trying for two days to install Picasa 3.0, 3.8 and 3.9 on a new 64-bit laptop. I have come to the conclusion that it is not possible except for some (perhaps with different hardware? I can only guess). From what I've read, Picasa 3.9 needs IE8 for authentication, also the upstream version of Winetricks is also needed. I have Picasa 3.0 with IE6 running on a 64-bit Dell PC, but it's running Mint. Under Ubuntu 12.04LTS and 14.04 it will install on my Lenovo Laptop but Google authentication fails in one of three ways - 1. The login page appears but is blank. 2. A box pops up and says you need to be connected to the Internet to access this feature. 3. A box pops up and says that there was a problem authenticating the account.

:KS **THE FIX** (for me) has been to install Linux Mint 17. It's based on Ubu 14.04LTS and it supports Picasa 3.0, with down/uploading from & to Picasa web albums working. While there is no Unity desktop in Mint, the functionality is more important than the pretty desktop. Ubuntu has no support for Picasa whereas in Mint it is included in Software Centre.

At some point I may try to update from Picasa 3.0 to 3.8 on Mint, as from 3.5 face recognition was added. I've read that some people have had success with upgrading, but for now I need to have access to the 2000+ photos I have on Picasa!

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by ceperman on 2014-08-20
I've convinced myself that Picasa can no longer be used successfully on Linux.

As with @Scooby-2, I tried using Mint 17 which indeed does include Picasa 3.0 and login works OK. BUT uploading photos doesn't work for me - it reports a problem with the post address. I'm intrigued that @Scooby-2 has this working - is it still?.

I tried removing Picasa 3.0 and installing 3.8 instead under Wine, but with the same problem. I then tried 3.9 (Picasa will update itself to this automatically anyway unless you (a)  turn off automatic updating in the preferences and (b) disconnect from the internet first to give yourself time to do it). Picasa 3.9 has the change in authentication which requires IE to be installed. I installed IE8 using winetricks, but suffered similar problems to those  already reported - (a) The login page appears but is blank or (b) the login page appears but the login never completes.

On the top of the help page for Picasa Web Albums and Google+, it says "Avoid issues posting and syncing your photos by updating to version 3.9.16 or later of Picasa". I think this is because the post URL in Picasa versions prior to this are now incorrect, so the need for 3.9 cannot be avoided. But no-one seems to have been successful in getting the login working with this version of Picasa. I'd be very happy to hear of someone who has! My only resort is to boot a Windows system to do the uploading from Picasa - something that pains me to do.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-08-21
perhaps it's time for change? : [https://www.digikam.org/](https://www.digikam.org/)

---

### Post by ceperman on 2014-09-02
Thanks for making me take a closer look at digiKam - I'm now using it! It doesn't have the browsing speed of Picasa but it's not bad considering the size of my photo collection (161GB - 28,000 photos in 350 folders). Coupled with QuickPic on Android it gives me everything I need. Thanks.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2014-09-02
I think there is another one like this shotwell or something..

Digikam popped into my head since my father is using it and he is not really good with computers. i need to also take a closer look at it. so far i only read reviews of it...

---

### Post by renegreuel on 2015-02-26
Found this by googling around:

[http://tsdgeos.blogspot.de/2014/07/logging-in-into-picasa-39-under-linux.html](http://tsdgeos.blogspot.de/2014/07/logging-in-into-picasa-39-under-linux.html)

Haven't tried yet, but the comments seem  promising. The solution is based on a missing registry entry for OAuth used by Picasa.

---

