---
title: "13.10 Office 2007 32bit v. 64 bit os"
date: 2014-05-24
forum: Wine
---

### Post by xigen on 2014-05-24
I rebuilt my 7 year old computer and now I am using 13.10 64 bit / AMD with wine 1.3. 

Under 13.10 / 32 bit my office 2007 worked perfectly.   After my upgrade/rebuild I am having trouble printing via Word and I get error messages during normal use of Word.

How can I diagnose/solve what is going on?  

Best,

MW

---

### Post by xigen on 2014-05-30
From the Wine Wiki ...

[INDENT]7.2. How do I create a 32 bit wineprefix on a 64 bit system?

At present there are some significant bugs that prevent many 32 bit applications from working in a 64 bit wineprefix. To work around this, you can create a new 32 bit wineprefix using the WINEARCH environment variable. In a terminal, type:

WINEARCH=win32 WINEPREFIX=/path/to/wineprefix winecfg 

(use the actual path to the wineprefix), then install your 32 bit application(s) to that wineprefix.

Do not manually create the directory before running that command; Wine must create it. WINEARCH only needs to be set when creating the wineprefix, and the architecture of an existing wineprefix cannot be changed. [/INDENT]

So .. my question now becomes ...

-- What exactly should my /path/to/wineprefix winecfg     look like?
-- Do I need to remove my prior installation of Office 2007?
-- Would it be a better idea to just reinstall Office 2007?
-- If I do reinstall... how to I set the WINEPREFIX to 32bits upon installation via winetricks?

Cheers,

MW

---

