---
title: "Wine ALSA problem with install of software with no sound"
date: 2008-06-17
forum: Wine
---

### Post by IronArjen on 2008-06-17
I am trying to run a very simple software under wine and get the message:

fixme:mixer:ALSA_MixerInit No master control found on HDA ATI HDMI, disabling mixer
Warning: unprotecting memory to allow real-mode calls.
         NULL pointer accesses will no longer be caught.

Strange since I am actually trying install a program that does not employ sound. I looked thru several Ubuntu and  Wine threads and all I can find that it has something to with a propietary ATI driver fglrx. Hence,a doubt I have concerns the ATI card I have (HD3850) which is meant for two monitors. I got the PC installed with Heron but I don't think they have installed drivers of any kind. So far only monitor output functions, still need to set it up, just think that somehow this is related.

My xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

Thanks

---

### Post by IronArjen on 2008-06-17
Actually I got the same error with winecfg. I changed the audio options to OSS and that solved the ALSA problem but it also clarified that the second part of the error message is unrelated.

Warning: unprotecting memory to allow real-mode calls.
         NULL pointer accesses will no longer be caught.

---

