---
title: "306.64 nvidia driver + wine no performance increase at all ?"
date: 2012-11-12
forum: Wine
---

### Post by Shadowstripe on 2012-11-12
I decided to try the new 304.64 nvidia driver that boasts > double the performance and dramatically reduce game loading timesI found after installing the driver games would not launch at all, after doing some digging found out I can get things working again but I have to type

```
LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/lib32/:/usr/lib/" wine application.exe
```otherwise programs spit out an error about not having directx installed.
is there a simple way to update this and not have to type it every time I launch something?

also I tried a game before and after updating I got 19 fps in both tests, seems like no performance increase  at all for me?

any suggestions ?

Thanks

---

### Post by MikeCyber on 2012-11-13
Nvidia install was nasty.
Tried first a script that didn't work...
Found that it only needs kernel headers to be installed before downloading from Nvidia.-
Secondly had to:

error while loading shared libraries: libGL.so.1: wrong ELF class: ELFCLASS64

Or, instead of editing the file ld.so.conf directly, create a file  called local.conf in the subdirectory /etc/ld.so.conf.d containing just  the line /usr/local/lib. That is,

Contents of /etc/ld.so.conf.d/local.conf:

/usr/lib32

Then run the sudo ldconfig command. 
That worked but hey what year is it? 1991? Probably it would get better by sticking to the LSB...

Also the 310.14 seem slower with other games but don't know how to  revert to 304 after installing from Nvidia, will wait for the next  nvidia update.

---

### Post by Shadowstripe on 2012-11-13
worked like a charm, Thanks

>  what year is it? 1991? Probably it would get better by sticking to the LSB...got used to hardware just working now, I usually do stick to the standard packages but I figured a 50% performance increase was worth skipping the wait.

actually the second test after upgrading the driver I had a average .6 fps loss but figured difference was negligible.

> but don't know how to  revert to 304 after installing from Nvidia
can you just download and run the 304 installer ? although Im not sure I trust the nvidia installer to clean things up and do it right

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2012-11-13
i would think Nvidia's claim of (double performance) is for native running linux games but that's just my opinion.

---

### Post by Dlambert on 2012-11-13
Use the "undirect fullscreen windows" tweak

---

### Post by holastickboy on 2012-11-13
> **Shadowstripe said:**
> I decided to try the new 304.64 nvidia driver that boasts I found after installing the driver games would not launch at all, after doing some digging found out I can get things working again but I have to type

```
LD_LIBRARY_PATH="/usr/lib32/:/usr/lib/" wine application.exe
```otherwise programs spit out an error about not having directx installed.
is there a simple way to update this and not have to type it every time I launch something?

also I tried a game before and after updating I got 19 fps in both tests, seems like no performance increase  at all for me?

any suggestions ?

Thanks

I thought it was for driver version 310.14 that had the new feature?

---

### Post by Shadowstripe on 2012-11-13
> i would think Nvidia's claim of (double performance) is for native running linux games but that's just my opinion.tbh that had crossed my mind, but wine is a native so it should technically pass on any performance gains right ?

> Use the "undirect fullscreen windows" tweakdid a bit of searching is it something to do with compiz ? I don't have it installed (xubuntu)

> I thought it was for driver version 310.14 that had the new feature?I read it on rockpapershotgun ([http://www.rockpapershotgun.com/2012/11/07/nvidia-double-geforce-performance-for-linux-drivers/](http://www.rockpapershotgun.com/2012/11/07/nvidia-double-geforce-performance-for-linux-drivers/))

>  So Nvidia&#8217;s announcement that the 304.64 release can &#8220;double the performance and dramatically reduce game loading times for those gaming on the Linux operating system&#8221;but they also mention R310 but, I guess that could explain it.

edit: after looking around it seems that it is infact the 310 driver that boasts the performance increase, also seems like it was more than just me that thought it was the 306.64 driver

---

### Post by Dlambert on 2012-11-14
No idea you were on Xubuntu.

---

### Post by Dlambert on 2012-11-14
And as a general rule, I use PlayonLinux with GSGL set to disabled, with opengl used for rendering. Seems to improve overall performance in a ton of games.

---

