---
title: "1.1.6? How do I get it? (i.e. hold a noob's hand)"
date: 2009-08-19
forum: Wine
---

### Post by mollymaverick on 2009-08-19
Just got Ubuntu on my new system. Trying to figure out how to install WoW. 
When I try installing it from the demo from the site, I can't accept the end user agreement, as the button never presents itself. I always just have a Pause button, which does nothing as it's already finished, I just can't finalize it because I can't accept it. 

Read somewhere that Wine 1.1.6 possibly fixes this bug, which would be swell. So for the last 3 hours, I've been trying to figure this out.

I apparently downloaded it, but when I tried to install it I just ended up with 1.1.27. :confused:

I've perused a bunch of tutorials, input numerous commands (just figuring out how to use the Terminal was new on me.), no avail. Still have 1.1.27 which still does not work. *sigh*

Have I missed a page somewhere? 
Anyone wanna hold my hand and baby-talk me through it? Point me at a tutorial that speaks English without expecting me to already know exactly how to navigate through Ubuntu? Vulcan mind-meld? This can't be as hard as I'm probably making it. HALP!

---

### Post by Ascendancy117 on 2009-08-20
Try scrolling down through the entire license agreement when installing. Some install programs don't show the accept button until you've scrolled through the entire thing (like anyone reads them anyway, haha). You already have the latest version of wine and it doesn't seem like wine is doing anything wrong here.

---

