---
title: "Bf2142"
date: 2007-06-30
forum: Wine
---

### Post by DaGGer on 2007-06-30
Ok well got it installed but when I go to play it, it says insert the CD but the cd is still in there.  Anyone know how to fix this. I'm going to try and get a no CD crack for it and see if that works.

---

### Post by Polygon on 2007-06-30
make you sure you have set a certain drive to your cd drive in "winecfg"

and also a warning; pb will not work with bf2142 + wine.

---

### Post by DaGGer on 2007-06-30
ok drives are in wine but still tells me to insert the cd.

---

### Post by cogadh on 2007-06-30
Use the terminal to launch the game, and try running it like this:
```
wine /media/cdrom0/autorun.exe
```
Change the path to match your CD-ROM (if necessary) and change the "autorun.exe" to whatever executable would normally auto launch in Windows. This way the game is launching off of the CD instead of off a local file and CD detection is eliminated.

However, it should be noted that Wine has incomplete copy protection and that can present itself as a missing CD error. You may need to use a crack until Wine's copy protection support is running.

---

### Post by DaGGer on 2007-07-01
ok tried it and it says it can't fine a file that is on the cd. I know its there. I'll look around and see if I have to configure wine a bit more.

---

### Post by cogadh on 2007-07-01
From the AppDB entry for the game:
> The copy protection scheme with this game does work, however it has quite a major issue. If the game exits in any way other than pressing the quit button in-game (Wine crashes, process is killed, etc.), next time you run it, it will not see the DVD in the drive, and the only way to get it working again is to reboot the computer.
Don't know if that helps at all.

---

### Post by DaGGer on 2007-07-02
ok thanks, I think I'm going to end up getting cedega(Do'nt now if I spelled thar right) and I'll end up doing most games that way.

---

### Post by MrSpiffdifilous on 2007-11-28
I have cedega and Im having the same issue. does anyone know why?

---

