---
title: "Wine - package with no header - bad installation"
date: 2013-06-07
forum: Wine
---

### Post by Loki*PI on 2013-06-07
Hi: I posted this in Absolute Begginers, I didn't realize there was a forum just for wine. 


I tried to install wine on 13.04 using synaptic and got an incomplete install. Synaptic keeps trying to complete the installation and generates the following error:

E: Encountered a section with no Package: header,
E: Problem with MergeList /var/lib/apt/lists/ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp_ubuntu_dists_raring-updates_universe_binary-i386_Packages,
E: The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.

Notice says this is serious and to report it, I don't really know where to report this so could someone send this to the people who need to know.

This has knocked out both synaptic and software center, neither will run. I tried to remove wine with apt-get but that won't run either. Any suggestions on how to clear my system?

Thanks

---

### Post by Loki*PI on 2013-06-07
Hello:  Anyone have any idea how to clear this?  There is a red icon at the top of the screen in the tool bar showing the error above.  This is definate a problem generated by trying to install Wine. Early error messages said True Type font could not be downloaded and Synaptic would continue trying.  Synaptic, Software Center, and apt-get onlly generate errors, posted above,  they won't run. Now I'm having strange email problems, says cannot write to disk.

If I can't clear this up I'm going to have to rebuild the system. 

I'd really appreciate some help from you Wine guys.

Thanks

---

### Post by Loki*PI on 2013-06-07
This is **Resolved**  but I don't see how to mark it.  There is no prefix window.  

tracking down the error messages I found two files that seem to be incomplete or corrupted 
/var/lib/apt/lists
	 ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp_ubuntu_dists_raring-updates_universe_binary-i386_Packages
	ubuntu-ashisuto.ubuntulinux.jp_ubuntu_dists_raring-security_main_binary-i386_Packages

I changed the name of the two files and then was able to run apt-get purge wine.  This seems to have clear the system. The error icon is gone, and I'm able to run apt-get, synaptic, and software center. 

I still don't have Wine installed but I have my system back.

I am also changing my source server.

---

