---
title: "14.04 Updates Today, June 5, Break All Older Win Apps in Wine?"
date: 2014-06-05
forum: Wine
---

### Post by lah-ca on 2014-06-05
Interesting.  I run the update wizard for  14.04 x64 at every boot and every shut down (where I have time) because 14.04 is not as stable as Precise.  It generates more internal errors than I can  recall ever seeing before - these are generally of no consequence as they are not ever fatal and the system seems to recover on its own without intervention.  Today the updates installed have broken every older Win (3.1/95 era) application I have installed in Wine.  None of them will even start.  I cannot even attempt to reinstall them as the executables for installation will not run.  Among the casualties: The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary (a major loss), Mailwasher 2.something (a major loss), Kai's Power Goo (no loss), Hover and Pinball (from the Win95 CD - no loss), everything from the old Win 3.1 Windows Entertainment Pack (1 through 4 - no real loss, except for Chip's Challenge), etc.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by yellerKat on 2014-06-06
Yes, my installation of MS Money 2001 refuses to load. Stuck with wineboot.exe hogging 100.00% of CPU.

No idea myself, unfortunately!

---

### Post by adec2 on 2014-06-06
You may get more specific help on the winehq forum

[http://forum.winehq.org/viewforum.php?f=2](http://forum.winehq.org/viewforum.php?f=2)

If you find an answer please post the solution back here

---

### Post by lah-ca on 2014-06-06
> **adec2 said:**
> You may get more specific help on the winehq forum

[http://forum.winehq.org/viewforum.php?f=2](http://forum.winehq.org/viewforum.php?f=2)

If you find an answer please post the solution back here

Thx.  Done.  Just have to wait for a wine mod to review the post before it is published.

---

### Post by lah-ca on 2014-06-06
Hmmm.....

My post at Wine HQ is still not published.

But digging around I see that there is a change to the Linux 64 bit kernel that bans the execution of 16 bit code.  This was in discussion last month, but the change was probably only pushed out to Ubuntu repositories on June 5.  

Wine folks seem to think that support for 16 bit code will be reintroduced to Wine but they are not sure how/when at the moment, at least this is what I understand from here:

[http://forum.winehq.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=22568](http://forum.winehq.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=22568)

:(

---

### Post by adec2 on 2014-06-07
Seems you are correct, I would say after reading that forum is your only solution is to downgrade your kernel or wait until the fix is incorporated or even compile your own kernel with the fix

---

### Post by lah-ca on 2014-06-07
My thread at Wine HQ: [https://forum.winehq.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=22700](https://forum.winehq.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=22700)

Help from one of the Wine Mods:

[http://wiki.winehq.org/FAQ#head-92be9f5a39823a30e80e7f8e1c2ad27864737f2e](http://wiki.winehq.org/FAQ#head-92be9f5a39823a30e80e7f8e1c2ad27864737f2e) 

Specifically this item:

**10.22. 16-bit applications fail to start**

See [https://bugs.winehq.org/show_bug.cgi?id=36664](https://bugs.winehq.org/show_bug.cgi?id=36664). You'll need to run: 
# echo 1 > /proc/sys/abi/ldt16[INDENT=2]as root, but be aware that this has security implications. 
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by T_W on 2014-06-08
Did this workaound work for anyone?

[FONT=Courier New]# echo 1 > /proc/sys/abi/ldt16
bash: /proc/sys/abi/ldt16: No such file or directory[/FONT]

---

### Post by lah-ca on 2014-06-08
> **T_W said:**
> Did this workaound work for anyone?

[FONT=Courier New]# echo 1 > /proc/sys/abi/ldt16
bash: /proc/sys/abi/ldt16: No such file or directory[/FONT]

I haven't tried it yet.  I need to find out more about what the "security implications" are before I do, and I haven't had time to go digging.

I may build a 14.4 VM and snapshot it before trying, but you seem to indicate that the workaround does not work.

I assume that the 32 bit kernel is still OK with 16 bit code execution.  Does anyone know for sure?  Again no time to go digging at present.

---

### Post by lah-ca on 2014-06-09
OK.  I am possibly ill informed here, but .... my humble conclusions at this point are these:

If one needs to run an x64 version of Linux, one should forgo the use of 16bit applications (and some 32 bit ones as well because many early-ish 32 bit applications have 16 bit installers and have internal 16 bit library dependencies).  The hole in the 64 bit kernel exposed by Wine's support of 16 bit applications is large enough, I think (for me), not to take the risk of a workaround or compromised custom kernel.  Wine people are convinced that there will be a safe secure fix eventually.

or

If one ***needs*** or just wants to run 16 bit and 16 bit dependent applications, one should use a 32 bit version of Linux.  I just updated 12.04 LTS x86 on a notebook, and so far as I can tell, 16 bit applications run fine.

I suspect that for most tasks and most people the putting aside of the 64 bit kernel would be of little consequence - at least in the short to mid run.  I am running 14.04 x64 LTS on an AMD quad core with 6 Gb of RAM - as far as I can tell, nothing that I do, have done or will do, causes the swap partition to see any activity at all, ever, and I have never noticed any RAM use higher than 2 Gb.  Lots of proc time use, yes.  RAM and swap, no.  Would I notice any change if I rebuilt using the 32 bit OS?  Probably not.  And I could repurpose at least 2 Gb of the RAM.  

Thoughts?

---

### Post by lah-ca on 2014-06-09
> **T_W said:**
> Did this workaound work for anyone?

[FONT=Courier New]# echo 1 > /proc/sys/abi/ldt16
bash: /proc/sys/abi/ldt16: No such file or directory[/FONT]

I asked about this at Wine HQ.  Dimesio, one of the Mods, said this:

***It sounds like Ubuntu backported the patch that prevents running 16 bit code on a 64 bit system, but did not backport the patch (which came a month later) that allows users to re-enable running 16 bit code. You should file a bug with Ubuntu asking them to backport the later change.***

I also asked about 32 bit kernels and got this reply:

***You are correct that 32 bit kernels are not affected, so downgrading your system is one option for people who don't need 64 bit.***

---

### Post by yellerKat on 2014-07-06
Bump: new kernel update 3.13.0-31 installs /proc/sys/abi/ldt16.

Successfully running older 16 bit code after "echo 1 > /proc/sys/abi/ldt16"

What the security implications are, I can't say.

---

