---
title: "Use loki to install call of duty?"
date: 2007-02-09
forum: Wine
---

### Post by Gizmo89 on 2007-02-09
hi, can anyone tell me how you install the loki call of duty run? i've tried following the instructions carefully, but no luck.
When i install CoD1 using wine, i can't eject the dvdrom drive.Computer says "drive is busy",and i've already tried unmounting it from console.
So i thought i'd try the loki call of duty run file.

thanx

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2007-02-10
I guess this is the one you have? [http://www.liflg.org/?catid=7&gameid=1](http://www.liflg.org/?catid=7&gameid=1)

sudo sh XXXXXXXXXXXXX.run

exit the installer (very important to not mess up the permission), afterwards you can launch the game.

---

### Post by brennydoogles on 2007-04-03
> **Artificial Intelligence said:**
> I guess this is the one you have? [http://www.liflg.org/?catid=7&gameid=1](http://www.liflg.org/?catid=7&gameid=1)

sudo sh XXXXXXXXXXXXX.run

exit the installer (very important to not mess up the permission), afterwards you can launch the game.

That's not working for me. Here is the terminal printout from my attempt:

```

brendon@brennylinux:~$ cd cod
brendon@brennylinux:~/cod$ ls
call.of.duty_1.5-english.run
call.of.duty.united.offensive_1.51-english.run
call.of.duty.united.offensive_map.pack.run
brendon@brennylinux:~/cod$ sudo sh call.of.duty_1.5-english.run 
Verifying archive integrity... All good.
Uncompressing Call of Duty 1.5-english Installer.............................................................
/home/brendon/.setup9197: error while loading shared libraries: libgtk-1.2.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
brendon@brennylinux:~/cod$ 

```

Any Ideas?

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2007-04-03
> **brennydoogles said:**
> That's not working for me. Here is the terminal printout from my attempt:

```

brendon@brennylinux:~$ cd cod
brendon@brennylinux:~/cod$ ls
call.of.duty_1.5-english.run
call.of.duty.united.offensive_1.51-english.run
call.of.duty.united.offensive_map.pack.run
brendon@brennylinux:~/cod$ sudo sh call.of.duty_1.5-english.run 
Verifying archive integrity... All good.
Uncompressing Call of Duty 1.5-english Installer.............................................................
/home/brendon/.setup9197: error while loading shared libraries: libgtk-1.2.so.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
brendon@brennylinux:~/cod$ 

```

Any Ideas?

You may want to try installing libgtk1.2

```
sudo apt-get install libgtk1.2
```

---

### Post by brennydoogles on 2007-04-03
> **hikaricore said:**
> You may want to try installing libgtk1.2

```
sudo apt-get install libgtk1.2
```

That seems to have worked... I will update if needed!!

---

### Post by brennydoogles on 2007-04-03
So I have successfully installed COD, CODUO, and the UOmappack, but now I can't run the games. Here is an output from my attempts:

```
brendon@brennylinux:~/games$ ls
codmp  codsp  coduomp  coduosp  snes_games
brendon@brennylinux:~/games$ ./codsp
Wine(X)/Cedega not in your PATH
brendon@brennylinux:~/games$ wine /home/brendon/games/codsp
wine: could not load L"J:\\games\\codsp.": Bad EXE format for 
brendon@brennylinux:~/games$ sh codsp
Wine(X)/Cedega not in your PATH
brendon@brennylinux:~/games$ 

```

---

### Post by justin whitaker on 2007-04-03
> **brennydoogles said:**
> So I have successfully installed COD, CODUO, and the UOmappack, but now I can't run the games. Here is an output from my attempts:

```
brendon@brennylinux:~/games$ ls
codmp  codsp  coduomp  coduosp  snes_games
brendon@brennylinux:~/games$ ./codsp
Wine(X)/Cedega not in your PATH
brendon@brennylinux:~/games$ wine /home/brendon/games/codsp
wine: could not load L"J:\\games\\codsp.": Bad EXE format for 
brendon@brennylinux:~/games$ sh codsp
Wine(X)/Cedega not in your PATH
brendon@brennylinux:~/games$ 

```

The Loki installer for COD assumes you have Cedega installed, hence the reason why it is under the Wine/Cedega section. You do not have it, so it's throwing the error. 

According to this:
[http://appdb.winehq.org/appview.php?iVersionId=3603](http://appdb.winehq.org/appview.php?iVersionId=3603)

You need to edit the codsp file, otherwise:

> if you do not edit this file it will try Cedega, CVSCedega, Winex3 and CVSWinex and finally Winex before attempting to use WINE.

---

### Post by brennydoogles on 2007-04-03
> **justin whitaker said:**
> The Loki installer for COD assumes you have Cedega installed, hence the reason why it is under the Wine/Cedega section. You do not have it, so it's throwing the error. 

According to this:
[http://appdb.winehq.org/appview.php?iVersionId=3603](http://appdb.winehq.org/appview.php?iVersionId=3603)

You need to edit the codsp file, otherwise:

I did that, but I am still unable to run it.

---

### Post by brennydoogles on 2007-04-04
:::bump:::

---

### Post by Footissimo on 2007-04-19
I believe that happens if you try and run CoD as root  - Wine says a big no to being run as such.  If you change permissions to user then it should be OK

---

### Post by altonbr on 2007-07-28
"http://www.liflg.org/?catid=7&gameid=1" is showing blank for me. Anyone else?

---

### Post by cogadh on 2007-07-28
Loki removed all of their Wine installers, since all games can supposedly be installed normally through Wine. That is not the case with CoD though.. Someone did mirror the CoD installer here:
[http://mirrors.reallan.net/pub/games/liflg/Call%20of%20Duty/call.of.duty_1.5-english.run](http://mirrors.reallan.net/pub/games/liflg/Call%20of%20Duty/call.of.duty_1.5-english.run)
It works, but I haven't had any luck running the game after using it though.

---

### Post by altonbr on 2007-07-28
> **cogadh said:**
> Loki removed all of their Wine installers, since all games can supposedly be installed normally through Wine. That is not the case with CoD though.. Someone did mirror the CoD installer here:
[http://mirrors.reallan.net/pub/games/liflg/Call%20of%20Duty/call.of.duty_1.5-english.run](http://mirrors.reallan.net/pub/games/liflg/Call%20of%20Duty/call.of.duty_1.5-english.run)
It works, but I haven't had any luck running the game after using it though.

Great, thanks for the tip anyway...

---

### Post by gamerdonkey on 2007-08-05
I think I have some new hope for those getting the "Wine(X)/Cedega not in your PATH" error message. I poked around the codsp script that is used to launch CoD and figured that is was failing at the following if command.

```
if [ -e "$WINE_EXEC" ]
then
        cd $GAME_DIR
        cd $SUBDIR
        $WINE_EXEC $GAME_BINARY "$@" &&
        xgamma -gamma 1.0 &> /dev/null
else
        echo "Wine(X)/Cedega not in your PATH"
        exit 1
fi
```

I'm pretty new to scripting, but I was pretty sure that the only thing this would do if "[-e "$WINE_EXEC" ]" returned true is go to the directory of the game and execute Wine on the exe file with some options. So I tried that myself.

```
$ cd /usr/local/games/cod
$ /usr/bin/wine CoDSP.exe "$@" && xgamma -gamma 1.0 &> /dev/null
```

And the game started. There were, however, two troubles. In order to get the fullscreen to work properly I had to use the regular GDM rather than Beryl and it wouldn't let me start a new game because it couldn't write to "hunkusage.dat". Unfortunately, I haven't figured that one out yet, but I'll post if something turns up.

---

### Post by gamerdonkey on 2007-08-05
As it turns out, I made a very silly mistake. I forgot to chmod recursively on the games folder, so a simple "sudo chmod -R 0777 /usr/local/games/cod" did the trick. Now I'm back to fighting in WWII.

I hope this helps someone else.

---

### Post by cogadh on 2007-08-05
Cool, I'll have to try that later. Nice work!

---

### Post by altonbr on 2007-08-30
> **gamerdonkey said:**
> I think I have some new hope for those getting the "Wine(X)/Cedega not in your PATH" error message. I poked around the codsp script that is used to launch CoD and figured that is was failing at the following if command.

```
if [ -e "$WINE_EXEC" ]
then
        cd $GAME_DIR
        cd $SUBDIR
        $WINE_EXEC $GAME_BINARY "$@" &&
        xgamma -gamma 1.0 &> /dev/null
else
        echo "Wine(X)/Cedega not in your PATH"
        exit 1
fi
```

I'm pretty new to scripting, but I was pretty sure that the only thing this would do if "[-e "$WINE_EXEC" ]" returned true is go to the directory of the game and execute Wine on the exe file with some options. So I tried that myself.

```
$ cd /usr/local/games/cod
$ /usr/bin/wine CoDSP.exe "$@" && xgamma -gamma 1.0 &> /dev/null
```

And the game started. There were, however, two troubles. In order to get the fullscreen to work properly I had to use the regular GDM rather than Beryl and it wouldn't let me start a new game because it couldn't write to "hunkusage.dat". Unfortunately, I haven't figured that one out yet, but I'll post if something turns up.

Hmm, said my hard drive was full. Next step is to give CoD a scratch folder in my home directory.

Seems like it will work well though. Thank you very much! Good job on one of your first scripts too.

---

### Post by brennydoogles on 2007-11-05
I have single player running great in wine now, but I can't seem to find a way to input my cd key so i can play online (since the loki installer does not give you that option) anyone know how i need to do that?

---

### Post by altonbr on 2007-11-06
Using wine 0.9.48 from the wine repositories (but using Ubuntu's receives the same results), I can install from CD1 to CD2 but when it asks for CD1 once more, I always receive an error. Anybody else?

---

### Post by cogadh on 2007-11-06
Known bug in Wine:
[http://bugs.winehq.org/show_bug.cgi?id=9002](http://bugs.winehq.org/show_bug.cgi?id=9002)

---

### Post by downhillgames on 2007-11-29
the answer to the "wine(x)/cedega not in your PATH" "bug" is simple... remove everything but "wine" from the list at the top of the file and it will run using wine.

the changing CDs problem, use:
```
umount -l /cdrom
```
or /cdrom0 or /cdrom1 or what-have-you.

---

### Post by cogadh on 2007-11-29
That doesn't always work. Tried it myself the first time I installed using the Loki script and it did nothing, it still didn't detect the presence of Wine.

As for the eject issue, since the install is running with Wine, it is best to use the "wine eject" function to swap the CDs. Using the standard Linux "unmount" command will sometimes work, but not always. When I've used it, the CD ejects, then I have to manually mount the new CD but Wine could never detect the presence of the new one. Using the "wine eject" command seems to avoid the detection problem, but might not avoid the manual mount requirement.

---

### Post by Daveth on 2007-12-02
I'm getting a variant of CoD2 loki installer problems in that the 1.5 installer runs ok but then fails to find the dvd in  /media/cdrom0, and so goes no further. I tried the

 ```
export SETUP_CDROM=/media/cdrom0
```

fix, but it does nothing. Even tried /dev/cdrom0, just in case.  This 

[http://www.happypenguin.org/show?Heretic%20II](http://www.happypenguin.org/show?Heretic%20II)

suggests unmounting the drive in the etc/fstab, but I'm a bit nervous of playing with that. 

I tried the dvd with wine but it crashed out with a stub error (I forget which one) and got no further. I gather people have run it through steam, but I'm loathe to buy another copy just to play it.

So, anyone got any ideas about how to get loki to see the dvd? 

You might also tell me how to edit the installer to put wine first, as attempts to open the one I dowloaded fails, saying "gedit has not been able to detect the character coding."
Hope this game is worth the struggle!

---

### Post by cogadh on 2007-12-02
I'm confused, AFAIK there is no Call of Duty 2 Loki installer, there is only one for Call of Duty 1.

---

### Post by Daveth on 2007-12-02
I guess I had read it as a early generic Cod installer, with a 1.5 patch applied whatever. But yes, revisiting the source of it, it does only say "Call of Duty". Would help if games makers were a little more inventive in their naming!
So, stuffed every which way then. 
It sort of installs under Wine, but seems to stall on the product registration bit. It is a games-shop second hand dvd, but has a product key which is accepted but perhaps their server is not giving out. So I never get to the finish bit of the instalation, and when I run Wine, it just crashes.

---

### Post by Daveth on 2007-12-02
OK, sorted it now. Re-patched the InstallShield and though it still seemed to hang it has installed. Then followed the guides on here to get the single player going. 
Seems to work fine- it was worth the struggle!

---

### Post by altonbr on 2007-12-03
> **Daveth said:**
> OK, sorted it now. Re-patched the InstallShield and though it still seemed to hang it has installed. Then followed the guides on here to get the single player going. 
Seems to work fine- it was worth the struggle!

Care to give step-by-step instructions!? :D

---

### Post by Daveth on 2007-12-03
sure. I used an ikernelupdate.exe though i do not recall from where now. This site

[http://consumer.installshield.com/kb.asp?id=q108322](http://consumer.installshield.com/kb.asp?id=q108322)

has a whole raft of them. I guess I was lucky and used the right one, but then COD2 is rather old- with newer games I guess you should check the version and patch accordingly. After that, stick in the dvd, and in the terminal type the usual

```
wine setup.exe
```

after pointing to the dvd location. It then runs through the installation, stirring grand cinema music and all. Enter your product key, and off it goes. I would not touch the screen, as trying to move the dialogue boxes results in duplicates appearing. And certainly never move to another desktop as that throws up all sorts of minor nightmares. Mine got to the point of registering the product and then seemed to hang. It had, however, written all the files to disk and set up correct path desk shortcuts. I tried several times to get single player to run but failed but then idly hit the multi-player shortcut and off it ran. So I guess it loaded the first time around had I had not tested it (I'm so rubbish at gaming that I die instantly in multi-player, so stick rigidly to singles, and kill AI instead!). Patch the game with the callofdutyPatchv1_3.exe from here the likes of

[http://www.gamershell.com/download_14209.shtml](http://www.gamershell.com/download_14209.shtml)

though this too seems widespread on the net. I added it into the .wine folder and ran it from there with wine.

Then, just work through Jonathan's post for single player here

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=454814&highlight=cod2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=454814&highlight=cod2)

You can trawl the no-dvd crack from a number of gaming web sites, depending where you live.
winecfg and regedit are well enough known for me to skip I think.

I have never played it in windows so cannot compare performance but it rattles along just fine under Wine 0.9.49, set to XP, with DX9 in the game option, at 1240x1024 (or whatever it is).Picks up 5.1 sound, which had defaulted to OSS anyway, so no need to change that it winecfg. It is running on a 7900GS with 512mb on memory. 
A frightening hail of bullets, smoke and death!
Please get back if I have left anything obvious out- far too late at night to be writing this.

---

