---
title: ".exe says opening but doesnt appear"
date: 2010-07-08
forum: Wine
---

### Post by buttinski on 2010-07-08
well basically i've downloaded a .exe file it comes with another file called Caliburst.dll
i've extracted them both to the desktop and tried the system32 file in wine but when i try to execute the .exe file it doesnt appear.

any help would be appreciated, thanks :)

---

### Post by endotherm on 2010-07-08
check out your app here:
[http://appdb.winehq.org/](http://appdb.winehq.org/)

you will either find that it works (with info about whatever tweaks were required) or that it doesn't.

---

### Post by buttinski on 2010-07-08
it isnt a game im afraid, its an application made by someone on a forum

---

### Post by buttinski on 2010-07-08
although i do have teamviewer if anyone wants to take a look

---

### Post by sgosnell on 2010-07-08
Did you make the .exe executable?

---

### Post by buttinski on 2010-07-08
> **sgosnell said:**
> Did you make the .exe executable?

yea my problem is that it'll say opening but not appear

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-07-08
Try launching it from command line, e.g. 'wine /path/to/executable.exe', it may give some indication of why it's not appearing.

---

### Post by sgosnell on 2010-07-09
When it says 'opening', that does not mean that it's trying to run it as an executable, it's trying to open it with some program, perhaps wine, perhaps something else.  Right-click on it and tell Nautilus to open it with wine if double-clicking doesn't work.  Or you can open a terminal and type "wine filename.exe", where filename is the name of the .exe file.  If neither of those works, then there is probably a problem with the .exe file or the .dll file.

---

### Post by Lucifer The Dark on 2010-07-09
Thank you! I was having the exact same problem & couldn't work out why, running it in Terminal showed me I was missing a dll file, winetricks fixed it.

---

