---
title: "[17.04] WINE - OK what am I doing wrong?"
date: 2017-04-16
forum: Wine
---

### Post by BigSilly on 2017-04-16
I have installed Ubuntu GNOME 17.04 on my PC (specs below) and have installed WINE from the repositories using Synaptic. I ran winetricks to set it up to play my games as I usually would but for some reason it's not working. If I right click on the .exe there's no option available to run using WINE as there used to be, and if I use the command line my game outputs:

```
Initlocalised strings failed in CBadger 7Dlg::On init dialogue
```

I click OK and then it tells me "out of memory".

Very confused as it's usually problem free. Thanks for any help you can offer.

---

### Post by BigSilly on 2017-04-22
Can anyone shed any light on this at all? I'd really appreciate it! Many thanks.

---

### Post by Hari5g900 on 2017-04-28
Try using PlayOnLinux. It supports most games and is mostly problem free

---

### Post by pdv4 on 2017-04-28
I can get Wine to work in 17.04, but I had to install it from script in terminal with the most recent build from Wine HQ. I still don't get the console or skin though. Its working in the background, but
that is all. Trying to work through it.

---

### Post by BigSilly on 2017-05-10
> **pdv4 said:**
> I can get Wine to work in 17.04, but I had to install it from script in terminal with the most recent build from Wine HQ. I still don't get the console or skin though. Its working in the background, but
that is all. Trying to work through it.

Sorry for late reply. I have done the same as you and installed the WINE PPA via their website, and installed the latest stable edition. This does appear to have fixed my issue. Many thanks for replying. :)

---

