---
title: "10.10 wine and WoW"
date: 2010-10-25
forum: Wine
---

### Post by dardack on 2010-10-25
I heard of a bug with a newer kernel and wow crashing.  Does wow in wine work in 10.10 without incident?  Was this resolved?

---

### Post by pissedoffdude on 2010-10-25
Wow's working fine on my 10.10 rig

---

### Post by dardack on 2010-10-26
> **pissedoffdude said:**
> Wow's working fine on my 10.10 rig

Awesome, no patches or anything required jsut right out of box?

---

### Post by apostra on 2010-10-26
Hello,

10.10, last stable version of wine. Used the download-client, the cata installer. Everything works as charm.

---

### Post by cwwilson721 on 2010-10-28
Works perfectly here,too.

Just remember:
[LIST]
[*]Turn off Compiz
[*]Install Proprietary drivers
[*]Run in opengl
[*]Run in XP mode for sound
[/LIST]

---

### Post by sjhupp on 2010-10-29
So anything else to config in order to get WoW under wine working ok?  I have a 9600GT in my desktop, and while not huge specs (C2D 6400, 2GB 553 ram) it runs under WinXP at 1080p with 60fps outdoors, and 30-40 in Dalaran on med settings.  Fine for me.
However, have not been able to run under wine at half that, even lower res.
Do have proprietory drivers and running opengl.
I'll confirm I have compiz off, but anything else?

Also, love to get it going on my server (got game streaming working ... technically at least for now), but only have a HD4670 to use, or maybe a 9400GT if I swap with my brother.
Which would be better in ubuntu for Wow under wine? (I know the 4670 kicks it in WinXP world)
Thanks.

---

### Post by cwwilson721 on 2010-10-29
Try them both. My personal experience is the Nvidia drivers seem to work better. (My NV9600GSO gets faster FPS than a slightly higher level ATi that I used to have, a 4500 series, I think). In Windows, definately the opposite, due to drivers. With that said, the hardware advantage that your ATi card has should more than make up for it. The 9500GT is by NO means a fast card. (It's a 128-bit, 32 processor card). The 4670, in comparison, is also a 128-bit card, but has 320 proc units, and has DDR3 memory. While they both may have the same amount of memory, the ATi should pump it thru faster.
[COLOR="Red"]EDIT: I just noticed that the OP has a 9600GT, not a 9500GT.

The 9600GT should be doing VERY well[/COLOR]


Speaking of videocard memory, size ONLY matters if you are using anti-aliasing. And if you ARE using it, there is your slowdown. NO AA in WOW. AA kills FPS, as does alot of the 'eye-candy'. Try setting all to 'low', and tweak from there. Shadows will do it too. As does water effects. Personally, I'd rather have faster FPS than look pretty. Pretty will kill you in the Lich King fight.

My Windows config and my wine config are EXACTLY the same, the only difference being I appended '-opengl' to the launcher command. That way, I can copy over either install to the other if either OS has a WoW issue.

P.S.: You are using the 'version-current' drivers, right? Not the regular one (173 series)?

---

### Post by sjhupp on 2010-10-29
I did disable pretty graphics effects (settings -> appearance -> basic) and set water & something else to low, and the AA to trilinear (??), and getting 30-40 around Shattrah now at 1080p, so a lot better, thanks for the tip.
My nvidia driver version is 195.36.24 I think? Will have a look into that next.
At least playable.
Don't care for huge eye candy, rather decent res and fps.

---

### Post by cwwilson721 on 2010-10-29
The 195 is the same one I have, haven't tried (yet) to install the latest from Nvidia. 

My major settings are:
[LIST]
[*]Multisampling 1x
[*]Vertical Sync Disabled
[*]Texture Filtering Bilinear
[/LIST]Vertical Sync alone should help, and multisampling

---

### Post by cwwilson721 on 2010-10-29
Just logged onto WoW and checked....

My FPS in Dal is about 30ish now.

the new patch slowed things down a bit, eh?

Haven't been to Shatt in a long time. Maybe I'll check/see what I'm getting there...

---

### Post by sjhupp on 2010-10-29
Ok, so at 1920x1080 with everything on min I was 60+FPS (I've capped it at 60 in settings) and putting textures, and the two objcet/view distance ones at good it drops to 30-45 in Shattrah. That would put Dalaran down ~20 I'd guess, but don't do much questing there!
Will try an instance run and see the FPS. Hope it should be ok now at least!
Will try streaming next to another PC and see how it looks :)
Thanks for all the help.

---

### Post by cwwilson721 on 2010-10-29
no problem. I've been playing wow/wine since it became doable, and delved into the murky world of [3D acceleration of the xserver/NVidia/ATi/Intel/others]("http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/slackware-14/a-guide-enabling-3d-acceleration-in-x11-402003/") (On another forum, and while using another distro) and am VERY happy to share my experiences and opinions on both.

All you have to do is ask!

---

### Post by sjhupp on 2010-10-30
Thanks.
Did test it out a bit more, and same spot in Shattrah gets ~ 45fps under wine, and delay is down ~200ms.
Running under XP I get ~60fps, but delay is closer to 400ms.
Interesting.
Also, tried to load healbot, and crunched the fps under wine down to ~13, so something it doesn't like there!
Still much quicker under XP, but playable via wine.

---

### Post by wrwarwick on 2010-11-02
I don't know if I am doing something completely wrong but I am not able to get WoW to run at all on my fresh 10.10 setup with an ATI card. Well, the game installs fine and will open, but when it does the graphics are completely distorted and not usable. I have tried turning off compiz but I am at a loss as to why this is happening.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by cwwilson721 on 2010-11-02
@wrwarwick:

Yeah. ATi. Get a Nvidia, and you'll be good. (I like ATi. Just Linux/Ati = BAD juju)

Or wait for Ati to mature the drivers enough to actually WORK better in Linux (don't hold your breath).

While ATi DOES make a GREAT product, in Linux their driver development seems to leave alot to be desired.

@sjhupp:

Blips in FPS happen all the time. A squirrel could have shorted out a T1 line somewhere, or Bob down the street cut a cable line, and it blasted some of your Internet packets.
Don't worry about it. Watch it over the long haul.

As for Nvidia, [I've actual proof that WoW/wine has higher FPS than WoW/Win7.]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xQFBK1yNIxE")

---

### Post by wrwarwick on 2010-11-02
> **cwwilson721 said:**
> @wrwarwick:

Yeah. ATi. Get a Nvidia, and you'll be good. (I like ATi. Just Linux/Ati = BAD juju)

Or wait for Ati to mature the drivers enough to actually WORK better in Linux (don't hold your breath).

While ATi DOES make a GREAT product, in Linux their driver development seems to leave alot to be desired.

@sjhupp:

Blips in FPS happen all the time. A squirrel could have shorted out a T1 line somewhere, or Bob down the street cut a cable line, and it blasted some of your Internet packets.
Don't worry about it. Watch it over the long haul.

As for Nvidia, [I've actual proof that WoW/wine has higher FPS than WoW/Win7.]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xQFBK1yNIxE")

Thanks for the advice about the ATI card, but I was finally able to get it to work. Maybe the -opengl tag wasn't correct or something, but it is now working correctly.

The only little annoyance I have now is that when I use the launcher to start the program, it always creates a desktop icon. Is there anyway to stop this from happening?

---

### Post by Diranda on 2010-12-20
With the expansion, has anyone had any play-affecting issues with 10.10?  I copied over my windows install to my 10.04 and had problems with the system locking up when I attempt to drop to desktop. (I could not get Wine to mount the Cata install disk drive, so I copied my win install to my Wine directory instead.) 
Dropping to desktop just doesn't work at all in Lynx (it's not great in Win either, but it does it).

I'm running a notebook with an ATI card, I have the ATI linux drivers installed and this notebook runs Wow well in Windows.

Things that are working for me: graphics (med setting, although the graphics tab doesn't let me adjust anything); sound & music; movement; addons; mail; quest texts, etc.  I haven't tried to raid or anything.  My fps is fine also, the same as I get on my Win 7.
Compiz is off (I usually turn this off anyway).

Oh, I have wine set to Win 7, should I change this to XP?

I really want to know if people are able to play Cata (level, dungeons, raids, etc.) so I have something to shoot for with adjusting my installation.  I don't mind running min graphics or anything, the playability is the important thing.

Cheers,
Julie (Jastal @Proudmoore US; Diranda & Vasek @Wyrmrest Accord US)

---

