---
title: "F.E.A.R running issues"
date: 2011-12-04
forum: Wine
---

### Post by James.A.Parnell on 2011-12-04
I have installed F.E.A.R (via Retail CD ** LEGIT **!!) and after setting up wine to find the cdrom drive, i find myself unable to play the game. I can see the intro cutscene infront of a massive screen, but everything else is blacked out. This continues through the story up until the point i give up because all i can see is a bit of smoke (see attachments). I have installed (via a random tutorial) DirectX9.0c to see if that fixed it, but to no avail.

Can someone out there help me to play this epic game :P thanks.

---

### Post by matt3839 on 2011-12-04
> **James.A.Parnell said:**
> I have installed F.E.A.R (via Retail CD ** LEGIT **!!) and after setting up wine to find the cdrom drive, i find myself unable to play the game. I can see the intro cutscene infront of a massive screen, but everything else is blacked out. This continues through the story up until the point i give up because all i can see is a bit of smoke (see attachments). I have installed (via a random tutorial) DirectX9.0c to see if that fixed it, but to no avail.

Can someone out there help me to play this epic game :P thanks.
Have you tried to install it using PlayOnLinux? It supports* F.E.A.R.*, so it should automatically configure the game to run properly.

---

### Post by howefield on 2011-12-04
Thread moved to the "Wine" forum.

---

### Post by James.A.Parnell on 2011-12-04
Still having the same issue even with PWL installed (tbf it tells me to install wine when i try installing fear from it ;) )

---

