---
title: "11.04 and photoshop"
date: 2011-05-11
forum: Wine
---

### Post by everytimeref on 2011-05-11
Since upgrading to 11.04 photoshop cs2 has started running incredibly slowly.

Has anyone got any hints or tips to improve performance?

The PC is not super new but has a 9800gt graphic card and a Core2 Duo Processor E6600 2.40 GHz with 2GB ram.

I tried running in ubuntu classic with Compiz switched off but all the pallets stack ontop of each other in the middle of the screen and won't move.

Does CS5 run better than CS2? will I get a performance boost if I upgrade to wine 1.3?

---

### Post by bobwyajnr on 2011-05-11
> **everytimeref said:**
> Since upgrading to 11.04 photoshop cs2 has started running incredibly slowly.


Ubuntu 11.04 is a very experimental release and most metrics I have seen rate it slower than previous Ubuntu releases. It's kind of like describing Windows Vista as an 'upgrade' to Windows XP (which it clearly wasn't)!! :P

Refering to: [Phoronix kernel testing]("http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=linux_kernel_test2439&num=1") and [Ubuntu boot performance 8.04-11.04]("http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=ubuntu_natty_boot&num=1") was instructive for me. It made me think - why am I using the Maverick release? I have the kernel driver support I need in Lucid and most software is backported (via PPA's) to the LTS release...!!

Photoshop CS5 does not install very easily in WINE. [But really you should be checking on this yourself - on the WINE App database site!]("http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=20158")

I generally use the bleeding edge WINE (1.3.19 just now). I am not sure how much difference that would make to application performance. Most minor releases are about bug fixes (if you read the release notes - like me). I don't see a problem with trying it out - I find it to be reasonably stable myself (for the older Windows 3D games and 2D applications that don't have too many DRM restrictions).

I find it frustrating that someone - like you - can have hardware that would be flying along under Windows and get a dog-slow like experience under Ubuntu. Like I said - I am personally veering towards sticking with LTS releases.

NB Also, on the performance front, I gather the 32-bit Ubuntu kernels aren't as optimized as the 64-bit kernels (since support for 64-bit hardware was only introduced in the AMD Athlon 64 and later Intel Pentium 4 processors). Roll your own 32-bit (tweaked) Core-2 optimised kernel on Lucid?? Hey just a thought :popcorn:

Bob

---

### Post by everytimeref on 2011-05-11
thanks for the response.

I find the wine app database a little unhelpful. For example, in the database CS3 is recorded as "won't install" yet makes the top 100 Apps and the database only mentions 10.04 (and I know that worked, it worked for me!)

I think I might start by uninstalling Photoshop and Wine and then installing the latest version of wine.

I'll then try and get virtual box working again (killed by 11.04) It'll be interesting to see if Photoshop runs faster virtually than it does in Wine...

I always promise not to install every Ubuntu release but I can't resist the lure of the shiny. That said, I'm not convinced that Unity does more than Docky and Compiz.

I've never bothered with the 64bit release, with 2gb of RAM I didn't think it would be worth the bother. Do you think that Natty 64 would make a difference over 32bit? If it'll make a noticeable difference I might cave and do a full reinstall.

As a rule I try not to do a full reinstall, purely because I shouldn't have to and "linux for Human beings" should mean that!!!

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2011-05-11
_I would recommend_ the latest _stable version 1.2.x_. I've tried 1.3.x versions and although many of them works OK, some versions have been working really bad and applications have stopped working as well, not sure why either, but it has probably been my own fault for not applying the correct parameters or having the latest system libraries for an 1.3.x version of Wine, perhaps? :)

Do what works best for you, but beware of the bugs which a 1.3.x release might have ready for you.

---

### Post by everytimeref on 2011-05-12
> **khelben1979 said:**
> _I would recommend_ the latest _stable version 1.2.x_. I've tried 1.3.x versions and although many of them works OK, some versions have been working really bad and applications have stopped working as well, not sure why either, but it has probably been my own fault for not applying the correct parameters or having the latest system libraries for an 1.3.x version of Wine, perhaps? :)

Do what works best for you, but beware of the bugs which a 1.3.x release might have ready for you.

bugger. As of last night I tried the latest 1.3 wine PPA, It worked well for me last night but I suppose there might end up being regressions. Now that I'm happy Photoshop is working and stable perhaps I'll disable the PPA so as not to get any "updates".

My attitude to my PC changes depending on how much work myself and my wife (she's an illustrator and relies on photoshop for her blog and commissions) have to do. Sometimes I'm happy to experiment with software, other times I just need the system to be stable.

---

