---
title: "./configure Error, gcc, g++ paths."
date: 2010-07-13
forum: Wine
---

### Post by YourMomsASmurph on 2010-07-13
So problem is while trying to fix my first where ./configure couldnt find my open gl library, I accidently executed the commands:

export CC="gcc -arch i386 -m32" [B]//Problem here
[/B] export CXX="g++ -archi386 -m32" **//and here** (I think)
export CPPFLAGS="-I/usr/X11/include "
LDFLAGS="-L/usr/X11/lib "
LDFLAGS+="-framework CoreServices -lz -L/usr/X11/lib -lGL -lGLU " 
export LDFLAGS


But turns out that those paths were wrong.

New Error now occuring:

```

checking build system type... i686-pc-linux-gnu
checking host system type... i686-pc-linux-gnu
checking whether make sets $(MAKE)... yes
checking for gcc... /usr/bin/i486-linux-gnu-gcc-4.4
checking whether the C compiler works... no
configure: error: in `/home/fr0gg3r/wine-git':
configure: error: C compiler cannot create executables
See `config.log' for more details.

```Assuming I need to use export CC and CXX again to set it back to the real C compiler and C++ compiler but I cant seem to find them.

Any help would be appreciated.
If you need more info lmk and I will get it to you.

---

### Post by asdfoo on 2010-07-13
close your shell and open it again

---

### Post by cogadh on 2010-07-13
Is there a particular reason you need to compile it yourself and not use the pre-compiled packages of the latest version of Wine available from the Wine ppa repository?

---

### Post by YourMomsASmurph on 2010-07-13
Double Post

---

### Post by YourMomsASmurph on 2010-07-13
Trying to get SC2 working on linux -- and guide has me compiling it on my own :P 

And restarting shell worked thanks.

While your here hopefully you can help me with the opengl lib problem. That is until this thread dies and I can make another one.

```

checking for -lGL... not found
checking for -lGL... not found
checking for -lGLU... libGLU.so.1

```

These are the only problems I could see when it was looking for the opengl library so assuming problem is here.

---

