---
title: "16.04 LT WineTricks and Microsoft Money"
date: 2016-07-18
forum: Wine
---

### Post by jcorcoran on 2016-07-18
Good Morning,

I am migrating from my windows environment to Ubuntu 16.04 LT or trying to anyway. I am fairly new to Ubuntu but feel I have made some good progress and goes at this. I am able to do everything I usually do on Windows in my new environment with the exception of getting Microsoft Money Sunset edition up and running. I feel like I am close just maybe need a small push in the right direct. I have tried a couple different approaches and here are the end results.

- WineTricks. Initially I went to the app store and installed WineTricks. Launched it, installed Money Sunset with no issues. Went to launch the application and it opens but when you attempt to select your money file from the menu the application crashes consistently each and every time.

I looked on the WineHq website and it suggested using the Wine DEV 1.9 version instead of the stable 1.8 version. I uninstalled WinTricks and rebooted. It took some research but I figured out how to install Win 1.9. Installed the application again with no issues, but sadly get the same result. I thought well maybe it is the money version. So i went back and installed money 2006 and 2007 with the same issue.

I would like to be able to fully migrate to Ubuntu just need to get this last piece cracked. Has any experience anything like this or had any of the same issues and found work arounds?

Thanks.

Josh

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-07-18
Thread moved to the "*Wine*" forum.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2016-07-18
Have you researched 'native' alternatives to Microsoft Money? If you were able to find something in the repositories your life will likely be simpler. GNUCash seems to be reasonably popular for example. I'm not versed on finance packages so I'm of little help. I'm using Ubuntu-Gnome which uses Gnome's software app. Putting "finance" in the search box brought up a few choices.  As a last resort, run MS Windows in a virtual machine? I've installed Win 10 as an experiment in VirtualBox and it seemed to be functional. Any fairly recent machine with 4 GB+ RAM should be able to run a VM.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-07-18
Another alternative.

I used Quicken from DOS days and kept XP for another 4 years after installing Ubuntu in 2006, just to run Quicken. But Windows updates, virus updates, firewall updates and reboots where Windows took 3 to 5 min where Ubuntu then was 40 sec, just forced me to look for something else.

I tried GNUCash, but ended up with KmyMoney. Does not have all the features but works reasonably well. 

With any financial application you have to do a lot of setup for your accounts. I tried importing a lot of data from Quicken, but in the end think it may have been easier just to start from scratch. I lost all history anyway as I could not import everything and get it to balance, but once I got it going it has worked well.

---

### Post by Jorhel on 2016-07-26
I had the same problem at the begining of the year. Ended up using Kmymoney instead. I managed to use another windows computer to save my money files as QIF and then open them in Kmymoney. Didn't work for everything as I had accounts in different currencies and the conversion wasn't done properly. I had to start afresh for some of them and hope I won't need to sue my archives to often. But I like the format of Kmymoney.

---

