---
title: "Steam games wont launch"
date: 2009-03-15
forum: Wine
---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-15
Hello.
-I've recently installed Ubuntu 8.10 and all up the updates.
-I have Wine 1.1.17 installed, so everything is up to date. 
-I can start up Steam successfully, chat with my friends, install games and everything just fine. 
-But when I try to launch the games, it only goes as far as "Preparing to launch (insert game here)....."

I have no clue what could be wrong, ive tried -dxlevel 81 and 70, neither improved anything.

I'd really rather not have to reinstall windows, i'm so tired of it.

Help?
Thanks in advance,
-Slade

---

### Post by aaronb on 2009-03-15
Does it just stop with "Preparing to launch" or is there some error box?

Also how long do you wait for the game to load is sometimes it can to a minute or two when launching a game.

And finally the -novid command is awesome, I have never got steam games to launch reliably in Windows or wine without -novid.

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-15
No error box appears, just "preparing to launch"

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-15
I could wait all day, it wont come up.

---

### Post by aaronb on 2009-03-15
We need to find out what the error is that is stopping the games from loading.

Please could you open a terminal window and run:

```
env WINEPREFIX="/home/**[COLOR="Red"]YOURUSERNAME[/COLOR]**/.wine" wine "C:\Program Files\Steam\Steam.exe"
```

Obviously change the path highlighted in red. What does it say when you try to run a game (And what is the game)?

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-15
Typed it in, nothing happened.
Like i said, it just says preparing to launch... I tried it on three games,
Preparing to launch: Counter-Strike: Source
Preparing to launch: Team Fortress 2
Preparing to launch: Left 4 Dead

---

### Post by aaronb on 2009-03-15
Even though steam will say the "Preparing to launch" the terminal window will give us the information we require to help you.

See attached example of me running:

```
env WINEPREFIX="/home/**[COLOR="Green"]MYUSERNAME[/COLOR]**/.wine" wine "C:\Program Files\Steam\Steam.exe"
```

Make sure that steam is not already running when you run the command (We want the command to launch steam).

In the example I ran Half-life 2.

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-15
Oh, I had to exit Steam and then run that command in the terminal.
heres the last few lines, wasnt sure how much you needed

---

### Post by aaronb on 2009-03-15
Thank you, Wine is stating that your graphic card drivers may not be installed correctly or at all.

What graphic card have you got?

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-15
Nvidia GeForce 7900 GT

---

### Post by aaronb on 2009-03-15
On the top panel of your desktop click on:

System > Administration > Hardware Drivers

Then pick the "Recommended" driver and follow the on screen instructions, reboot your PC and then try running the game again.

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-15
Okay, so I had the 96 drivers installed. I tried both the 177 and 173 and both started my computer into low graphics mode until i fixed it. So, there are no other drivers to try, I dont know what to do.

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-15
I did, and thats when It boots into low graphics mode and forces me to change it

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-15
Well, I hate to give up on Linux, especially after learning all the commands and getting used to it. But with the crappy drivers, I guess i'll be back to XP ._.

---

### Post by aaronb on 2009-03-16
As you wish, just post back here if you encounter this issue again.

However ;) you could run:

```
glxinfo | grep render
```

It should output something like:

```
direct rendering: [COLOR="DarkGreen"]**Yes**[/COLOR]
OpenGL renderer string: GeForce 8800 GT/PCI/SSE2
    GL_NV_depth_buffer_float, GL_NV_conditional_render, GL_NV_depth_clamp, 
    GL_NV_vertex_program3, GL_NVX_conditional_render, GL_SGIS_generate_mipmap, 

```

This means that the graphics drivers should be installed and working.

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-19
direct rendering: Yes
OpenGL renderer string: Software Rasterizer
 thats all

---

### Post by aaronb on 2009-03-19
Welcome back. :)

Please could you post the contents of the 'xorg.conf' file located in '/etc/X11' folder.

Here is mine, I have an Nvidia 8800GT, since you have a 7900GT yours probably should be similar:
 
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	**[COLOR="DarkGreen"]Load	"glx"[/COLOR]**
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	**[COLOR="DarkGreen"]Driver	"nvidia"[/COLOR]**
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```

The two highlighted parts seem to be important to loading the drivers.

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-20
After reinstalling XP twice, I decided it totally wasnt worth it, and I'd go back to Ubuntu and try another few things.
8.10 Intrepid Ibex still wasnt working with my GeForce 7900, so I upgraded to Jaunty Jackalope, installed the recommended (180?) drivers, and now everything launches. 
One thing I cant quite figure out though, if you could help me.
I launch the games, of which are full screen, and when I do, the Taskbars/Panels are still showing, so i cant move my mouse and click on buttons correctly in-game. Any way to make the Taskbars/Panels disappear when I launch something fullscreen?

---

### Post by aaronb on 2009-03-21
Nice, You could try right clicking on the panels, selecting properties and then picking 'Autohide '.

---

### Post by spadewarrior on 2009-03-21
I found that steam wouldn't even connect with the latest wine build due to some odd regressions, so I installed the one from the official ubuntu repo (1.0.1) and that fixed the problem.

---

### Post by SladeHN on 2009-03-21
Oh, I got Crossover Pro.

I tried autohide, but I want the panels there, just not when i launch something fullscreen, autohide makes them disappear whenever im not clicking them.

---

### Post by jnewl on 2009-03-21
Right-click the taskbar. Choose Properties. Enable "Show hide buttons" (and "Arrows on hide buttons" if you'd like).

Now if the bars get in the way of a game, you can slide them out of the way using the hide buttons.

---

