---
title: "1.1.28 wine  fallout 3"
date: 2009-09-30
forum: Wine
---

### Post by burntresistor on 2009-09-30
I followed a guide to install that said I needed to install direct x  through winetricks. I just read the sticky(and what it says about installing direct x ) before posting could that be the problem?

My problem is the install was easy, but the game isnt starting. I tired right clicking the exe and selecting wine and in terminal Nothing happens

---

### Post by Progressive on 2009-09-30
Please provide your system specs. 

Also, try running the exe file from the terminal as such "winedbg ~/.wine/filename.exe" and then tell us what it says.

EDIT: You might only need the proper dll file. appdb.winehq.org should have further instructions

---

### Post by burntresistor on 2009-10-01
> **Progressive said:**
> Please provide your system specs. 

Also, try running the exe file from the terminal as such "winedbg ~/.wine/filename.exe" and then tell us what it says.

EDIT: You might only need the proper dll file. appdb.winehq.org should have further instructions

When I run that command it just says coouldn't start process '/home/burntresistor/.wine/fallout3.exe 

I'm using amd64, asus 32 a8n sli motherboard , nvidida 8800gt

---

### Post by Progressive on 2009-10-01
I was just giving an example of the path, that probably isn't the correct path. It is probably under program files.

I just checked the [appdb page]("http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=14322") for Fallout and it does seem you need to install DirectX using winetricks, and you also need a patch. (I will be quoting from that page, but you can feel free to read it yourself, since many people will likely have ran into the same issues as you)

It is unfortunate that there are so many steps, but that is the case for many newer games, and it truly isn't so bad. It will take you like 5 minutes, in contrast to hours of playing time, and you will learn stuff about linux in the process.

First you need to purge your current wine installation. If you just used a repo then do

> sudo apt-get remove wine --purge

Then install the newest source code from [here]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/wine/files/Source/wine-1.1.30.tar.bz2/download"), and then extract it into a directory you can remember.

The step-by-step instructions are given for patching:

> At this point only way to get it to work is to get sources, patch them and then compile wine.
WinD3D patch: [http://bugs.winehq.org/attachment.cgi?id=20312](http://bugs.winehq.org/attachment.cgi?id=20312)
Download it, paste it to wine sources dir and type
patch -p1 < filename


Patching changes some of the source code, and then you compile that source code into the binary files which are the final product. [Here]("http://www.winehq.org/docs/wineusr-guide/installing-wine-source") are the simple step-by-step instructions for compiling.

Then you need to do the following:

> Next step is to download winetricks and install directx9
Get winetricks: [http://wiki.winehq.org/winetricks](http://wiki.winehq.org/winetricks)
Grand it executable permissions: chmod +x winetricks
Install directx9: ./winetricks directx9

Then if you have any problems you can tweak the registry file as described here:

> After that you may safely install and play fallout 3. In case you will have video problems, you may need to set some registry keys. Run regedit and browse to: Current_user/Software/Wine/Direct3D. If Direct3D key doesn&#8217;t exist, create it. You may want to set following values:
"DirectDrawRenderer"="gdi"
"OffscreenRenderingMode"="fbo"
"PixelShaderMode"="enabled"
"SoftwareEmulation"="enabled"
"UseGLSL"="enable"
"VertexShaderMode"="hardware"
"VideoDescription"="NVIDIA GeForce 9600 GT"
"VideoDriver"="nv4_disp.dll"
"VideoMemorySize"="512"

Also, even though each development release takes only 2 weeks, there can be quite a lot of variability between the releases. You might want to try different versions.

---

