---
title: "Guild Wars + Compiz"
date: 2008-02-03
forum: Wine
---

### Post by fgdgafdf on 2008-02-03
I am 1 day new to Linux(Ubuntu 7.10).  So far I have managed to install compiz cube stuff and get it to work by installing the xgl package.  I have also installed Guild Wars via Wine and am trying to get the 2 to work together.  

  With xgl installed, GW runs painfully slow and I found a guide/post saying that it is not possible to run GW well with xgl.  When I removed xgl my fps in GW was fantastic, however seemingly all of the model textures are missing.  Also without xgl the compiz cube effect is not usable, with the "composite extensions" not enabled thing.  

  Though I don't yet fully understand what it is, heres my xorg:
(people seem to like to see it with such issues i notice)

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Radeon X700"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Busid		"PCI:6:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-96
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Radeon X700"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1920x1200"	"1600x1200"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"0"
EndSection

I did change the composite to 1 as root, but I guess it go changed back in my recent changes, though it didn't work then anyways.

I found guides about using regedit in wine to set some Direct3D values

  My video card says x700 because I manually changed its name,  ubuntu IDs it as a mobility x700 (I'm on a desktop).  Not sure if thats anything.  Also, I have the restricted driver thing: ATI accelerated graphics driver, enabled checked and "in use".

I followed this:[http://tombuntu.com/index.php/2007/04/01/guild-wars-on-ubuntu-with-wine/](http://tombuntu.com/index.php/2007/04/01/guild-wars-on-ubuntu-with-wine/)
I'm not sure if I did the regedit part right, as I understand I have to create the Direct3D key then add the strings.  For example, under Name I put "DirectDrawRenderer" then under Data "opengl" and no change under Type.  

So I guess what I need help with is getting the compiz cube to work without xgl, and getting the textures to show in GW.

oh, also every time I log in I get a popup message about my keyboard and if I want to use "x" settings or use Gnome, something to do with running sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, I believe.  how to stop that?

---

### Post by Toffeeapple on 2008-02-03
Hi..

to get rid of the keyboard request thing... just set it to what you want to use in System/Preferances/keyboard 

.....worked for me.

have you read the Guild Wars entry at the wine website?

I have it running with compiz quite happily from what I've learned there.

---

### Post by fgdgafdf on 2008-02-03
I got GW to run great, just can't maximize, but I can just stretch the window.  I had to remove xgl and make few other changes to do it.  Now of course, without xgl I cannot use compiz/the cube.

---

### Post by eljoeb on 2008-02-04
> **fgdgafdf said:**
> I got GW to run great, just can't maximize, but I can just stretch the window.  I had to remove xgl and make few other changes to do it.  Now of course, without xgl I cannot use compiz/the cube.

Its pretty normal to have to turn off compiz to run most games at an acceptable speed.  You could always write a script that turns it off before starting the game, but its really not worth the trouble.  I've never encountered a game which turned off compositing before it started, like Vista does.  

Is it really a problem that you need to turn it off manually before you start?

---

### Post by fgdgafdf on 2008-02-04
well of course it would be nice to have both working together.  I know my laptop with integrated intel graphics can run full compiz without xgl installed.

  Since I am so new to ubuntu, I have 0 clue how i would script xgl to turn on when GW is not run and on when it is.

---

### Post by Faud on 2008-02-05
> I got GW to run great, just can't maximize, but I can just stretch the window. I had to remove xgl and make few other changes to do it. Now of course, without xgl I cannot use compiz/the cube.
You can download the "nothing" theme from gnomelook.org and then set your virtual desktop in WINE to the same as your regular desktop. Remove your gnome panel, use the nothing theme and make it maximized that way.
(not as hard as it souds:) )

---

### Post by nowhere@cox.net on 2008-02-05
I'm running Gutsy 64 on a Lenovo T61 with the nvidia quadro 140NVS card. I installed a buncha 32bit libraries and wine. I did a simple wine GwSetup.exe and off it went. Once done, the login screen popped up with the 3D circling thingy going on and sound effects (no music at first but it started up after a while). 

I tried to change res since it was 1024x768 and it changes but the window size didn't. Playing with it a couple times froze the system hard. Power down was the only way to reset. 

Once rebooted, launching gw.exe from the wine menu would not work. The GW icon came up and the CPU pegged for a very very long time. I killed it manually then  launched the installed with wine GwSetup.exe again from a terminal and selected run Guild Wars (not reinstall). The window popped up just fine again but once again 1024x728. I can stretch the window to full screen but then the aspect ratio is wrong. Selecting options and changing the resolution just resets the window size to 1024x768 with the selected resolution, thus cutting off some of the screen. 

Playing around with the resolutions too much just freezes the system hard again.    Restarting the machine and launching the installer to run the game again, the new window and resolution stuck but it is still not full screen. If I maximize then I guess the machine is resizing along with rendering so the frame rate is horrible.

THEN I realized that the WineHQ suggested running the latest wine (53 at the time of writing) but my version was only 46 so I added the wine repositories and installed 54. However, starting from the wine menu gave some obscure dx8 error and I had to kill -9 the error dialog windows. I changed the desktop icon launcher to simply wine gw.exe and BAM GW started right up in what appeared to be fullscreen from the wine menu but the fog was all blocky (It was actually a maximized windowed mode). I set the resolution to 1440x900 fullscreen not once but twice which seems to have fixed the blocky fog. There is still an annoying flash every so often and there seems to be seams in the graphics (a grid of dark lines that make the screen look like tiles) but for the most part it works). 

I then forced GW.exe to WinXP (to get dx9) and the graphics are stunningly beautiful.... but the frame rate is unbearable. That is where I have left off. I'm now off to see how to improve the frame rate (any suggestions are appreciated).

I forgot why I started this saga but I think it had something to do with compiz and GW in Wine so it seems I would confirm it does indeed work and if I can get the frame rate up I would say it works well!

Thanks for any suggestions and good luck to everyone!
Eric

---

### Post by nowhere@cox.net on 2008-02-05
OK very quick update. Sorry for the self reply but after monkeying around with it for a while I decided to reboot and the frame rate improved dramatically with no other changes. I think there must have been some other wine stuff stuck in the background that didn't get killed when I killed the error dialogs. Anyway, I happened to have my camera handy so I took a quick photo of GW in wine working fine with compiz!

[IMG]http://ericmorganphoto.smugmug.com/photos/251098080-M.jpg[/IMG]

Once rotated to another workspace the system is almost unusable due to the high CPU and GPU usage but hey IT WORKS and on a notebook PC to boot!

Let's see Vista do THAT!

Enjoy all!
Eric

---

