---
title: "Starcraft 2 PlayOnLinux/Wine Issues Please Help"
date: 2012-04-02
forum: Wine
---

### Post by PurpDaddy on 2012-04-02
Hello everyone,

I guess I am pretty much a newb when it comes to Linux. However, I think I am pretty familiar with certain key aspects of it.

I recently installed Ubuntu 11.10 and have been very happy with the switch from windows overall. However, I have encountered a problem that I fear may make me switch back to Windows =/. Hopefully, we will be able to resolve it =).

So, I am a pretty big gamer, so being able to play games on my computer is an important aspect of my computing experience.

I installed Wine and PlayOnLinux and proceeded to follow all the steps on how to install Starcraft 2 via these applications.

Everything went semi-smooth(had to restart the installation process a couple times due to crashes/errors). But I finally managed to get the game running.

However, when I attempted to actually play the game.  The window that the game was in does not allow me **CLICK ON ANYTHING**. When I attempt to, the cursor just goes away.

Interestingly though,  I still have full command of the keyboard while in the game.

Thus to summarize: The game runs BUT I CAN NOT CLICK ON ANYTHING.

Please Ubuntu forums. Help me.

Thank you!

---

### Post by PurpDaddy on 2012-04-02
BUMP.

Please Help!

---

### Post by PurpDaddy on 2012-04-03
Does anyone have any ideas on this?

I could really use the help =/

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-04-05
It might be related to Compiz which conflicts with the windows generated by SC2.
Best to install fusion-icon, run it at startup and use it to switch to a more basic window manager like Metacity. Then try Sc2 again.

Cheers!

---

