---
title: "12 Sky2"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: Wine
---

### Post by Nemix on 2009-05-08
hey,

i use to play the original 12 sky when i used windows, i now see that 12 sky 2 has come out in open beta and i really want to check it out. I saw the original 12 sky worked with wine just need some .dll files, this got me really excited. I tried looking for information about wine and TS2 (twelve sky2) but due to it not being out long and in open beta no information was available. I decides to just install the .dll files for original 12sky to see if i could get it to work (wininet.dll and d3dx9_27.dll).

when i try starting the game i get an error message and a log file for the exe.

the log file says:
```

Traceback (most recent call last):

  File "Launcher.py", line 19, in <module>

  File "zipextimporter.pyo", line 82, in load_module

  File "WorkerPool.pyo", line 5, in <module>

  File "zipextimporter.pyo", line 82, in load_module

  File "FtpWorker.pyo", line 6, in <module>

  File "zipextimporter.pyo", line 98, in load_module

ImportError: MemoryLoadLibrary failed loading win32api.pyd


```

i take it the launcher cant find win32api.pyd.
kinda hoping people here could help me out, i have very little experience with wine. 

thanks,
-Nemix

---

### Post by asdfoo on 2009-05-08
which wine version? did you install the game using the installer? don't use the native dlls only as a last resort.

---

### Post by Moonfire on 2009-05-25
I have the exact same error message when trying to run 12Sky2.  I used the "normal" installer to install, though cancelled out of the DirectX part.  Wine version is 1.0.1; I tried to run it with all versions of Windows with no change.

Any assistance with this would be greatly appreciated, this is the largest fence keeping me from completely leaving Windows.

---

### Post by qwertymn on 2009-05-26
Is there any console output? If so, post it here. Also, is the game you're talking about this one: [http://www.gamershell.com/download_44404.shtml?](http://www.gamershell.com/download_44404.shtml?)

---

### Post by Moonfire on 2009-05-27
Not quite sure what you mean by console output, put I'll write all the computer tells me.  And that's sort-of the game.  Same game for the most part, though I'm using the one published by Mayn (tis the EU version) though I'm unsure which publisher the OP is using.

When I run the launcher in Wine 1.0.1 (Ubuntu 9.04 by the way), it gives this error:

Errors occurred
See the log file 'C:\MAYN Games\Twelve Sky 2\Launcher.exe.log' for details.

That log reads
> Traceback (most recent call last): 
  File "Launcher.py", line 19, in <module> 
  File "zipextimporter.pyo", line 82, in load_module 
  File "WorkerPool.pyo", line 5, in <module> 
  File "zipextimporter.pyo", line 82, in load_module 
  File "FtpWorker.pyo", line 6, in <module> 
  File "zipextimporter.pyo", line 98, in load_module 
ImportError: MemoryLoadLibrary failed loading win32api.pyd

---

