---
title: "Football Manager 2008"
date: 2007-10-11
forum: Wine
---

### Post by oxygala on 2007-10-11
ok, since the demo is out, i wanted to prepare a quick howto for this game.

first of all, get the latest wine as instructed below:
[http://www.winehq.org/site/download-deb]("http://www.winehq.org/site/download-deb")

Download Java jre (for windows) [here]("http://jdl.sun.com/webapps/download/AutoDL?BundleId=10778") and install.

run "winecfg" and change the version to Windows Xp.

install the game by clicking the .exe file and follow the instructions.

run "winecfg" again and change the version to Vista.

Launch the installed game .exe file. 

Here, the game should be able to be played. But, if it crashes during the first credits, you may need to disable AIGLX.

If this is the case, just add the lines below to your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file (always backup first, save your initial xorg file as xorg.conf_backup or something!)

Section "ServerFlags"
        Option  "AIGLX" "off"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection


that's it, you should be playing by now.

---

### Post by netventure on 2007-10-11
Thanks :) I'm not into football games, but I think I'll give it a try just because of the association with Wine!

NV

---

### Post by strankan on 2007-10-12
Beautiful! Let's hope it works ok with the full game as well. Might be time to make another switch to Ubuntu on my workstation. :)

---

### Post by Champino on 2007-10-15
ok so i really need someones help here. i followed the instructions above, to the letter. the game starts but crashes at the end of the credits. i edited my xorg.conf file to include the two sections, and it makes the problem worse, it crashes almost immediately after starting now. and i am going insane, as I really want to play this game.

here is the output from the terminal when i try to run it

err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:wtsapi:WTSRegisterSessionNotification Stub 0x20024 0x00000000
X Error of failed request:  GLXBadContext
  Major opcode of failed request:  143 (GLX)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  5 (X_GLXMakeCurrent)
  Serial number of failed request:  2645
  Current serial number in output stream:  2645



thanks in advance to any of you who can help me

Champino

---

### Post by oxygala on 2007-10-15
check my first message and modify your xconf file as described. it will do the trick champino.

---

### Post by Champino on 2007-10-15
ok, so i verified two or three times that i had made the necessary changes to my xorg.conf file, and im 100 percent sure i have, but the game still hangs on the first screen. 

i will post the contents of my xorg.conf file, maybe something is amiss

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Section ¨ServerFlags¨
	 Option ¨AIGLX¨ ¨off¨
EndSection

Section ¨Extensions¨
	 Option ¨Composite¨ ¨Disable¨
Endsection

sorry if im being a dumbass noob :-p

---

### Post by oxygala on 2007-10-15
do you have compiz working? if so, disable desktop effects from system>preferences>appearance. i highly doubt it thou, there's no chance compiz works with that xorg configuration. by the way, did you restart or at least ctrl+alt+backspace?

---

### Post by lexarrow on 2007-10-18
Hi all,

I installed Windows Java JRE but when I try to instal the gamel, after unpacking, I get an untitled and gray java window. I cannot see anything, atough I now it works (I clicked around in the window and it got me to the next screen - I can't see anything there either).

I have disabled all desktop effects

Any suggestions?

THX!

---

### Post by oxygala on 2007-10-18
i had the same problem with the full game, i erased the .wine directory and reinstalled the latest wine from winehq.com repositories, it works pretty good. of course if your wine directory has important stuff, first backup and try upgrading without erasing anything. mine was pretty much empty.

---

### Post by strankan on 2007-10-19
> **lexarrow said:**
> Hi all,

I installed Windows Java JRE but when I try to instal the gamel, after unpacking, I get an untitled and gray java window. I cannot see anything, atough I now it works (I clicked around in the window and it got me to the next screen - I can't see anything there either).

I have disabled all desktop effects

Any suggestions?

THX!

Winecfg and set windows version to 2000. Install Java pack.
Winecfg and set windows version to Xp. Install FM. When I did that the installer worked like a charm. Basically just followed the same procedure as with the demo. Currently trying to turn Eastleigh into the leading club in europe! [-o<

---

### Post by lexarrow on 2007-10-19
Thanks a lot! I autoremoved wine, removed the .wine directory, reinstalled wine with winxp cfg, installed java 1.6 and then FM08 got installed too.

---

### Post by VOD on 2007-10-20
I can run FM2007 with wine but can't run FM2008.
When I setup the game, the wine console says "err:wineconsole:WCUSER_SetFont wrong font
err:wineconsole:WCUSER_SetFont wrong font
err:wineconsole:WCUSER_SetFont wrong font
err:wineconsole:WCUSER_SetFont wrong font
err:wineconsole:WINECON_Fatal Couldn't find a decent font, aborting
"
Maybe there are something wrong with my wine font, i will try to copy all windows fonts to my wine environment.

---

### Post by Hairy_Palms on 2007-10-20
works like a dream under wine, currently leading welling town to conferance national glory :)

---

### Post by sky-boy on 2007-10-20
I'm having a problem,

1st I can't Win (Kidding)

2nd (serious) When i complete a game it makes de load and then the game is closed and I can't Save Game :(

Actually my winecfg is set to WinXP

PS: The game is installed on a ntfs partition not on the .wine folder

---

### Post by travo523 on 2007-10-20
hi i jus bought this game and it doesnt seem toto be able to install on my computer. i have xp 64bit does that make any sorta difference. the pc is only bout 3months old to. can any1 help me?

---

### Post by sky-boy on 2007-10-20
This forum is used to suport ubuntu users... you're using Xp 64...

Anyway

Try to install Java to Windows XP 64 ....

[http://java.com/en/](http://java.com/en/)

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-10-20
Hmmm ...I've followed the instructions as far as installing Java. However as soon as I try to setup FM I get the following error and can get no further:
```
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400
```

Tried all the tips mentioned in this thread without success. Not sure what to try next ...?

---

### Post by scotty2hott2k on 2007-10-20
Hi, just thought i would let you know that the current round of nocd 'fixes' don't bypass alot of the copy protection the devs themselves have put into the game so alot of strange/errors occur in the game, such as figures not adding up right, transfers costing twice as much and various other annoyances. As such ive had to reinstall winblows in a vm and play it through there with the cd and not via wine.

---

### Post by oxygala on 2007-10-20
> **scotty2hott2k said:**
> Hi, just thought i would let you know that the current round of nocd 'fixes' don't bypass alot of the copy protection the devs themselves have put into the game so alot of strange/errors occur in the game, such as figures not adding up right, transfers costing twice as much and various other annoyances. As such ive had to reinstall winblows in a vm and play it through there with the cd and not via wine.

never crossed by any of these, weird. by the way, changing winecfg to windows vista works better with the game.

---

### Post by Troglodite on 2007-10-21
> **AndyCooll said:**
> Hmmm ...I've followed the instructions as far as installing Java. However as soon as I try to setup FM I get the following error and can get no further:
```
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400
```

Tried all the tips mentioned in this thread without success. Not sure what to try next ...?

Hi, I have exactly the same problem as you have you found out whats wrong?

---

### Post by brecke on 2007-10-22
hi there!

i am trying to install the game myself, but i get a different problem. It installed correctly and i now have a desktop icon and menu entry to run the game. however, i get a window saying:

A required security module cannot be activated. This program cannot be executed (7000). Please have a look at [http://www.securom.com/message.asp?m=module&c=7000](http://www.securom.com/message.asp?m=module&c=7000) for further, more detailed information.

if i try to run the game from the terminal, i get a few lines before the window pops up, here's what i get:

```

miguel@miguel-laptop:~$ wine /home/miguel/.wine/drive_c/Program\ Files/Sports\ Interactive/Football\ Manager\ 2008/fm.exe 
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x338f4fc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x338f4fc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x338f644) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x338f500) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x338f6f8) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ac6c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab28) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337a514) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ad34) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337a314) stub!
fixme:ntdll:NtQueryInformationProcess (0xffffffff,info_class=34,0x337a520,0x00000004,0x337a51c) Unknown information class
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab24) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab24) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab24) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab24) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab24) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337a85c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337a85c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab20) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337930c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379354) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379354) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337949c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379358) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337aa7c) stub!
fixme:ntdll:NtQueryObject Unsupported information class 3
fixme:debugstr:CheckRemoteDebuggerPresent (0xffffffff)->(0x337940c): Stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3378fcc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3378fcc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379114) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3378fd0) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x33791f0) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379350) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379350) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379498) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379354) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337aacc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337949c) stub!
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),0,0x3379290,0x00000000), stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x336b8d4) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x336b8d0) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x7cc597a4) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x7cc597dc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x7cc578e0) stub!

```

I'd really appreciate if someone could tell me what's wrong. I've been using ubuntu for a year and a half now, i hate booting into windows and i'd hate not to get the game going in linux :(

thanks in advance,
miguel, Portugal

---

### Post by WiseSif on 2007-10-23
> **Troglodite said:**
> Hi, I have exactly the same problem as you have you found out whats wrong?


Same exact problem with me as well....

Any suggestions?:(

---

### Post by WiseSif on 2007-10-23
> **WiseSif said:**
> Same exact problem with me as well....

Any suggestions?:(

Actually i run setup,and after it launches the main setup window Football manager 2008 it seems that it runs ok but i have a grey window infornt of me without letting me do anything .

However if i click to close this window it gives me a grey pop up with title "Cancel Installation" which means that setup is running but the front end is messed up.

Please help

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2007-10-23
> **brecke said:**
> hi there!

i am trying to install the game myself, but i get a different problem. It installed correctly and i now have a desktop icon and menu entry to run the game. however, i get a window saying:

A required security module cannot be activated. This program cannot be executed (7000). Please have a look at [http://www.securom.com/message.asp?m=module&c=7000](http://www.securom.com/message.asp?m=module&c=7000) for further, more detailed information.

if i try to run the game from the terminal, i get a few lines before the window pops up, here's what i get:

```

miguel@miguel-laptop:~$ wine /home/miguel/.wine/drive_c/Program\ Files/Sports\ Interactive/Football\ Manager\ 2008/fm.exe 
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x338f4fc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x338f4fc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x338f644) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x338f500) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x338f6f8) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ac6c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab28) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337a514) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ad34) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337a314) stub!
fixme:ntdll:NtQueryInformationProcess (0xffffffff,info_class=34,0x337a520,0x00000004,0x337a51c) Unknown information class
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab24) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab24) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab24) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab24) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab24) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337a85c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337a85c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337ab20) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337930c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379354) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379354) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337949c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379358) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337aa7c) stub!
fixme:ntdll:NtQueryObject Unsupported information class 3
fixme:debugstr:CheckRemoteDebuggerPresent (0xffffffff)->(0x337940c): Stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3378fcc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3378fcc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379114) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3378fd0) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x33791f0) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379350) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379350) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379498) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x3379354) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337aacc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x337949c) stub!
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),0,0x3379290,0x00000000), stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x336b8d4) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x336b8d0) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x7cc597a4) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x7cc597dc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x7cc578e0) stub!

```

I'd really appreciate if someone could tell me what's wrong. I've been using ubuntu for a year and a half now, i hate booting into windows and i'd hate not to get the game going in linux :(

thanks in advance,
miguel, Portugal

Doesn't that have to do with the anti-copy protection?

I believe for u to play FM in Linux you must have a no-cd crack, even though you own the original game. Which, sucks.

---

### Post by brecke on 2007-10-23
> **Troglodite said:**
> Hi, I have exactly the same problem as you have you found out whats wrong?

oh.. i see. didnt think of that. The first post didn't mentioned it either so.. that means i must get a nocd crack even though i have the original game, weird. 

Thank you.
Miguel, Portugal

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2007-10-23
> **brecke said:**
> oh.. i see. didnt think of that. The first post didn't mentioned it either so.. that means i must get a nocd crack even though i have the original game, weird. 

Thank you.
Miguel, Portugal

Yeah...the problem of having a minority OS...

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-10-23
Hmm ...according to the OP's first post the game should just run under Wine, he doesn't mention needing a no-CD patch.

I'd be interested to hear how people get on using the game with the no-CD patch (and where they get the patch from) as I've read on the SI Forums that it affects gameplay (weird transfer prices etc). 

As an aside, I've also been reading that the Securom copy protection has been causing problems even for folk using Windows as it doesn't always seem to recognise CD-drives. 
As a result, since at the moment I'm back to having to play the game using my XP VMware image, I find that one CD-drive it recognises most of the time, while the second one I keep getting Securom error messages.
So now I'm not sure if the error messages I get when trying to play the game under Wine are linked to copy protection problems too.

:cool:

---

### Post by Hexaphim on 2007-10-23
When I try to run setup.exe (with wine), I get the following error message:

Trying to load PE image for unsupported architecture (AMD-64)
err:module:import_dll Loading library faultrep.DLL (which is needed by L"H:\\setup.exe") failed (error c000007b).
err:module:LdrInitializeThunk Main exe initialization for L"H:\\setup.exe" failed, status c0000135

I tried installing it in Windows Vista and then starting the game in Linux, but I got the same error when I attempted to run fm08.exe.

Any ideas? I'm a newbie, so please be gentle. :)

---

### Post by brecke on 2007-10-23
> **AndyCooll said:**
> Hmm ...according to the OP's first post the game should just run under Wine, he doesn't mention needing a no-CD patch.
[...]
:cool:

hmmm... did he actually got the game running? he doesn't actually state it.. does it really need a no-cd patch? 

What about cedega, has any one been able to play it using cedega?

thanks in advance,
miguel, Portugal

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-10-23
> **brecke said:**
> hmmm... did he actually got the game running? he doesn't actually state it.. does it really need a no-cd patch? 

What about cedega, has any one been able to play it using cedega?

thanks in advance,
miguel, Portugal

Yes he did get the game running, and it seems he didn't need a no-cd patch. That's what's so frustrating, as far as I'm aware it should be relatively straightforward ...however I can't get it to work unless I play the game in my XP VMware image.

:cool:

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2007-10-23
> **AndyCooll said:**
> Yes he did get the game running, and it seems he didn't need a no-cd patch. That's what's so frustrating, as far as I'm aware it should be relatively straightforward ...however I can't get it to work unless I play the game in my XP VMware image.

:cool:


He got the demo running, not the game. You don't have copy protection in the demo.

---

### Post by brecke on 2007-10-23
> **wild_oscar said:**
> He got the demo running, not the game. You don't have copy protection in the demo.

aha!! some light at the end of the tunnel... no?

---

### Post by uboat77 on 2007-10-24
my first post on this forum :D
well everything run smoothly (only had a few probs with my /.wine folder, wich insisted in not beeing there...deleted it and reinstalled wine and now works fine)!
So, the FM2008 runs fine...until i tryied to type something in the search box, or even my manager name...it just doesn work! i can't type anything! i've already put the "&" ate the end of the "wine fm.exe" command and even launched "hupno wine fm.exe" (so i can kill the terminal without killing the fm process)...nothing works...
can anyone shed a light on this??
thanks

---

### Post by WanderingKnight on 2007-10-24
<snip>

Sorry, stupid mistake.

---

### Post by WanderingKnight on 2007-10-24
Okay, this is not working. I got it working once, it would quit because it said I didn't have Java installed (which wasn't so, I even had FM07 installed). So I rm -rf'ed .wine in order to start anew, installed the Java 5 Runtime with Windows 2000 compatibility, and then proceeded to run the installer, with XP compatibility. When it was loading, I got a stupid error ("The game can't be installed on your system").

Here's the log:

```
bilkis@bilkis:~/iso$ wine setup.exe 
ALSA lib conf.c:3949:(snd_config_expand) Unknown parameters 0
ALSA lib control.c:909:(snd_ctl_open_noupdate) Invalid CTL default:0
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400
bilkis@bilkis:~/iso$ ALSA lib conf.c:3949:(snd_config_expand) Unknown parameters 0
ALSA lib control.c:909:(snd_ctl_open_noupdate) Invalid CTL default:0
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),0,0x32ad44,0x00000000), stub!
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),1,0x32ad44,0x00000000), stub!
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),0,0x33bd3c,0x00000000), stub!
err:wgl:X11DRV_SetPixelFormat Invalid operation on root_window
err:wgl:X11DRV_GetPixelFormat Unable to find a WineGLPixelFormat for iPixelFormat=0
err:d3d:CreateContext SetPixelFormat failed on HDC=0x1dc for iPixelFormat=1
err:d3d:IWineD3DDeviceImpl_CreateAdditionalSwapChain Failed to create a new context
fixme:ddraw:D3D7CB_CreateAdditionalSwapChain (0x998e2c0) call to IWineD3DDevice_CreateAdditionalSwapChain failed
err:ddraw:IDirectDrawImpl_CreateSurface IDirectDrawImpl_AttachD3DDevice failed, hr = 8876086a
fixme:font:WineEngCreateFontInstance Untranslated charset 255
fixme:imm:ImmGetOpenStatus (0x9ac62f8): semi-stub
fixme:imm:ImmSetConversionStatus (0x9ac62f8, 1, 0): stub
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x33f490) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x33f4bc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x33f4bc) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x33f48c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x33f48c) stub!
fixme:process:IsWow64Process (0xffffffff 0x33f4e4) stub!
fixme:imm:ImmGetOpenStatus (0x996aee0): semi-stub
err:heap:HEAP_ValidateInUseArena Heap 0x110000: in-use arena 0x12e090 next block has PREV_FREE flag

```

Any ideas? It also doesn't seem to want to run again (gray Java window). I'm on 7.10.

---

### Post by 00dyel on 2007-10-25
ive got the same problem as uboat77- i cant type anything in and none of f4, f5 or other quick keys work. its like the keyboard becomes disabled. Does anyone know why?

---

### Post by filipebrandao_ on 2007-10-25
Anyone experiencing black screen when you change to other window (ALT+TAB) and then back to the game? If I press ALT+F4 on the game while the black screen is appearing I get the normal sreen game back plus a the 'exit confirmation' message box but sometimes it quits the game or when I go back to the game window the game freezes. I was wondering if someone knows how to bring back the normal screen without having to pray or how to don't get any black screen at all. Maybe if i could run the game through a window :s

I've installed the game with Windows XP and just copied it to the wine drive_c folder. It runs pretty well although...

---

### Post by filipebrandao_ on 2007-10-26
> **filipebrandao_ said:**
> Anyone experiencing black screen when you change to other window (ALT+TAB) and then back to the game? If I press ALT+F4 on the game while the black screen is appearing I get the normal sreen game back plus a the 'exit confirmation' message box but sometimes it quits the game or when I go back to the game window the game freezes. I was wondering if someone knows how to bring back the normal screen without having to pray or how to don't get any black screen at all. Maybe if i could run the game through a window :s

I've installed the game with Windows XP and just copied it to the wine drive_c folder. It runs pretty well although...

Now I can deactivate the Fullscreen mode in the game options. It was showing me this error in the console: 
```
 *bla bla bla* No matching mode found(1024x768x16)! (XRandR) 
```
I added some lines in my xorg.conf and now i can change to windowed mode but I need to change the resolution of the screen when I run i because it changes automatically and now i see this error in the console:
```
fixme:xrandr:X11DRV_XRandR_SetCurrentMode Cannot change screen BPP from 32 to 16
```




Btw, the game runs better with OSS than with ALSA. If you want even better performance , uncheck all the drivers shown at winecfg .

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-10-26
Ok, I thought I should do an update for this thread.

I can now confirm that the full version of FM2008 **does** run under Wine and _doesn't_ require a no-cd patch or anything similar.

1. Install [ Java]("http://www.java.com/en/download/index.jsp"). Either the version I've linked too, or the OP'ers version it doesn't matter, both seem to work.

2. Using the terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal) type:
```
winecfg
```
At the bottom of the box that opens it says "Windows version", change this to XP.
 
3. Insert your game disk. It will probably place an icon on your desktop. Click on it and then Install the game by clicking  the setup.exe file and following the instructions.

4. Play the game by typing into the terminal:
```
 wine "C:\Program Files\Sports Interactive\Football Manager 2008\fm.exe"
```

A few additional points I should mention here:

- The OP says you need to amend winecfg to XP and then install Java. I found that when Wine is first installed it defaults to Windows 2000, and Java installs fine under that.

- FM2008 also seems to work fine running under Wine XP or Vista (though I must be honest and point out that I haven't actually played FM extensively under either environment yet).

- If the game crashes, see the OP's notes.

- If you get some ALSA warning errors, these are related to Wine's handling of sound. I opened up Winecfg, clicked on the Audio tab and changed the default sound to OSS. I don't play the game with sound so I can't tell you what effect this has other than it makes the error message go away.

- The other biggy for me were all the "err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered" type error messages ultimately resulting in the game failing to launch. These are linked to the games built in security checks. As I mentioned in one of my early posts in this thread, there were lots of complaints on the SI forums about legal CD's not being recognised. Turns out it was a fault with the Securom security protection having a problem recognising some CD-drives. To get round this I've had to install a copy of XP in VMware (I tried VirtualBox and Qemu but got the same errors when trying to install the game as I'd had using Wine), I then installed the game in XP and installed the games latest patch (which at the time of writing this is just a beta, but you can find it [here]("http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/521102691/m/2622077453")).
Finally I copied the "Sports Interactive" folder in the XP VMware images Program Files over to my "/home/username/.wine/drive_c/Program Files" folder. And ... BINGO! At last it works!

As I mentioned at the beginning I haven't tested the game extensively yet, but so far it seems to be working. There's a visible box which appears over my pointer everytime I click on a button but I can live with that. I haven't had an issue with the ALT+TAB issue mentioned in the previous post to this. If in winecfg under the "Graphics" tab you remove the tick from "Allow the window manager to control the windows" I find the result is that the game minimises to a small box to the bottom left of the desktop when I switch desks. Double clicking on that box then brings the game back again. Sometimes the game is slow to respond, but it does seem to work. However, I usually just leave that tick alone. [Update: Having played the game further, I've been finding that the minimise window doesn't seem to "unmimise" if left to the window manager (i.e the tick isn't removed). So I now suggest you _remove_ the tick from "Allow the window manager to control the windows"

:cool:

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2007-10-26
Can you tell us if you need a no-cd crack to play the game, Andy?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-10-26
> **wild_oscar said:**
> Can you tell us if you need a no-cd crack to play the game, Andy?

There is no need for a no-cd crack, the game plays "out-of-the-box" so to speak. 

You just need your original game cd in the cd-drive when starting the game up (as would be required if playing the game in Windows). This is actually an improvement, for IIRC with FM2007 the game wouldn't play without a no-cd patch on Linux.

:cool:

---

### Post by oxygala on 2007-10-26
by the way, don't forget this is the first version of the game and it can contain small bugs which lead to random crashes, CM/FM series had always bugs in the first versions to be corrected by later patches, so it's best to enable autosave and also save manually in important parts of the game (e.g when you beat real madrid with 9 men and no goalkeeper, you may really cry if you lose it)

---

### Post by BAtousay on 2007-10-27
I can only play the game on Ubuntu 7.10 x64 by using the no-CD patch.

I haven`t played more than 2 or 3 matches but it seems to work fine.

[bye]

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2007-10-27
Any other input on running the original version of the game with/without the no-cd patch?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-10-27
> **wild_oscar said:**
> Any other input on running the original version of the game with/without the no-cd patch?

It works out-of-the-box without a no-cd patch. What other input do you need?

:cool:

---

### Post by brecke on 2007-10-28
> **AndyCooll said:**
> It works out-of-the-box without a no-cd patch. What other input do you need?

:cool:

input from other users, like myself, who can't get around the dreaded "securom" warning. It just doesn't work without the no-cd patch, that's all.

btw, has anyone tried the beta patch 8.0.1?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-10-28
> **brecke said:**
> input from other users, like myself, who can't get around the dreaded "securom" warning. It just doesn't work without the no-cd patch, that's all.

btw, has anyone tried the beta patch 8.0.1?

Please read my earlier post [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3637536&postcount=39") . In it I mention the "dreaded securom warning" and the 8.0.1 beta patch. For I had major problems with these issues too. 

To sum up, I had to install an XP environment in VMware, install the game, install the patch (which fixes the Securom problem) and finally copy the Sports Interactive folder in Program Files in the XP environment over to the Wine folder in my Home Folder in Linux. After all that, thankfully the reward is the game now works under Wine!

:cool:

---

### Post by [wS]Jem on 2007-10-29
That's really great AndyCool, I didn't think that we will be able to play with the real CD under Linux !!!

I will try all of this tonight !

Thanks a lot ! :popcorn:

---

### Post by bones.77 on 2007-11-01
> **AndyCooll said:**
> Ok, I thought I should do an update for this thread.

I can now confirm that the full version of FM2008 **does** run under Wine and _doesn't_ require a no-cd patch or anything similar.

1. Install [ Java]("http://www.java.com/en/download/index.jsp"). Either the version I've linked too, or the OP'ers version it doesn't matter, both seem to work.

2. Using the terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal) type:
```
winecfg
```
At the bottom of the box that opens it says "Windows version", change this to XP.
 
3. Insert your game disk. It will probably place an icon on your desktop. Click on it and then Install the game by clicking  the setup.exe file and following the instructions.

4. Play the game by typing into the terminal:
```
 wine "C:\Program Files\Sports Interactive\Football Manager 2008\fm.exe"
```

A few additional points I should mention here:

- The OP says you need to amend winecfg to XP and then install Java. I found that when Wine is first installed it defaults to Windows 2000, and Java installs fine under that.

- FM2008 also seems to work fine running under Wine XP or Vista (though I must be honest and point out that I haven't actually played FM extensively under either environment yet).

- If the game crashes, see the OP's notes.

- If you get some ALSA warning errors, these are related to Wine's handling of sound. I opened up Winecfg, clicked on the Audio tab and changed the default sound to OSS. I don't play the game with sound so I can't tell you what effect this has other than it makes the error message go away.

- The other biggy for me were all the "err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered" type error messages ultimately resulting in the game failing to launch. These are linked to the games built in security checks. As I mentioned in one of my early posts in this thread, there were lots of complaints on the SI forums about legal CD's not being recognised. Turns out it was a fault with the Securom security protection having a problem recognising some CD-drives. To get round this I've had to install a copy of XP in VMware (I tried VirtualBox and Qemu but got the same errors when trying to install the game as I'd had using Wine), I then installed the game in XP and installed the games latest patch (which at the time of writing this is just a beta, but you can find it [here]("http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/521102691/m/2622077453")).
Finally I copied the "Sports Interactive" folder in the XP VMware images Program Files over to my "/home/username/.wine/drive_c/Program Files" folder. And ... BINGO! At last it works!

As I mentioned at the beginning I haven't tested the game extensively yet, but so far it seems to be working. There's a visible box which appears over my pointer everytime I click on a button but I can live with that. I haven't had an issue with the ALT+TAB issue mentioned in the previous post to this. If in winecfg under the "Graphics" tab you remove the tick from "Allow the window manager to control the windows" I find the result is that the game minimises to a small box to the bottom left of the desktop when I switch desks. Double clicking on that box then brings the game back again. Sometimes the game is slow to respond, but it does seem to work. However, I usually just leave that tick alone. [Update: Having played the game further, I've been finding that the minimise window doesn't seem to "unmimise" if left to the window manager (i.e the tick isn't removed). So I now suggest you _remove_ the tick from "Allow the window manager to control the windows"

:cool:

I'm sure i'm doing something wrong (i'm new), but I can't even install FM08. Java is already installed, I've verified this on the Java site and it says Congratlations You have the recommended Java installed (Version 6 Update 3).  I've set WINE to run in XP mode, then after this the instructions say to insert the disc and double click setup.exe, but all that happens on my system is a console appears for a split second and then nothing.  Has anyone else had this problem?  Is it obvious to anyone what I'm doing wrong?  I'm really impressed with Ubuntu and hope to never have to install windows again but getting FM running would be the icing on the cake.
Cheers

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-11-01
As I mention in my notes, it's possibly because of the Securom problem. In effect Securom is kicking in and not recognising your CD-ROM drive properly before you can even start the install. This is what happened to me. The patch fixes this, but of course you have to have the game installed in the first place!
The only way to solve such a problem that I've found so far is to install  XP in VMware, install the game and its patch and then copy the "Sports Interactive" folder in Program Files back to your Wine folder.

:cool:

---

### Post by DanGahan on 2007-11-04
Hopefully someone can help me get this running, Been playing with it for a couple of hours and getting no where.

Ok, installed Java, worked fine.

The installed FM08, all seemed fine.

If I try to run the game with the original exe file I get the security error.

I then tried it with a no cd patch, which seemed to be working, it loads the and then suddenly fails, the terminal out is displayed below

```
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:wtsapi:WTSRegisterSessionNotification Stub 0x50024 0x00000000

```

Cheers for any help in advance

Dan

---

### Post by DanGahan on 2007-11-04
Solved the problem by updating from version 0.9.46 to 0.9.48 of wine :)

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-11-04
> **DanGahan said:**
> Hopefully someone can help me get this running, Been playing with it for a couple of hours and getting no where.

Ok, installed Java, worked fine.

The installed FM08, all seemed fine.

If I try to run the game with the original exe file I get the security error.

I then tried it with a no cd patch, which seemed to be working, it loads the and then suddenly fails, the terminal out is displayed below

```
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:wtsapi:WTSRegisterSessionNotification Stub 0x50024 0x00000000

```

Cheers for any help in advance

Dan

Your original problem is Securom related, those error messages being standard output when the game looks for but doesn't find a verifiable game CD (even though you installed the game itself using it!) The faulty Securom security making it problematic recognising your CD-ROM drive is a known fault. Rather than using a no-cd patch, a better way to fix the problem would have been to install the games official patch which is available (currently as a beta) on the SI website.

Apparently (though I've not used one and therefore cannot verify it), no-cd patches introduce problems in the game (e.g. strange transfer fees).

:cool:

---

### Post by DanGahan on 2007-11-05
Came across another strange error after I upgraded my version of wine.

Began running the game in XP mode.

Everything went fine until after I played my first game. As the results were processed the game would constantly exit.

Switched to Vista mode and everything is running fine.

Now all I have to do is start winning!!!

---

### Post by drew-bert on 2007-11-07
> **bones.77 said:**
> I'm sure i'm doing something wrong (i'm new), but I can't even install FM08. Java is already installed, I've verified this on the Java site and it says Congratlations You have the recommended Java installed (Version 6 Update 3).  I've set WINE to run in XP mode, then after this the instructions say to insert the disc and double click setup.exe, but all that happens on my system is a console appears for a split second and then nothing.  Has anyone else had this problem?  Is it obvious to anyone what I'm doing wrong?  I'm really impressed with Ubuntu and hope to never have to install windows again but getting FM running would be the icing on the cake.
Cheers

i have the exact same problem. im a newbee and hav followed various posts on this topic. java is installed and is the latest version 6.3 and have tried setting wine xp and vista to run setup.exe but still no luck. all that then happens is when i click on setup.exe a blank window flashes on screen for a second then dissapears. i really want to play this game with all my friends raving about it but i dont want to revert back to windows but feel i might have to!! :( anyone who can give me help gratefully appreciated!! anyone??

---

### Post by scotty2hott2k on 2007-11-07
you need to install java within wine, you may well have java installed for linux, but you need to install the windows version of java in wine.

---

### Post by drew-bert on 2007-11-07
ahh i see, will do that and post back how i get on! many thanks!

---

### Post by drew-bert on 2007-11-07
this is a little strange, dont know if anyone knows the answer to this? the demo of fm08 runs and i can start up a game etc but the full version still wont install when i run setup.exe??

---

### Post by oBarbaS on 2007-11-11
Hello
Just follow the instruction here [http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&iId=5883](http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=application&iId=5883) , they work fine with gutsy gibbon 7.10

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-11-11
> **drew-bert said:**
> this is a little strange, dont know if anyone knows the answer to this? the demo of fm08 runs and i can start up a game etc but the full version still wont install when i run setup.exe??

Thats because the demo version never needed to check the CD-ROM drive, whereas the full game version does. The full game has a known bug in the games security (i.e. it has a problem recognising a number of CD-drives), To resolve this problem you have a number of options for working around it. One is to install the game in a Windows environment, install the official beta patch, and then copy that over to your Wine folder. 

Another method involves using a no-cd patch. However I haven't tried (or researched) this method so I don't have any further information.

:cool:

---

### Post by elmayor on 2007-11-13
Okay,

Got it installed, sorted out the patch... but

it won't boot - it told me that it can't initialise facegen. Any ideas?

---

### Post by ^^Snoop^^ on 2007-11-13
Facegen doesn't work for me either, I just see the hairstyle hehe :)

Not bothered about that though, the rest of the game runs great.

---

### Post by oliver.drew on 2007-11-13
Hi guys.  I'm new to this Linux stuff...I just installed Ubuntu today and followed some instructions to get Wine and FM 2008 working.

Good news is that I installed the 801beta patch and have got the thing working with the CD in the drive so no need for NoCD Patch [Relief].

I apologise if this has already been done in the thread - I admit to not reading right through it but this is how i got it working.

I installed the lastest version of wine, then installed fm just as in the original instructions, then the patch using "wine patchfilename.exe"

Then I ran the game and had the CD issue so I did this:

1) In the terminal run "winecfg"

2) Go to "Drives"

3) Click "Autodetect"  which should detect all the drives on your machine, including the CD/DVD drives

4) Click Apply

5) Run FM and it *should* work.

Like I said, I've only been working on Ubuntu for a couple of hours so I may just have fluked it but the game is loaded up and running nicely.

Edit:

Facegen isn't working - but that's not really too important!

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-11-13
Facegen is no longer working for me either, I surmise that this is an error introduced by the patch since facegen worked fine prior to this. Catch 22 is that the patch is essential for getting rid of the Securom problem, so no real choice.

:cool:

---

### Post by elmayor on 2007-11-17
Does anyone have any ideas on what CPU/memory requirements you'd need to run large db or a certain amount of leagues?

---

### Post by gaby milito on 2007-11-17
Hi...

I'm from Argentina... I need help to play FM 08 by Internet...

someone can play ????

sorry my english...

If I put de IP from server make conection but never start the game...

thanks...

por si las dudas lo pongo en castellano...

no puedo jugar por internet...

se conecta al servidor pero nunca empieza el juego...

saludos.. y gracias

---

### Post by i7achi on 2007-11-19
Hello.

FM08 works fine thanks to wine, but I've got a little problem of cursor.

There a kind of border around my cursor specially on a link when the cursor become a hand.

Can anyone tell me how to fix that problem ?

Thanks a lot a new member of ubuntu forums,
i7achi.

---

### Post by taqi303 on 2007-11-20
hello.

can anyone help me. i have problem installing the new football manager 2008. i just bought the cd.

at first i set the wincfg to windows xp. then i run from terminal, "wine autorun.exe". the menu comes out, but when i click "football manager 2008" to install, there was an error box said "There is no application associated with the given file name extension setup.exe" what should i do???? :( :confused:

i think the wine can't run the autorun.exe file. and there was no setup.exe file in the cd.

---

### Post by shoorik1987 on 2007-11-22
Ok, hi btw. my first post on the forums (installed Linux yesterday and I'm finding everything confusing, but I'm getting better at it... managed to install FM after alll :P.

Anyway back to my problem. So I got FM08 installed (with 8.0.1. patch) and it runs, but much much slower... i suppose it's the price you have to pay for running it on WINE, if not tell me how to fix it :).
That's not the main problem tho... the main problem is Face generator for regens...it only shows the haircut :D and everything else is blank :)... I know i'm not alone with this... so does anyone have a solution for this?

---

### Post by shoorik1987 on 2007-11-22
> **i7achi said:**
> Hello.

FM08 works fine thanks to wine, but I've got a little problem of cursor.

There a kind of border around my cursor specially on a link when the cursor become a hand.

Can anyone tell me how to fix that problem ?

Thanks a lot a new member of ubuntu forums,
i7achi.

OH I forgot to mention in the post above i got this to!.. dude check the regen pictures if they are ok for you

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-11-23
> **shoorik1987 said:**
> Ok, hi btw. my first post on the forums (installed Linux yesterday and I'm finding everything confusing, but I'm getting better at it... managed to install FM after alll :P.

Anyway back to my problem. So I got FM08 installed (with 8.0.1. patch) and it runs, but much much slower... i suppose it's the price you have to pay for running it on WINE, if not tell me how to fix it :).
That's not the main problem tho... the main problem is Face generator for regens...it only shows the haircut :D and everything else is blank :)... I know i'm not alone with this... so does anyone have a solution for this?
This is likely to be linked to the game itself. I know various people on the SI forums have been having issues with the facegen, indeed those using the beta patch get an error each time the game starts up saying it has been disabled (I haven't installed the newly released patch to see if this fixes things).

The border around the cursor I think is related to the Wine graphics rendering. I had this same problem myself when I first installed FM08. It's gone now. However I'm not sure whether it was solved by installing the latest version of Wine, or by the the fact that I now run the game in its own Window, or because I've got a new laptop and hence am using a different graphics card!

:cool:

---

### Post by shoorik1987 on 2007-11-23
> **AndyCooll said:**
> This is likely to be linked to the game itself. I know various people on the SI forums have been having issues with the facegen, indeed those using the beta patch get an error each time the game starts up saying it has been disabled (I haven't installed the newly released patch to see if this fixes things).

The border around the cursor I think is related to the Wine graphics rendering. I had this same problem myself when I first installed FM08. It's gone now. However I'm not sure whether it was solved by installing the latest version of Wine, or by the the fact that I now run the game in its own Window, or because I've got a new laptop and hence am using a different graphics card!

:cool:

Thx for the answer...How do you mean playing the game in it's own window?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-11-23
at a command line type:
```
winecfg
```

This opens up Wine's config app. Click on the "Graphics" tab, and then tick the option "Emulate a virtual desktop" and add the desktop size you want, e.g. 1024x768

:cool:

---

### Post by Completenutter2 on 2007-11-25
Or just untick 'Fullscreen' in the game settings, works just as well :)

---

### Post by jackietreehorn on 2007-11-29
I just installed the demo, but when I try and play all that comes up is the sports interactive logo that when you see when you start the game, and than the game just closes. I have followed all of the steps, so i don't know what's wrong. Can anyone help?

---

### Post by i7achi on 2007-12-03
> So I got FM08 installed (with 8.0.1. patch) and it runs, but much much slower... i suppose it's the price you have to pay for running it on WINE, if not tell me how to fix it

I got this problem too, the FM07 version was so much faster I don't know why it's like that.

And no solution for the cursor, I tried the virtual desktop of Wine 1024*768, 1280*1024 with and without fullscreen box checked and run the game in XP/2003/Vista OS.

Did someone succeed to fix it ?

---

### Post by i7achi on 2007-12-04
I got a new problem now, I can't uncheck Full Screen, I've a error box and when I come back to Ubuntu the resolution of my screen is changed to 1024*768.

Fixed : add -small_screen -windowed to your shortcut.

---

### Post by panaretos22 on 2007-12-04
can i ask something?on my pc i dont have windows wine help me to play games or not?(it is a silly question as i know the answer is no ) i want a second advice!

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-12-05
> **panaretos22 said:**
> can i ask something?on my pc i dont have windows wine help me to play games or not?(it is a silly question as i know the answer is no ) i want a second advice!

Wine MIGHT help you to play Windows games. However it's on a game by game basis. Some will work (e.g. WOW), others may not. You'd need to visit the Wine website to find out whether the games you are considering playing will actually run using Wine.

[Wine HQ]("http://www.winehq.org/")

:cool:

---

### Post by jackietreehorn on 2007-12-10
I'm having trouble even installing the demo. I downloaded the vanilla version, and am using the latest version of wine. When I try and install, the InstallAnywhere works fine. After that, a box appears that would be the menu to install the game with. However, all I get is a blank box. Has anyone else come across this problem? Does anyone have any suggestions?

---

### Post by mitchi on 2007-12-11
i installed the full game, and it worked for me fine, although a fraction of a second slower than in window$. but the data editor does not seem to work.

---

### Post by pinow on 2007-12-21
I haven't tried to install it yet.
But I'm a long time CM/FM player (on Windows that is) and recently I've made the switch to Ubuntu 7.10. And I've never used Wine before.

I was wondering if it's **possible to add custom pictures/logos/kits**?
Because in Windows those custom pics/logos/kits have to be in the My Documents folder..

---

### Post by pinow on 2007-12-24
Bump..

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-12-24
Though I've never tried it I will take an educated guess and say yes it is possible.

1. Wine creates a "dummy" copy of your C drive. 
2. In Windows FM saves all files to My Documents including saved games. My version of FM2008 on Linux is automatically saving everything to my Home folder in LInux (i.e. the Linux equivalent). 

Either way, it indicates that FM will be able to find your files though you may have to experiment a little as to where you save them.

:cool:

---

### Post by oxygala on 2007-12-24
> **pinow said:**
> I haven't tried to install it yet.
But I'm a long time CM/FM player (on Windows that is) and recently I've made the switch to Ubuntu 7.10. And I've never used Wine before.

I was wondering if it's **possible to add custom pictures/logos/kits**?
Because in Windows those custom pics/logos/kits have to be in the My Documents folder..
 
yes it's completely possible, just like you do in windows. in your home directory find .wine directory (select show hidden files first) the rest is the same as in windows.

---

### Post by pinow on 2007-12-25
That's great, thanks for the replies.

I'll give it a shot later this week, you'll probably hear from me again :p

---

### Post by empty89 on 2007-12-28
This game work great.. i got it to work completely, except for fullscreen with wine have to emulate desktop due to 16 and 24 colour problem.. I copied the whole installed directory from windows to linux.. and it JUST work..=D

---

### Post by pinow on 2007-12-28
> **oxygala said:**
> do you have compiz working? if so, disable desktop effects from system>preferences>appearance. i highly doubt it thou, there's no chance compiz works with that xorg configuration. by the way, did you restart or at least ctrl+alt+backspace?
So this means Compiz needs to be disabled everytime you want to play FM?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2007-12-28
> **pinow said:**
> So this means Compiz needs to be disabled everytime you want to play FM?

No it shouldn't be necessary to disable Compiz. I have the "normal" Compiz running and the game runs fine. However it may be useful to switch it off to begin with, while you try and get the game running successfully.

You can read how I successfully got the game working [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3637536&postcount=39").

:cool:

---

### Post by KriZo on 2008-01-05
i can't install Football Manager, here's what the terminal says.

kristoffer@kristoffer-desktop:/media/cdrom$ wine setup.exe
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400

Another window shows up 
[IMG]http://img158.imageshack.us/img158/5792/screenshotew2.png[/IMG]
And then nothing else happens.

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-05
> **KriZo said:**
> i can't install Football Manager, here's what the terminal says.

kristoffer@kristoffer-desktop:/media/cdrom$ wine setup.exe
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400

Another window shows up 
[IMG]http://img158.imageshack.us/img158/5792/screenshotew2.png[/IMG]


Wow...that's odd. I was JUST trying to install it and have the exact same problem!

I am running wine version wine-0.9.52.

Anyone else with this issue?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-01-05
It doesn't surprise me that you cannot install FM2008 ...there are lots of people who've had the problem you mention (both on Windows and Linux) Typically this is due to a fault with the Securom security that's on the CD itself. I talk about it earlier in this thread [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3637536&postcount=39"). I also describe how I overcame the issue.

:cool:

---

### Post by KriZo on 2008-01-06
> **AndyCooll said:**
> It doesn't surprise me that you cannot install FM2008 ...there are lots of people who've had the problem you mention (both on Windows and Linux) Typically this is due to a fault with the Securom security that's on the CD itself. I talk about it earlier in this thread [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3637536&postcount=39"). I also describe how I overcame the issue.

:cool:


I read your post, but how should i be able to copy the FM directory if i'm not able to install it?

---

### Post by KriZo on 2008-01-06
Now it works, I installed FM i windows XP, and then i copied the FM directory to an ext3 drive, now i runs great.

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-06
> **KriZo said:**
> Now it works, I installed FM i windows XP, and then i copied the FM directory to an ext3 drive, now i runs great.

Did you have any problems running the 8.01 update?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-01-06
> **KriZo said:**
> Now it works, I installed FM i windows XP, and then i copied the FM directory to an ext3 drive, now i runs great.

Excellent. As I posted earlier, that's what my howto says to do!

:cool:

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-01-06
> **wild_oscar said:**
> Did you have any problems running the 8.01 update?

I doubt it. 

Essentially my howto says install the game in a Windows XP environment, install the patch, then copy the folder over. It's the patch that actually fixes the Securom security problem and enables the game to run properly (i.e. with the original disc and without requiring a no-cd patch).

:cool:

---

### Post by KriZo on 2008-01-07
new issue, i get an xml error when loading the game, which eventually makes the game crash. I had the same issue in windows, is it securom related?

And I can't use another database besides the 800, why can't I use my customized database?

---

### Post by jackietreehorn on 2008-01-11
When I try and install the demo I get this screen. I don't understand why it's happening or what to do to fix it.

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-12
Has anyone been able to use the data editor?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-01-12
> **jackietreehorn said:**
> When I try and install the demo I get this screen. I don't understand why it's happening or what to do to fix it.

Have you first installed Java (i.e. Java for WinXP within Wine)?

:cool:

---

### Post by jackietreehorn on 2008-01-12
> **AndyCooll said:**
> Have you first installed Java (i.e. Java for WinXP within Wine)?

:cool:

Yes, I installed java using the link from the first post.

---

### Post by KriZo on 2008-01-13
> **wild_oscar said:**
> Has anyone been able to use the data editor?

The data editor works fine here, but i can't use my own database.

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-13
> **KriZo said:**
> The data editor works fine here, but i can't use my own database.

Really? I get an odd error here:

```
err:winedevice:ServiceMain driver L"vstor2-p2v30" failed to load
err:module:import_dll Library MSVCP71.dll (which is needed by L"Z:\\home\\miguel\\editor.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library MSVCR71.dll (which is needed by L"Z:\\home\\miguel\\editor.exe") not found
err:module:LdrInitializeThunk Main exe initialization for L"Z:\\home\\miguel\\editor.exe" failed, status c0000135

```

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-01-13
> **wild_oscar said:**
> Really? I get an odd error here:

```
err:winedevice:ServiceMain driver L"vstor2-p2v30" failed to load
err:module:import_dll Library MSVCP71.dll (which is needed by L"Z:\\home\\miguel\\editor.exe") not found
err:module:import_dll Library MSVCR71.dll (which is needed by L"Z:\\home\\miguel\\editor.exe") not found
err:module:LdrInitializeThunk Main exe initialization for L"Z:\\home\\miguel\\editor.exe" failed, status c0000135

```

Not sure what's going on, however those are the type of error messages you get when its searching for a CD-ROM and failed to recognise one.

:cool:

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-13
> **AndyCooll said:**
> Not sure what's going on, however those are the type of error messages you get when its searching for a CD-ROM and failed to recognise one.

:cool:
After copying the dll's, I now get an error in the loading of the data editor itself:
> 
Unable to load resources!
Couldn't find the data folder!

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-15
Updated status:


1) Data editor doesn't work. Oddly, the same message (on the previous post) appears on FM 2007's data editor

2) Network game doesn't work (users can't connect, can't start new network game)

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-16
> **shoorik1987 said:**
> OH I forgot to mention in the post above i got this to!.. dude check the regen pictures if they are ok for you


My regen pics are also bugged: I can only see the hair. Is this common to everybody?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-01-16
> **wild_oscar said:**
> My regen pics are also bugged: I can only see the hair. Is this common to everybody?

I don't get any regen pics at all. In fact I get an error message related to this when the game boots up.

:cool:

---

### Post by proalan on 2008-01-16
As an option, if you have a windows partition just install it normally in windows with a no-cd patch.

You can run the game straight from wine off your windows partition.

Chelsea have been relegated to the championship in 2011 in my game :) and I'm 4 games away from winning the league for the first time with Villa.

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-16
> **proalan said:**
> As an option, if you have a windows partition just install it normally in windows with a no-cd patch.

You can run the game straight from wine off your windows partition.

That's what I did. Doesn't solve the regens bug, does it?

---

### Post by proalan on 2008-01-16
> **wild_oscar said:**
> That's what I did. Doesn't solve the regens bug, does it?

Like this?
[http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/9482076743/m/5562008073](http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/9482076743/m/5562008073)

I'd read around and it appears to be caused by vacant staff positions, clubs nations without managers.
An apparent quick fix would be to download a complete players database update.

I'll report back

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-16
> **proalan said:**
> Like this?
[http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/9482076743/m/5562008073](http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/9482076743/m/5562008073)

I'd read around and it appears to be caused by vacant staff positions, clubs nations without managers.
An apparent quick fix would be to download a complete players database update.

I'll report back

No, the bug where regens' faces don't appear, only their hair.

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-24
The hair bug I mentioned can be seen here:

[IMG]http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2184/2215793307_833455f5ed.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by SupremeT on 2008-01-27
Hi

I’ve been reading these posts with great entusiasm as I really miss playing FM at just want it to work on my Ubuntu…

I have tried everything I could find around the net, but it hasn’t helped me at all :-( I’m absolutely not good at this Ubuntu thing and I don’t know if I’m doing something wrong with Wine or where the trouble is.

I’m using 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon, have installed the newest Wine and have installed java too. When I want to install the game a popup comes up for about 1 sec and then *poof* gone again and nothing more happens. How come?? Anything I can do?

It’s a laptop I’m using and I can tell you that I can’t make “the cube” work either if that gives you anything…??

Please help me!!!

SupremeT

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-01-27
> **SupremeT said:**
> Hi

I’ve been reading these posts with great entusiasm as I really miss playing FM at just want it to work on my Ubuntu…

I have tried everything I could find around the net, but it hasn’t helped me at all :-( I’m absolutely not good at this Ubuntu thing and I don’t know if I’m doing something wrong with Wine or where the trouble is.

I’m using 7.10 Gutsy Gibbon, have installed the newest Wine and have installed java too. When I want to install the game a popup comes up for about 1 sec and then *poof* gone again and nothing more happens. How come?? Anything I can do?

It’s a laptop I’m using and I can tell you that I can’t make “the cube” work either if that gives you anything…??

Please help me!!!

SupremeT

When you installed Java did you install the version for Ubuntu, or the Windows version (which is what Wine needs)? 

In effect Wine creates its own little Windows "sub-world" (open up Nautilus,press CTRL+H and have a look at the .wine folder in your home directory). When you download and install the Windows version of Java, Wine will kick in and install it to that .wine directory.

See my instructions for how I installed the game [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3637536&postcount=39"). Your method might be different, but the general principles should be similar.

:cool:

---

### Post by SupremeT on 2008-01-27
> **AndyCooll said:**
> When you installed Java did you install the version for Ubuntu, or the Windows version (which is what Wine needs)? 

In effect Wine creates its own little Windows "sub-world" (open up Nautilus,press CTRL+H and have a look at the .wine folder in your home directory). When you download and install the Windows version of Java, Wine will kick in and install it to that .wine directory.

See my instructions for how I installed the game [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3637536&postcount=39"). Your method might be different, but the general principles should be similar.

:cool:

Thanks for the reply, Andy.

Yeah I did install java for Windows - at least that is what I was trying. The Java I have in the .wine-folder is "jre-6u3-windows-i586-p-iftw.exe".

Did also try to do it the way you describe, but it just wont work for me :(

---

### Post by Bennnfc on 2008-01-29
I am having problems with installing this game on my Ubuntu setup 

Ive installed both Java versions and then i have to go to the back end of the CD-rom to even get the install anywhere to run and load up but when it does the first progress bar it just loads up a blank window saying 'Untitled Window'.

That is the only way i can get the first bit of the installer to run when i click on the EXE files i just get an error message and even when i add the Setup.exe to the Wine application it still doesnt open.

Anyway ive posted a screenie to show you what i mean thanks for your help.

[IMG]http://i29.tinypic.com/ngva86.jpg[/IMG]

Also check where i am re. file system im not in the root of the cd-rom because nothing will open there.

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-01-30
Bennnfc - try running it through the console to see what kind of error you're getting.


Regarding the network game, as I can see it, I can host games but am unable to join games on other servers. Also, I cannot start a new network game!

Is this reproducible? If you want to test joining a network game, let me know.

---

### Post by Vgercke on 2008-02-09
When I try to install it, the installer pops up for a sec and then disappears again? Is  There any solution.? Please, I am desperat

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-02-10
Like the previous user, either:

1) run the setup through a shell console (wine /path/to/installer/setup.exe)

2) Do what is suggested somewhere back in this thread: Install the game in Windows and then you can simply make a link to the wine folder:

ln -s /media/windows/ProgramFiles/Sports Interactive ~/.wine/drive_c/ProgramFiles...

---

### Post by SupremeT on 2008-02-19
> **wild_oscar said:**
> Like the previous user, either:

1) run the setup through a shell console (wine /path/to/installer/setup.exe)



Hi Wild_Oscar

I did try this but the Wine window just pups up and disappears again and this is what the shell console shows:

steffan@steffan-laptop:~$ wine /home/steffan/FM08/FM08/setup.exe
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400

You know what I can do??

Thanks for the help!

- SupremeT

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-02-19
> **SupremeT said:**
> Hi Wild_Oscar

I did try this but the Wine window just pups up and disappears again and this is what the shell console shows:

steffan@steffan-laptop:~$ wine /home/steffan/FM08/FM08/setup.exe
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400

You know what I can do??

Thanks for the help!

- SupremeT

Hmm...
If 1) fails...try 2) ;)

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-02-19
> **SupremeT said:**
> Hi Wild_Oscar

I did try this but the Wine window just pups up and disappears again and this is what the shell console shows:

steffan@steffan-laptop:~$ wine /home/steffan/FM08/FM08/setup.exe
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400

You know what I can do??

Thanks for the help!

- SupremeT

Looking at that path, it indicates that you've copied the CD-ROM disc to your home folder. The install is unlikely to be successful using this method. Those are effectively error messages that happen when the setup cannot find the CD. Try installing from the original disc and post back your results.

:cool:

---

### Post by rconnect on 2008-03-06
Anyone been able to run FM2008 with patch 8.0.1 with Ubuntu? I had working before the release of this patch, but now it asks from CDROM, and if I use the FMLoader, it displays that I am not using the 8.0.1 version. My laptop its a Lenovo X60 and does not have a cdrom.

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-03-06
> **rconnect said:**
> Anyone been able to run FM2008 with patch 8.0.1 with Ubuntu? I had working before the release of this patch, but now it asks from CDROM, and if I use the FMLoader, it displays that I am not using the 8.0.1 version. My laptop its a Lenovo X60 and does not have a cdrom.
I'm running 8.0.2 with Ubuntu and it asks for the CD-ROM. That is how it should be. If you run the game under Windows it will ask for the CD-ROM too, for the game is designed so that it checks for an official disk on bootup.

To get round that you'd have to install an unofficial no-cdrom patch, which is technically illegal (though this was the only option open to Linux users for some previous versions of the game).

:cool:

---

### Post by AmoX on 2008-03-29
I'm having the same problem with
```

"user"@"machine":/cdrom$ wine setup.exe 
fixme:spoolsv:serv_main (0 (nil))
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400

```
as other people. I even tried all the suggestions in this thread, except that I'd rather not install an Evaluation version of VMware and then get a copy of XP somehow. Is there really no other way to cheat that pesky Securom bug?

Btw: I have installed Wine 0.9.58 and jre-6u5-windows-i586-p.exe on Gutsy.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by elnarc on 2008-04-14
> **KriZo said:**
> 

Another window shows up 
[IMG]http://img158.imageshack.us/img158/5792/screenshotew2.png[/IMG]
And then nothing else happens.

KriZo, I'm having the same problem when I try to install through the terminal window. Also I have to navigate my way through to the back-end of the cd-rom, like Bennnfc, to even get the install anywhere to run. But it does run, preparing to install it says, then once it's finished loading nothing happens. This is extremely frustrating, can someone help?

To be exact this is the message that appears (after I enter 'wine setup.exe'):
patrick@patrick-laptop:~$ wine setup.exe
cwd: C:\windows\temp\I1208180462\Windows
cmd: "C:\windows\temp\I1208180462\Windows\resource\jre\bin\javaw.exe" -Xms16777216 -Xmx50331648 -classpath "C:\windows\temp\I1208180462\InstallerData\IAClasses.zip;C:\windows\temp\I1208180462\Windows\resource\jdglue.zip;C:\windows\temp\I1208180462\InstallerData\Execute.zip;C:\windows\temp\I1208180462\Windows\InstallerData\Execute.zip;C:\windows\temp\I1208180462\InstallerData\Resource1.zip;C:\windows\temp\I1208180462\Windows\InstallerData\Resource1.zip;C:\windows\temp\I1208180462\InstallerData;C:\windows\temp\I1208180462\Windows\InstallerData;" com.zerog.lax.LAX "C:/windows/temp/I1208180462/Windows/setup.lax" "C:/windows/temp/lax39df.tmp"

---

### Post by rodrigouroz on 2008-04-15
Hi

I'm using wine 0.9.58 and Ubuntu Feisty. I've managed to install Football Manager 2008 with the latest patch (8.0.2). I can play but it always crashes when I finish the first match.

Do anyone have this same problem? Any workaround?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-04-15
> **rodrigouroz said:**
> Hi

I'm using wine 0.9.58 and Ubuntu Feisty. I've managed to install Football Manager 2008 with the latest patch (8.0.2). I can play but it always crashes when I finish the first match.

Do anyone have this same problem? Any workaround?
And if you start another new game and play the first match in that does the same thing happen?

:cool:

---

### Post by rodrigouroz on 2008-04-16
Yes, even if I create a new manager, start a new season with a different team. Something happens when the game is returning to the main screen after a match, and it crashes.

It's a pity because I considering installing a Windows only to play this beatiful game!

---

### Post by Tha-Fox on 2008-05-04
I have Acer 5024 laptop. I managed to install and play FM but after upgrading to Hardy it won't work. I installed FM2008 on Gutsy like this:

1) Installed the game in Windows Xp -computer.
2) Copied the files in wine-folder on this computer.

After that everything worked and I played the game until upgrading to Hardy. In Hardy game gives errors while starting up and finally crashes while in "Sega-window" or so. I have the latest version of wine. I get errors that are written in attached files. I've tried to disable desktop effects and boot the machine, no luck.

Any help is appreciated!

---

### Post by gvdonzin on 2008-05-04
Hey guys.

I managed to install FM and it runs silk smooth, no problems at all.

BUT the default FM08 resolution is 1024*768, imo it just looks horrible.. and there is no way of changing it in game, does anyone know how to change it to 1280*1024 ?

Thanks.

---

### Post by gualdino on 2008-05-05
```
wine '/home/miguel/.wine/drive_c/Programas/Sports Interactive/Football Manager 2008/fm.exe' **--fullscreen_width=1280 --fullscreen_height=1024**
```

---

### Post by gvdonzin on 2008-05-05
Hey, do I put that in Applications > Wine > Programs > SI > Football Manager > .exe ? cause I've tried that but it doesn't work =\

---

### Post by gualdino on 2008-05-05
You try with command line ?

---

### Post by gvdonzin on 2008-05-05
Yes it worked with wine $HOME/.wine/drive_c/Program\ Files/Sports\ Interactive/Football\ Manager\ 2008/fm.exe --fullscreen_width=1280 --fullscreen_height=1024 . edited it a bit, thanks.

But I'd hate pasting that line in every time I want to play D:

---

### Post by gualdino on 2008-05-05
you can create an application to run the wine $ HOME / .wine / drive_c / Program \ Files / Sports \ Interactive / Football \ Manager \ 2008/fm.exe - fullscreen_width = 1280 - fullscreen_height = 1024

such as the zip I sent.

---

### Post by gvdonzin on 2008-05-05
Thank you !!

---

### Post by Raistlin82 on 2008-05-22
> **KriZo said:**
> i can't install Football Manager, here's what the terminal says.

kristoffer@kristoffer-desktop:/media/cdrom$ wine setup.exe
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400

Another window shows up 
[IMG]http://img158.imageshack.us/img158/5792/screenshotew2.png[/IMG]
And then nothing else happens.

Hi all, first I apologise in advance am completely new to utubu and linux as a whole!  I'm having the same problem as above, have the newest versions of wine and java and have set wine to xp etc etc but to no avail.  What i haven't done is tried the link to windows install thing.... as i don't have windows anymore (be gone vile microsoft!)

The girlfriend does have a vista laptop would copying the installed files across be an option? any help is appreciated, thanks!!:confused:

EDIT should mention that I'm using Ubuntu 8.04 hardy heron

---

### Post by Raistlin82 on 2008-05-22
Just to give a bit more info, this is what comes up in the terminal 


adam@adam-desktop:~$ wine /media/cdrom1/setup.exe
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
err:alsa:ALSA_CheckSetVolume Could not find 'PCM Playback Volume' element
err:alsa:ALSA_CheckSetVolume Could not find 'PCM Playback Volume' element
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400
adam@adam-desktop:~$

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-05-23
> **Raistlin82 said:**
> Hi all, first I apologise in advance am completely new to utubu and linux as a whole!  I'm having the same problem as above, have the newest versions of wine and java and have set wine to xp etc etc but to no avail.  What i haven't done is tried the link to windows install thing.... as i don't have windows anymore (be gone vile microsoft!)

The girlfriend does have a vista laptop would copying the installed files across be an option? any help is appreciated, thanks!!:confused:

EDIT should mention that I'm using Ubuntu 8.04 hardy heron

I'd say to copy it from your gf's laptop. Be aware, though, that there are a couple of extra directories (in user's application data folder and so). If it doesn't work by simply copying the Program Files' ones, check for the other directories as well.

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-05-23
> **Raistlin82 said:**
> Just to give a bit more info, this is what comes up in the terminal 


adam@adam-desktop:~$ wine /media/cdrom1/setup.exe
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
err:alsa:ALSA_CheckSetVolume Could not find 'PCM Playback Volume' element
err:alsa:ALSA_CheckSetVolume Could not find 'PCM Playback Volume' element
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400
adam@adam-desktop:~$
Those ALSA error messages relate to your sound configuration. You could have a try amending the Wine sound settings.

Otherwise, yes the easiest way to get the game working is to install the game on a WinXP/Vista box, including installing  updates/patches from the FM website and then copy the folders (from your Program Files and My Documents)across to the equivalent folders in your .wine folder.

I provided some help on such an installation [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3637536&postcount=39")

:cool:

---

### Post by Raistlin82 on 2008-05-27
Thanks for the help guys, unfortunately I havent been able to try your suggestions as my motherboard has a problem, hoping to have it replaced shortly though!

---

### Post by Sino on 2008-05-28
Hi all. First of all, my english is not good, so sorry about that.
Today i tryed to install FM2008. I had to read a lot of tips in internet but finally I got this.
But now the game crashes on the titles, i read the first page and edited the xorg.conf,  but it doesn't work yet.
I'm trying to install it on a Windows PC and then copy it to my wine folder, i will tell you if it works.
Do you have any other solution?

---

### Post by Van_Glorious on 2008-05-29
We just need to lobby SI and get a linux version

---

### Post by Raistlin82 on 2008-05-29
I managed to get Football Manager 2008 to run in Hardy Heron in the end!  I did as suggested earlier copy the installed fm08 from vista to the wine folder.  Guessing this will only work in a dual boot up tho

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-05-30
> **Raistlin82 said:**
> I managed to get Football Manager 2008 to run in Hardy Heron in the end!  I did as suggested earlier copy the installed fm08 from vista to the wine folder.  Guessing this will only work in a dual boot up tho
Nope. You just need a copy of XP/Vista to make an initial copy of the game. Once copied over you can do away with XP/Vista. 
I don't have Windows installed on any of my machines, my XP disk basically gathers dust. I installed XP to a VMware image, copied the files and deleted the XP image.

If the FM08 disk didn't have a faulty copy of Securom on it you'd probably have been able to do a straight install of the game without the need for Windows.

:cool:

---

### Post by Raistlin82 on 2008-05-31
Sweet, yet another argument to chuck away vista :-)  Got a proper noob question though, how can I add FM to the applications/games menu?  :popcorn:

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-06-01
System > Preferences > Main Menu

Highlight the folder you want to add it to (e.g. Games) and select "New Item".
Give it a name, under command add the following:
> wine "c:\Program Files\Sports Interactive\Football Manager 2008\fm.exe"
and add a comment if you want. Click ok, and you're done!

:cool:

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-06-04
> **Van_Glorious said:**
> We just need to lobby SI and get a linux version

Fine idea. Take a look at this topic as well: [http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/521102691/m/3332082053?r=8472072053#8472072053]("http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/521102691/m/3332082053?r=8472072053#8472072053")

---

### Post by wild_oscar on 2008-06-04
> **wild_oscar said:**
> Fine idea. Take a look at this topic as well: [http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/521102691/m/3332082053?r=8472072053#8472072053]("http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/521102691/m/3332082053?r=8472072053#8472072053")

Well, as a start: [http://www.petitiononline.com/FMLinux/petition.html]("http://www.petitiononline.com/FMLinux/petition.html")

---

### Post by Ameneon on 2008-06-04
Works pretty well with Wine certainly, but more "professional" games out for Linux is all to the good. Nothing may ever come of it but a voice is a voice is a voice, count me in.

---

### Post by Raistlin82 on 2008-06-04
Petition signed!

---

### Post by socngill on 2008-06-10
Also signed the petition, but there are only 46 signatures thus far :(

---

### Post by gspan13 on 2008-06-10
> **oxygala said:**
> i had the same problem with the full game, i erased the .wine directory and reinstalled the latest wine from winehq.com repositories, it works pretty good. of course if your wine directory has important stuff, first backup and try upgrading without erasing anything. mine was pretty much empty.
i have the same problem.I followed your suggestion to reinstal newest wine but the problem was the same.(a gray java window installer).if anyone can help me with this?

thanks a lot
  gspan13

system:penetium4 2.8GH  ,  nvidia 6800(512)  ,  ubuntu hardy

---

### Post by bouta on 2008-06-10
48 uptil now onlyyyyyyyyy:confused:

---

### Post by gspan13 on 2008-06-10
we are 49 share these
[http://www.petitiononline.com/FMLinux/petition-sign.html](http://www.petitiononline.com/FMLinux/petition-sign.html)

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-06-11
50 now.

:cool:

---

### Post by gspan13 on 2008-06-12
ok, i have manage to install fm08(i reinstald wine and java a couple of times)
Now,i have a biger problem.when i run the football manager.exe with wine a black screen comes out and the game does not start.
If someone can help me with this.

thanks

---

### Post by gspan13 on 2008-06-12
ok, i have manage to install fm08(i reinstald wine and java a couple of times)
Now,i have an other problem.when i run the football manager.exe with wine i have only black screen 
If someone can help me with this.

thanks

---

### Post by Van_Glorious on 2008-06-14
> **wild_oscar said:**
> Well, as a start: [http://www.petitiononline.com/FMLinux/petition.html]("http://www.petitiononline.com/FMLinux/petition.html")

Signed.

---

### Post by muddey on 2008-06-17
FM08 used to work fine for me, but since upgrading to Edgy the game crashes when loading the game (at the Sega screen). 

In Gutsy I got the game working by copying a install from a windows install. As long as I disabled Compiz everything worked hunky dory. I've even tried to completely removed Compiz this time, including conf files, but no joy. I've also tried reinstalling wine and java several times. 

When loading in the terminal I get the following
> 
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
preloader: Warning: failed to reserve range 00000000-60000000
err:dosmem:setup_dos_mem Cannot use first megabyte for DOS address space, please report
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:wtsapi:WTSRegisterSessionNotification Stub 0x10026 0x00000000
X Error of failed request:  GLXBadContext
  Major opcode of failed request:  143 (GLX)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  5 (X_GLXMakeCurrent)
  Serial number of failed request:  939
  Current serial number in output stream:  939

Any ideas what could be wrong? Thanks

---

### Post by blackaardvark on 2008-07-25
> **jackietreehorn said:**
> I just installed the demo, but when I try and play all that comes up is the sports interactive logo that when you see when you start the game, and than the game just closes. I have followed all of the steps, so i don't know what's wrong. Can anyone help?

Same problem here (but I have the full game), is there a fix for it?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-07-25
Have you tried starting the game from the command line?

It should then output some information (including an error message), and give us a guide as to what might be going wrong.

:cool:

---

### Post by blackaardvark on 2008-07-25
OK. I've installed Java 1.6 in wine, FM08 installed fine, and when I put in wine fm.exe (i'm in the right directory etc) I get this:
```

err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:wtsapi:WTSRegisterSessionNotification Stub 0x10026 0x00000000
X Error of failed request:  GLXBadContext
  Major opcode of failed request:  162 (GLX)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  5 (X_GLXMakeCurrent)
  Serial number of failed request:  1079
  Current serial number in output stream:  1079

```

Am I missing a wine extension or something?  I have an ATI Radeon x600, which can't make things much easier....

EDIT - Actually it seems very similar to muddey's problem above this.......

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by smCw6GNakQn300£ on 2008-07-29
> **blackaardvark said:**
> Same problem here (but I have the full game), is there a fix for it?

I followed the instructions at the start of this thread, and ended up getting the same as above.

Then, I saw the post about changing the xorg.conf file (disabling visual effects) and it works fine.

Is there any way I can have the visual desktop effects (Compiz) on when normally using Ubuntu, but then just switch them off (apply the file change) when I double-click on the FM2008 icon?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-07-29
Hmmm, good question, not sure. This is really about Wine interacting with X11/Compiz.

So, it might well be possible if you can build into your desktop shortcut command the equivalent of stopping Compiz, restarting the X server, and then launching Wine and the game.

Not sure what the whole command for that would be though.

:cool:

---

### Post by Hairy_Palms on 2008-07-29
One thing the users having problems can try is wine 0.9.61 and java 1.5, came back to FM the other day and couldnt get it to work with the latest wine, but it works fine still with 0.9.61,

---

### Post by smCw6GNakQn300£ on 2008-07-29
> **Hairy_Palms said:**
> One thing the users having problems can try is wine 0.9.61 and java 1.5, came back to FM the other day and couldnt get it to work with the latest wine, but it works fine still with 0.9.61,

I'm on Windows at the moment, so I can't check right now, but I just downloaded and installed the latest Wine from their website, and then downloaded the latest Java (for Windows).


---

Found [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=219668") thread for restarting XServer, so I might try my hand at a small script to enable/disable the visual effects when playing the game...

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-07-29
> **Hairy_Palms said:**
> One thing the users having problems can try is wine 0.9.61 and java 1.5, came back to FM the other day and couldnt get it to work with the latest wine, but it works fine still with 0.9.61,
That's fine if that's the only version of Wine that works for you, and it's might be worth a try.

However FM2008 usually works fine with the latest version of Wine. I'm currently using version 1.1.2, and the version of Java that I have installed is Version 6.

:cool:

---

### Post by blackaardvark on 2008-08-01
> **BRY said:**
> 
Then, I saw the post about changing the xorg.conf file (disabling visual effects) and it works fine.


Nice one, works like a charm.

---

### Post by bjhni on 2008-08-06
Hi,

I have installed Ubuntu EEE 8.04, FM2008 (on a USB stick via WinXp with no_cd crack), Wine, Java JRE, changed xorg.conf, I don't run compiz AND i have read ALL 18 pages in this thread(!), but I still get this error:

errle:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
errle:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1

.....what the !"#¤%&/ am I doing wrong? Any ideas?   

I run Ubuntu EEE on an Asus EEE PC 900!

---

### Post by smCw6GNakQn300£ on 2008-08-06
> **AndyCooll said:**
> 

- The other biggy for me were all the "err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered" type error messages ultimately resulting in the game failing to launch. These are linked to the games built in security checks. As I mentioned in one of my early posts in this thread, there were lots of complaints on the SI forums about legal CD's not being recognised. Turns out it was a fault with the Securom security protection having a problem recognising some CD-drives. To get round this I've had to install a copy of XP in VMware (I tried VirtualBox and Qemu but got the same errors when trying to install the game as I'd had using Wine), I then installed the game in XP and installed the games latest patch (which at the time of writing this is just a beta, but you can find it [here]("http://community.sigames.com/eve/forums/a/tpc/f/521102691/m/2622077453")).
Finally I copied the "Sports Interactive" folder in the XP VMware images Program Files over to my "/home/username/.wine/drive_c/Program Files" folder. And ... BINGO! At last it works!

:cool:

bjhni,

Did you try the above?

Also, did you restart the XServer after changing your xorg.conf file?
(Ctrl+Alt+Backspace)

---

### Post by bjhni on 2008-08-06
It runs perfect in WinXP from my USB-stick but I will try to patch it. 

XServer was restartet.

Thanks for your input BRY.... Keep 'em coming :-)

---

### Post by Tha-Fox on 2008-08-08
bjhni, if you get the game running, please let me know how well it runs. I'm buying EEE 901 and I'd like to install FM2008 in it. In this Acer I've played with 800 MHz so I assume it runs quite well in EEE too.

---

### Post by Skjoldan on 2008-08-10
I have just installed Ubuntu, and Wine through add/remove programs.

I can with no problems install FM08 and the newest update.

But when I try to start a game, first it says, that it can't load tactics. Which I can press OK to.. After that It says that it cant load the tactics screen.. and no mather how much I press ok nothing happens.

Can anybody help.

I have allready gotten Civilization 4 to work under Wine.

---

### Post by smCw6GNakQn300£ on 2008-08-12
Well, I've managed to find a cool little script to enable/disable compiz.
It's called "compiz-switch"

However, I am still looking for a way to easily toggle the aiglx between on and off.

Can anyone help?

---

### Post by Tha-Fox on 2008-08-13
There is also "fusion-icon" for toggling compiz on and off while playing.

---

### Post by smCw6GNakQn300£ on 2008-08-13
I can't find a script to do what I want, so I've come up with another idea:

- create a new user called "fm2008" or something similar

- delete /etc/X11/xorg.conf but create a customised xorg.conf file in each users home directory
(Appreantly XServer will look in the relevant users home folder for an xorg.conf file if it can't find on in the default location)
In this instance, I will make the fm2008 user have compiz and aiglx disabled.

- install Wine, and move the .wine folder somewhere that all users can access and use.
(Make links from this location to the users ~/.wine folder)

- install FM2008 (and any patches)

- login as fm2008 and play the game

- login as any other user to enjoy the full compiz/aiglx experience!!


Does anyone know if this approach will work?

---

### Post by Trapezium on 2008-08-31
I copied the game folder from my Vista partition into the faux-C:\ drive that Wine creates. Initially, it started up okay but shut down just a few seconds after the first SI Games screen. I got rid of Compiz, and it got a lot further, but when it got to the music screen it just stopped completely and I had to xkill to end Wine.

Any clues?

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-09-01
> **Trapezium said:**
> I copied the game folder from my Vista partition into the faux-C:\ drive that Wine creates. Initially, it started up okay but shut down just a few seconds after the first SI Games screen. I got rid of Compiz, and it got a lot further, but when it got to the music screen it just stopped completely and I had to xkill to end Wine.

Any clues?
Try starting the game from the command line and post back the error messages you get.

:cool:

---

### Post by timbolina on 2008-09-21
Hi

First off all, i've only had ubuntu for three weeks so i very new to this stuff. I've tried installing football manager 2008 through wine, and the installer loads. But all i get is a grey window opening. I've installed the java 6re, i'm just wondering what the problem could be. If you could come up with a few suggestions that would be helpful, and if you need to ask any questions feel free.

Thanks

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-09-21
> **timbolina said:**
> Hi

First off all, i've only had ubuntu for three weeks so i very new to this stuff. I've tried installing football manager 2008 through wine, and the installer loads. But all i get is a grey window opening. I've installed the java 6re, i'm just wondering what the problem could be. If you could come up with a few suggestions that would be helpful, and if you need to ask any questions feel free.

Thanks
Try following [these]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3637536&postcount=39") instructions and post the results.

:cool:

---

### Post by timbolina on 2008-09-23
thanks for the help and replying so soon. Unfortunately even though i've installed the java you suggested, it still isn't working.

---

### Post by smCw6GNakQn300£ on 2008-09-23
Do you have compiz and xgl disabled?

(that's the fancy graphics and effects stuff)

---

### Post by timbolina on 2008-09-23
> **BRY said:**
> Do you have compiz and xgl disabled?

(that's the fancy graphics and effects stuff)

how would i find out whether i have them disabled?

---

### Post by smCw6GNakQn300£ on 2008-09-23
> **timbolina said:**
> how would i find out whether i have them disabled?

Well, you can force them to be switched off by adding 2 sections to your xorg.conf file.

(This file is VERY important, so if you are going to try this, make sure you make a backup copy first!)

- Backup the file:
[PHP]sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak[/PHP]

- Add the sections:
[PHP]sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf[/PHP]

then add the following lines to the end of the file:
[PHP]Section "ServerFlags"
Option "AIGLX" "off"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection[/PHP]

- Save the file, and exit the editor.

- Finally, you have to restart Xorg (the display manager) to apply the settings:
[PHP]CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE[/PHP]
(you will need to login)


If you want to re-apply the original xorg.conf file, then do the following:
[PHP]sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak /etc/X11/xorg.conf[/PHP]

then reload Xorg [PHP]CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE[/PHP] to apply.

---

### Post by timbolina on 2008-09-24
:guitar:that helped i've now got fm08 working, no need to use vista ever again

---

### Post by smCw6GNakQn300£ on 2008-09-25
> **timbolina said:**
> :guitar:that helped i've now got fm08 working, no need to use vista ever again

Glad you've got it going.
Just remember to dedicate your first Champions League final win to me!! :-)

---

### Post by Tha-Fox on 2008-10-16
I've installed this to my EEE 901 and it's working well, but...

I can't get all of my 8,9" desktop to use. Wine opens up but it leaves empty space on right side. Here's a screenshot: [http://www.aijaa.com/v.php?i=2763790.png](http://www.aijaa.com/v.php?i=2763790.png)

As you can see, for example "continue"-button is almost invisible. And when I try to choose players for lineup, I can't see their morale because of lack of space. 

So how could I get FM or Wine to use all of the desktop? If I drag Wine-window to be larger, window expands but the game doesn't. I have to run game with "-small_screen -windowed" since it doesn't start up in full screen.

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2008-10-17
You can initially try typing into a command line:
```
winecfg
```
and see if you can amend some graphics configurations for the game. Haven't used this for awhile and am typing this at work, however IIRC there's a graphics tab for this purpose.

I believe the game itself though has certain required graphic settings, though I'm not sure what they are.

:cool:

---

### Post by smCw6GNakQn300£ on 2008-10-17
That's true Andy.

Tha-Fox - check to see that Wine isn't being forced to emulate a specific sized desktop (i.e. 1024x768)...

---

### Post by fedemw on 2008-11-27
Hello all,

I'm driving crazy to run it on ubuntu. I installed winetricks and followed instructions, but when i load i just get the mouse pointer and a black screen. Console says:

fixme:d3d_shader:shader_glsl_select >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> GL_INVALID_OPERATION (0x502) from glUseProgramObjectARB @ glsl_shader.c / 3315
fixme:d3d_shader:shader_glsl_load_constants >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> GL_INVALID_OPERATION (0x502) from glUniform4fvARB @ glsl_shader.c / 410


Could you help me? Thanks

---

### Post by c0da on 2008-11-28
> **timbolina said:**
> Hi

I've tried installing football manager 2008 through wine, and the installer loads. But all i get is a grey window opening.



I have the same Problem, I got this error msg:

 wine setup.exe
err:ole:CoGetClassObject class {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} not registered
err:ole:CoGetClassObject no class object {9a5ea990-3034-4d6f-9128-01f3c61022bc} could be created for context 0x1
fixme:exec:SHELL_execute flags ignored: 0x00000400
root@Ubuntu-Toby:/home/tobi/FM08# fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),0,0x32ad44,0x00000000), stub!
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),1,0x32ad44,0x00000000), stub!
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),0,0x33bcf4,0x00000000), stub!
fixme:d3d:WineD3D_ChoosePixelFormat Add OpenGL context recreation support to SetDepthStencilSurface
fixme:font:WineEngCreateFontInstance Untranslated charset 255
fixme:d3d:WineD3D_ChoosePixelFormat Add OpenGL context recreation support to SetDepthStencilSurface



I have installed

- wine 1.02
- java re update 6

and added:

Section "ServerFlags"
Option "AIGLX" "off"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection  

to the xorg.conf.

What else could I do?

---

### Post by Satanen on 2009-01-06
Blah, im also getting this grey window problem. I use quite new wine with java presented in first post. Might that be a problem? I`ve already erased my wine-directory couple of times(I think cause I dont exatly now I suppose to erase it)

I get same kind of screen as this guy earlier in topic [IMG]http://img158.imageshack.us/img158/5792/screenshotew2.png[/IMG]

Sorry for bad English but I hope that someone can help me with this.

---

### Post by dido__15 on 2009-01-20
just a thought with regards to enabling disabling of compiz. In the launcher for FM2008 it may well work if you put the follwing command

```
metacity --replace && wine C:\Program Files\Sports Interactive\Football Manager 2008\fm.exe && compiz --replace
```

I've not tried it as I'm one of the lucky ones who can run it with compiz enabled, but it should replace compiz with metacity, launch the game and then bring compiz back when you exit the game.

If it works let me know.

Now to the reason I came to this thread, has anybody found a way of getting the Data Editor to work? I get nothing from clicking the icon, and running from a terminal the terminal window closes when i run the command, so no error messages either. Any ideas?

Cheers, Dido

EDIT: another thought. to play at larger resolutions, go into winecfg and set it up to run in an emulated desktop of larger than 1024 x 768 (i use 1440 x 900 my native monitor resolution), then go into game preferences and uncheck full screen, save settings, exit the game. go back into winecfg and set it back to run in its own window, and you get the game as it would be on windows, able to adjust window sizes and play at your monitors native resolution.

Hope I've been clear enough to help

---

### Post by Thomas-K on 2009-02-07
> **Satanen said:**
> Blah, im also getting this grey window problem. I use quite new wine with java presented in first post. Might that be a problem? I`ve already erased my wine-directory couple of times(I think cause I dont exatly now I suppose to erase it)

I get same kind of screen as this guy earlier in topic [IMG]http://img158.imageshack.us/img158/5792/screenshotew2.png[/IMG]

Sorry for bad English but I hope that someone can help me with this.

I've had the same problem now. And I've been watching forums all over the internet. But I can't find a solution anywhere.

Is there any way I can fix the grey window problem? Because I'd really like to play the best game ever again.

---

### Post by cjslim on 2009-02-18
> **fedemw said:**
> Hello all,

I'm driving crazy to run it on ubuntu. I installed winetricks and followed instructions, but when i load i just get the mouse pointer and a black screen. Console says:

fixme:d3d_shader:shader_glsl_select >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> GL_INVALID_OPERATION (0x502) from glUseProgramObjectARB @ glsl_shader.c / 3315
fixme:d3d_shader:shader_glsl_load_constants >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> GL_INVALID_OPERATION (0x502) from glUniform4fvARB @ glsl_shader.c / 410


Could you help me? Thanks
Go here and enjoy...[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1071753](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1071753)

---

### Post by cjslim on 2009-02-18
> **Thomas-K said:**
> I've had the same problem now. And I've been watching forums all over the internet. But I can't find a solution anywhere.

Is there any way I can fix the grey window problem? Because I'd really like to play the best game ever again.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1071753](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1071753)

Works and i tried every method out there
Runs without errors, saves, loads, I'm only struggling at the moment because I want to improve the font quality as its a little distorted..

I also have WINE set to run in Virtual Desktop with 1024x768....maybe this is distorting my font? Altho i checked and FM Prefs are also set to 1024x768..

Anyways, this will get the game up and running, I'll let you know if i can improve the fonts!

---

### Post by cistun on 2009-05-11
> **cjslim said:**
> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1071753](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1071753)

Works and i tried every method out there
Runs without errors, saves, loads, I'm only struggling at the moment because I want to improve the font quality as its a little distorted..

I also have WINE set to run in Virtual Desktop with 1024x768....maybe this is distorting my font? Altho i checked and FM Prefs are also set to 1024x768..

Anyways, this will get the game up and running, I'll let you know if i can improve the fonts!

wine-->configure wine-->graphics-->you'll see in the bottom screen resolution increase the value of dpi.same problem for unsupported ati cards i was near to lose my mind while installing fm09.it has the same problem too.it makes the font a little bit good

---

### Post by cistun on 2009-05-11
uffff i guess it won't work.i did everything good but still after seeing opening screen it disappears.help needed:( i did all series of fm except fm08.pls help i feel homeless:P

---

### Post by cistun on 2009-05-24
[http://www.petitiononline.com/FMLinu...tion-sign.html](http://www.petitiononline.com/FMLinu...tion-sign.html)

i have signed also my brother too and it is 225 now

there is nothing cracked things in linux if you make it compatible for linux people have to buy it and we would be better customers for you than windows users.

do you agree with that guys?:p

---

