---
title: "1.1.24 breaks Oblivion."
date: 2009-06-23
forum: Wine
---

### Post by DaftPyramid on 2009-06-23
Well, it doesn't completely break it.

I updated wine today, and coincidentally I started a new game in Oblivion afterwards. Everything was perfectly fine. I saved and quit the game. Now, when I go to load the save, the environment and my character model is just one solid color. The entire world just looks dark blue (or white, if I'm in the menus) Everything else is fine: the menus, audio, everything. I can hear myself walking around and I can hear the citizens talking to me. I can even open doors if I stumble into one. 

Tips?

Noob question: Is there a way to "downgrade" back to 1.1.23?

---

### Post by Clorow on 2009-06-23
Yes, go to Synaptic, click on the wine package once you search for it, and press Ctrl+E. Although only 1.0.1 and 1.1.24 will be available if you are using Jaunty plus the 3rd party Wine repository.

---

### Post by DaftPyramid on 2009-06-23
Yeah, for some reason the update turned HDR on. Turning it off fixes the problem.

---

### Post by wiebeest on 2011-03-18
[QUOTE=DaftPyramid;7502163]Well, it doesn't completely break it.

I updated wine today, and coincidentally I started a new game in Oblivion afterwards. Everything was perfectly fine. I saved and quit the game. Now, when I go to load the save, the environment and my character model is just one solid color. The entire world just looks dark blue (or white, if I'm in the menus) Everything else is fine: the menus, audio, everything. I can hear myself walking around and I can hear the citizens talking to me. I can even open doors if I stumble into one./QUOTE]

Although this is quite an old thread, but worth mentioning, the latest update for wine (1.3.15-0ubuntu1~maverickppa3) gives me the same symptoms. Oblivion worked great, untill the latest update mentioned above. So, everything workes, except that what should be rendered in 3D. So we got sound, flawless menu's, but loading a save game unfortunatelly gives nothing but one blend color (blue in my case). Switching from the HDR to Bloom or none doesn't help the least...

Regression?

---

