---
title: ".exe not running - No Error messages showing [Lineage 2 - Epilogue]"
date: 2010-10-31
forum: Wine
---

### Post by Eternal_Light on 2010-10-31
Hello all.
The other day I tried to run lineage2 using wine. The private server that i'm interested in has deactivated GameGuard so that's not an issue.

I'm using Kubuntu 10.10
Wine 1.3.6 and winetricks and all that stuff
My VGA is a nVidia 9600GT-M
I'm on my HP Pavilion dv5-1050ev



After downloading d3dx9 and d3dx10 files that i could find I installed the game alright, successfully completed all updates etc etc. When i browsed to the system folder of the game and run l2.exe the usual splash screen came up and after a couple of seconds disappeared as it should. But then, instead of the LineageII window coming up showing me a login screen, nothing happened. 

I tried to experiment with the option.ini to try to run the game on windowed/fullscreen mode and with wine emulating and not emulating a windows desktop. Results remained the same. The main game window fails to show up, and same happens for the possible error messages.

Here I have a log of an attempt to run the game on fullscreen mode and with wine's option of emulating a desktop disabled. My "linux newb" or "green-tux" status prevents me from comprehending stuff like that so far.

```

fixme:toolhelp:CreateToolhelp32Snapshot Unimplemented: heap list snapshot
fixme:toolhelp:CreateToolhelp32Snapshot Unimplemented: heap list snapshot
fixme:advapi:SetEntriesInAclA 1 0x1f9fb3f4 (nil) 0x1f9fb3f0
fixme:toolhelp:CreateToolhelp32Snapshot Unimplemented: heap list snapshot
fixme:process:GetProcessWorkingSetSize (0xffffffff,0x33e548,0x33e544): stub
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),0,0x33e760,0x00000000), stub!
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),0,0x33e838,0x00000000), stub!
fixme:win:EnumDisplayDevicesW ((null),0,0x33a3e8,0x00000000), stub!

```




Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by cogadh on 2010-11-01
There's really nothing to comprehend there. The "fixme" error messages are just developer notes about stuff they are still working on in Wine. As a user and not a developer, they are (usually) mostly meaningless and really can't be fixed.

That being said, considering the questionable legality of private servers, I'm not sure we are actually allowed to help with a problem like this. Ubuntu is pretty strict about anything that could be construed as assisting with software piracy of any kind.

---

### Post by Eternal_Light on 2010-11-01
Oh yeah, I understand. So, l2 aside, is there somewhere a list with known bug fixes for my wine version? 1.3.6. I've seen in many posts people talking about bugs.wineHQ.org and bugs2.wineHQ.org and stuff needing to be downloaded but most of it is already implemented in my version. I'm having some problems launching League of Legends, and a couple other games listed as platinum or gold in the database. Guides are not usually helpful as they are usually refering to a 0.9.40 or older wine version and resurfacing the thread doesn't attract any replies. I'm not whining here, I would just love some tips on how to make more effective posts/help requests (have already read that guide sticky thingy). Thank you :)

---

### Post by cogadh on 2010-11-01
There aren't really "known bug fixes" for any particular Wine version, there are just workarounds and fixes for particular pieces of software used in Wine. The guides you might be seeing are probably still valid, even though they may have been written for an older version of Wine. About the only thing I might avoid doing (assuming a guide calls for it) is applying any Wine source code patches. With a guide written for an older version of Wine, there is a good chance that whatever patch is asked for has already been integrated into the current Wine. You can usually verify this by checking the Wine AppDB entry for the software you are trying to run to see if the bug the patch was supposed to address is still open and valid.

---

### Post by Eternal_Light on 2010-11-01
Thank you very much for your help. I really appreciate it :)

---

### Post by Largaroth on 2010-11-02
Hi all, I am also interested in running Lineage 2, though not Epilogue but Freya, and I get a CE as soon as the game tries to draw up the login screen. Now I'm assuming t has something to do with either a lack of support or a lack of performance from my ATI radeon Xpress 200 (It's a pretty old card, but I used to be able to play Lineage 2 in my Windows OS before they upgraded the graphics of the game). Any suggestions ?

Also is there really no workaround for the gameguard (I saw that lineage II was listed as being one of the games that are not playable due to gameguard issues with wine in another thread)

Largaroth

---

### Post by cogadh on 2010-11-02
GameGuard runs as a Windows device driver and Windows device drivers do not and never will work in Wine. The only "workaround" for GameGuard is using private servers that don't require it, which may not actually be legal.

---

### Post by Largaroth on 2010-11-02
Hmm, okay I think I see what you mean... No Lineage II on Linux without breaking the law then ^^". I guess I'll take a look around and see what's available then.... Shame, I really liked Lineage II (I once had a level 79 Grand Khavatari which I was rather proud of, though my social life has never fully recovered ! Haha)

Largaroth

---

### Post by Eternal_Light on 2010-11-02
> **Largaroth said:**
> I once had a level 79 Grand Khavatari which I was rather proud of, though my social life has never fully recovered ! Haha

Largaroth

Yea, ruined social life is really hard to fix, lots of personal experience here :P, but it's just as hard to suddenly stop playing the game that almost dominated the last 6 years of your life :-(. Aaahhh... whatever. I guess it's time to move on and do stuff like finding out how dogs and trees and girls and dragons and elves look like in real life...
 :lolflag:

([FONT=Times New Roman][SIZE=1]what?!?!? What do you mean when you say THERE ARE NO ELVES IN REAL LIFE?!?!?)[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by Largaroth on 2010-11-03
Haha, yeah tree are pretty cool IRL, haven't come accross any girls though... None that look anything like the girls IG anyway xD

---

### Post by Eternal_Light on 2010-11-06
I don't know why and how but renaming l2.exe to l2.bin and running it as executable with wine solves the problem.

$wine l2.bin

---

### Post by Largaroth on 2010-11-06
My L2 executes fine it just crashes upon arrival at the login screen when it tries to draw it all up... I'll give your solution a go though just in case =)

Largaroth

---

### Post by Eternal_Light on 2010-11-07
seems like we didn't have the same problem... in my case it didnt even try to draw the login screen. It didn't even try to open the main lineage window for that matter... The only thing i can think about your problem is to delete/rename your system folder and paste a new clean copy of a system in your game's folder. Paste the dll that disables gameguard and then rename exe to bin or if there is no exe just run the bin file and you should be alright.

---

### Post by Largaroth on 2010-11-07
Thanks, I'll give it a try... But I'm not sure it will solve my problem... i think mine might be driver related or something.

---

### Post by Largaroth on 2010-11-09
I Managed to get it running simply by deactivating the pixel shader in wine... And so I get this kind of display:

[http://img23.imageshack.us/i/screenshotdov.png/](http://img23.imageshack.us/i/screenshotdov.png/)

---

### Post by Eternal_Light on 2010-11-10
ugh! Thats unplayable...

---

### Post by Largaroth on 2010-11-10
I agree.... But I have no idea what could be causing it except maybe my graphics chipset drivers...

---

### Post by Eternal_Light on 2010-11-12
Do you use an ATI card?

---

### Post by Largaroth on 2010-11-23
Yes I do, and that is the problem I believe... I did try installing some experimental drivers along with an experimental kernel which were supposed to help, but my system got nuked and I had to start again =/

---

### Post by Eternal_Light on 2010-11-23
My one-month experience with linux taught me to stay away from beta and experimental stuff :P I had to fromat my computer as well (for different reasons) so I lost the wine setup that allowed me to play l2. Tried to reproduce it from memory but it just won't work and it's a shame coz the game used to run almost normally. It gave me around 40-60 fps at any given time with just the shadows deactivated.

---

