---
title: "11.04 64-bit"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: Wine
---

### Post by themainliner on 2011-05-01
Do I need to install 32-bit compatibility in 11.04 64 to use Wine effectively?

If yes how do I do that?

---

### Post by marin123 on 2011-05-01
just do:
```
sudo apt-get install wine1.2
```

and thats it. i run 64 bit 11.04 and did like that and everything works :)

---

### Post by themainliner on 2011-05-01
Everything works? Games Fullscreen? Games Windowed(Fullscreen)? With two monitors?

---

### Post by marin123 on 2011-05-01
i dont know what you mean with two monitors, but yes, everything works normally.
i play counter strike 1.6 (a classic :) ) fullscreen, and i have another app (rekordbox) that runs windowed..

---

### Post by Tweak42 on 2011-05-01
> **themainliner said:**
> Do I need to install 32-bit compatibility in 11.04 64 to use Wine effectively?

If yes how do I do that?

Only if you compiling wine from source.
[http://wiki.winehq.org/WineOn64bit#head-b62ae8f996e97e1df7258bb8eaec2e83e54ca799](http://wiki.winehq.org/WineOn64bit#head-b62ae8f996e97e1df7258bb8eaec2e83e54ca799)
Otherwise just install the prebuilt package from software center, or get the latest beta from the Wine Team PPA (see the top of forum sticky).

> **themainliner said:**
> Everything works? Games Fullscreen? Games Windowed(Fullscreen)? With two monitors?
Answer for this mostly depends on the application, some work perfect, some don't at all (see the winehq appdb).  Dual screen support depends on your video drivers.

---

### Post by dtfinch on 2011-05-01
It runs and compiles fine for me. Wine 1.3 on 10.04 64-bit.

For dual monitors, I had to list extra single-monitor resolutions in my xorg.conf before games could use them. And I have to use xrandr in my startup scripts for a few games to change the resolution before starting them.

---

