---
title: ".deb file for latest stable wine"
date: 2011-06-08
forum: Wine
---

### Post by manish23march on 2011-06-08
Can anyone give me the url from where i can download latest stable wine for ubuntu 10.10

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2011-06-08
If you haven't already add the ppa for ubuntu tweak and install that.
You then can have the latest of a lot of different software including Wine, just by ticking a box in the source centre, and updating.
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:tualatrix/ppa
```
```
sudo apt-get update
```
```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-tweak
```
Or if you just want wine:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-wine/ppa
```
Then ```
sudo apt-get update
```
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

---

### Post by ronheidtmann on 2011-06-08
If I install software through wine, and it's successful, if I run the programme it tells me to insert the disc but it's already in, it won't detect the disc.  Can this be an issue with WINE or Linux?

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2011-06-08
It depends what software you're trying to run.
Not everything works through wine.
Check here and see if its compatible or not:
[http://appdb.winehq.org/](http://appdb.winehq.org/)

---

### Post by linuxmaniack on 2011-06-08
sudo apt-get install wine*

if you have got wine installed, go to wine HQ, download the latest version, open it by ubuntu software center, not deb installer (if using 10.10 or higher, if lower, use deb installer)





*if you havent got it installed

---

### Post by manish23march on 2011-06-09
I dont have net to pc in which ubuntu is installed.... so i want 2 download a file on windows pc which i can transfer on other pc via pendrive.....
so plz help
(ubuntu 10.10 32bit)

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2011-06-09
Without internet access you'll really struggle with this one.
It's reccommended that you only install from the official repos which requires internet access.
 Also Wine drags with it quite a few dependencies, so its not just a case of downloading one .deb file.
 Sorting out internet access would be the 1st thing I would do.

---

### Post by 8Kuula on 2011-06-09
[http://wine.budgetdedicated.com/archive/binary/](http://wine.budgetdedicated.com/archive/binary/)
.
.
.
[http://wine.budgetdedicated.com/archive/binary/wine_1.2.3-0ubuntu1~ppa2~maverick1_i386.deb](http://wine.budgetdedicated.com/archive/binary/wine_1.2.3-0ubuntu1~ppa2~maverick1_i386.deb)

---

