---
title: "poor font rendering in evince, okular, etc.."
date: 2011-05-06
forum: Education &amp; Science
---

### Post by jebus_beler on 2011-05-06
I often use pdflatex plus a pdf viewer to write articles but I've found evince, the default document viewer, and okular render fonts very badly in articles generated by latex.  Acoread is not amazing but its noticably better.  In general the anit-aliasing in evince/okular seems poor and the text is blurry.  I'm having this problem with 10.04 now but its also there in 11.04 and I remember it from a long time ago (when I last used ubuntu).  This is partially exacerbated by my low-dpi screen (90 dpi lcd) but the same screen does much better with acroread linux or preview on OS X.  Unfortunately acroread does not auto-reload pdfs so is not so convenient for latex editing.

Have others had the same problem?  I think I've seen ubuntu installations that don't seem to have this but it may be a screen dpi difference.  Any suggestions for improving font rendering in PDFs?

Please note this is not something I can fix by modifying my latex-compilation procedure because I have the same problem reading articles generated by others so its not enough to simply fix my on articles.  As an example the following article online renders much better (though still not amazingly well) on acroread than on evince or okular:

[http://arxiv.org/pdf/1105.0933](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1105.0933)

Have other's had any similar experiences?

I've also just noticed that zooming to 200% in evince gives me similar sized text to what I get in acroread if I zoom to 150% so perhaps the two programs are guessing different dpi's for the screen leading to different rendered output?  I have gnome set to slightly higher than my screen's 90 dpi and this seems to work well for system fonts, etc...   btw i have sub-pixel hinting enabled and set to slight.

---

### Post by jebus_beler on 2011-05-06
I am not sure if this is related to the following poppler bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/poppler/+bug/92296](https://bugs.launchpad.net/poppler/+bug/92296)

[https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=5589](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=5589)

but if it is then everyone should be having the same problem.  Or maybe its only noticeably annoying on low-dpi monitors like large cheap LCDs.  Would be interested to hear how others manage with pdf+latex.

---

### Post by MarjaE on 2011-07-22
It's not just poor rendering ...

sometimes it's just not rendering.

I am trying to open a pdf form in evince, and everything I have entered is invisible unless I click on that particular box. And once I click on a second box, the first goes invisible.

PS. Also, the ALPS bug cropped up again as I was typing this.

---

