---
title: "Explain this physics"
date: 2010-05-18
forum: Education &amp; Science
---

### Post by Mr.Macdonald on 2010-05-18
Why is the B field in the armature different that in the rails, yet the current flows in the same direction?

WFS
[Image]("http://static.howstuffworks.com/gif/railgun-8.gif")
[Site]("http://science.howstuffworks.com/rail-gun1.htm")

---

### Post by Chronon on 2010-05-19
I'm not sure what you mean.  The current flows in opposite directions in each of the rails.  It is perpendicular to each of these directions in the armature.

---

### Post by Mr.Macdonald on 2010-05-19
do the right hand rule across the whole electricity pathway. when you hit the armature, the shown b field contradicts the right hand rule

---

### Post by hubie on 2010-05-19
The drawing is wrong.  You are correct, the B-field should be shown going in the other direction.

---

### Post by Mr.Macdonald on 2010-05-19
If the drawing is not correct then by what means does that thing launch the projectile. I am of the opinion that it wouldn't launch it.

---

### Post by hubie on 2010-05-19
The launch force is generated by the Lorentz Force, which basically says that if you have a current flowing in an electromagnetic field, there is a net force generated on the current.  It is the same thing that the old (I can't believe I'm saying it like it was back in the old days) CRT screens operated where the current was the electrons flying towards the phosphorescent screen.  The electrons were deflected across the screen to create an image by applying a B-field that generated the required deflection force.

The Lorentz force is the cross product between the current and magnetic field.  The figure on that site after the one you linked to is better.  It shows the current and B-field vectors and if you do the right hand rule on i and B, you see that the force is in the direction along the rail.

---

### Post by Mr.Macdonald on 2010-05-19
how can a wire (the effective function of the rail gun) carry a current that generates a magnetic field which produces a force on the very thing that is producing it?

Sorry for the long sentence, but basically, it strike me as a self propelling system. I understand that there is electricity to supply energy. but how does a single wire circuit propel itself without the act of an outside B Field

---

### Post by hubie on 2010-05-19
It gets described as a closed loop wire, but it is really two parallel fixed rails each connected to a pole on a battery (a really really big battery).  Think of the armature as a bar that lies perpendicularly across the rails but is not fixed so it is allowed to slide on top of the rails.  Also, the armature maintains electrical connectivity with the rails so that a current can flow up one rail, across the armature, and back down the other rail.

When the current flows, the magnetic field sets up as shown in the drawing you linked, which initiates the force on the armature.  The rails also have forces that are trying to push them apart, but the rails are attached to the ground very tightly.  The armature, however, is not held down by anything, so it gets pushed out, down the rail line.  The idea is to make the rails as long as you can, so that force pushes it over a long distance thus building up a lot of speed.  The other design factor is, since the force is proportional to the current, you try to get the biggest current source you can.  As the current flows the whole loop is trying to expand (a nice video showing this is [here]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=43AeuDvWc0k")), but the armature is the only part of the loop that is allowed to move, so it moves away.

The whole process is similar to the [jumping wire demo]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tUCtCYty-ns") where you put a wire in a magnetic field and turn on the current.  The Lorentz force makes the wire jump out of the magnet.  The idea is the same here except that instead of using an external magnetic field, you use the field created by the rails.  The advantage is that you don't need to create a really long external field to begin with, and as the armature slides down the rails, the current loop grows with it so that it is always creating the magnetic field it needs.  

In practice, of course, the armature is not just laying on top of the rails because anything that causes the armature to break contact, such as bouncing down the rails, also breaks the circuit and kills the magnetic field.  The armatures get designed so that they do things like slide down slots in the rail, but since they have to maintain electrical contact with the rails, they build up a lot of friction-derived heat when they go real fast.  There's also the resistive heating going on in the rails with all that current flowing.  The result of all this is that the rails wear out fast.

The armature also has to be able to conduct a lot of current, so you'd might expect that it needs to be heavy with a big hunk of conductor in there that wouldn't melt like a fuse.  However, as they very briefly mention on that site, a way around that is to start off the armature with a thin piece of metal as the current conductor, then when the high current flows that thin metal vaporizes like a fuse, but it sets up a plasma that conducts the current.  That has to look pretty neat, assuming that you can slow-mo it to watch it.

We've been talking about the really really big railguns.  If you want to go smaller scale, you can build one on a tabletop like [this guy]("http://www.powerlabs.org/railgun2.htm").

---

### Post by Mr.Macdonald on 2010-05-19
Thank you, I get it. That first video helps a lot

---

