---
title: "iGMT installation"
date: 2007-08-03
forum: Education &amp; Science
---

### Post by Go_Bucks on 2007-08-03
Unfortunately, I am too new to Linux and the command line interface to handle learning Grass GIS, GMT, etc all at once. I have tried to install iGMT (which only comes as source code) per the normal instructions given elsewhere in these forums and it doesn't work. I tried using the instructions from the supplier of the software (to run the configure_script) and I just get errors. Has anyone successfully installed iGMT on Ubuntu? I shudder at the idea of trying to learn command line GMT (iGMT is a GUI for GMT) while learning Grass.

---

### Post by Go_Bucks on 2007-08-03
When I try to to run configure_script I get:

```
bash: ./configure_script: /bin/csh: bad interpreter: No such file or directory
```

---

### Post by rusi_pathan on 2007-08-06
You dont have the C shell installed.

$sudo apt-get install csh

Alternatively you can tweak the configure script to use the bash shell (installed by default).

Btw iGMT is very restrictive. It really limits to what you can really do with GMT. If you plan on using GMT for serious plotting applications then you "must" learn to write your own scripts (in C/Bash shell).

---

### Post by Go_Bucks on 2007-08-07
> **rusi_pathan said:**
> You dont have the C shell installed.

$sudo apt-get install csh

Alternatively you can tweak the configure script to use the bash shell (installed by default).

Btw iGMT is very restrictive. It really limits to what you can really do with GMT. If you plan on using GMT for serious plotting applications then you "must" learn to write your own scripts (in C/Bash shell).

Thanks. BTW, I was aware that iGMT limits what you can do, but I have a lot to learn with Grass at the moment and I would like to use iGMT as a stepping stone to fully learning GMT. I am trying to get proficient enough in Linux-based GIS programs to be able to do everything we currently do at work with ESRI products on Windows. I have to be able to do them before I can have any discussion with my boss about switching. We have talked about it and he is intrigued.... he even let me go as far as install Ubuntu on one of our machines after I casually discussed we could have done everything for free on one project that we spent $20,000 on software to do.

---

### Post by Paul Chang on 2007-08-14
GMT is in the repository. Just start Synaptic, search GMT, you'll have everything there. 

But there is an issue with the PS files generated by GMT: it cannot be viewed correctly sometimes in Ubuntu (using GV and EVINCE). Don't know if it is GMT problem or Ubuntu problem.

---

### Post by Nikos.Alexandris on 2007-10-11
Hello!

Does anybody managed to install iGMT under Feisty?

Thank you in Advance,

Nikos.

---

