---
title: "using a trace file as input of a traffic generator in ns2"
date: 2015-12-18
forum: Education &amp; Science
---

### Post by sami9 on 2015-12-18
Hi
I'm trying to use a trace file in a traffic generator, here is what i put so far in my input trace file:

0.000000 50
0.000404 50
0.020404 50
0.040404 50
0.060404 50
0.080404 50
0.100404 50
0.120404 50
0.140404 50

but i'm getting an error saying: bad file size in /home/sami/Desktop/ns2/[input.tr]("http://input.tr")

probably, this is due to the fact that fields in the trace format file are not appropriate, so what is the appropriate format ?
any help will be very appreciated

---

### Post by brian-mccumber on 2015-12-18
Which traffic generator are you using? It's probably not the right file format for the generator you're using but it's hard to tell without knowing which generator you are using.

EDIT: Please disregard, You are using ns, my bad.

It looks like you are using trace output files, from what I have read those are generated after you run a script in NS. The .tr files are for analysis. Maybe this link will help.

[http://nile.wpi.edu/NS/analysis.html](http://nile.wpi.edu/NS/analysis.html)

---

### Post by sami9 on 2015-12-18
Thanks Brian
I know this link, and it's about output trace files in ns2.
But what i need is an input trace file for ns2 which format is different from the output trace file

---

### Post by brian-mccumber on 2015-12-18
Ok I found this at this web address - [http://sydney.edu.au/engineering/it/~deveritt/networksimulation/trafficgeneration.html](http://sydney.edu.au/engineering/it/~deveritt/networksimulation/trafficgeneration.html)

> 
**Application/Traffic/Trace**Application/Traffic/Trace objects are used to generate traffic from a trace file. $trace attach-tracefile tfile 
Attach the Tracefile object tfile to this trace. The Tracefile object specifies the trace file from which the traffic data is to be read. Multiple Application/Traffic/Trace objects can be attached to the same Tracefile object. A random starting place within the Tracefile is chosen for each Application/Traffic/Trace object. 
There are no configuration parameters for this object.
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]TRACEFILE OBJECTS Tracefile objects are used to specify the trace file that is to be used for generating traffic (see Application/Traffic/Trace objects described earlier in this section).$tracefile is an instance of the Tracefile Object. 
$tracefile filename trace-input 
Set the filename from which the traffic trace data is to be read to trace-input.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]There are no configuration parameters for this object. A trace file consists of any number of fixed length records. Each record consists of 2 32 bit fields. The first indicates the interval until the next packet is generated in microseconds. The second indicates the length of the next packet in bytes.
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial]

I don't think the first number on your lines needs to be a decimal, I think it needs to be a whole number that represents the microseconds like  5 50  for example, or maybe like  05 50.  [/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by sami9 on 2015-12-18
I tried with decimals, but still the same error:
here is my input:
0 50
020000 50
040000 50
060000 50
080000 50
100000 50
120000 50
140000 50
160000 50

---

### Post by brian-mccumber on 2015-12-19
Well maybe the input trace files need some kind of header in them or something. I have done some searching on this and I am at a loss here. Maybe try without padding your larger numbers with zeros or maybe the trace file needs to be generated with the software first not made up. Your home made trace file is obviously missing a critical component and I can't figure out what it is from the ns2 documentation. But the majority of what I've read said that the trace file should be generated by a script or the software first. Sorry i couldn't be more help, good luck.

---

### Post by sami9 on 2015-12-21
thanks for your help anyway

---

