---
title: "problem getting a new .cls to work on texlive under ubuntu"
date: 2009-06-25
forum: Education &amp; Science
---

### Post by ocean1 on 2009-06-25
Dear Forum,

I have .cls file that I would like to use.
I am using Texlive under Ubuntu and Kile as Editor.
I copied the .cls file to the directory:
/usr/share/texmf-texlive/tex/latex/base

but somehow I still get the Error when using Kile to compile:
46:File `AGUTeX.cls' not found. ^^M

Does anyone has a solution to this?

Thanks!!!

---

### Post by ocean1 on 2009-06-25
I found the old thread regarding this topic and did what was recommended:

-copy the .cls file in a new directore:
/usr/share/texmf-texlive/tex/latex./agu
- sudo mktexlsr

but still the same error...

---

### Post by perroazul on 2009-06-25
running mktexlsr should be enough. I wonder if it has to do with the filename. try changing it to lowercase

sudo mv /usr/share/texmf-texlive/tex/latex/base/AGUTeX.cls /usr/share/texmf-texlive/tex/latex/base/agutex.cls

and run mktexlsr again.
maybe that'll help. linux is case sensitive, and maybe the filename is confusing latex.

---

### Post by xadder on 2009-06-26
You could try changing $TEXINPUTS too in your .bashrc file, to include some directory you keep the files in.

Doesn't sound like the "proper" solution, but if nothing else works.

---

### Post by hugmenot on 2009-06-26
Normally you&#8217;re not supposed to place new files into the main texmf tree under /usr/share/texmf. User installed files are supposed to go into your own private texmf tree.

If you look into /etc/texmf/texmf.d/05TeXMF.cnf you&#8217;ll see that it defines a folder in your home as your private tree:

```
% This used to be HOMETEXMF.
TEXMFHOME = $HOME/texmf
```

So, the official solution is to create this directory in your home and place the put into it. I&#8217;m not sure if you need to recreate the tree structure, but it won&#8217;t hurt to do so. I guess class files would go into ~/texmf/latex/base/AGUtex.cls

Afterwards I suppose you have to run mktexlsr on it.

```
mktexlsr ~/texmf
```

Then, to make sure it is found by the TeX system you can check 

```
kpsewhich AGUtex.cls
```

---

### Post by hugmenot on 2009-06-26
This bug and it&#8217;s comments may or may not enlighten you in this regard. Apparently some trees are searched directly without an ls-R  file database and some, i.e. the larger ones, are. So your TEXMFHOME is supposed to work without any ls-R generated by mktexlsr. But having stray ls-R files around will make matters worse. Seems complicated.

[https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/texlive-base/+bug/186164](https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/texlive-base/+bug/186164)

n.b.: Preining is the maintainer for Texlive in Debian and Ubuntu.

---

