---
title: "Start running NAMD -- NOT INSTALL"
date: 2010-09-11
forum: Education &amp; Science
---

### Post by rajan on 2010-09-11
Dear EdSci Community,
I'm posting here a short howto regarding getting started on minimizing structures using NAMD, distributed by Schulten's group at UIUC. In general, your best help will come from their group, via either the tutorials or the namd-l mailing list. However I hope this can help someone else who ran into the same problems that I did when I was struggling to get this set up. 

PLEASE NOTE that I am running NAMD on the local cluster (MSI) and I don't know much about the install process as it is installed by the admins there.

1. Build your molecule, and save it in pdb format. Check the pdb format database because most of the programs that you can use to build a molecule will not save the pdb in the proper format. I suggest Gaussian, Spartan, or something similar. I can't remember what was wrong with the chemtool pdb, or if it even was capable of producing that output. My pdb that I made is attached, named 3tPhAcid-082010.pdb. 

2. Build your rtf (residue topology file). This is going to be based on CHARMM parameters (the default for NAMD) so you want to find the CGenFF files at [http://dogmans.umaryland.edu/~kenno/](http://dogmans.umaryland.edu/~kenno/) and read the associated literature there as well. You will have to build this by hand, unless you're lucky enough that your molecule closely resembles some biological molecule. It is difficult to describe the process of building an rtf for your molecule, but just keep in mind that it should include all the bonds and atoms that you will be simulating/minimizing. There are rtf examples online and many are also included in the parameter sets that should be useful to see as a template. My rtf is attached, named 3tPhAcid-082010.rtf. The important things here are to keep in mind that the residue you defined is going to be read by namd, and the groups are generally going to be uncharged.

3. You will need a psf that can be generated by psfgen, included in the NAMD distribution. This is going to be the source of much of the information that NAMD will use to analyze your system. psfgen has a user manual online and a few examples of how to get it to work. I was able to get it to work after a few days of headaches with the help of the namd-l listserv. I invoked psfgen from the command line, and then typed in, line by line, the following:
topology <YOURRTF FILE HERE>
segment XXX {pdb <YOUR PDB FILE HERE>}
coordpdb <YOUR PDB FILE HERE> XXX
regenerate angles dihedrals
writepdb <FILENAME FOR YOUR NEW PDB FILE>
writepsf <FILENAME FOR YOUR NEW PSF FILE>

This should create for you a new pdb file where the numbering follows the order in which your rtf file introduced new atoms, and the psf should have all the angles and dihedrals. the "regenerate angles dihedrals" line was required for me to be able to see any of the actual angles or dihedrals in the psf. Impropers did not get copied into my psf but they are fairly easy to carry over from your rtf file if you have taken the appropriate basis molecule. 

4. Set up a conf file that contains all the information for the simulation you're going to run. This step was easy to find information online so I won't say any more. 

5. Submit your job, usually the command will be something like:

namd2 <yourfile>.conf


I will be editing and adding to this over the next few days, and I welcome any comments, criticisms or suggestions.

---

### Post by rajan on 2010-09-17
I just finished kludging (i'm glad that word is in my firefox dictionary) together the parameter file and I am uploading everything that is marginally working now. 

NOTE: the uploads that I put on this site are NOT xcf files!!! The filenames should be as follows:
```

rajan@saraswati:~/Work/Comp/Calculations/ClassicalMech$ ls
3tPhAcid_params.prm  TerthiophenePSFGEN.pdb
Terthiophene.conf    TerthiophenePSFGEN.psf

```

But I had to upload them with different suffixes due to the restrictions on filenames that the forums have. 

Problems that I ran into to this point:
FATAL ERROR: UNABLE TO FIND ANGLE PARAMETERS FOR CG2R51 CG2R51 CTL2

This error is a simple error that just needs to be solved by adding the noted angle parameters. If you are not sure how to do this, ask a friend who is experienced in the subject. It's not something to blindly do. The bottom line is that if you add an angle parameter (or any other parameter) you should find the closest existing parameter and copy it. This is what I did for all the missing parameters. It is a good idea to check these parameters out by testing some known molecules to make sure you can reproduce the known result.


FATAL ERROR: Multiplicity of Paramters for diehedral bond CG2R51 SG2R50 CG2R51 CG2R51 of 1 exceeded

This error is a difficult one to solve. There may be more reasons for this error, but the source of my error was that I had a few bonds that were duplicated. For example, the rtf had, in the bonds section:
CAA CAE
and in a different section of the rtf, also in the bonds section:
CAA CAE
This means that that particular bond was counted twice and then many extraneous dihedrals are generated as well. If you find this error, I suggest you look through your rtf and find the duplicate bonds, keeping in mind that BOND and DOUBLE are synonymous. 


MINIMIZER SLOWLY MOVING 3 ATOMS WITH BAD CONTACTS DOWNHILL
and then later in the output:
MINIMIZER SLOWLY MOVING 14 ATOMS WITH BAD CONTACTS DOWNHILL
Segmentation fault

This error is associated with my improper torsion energy being 9999999999.9999 kcal/mol? due to an improperly created psf. When I put in the improper dihedrals by hand, I had one line that read:
54 58 53 53
meaning that there was an angle that would have been dividing by zero. This will make any OS unhappy, and produced errors until I really went through all the improper dihedrals one by one and picked out the error(s). 




Some useful pages I found in the process of getting this working:

[http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/namd/wiki/index.cgi?NamdTroubleshooting](http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/namd/wiki/index.cgi?NamdTroubleshooting)
[http://dogmans.umaryland.edu/~kenno/tutorial/](http://dogmans.umaryland.edu/~kenno/tutorial/)
[http://www.ch.embnet.org/MD_tutorial/pages/CHARMM.Part1.html](http://www.ch.embnet.org/MD_tutorial/pages/CHARMM.Part1.html)
[http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Training/Tutorials/namd/namd-tutorial-unix-html/node21.html](http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Training/Tutorials/namd/namd-tutorial-unix-html/node21.html)

---

### Post by rajan on 2010-09-27
As I am moving into a different type of simulation, I had a lot of problems figuring important things out. For example, in NAMD:

my electrostatic energy in the output was always zero and the minimization should have been moving atoms away from each other because they were charged. However, since I had only 6 bonds and 7 atoms and the 1-4 interactions were excluded, i had to change exclude to "none" so that the 1-4 interactions were included again. 
-----------------

I received the following error:
Reason: FATAL ERROR: DIDN'T FIND "NATOM" IN PSF FILE SphDistrNAMD.psf

this was because in my psf file i had eliminated some of the lines that are necessary for the parser to read the psf correctly. if you're not making your own psf, don't worry about this (psfgen should do a good job of creating the psf), but if you are writing your customized psf, you need to have "PSF" in the first line, first space, followed by a newline, followed by the lines
        3 !NTITLE
 REMARKS PSF generated by SphDistrNAMD.py
 REMARKS topology no_topology_file
 REMARKS segment TTH { first NONE; last NONE; auto none  }
newline

I had eliminated the last 2 remarks lines and the error above was produced. 
-----------------

a similar error:
Reason: FATAL ERROR: DID NOT FIND NBOND AFTER ATOM LIST IN PSF

was received when i didn't have the number right before !NATOM matching with the actual number of rows in the NATOM entries. 
-----------------

I got this error when I did have the correct things matching up, it was a fairly self-explanatory error to fix. 
Reason: FATAL ERROR: Number of pdb and psf atoms are not the same!
-----------------

feel free to post other not-so-common problems you've faced and solved. many of the common ones are outlined (several times) on the namd-l listserv so that's a good place to start. however if you don't find the answer there, maybe you can find it here.

---

