---
title: "texlive/dvi problem in edgy"
date: 2007-01-12
forum: Education &amp; Science
---

### Post by bitsmith on 2007-01-12
i recently upgraded to edgy and migrated from tetex to texlive in the process. i am now having trouble rendering certain math fonts when i try to view dvi output (with xdvi). this only happens in latex files using the revtex class. below are errors generated by xdvi. any ideas on how to fix the problem? thanks in advance.

------ xdvi output below -------
mode ljfour --bdpi 600 --mag 0+420/600 --dpi 420 txsyc
mktexpk: don't know how to create bitmap font for txsyc.
kpathsea: Appending font creation commands to missfont.log.
xdvi: Error: Can't find font txsyc; using cmr10 instead. Expect ugly output.
kpathsea: Running mktexpk --mfmode ljfour --bdpi 600 --mag 1+0/600 --dpi 600 txsyc
mktexpk: don't know how to create bitmap font for txsyc.
xdvi: Can't find pixel font txsyc; using cmr10 instead at 600 dpi.
kpathsea: Running mktexpk --mfmode ljfour --bdpi 600 --mag 0+420/600 --dpi 420 txex
mktexpk: don't know how to create bitmap font for txex.
xdvi: Error: Can't find font txex; using cmr10 instead. Expect ugly output.
kpathsea: Running mktexpk --mfmode ljfour --bdpi 600 --mag 1+0/600 --dpi 600 txex
mktexpk: don't know how to create bitmap font for txex.
xdvi: Can't find pixel font txex; using cmr10 instead at 600 dpi.
kpathsea: Running mktexpk --mfmode ljfour --bdpi 600 --mag 0+420/600 --dpi 420 txsy
mktexpk: don't know how to create bitmap font for txsy.
xdvi: Error: Can't find font txsy; using cmr10 instead. Expect ugly output.
kpathsea: Running mktexpk --mfmode ljfour --bdpi 600 --mag 1+0/600 --dpi 600 txsy

---

### Post by ssam on 2007-01-12
i am not sure if this will help but if you use
```
pdflatex foo.tex
```
it builds it straight to a pdf file, without having to use dvi.

---

### Post by kleeman on 2007-01-13
Download the missing fonts from here:

[http://www.tug.org/tex-archive/fonts/txfonts/afm/](http://www.tug.org/tex-archive/fonts/txfonts/afm/)

and install using the kcontrol font section.

---

### Post by Zdravko on 2007-01-14
I have a similar problem. When I convert I tex or ps file to a pdf, the result has a Font Type 3 code. I want it to use Font type 1, which is the best font. But how?

---

### Post by bitsmith on 2007-01-14
> Download the missing fonts from here:

[http://www.tug.org/tex-archive/fonts/txfonts/afm/](http://www.tug.org/tex-archive/fonts/txfonts/afm/)

and install using the kcontrol font section.

sorry, i'm don't understand what you mean by "kcontrol font selection".
i use gnome. is this a tool for kde? is their a gnome alternative?

thanks.

---

### Post by kleeman on 2007-01-14
OK If you don't have kde try this in gnome:

System---->Preferences----->Font

Click on the details button

In the new dialog click on the "Go to Font Folder" Button
This opens a nautilus session with all your installed fonts listed.
Now open a new nautilus window and navigate to where the downloaded fonts are located. Drag them into the font folder nautilus session you opened first.

---

### Post by Zdravko on 2007-01-15
How do I download every file on that page? FF doesn't have a function DOWNLOAD ALL :(

---

### Post by kleeman on 2007-01-15
Make a new subdirectory go into it and then issue:

wget [ftp://www.tug.org/tex-archive/fonts/txfonts/afm/*.afm](ftp://www.tug.org/tex-archive/fonts/txfonts/afm/*.afm)

Edit: Sorry afm files don't work try the pfb versions instead:

wget [ftp://www.tug.org/tex-archive/fonts/txfonts/pfb/*.pfb](ftp://www.tug.org/tex-archive/fonts/txfonts/pfb/*.pfb)

---

### Post by bitsmith on 2007-01-16
> **kleeman said:**
> OK If you don't have kde try this in gnome:

System---->Preferences----->Font

Click on the details button

In the new dialog click on the "Go to Font Folder" Button
This opens a nautilus session with all your installed fonts listed.
Now open a new nautilus window and navigate to where the downloaded fonts are located. Drag them into the font folder nautilus session you opened first.

i am feeling very inept. i followed the instructions above, but when i try to drag/drop from the files from my directory to the "Fonts" folder, nothing happens. i've tried copy-paste as well. the number of items in the "Fonts" folder stays the same. all of those files have orange locks on them. any suggestions? do you know where the "Fonts" file resides in the directory structure? thanks.

---

### Post by neoflight on 2007-01-16
> **bitsmith said:**
> i am feeling very inept. i followed the instructions above, but when i try to drag/drop from the files from my directory to the "Fonts" folder, nothing happens. i've tried copy-paste as well. the number of items in the "Fonts" folder stays the same. all of those files have orange locks on them. any suggestions? do you know where the "Fonts" file resides in the directory structure? thanks.

use 'sudo' to copy..... via command line....

eg: 

```
sudo /downloaded/folder/thefont /target/folder/Fonts
```

or if you want gui then from command line

```
gksudo nautilus
``` and drag-drop from there...
hope this helps...

---

### Post by bitsmith on 2007-01-17
> **neoflight said:**
> use 'sudo' to copy..... via command line....

eg: 

```
sudo /downloaded/folder/thefont /target/folder/Fonts
```

or if you want gui then from command line

```
gksudo nautilus
``` and drag-drop from there...
hope this helps...

yes, i had tried the "gksudo nautilus" procedure before. but, for some reason the files did not transfer. i feel more comfortable at the command line. however, i don't know the location of the "Fonts" folder. do you know where it resides? thanks for your help!

---

